February 10, 2021||Goa||Dipesh hopes to see better days with kho kho league||Panaji:Kho kho provided plenty of joy to Dipesh Velip and his brother. The Velips would play the game for hours, making them well-known in school, college and the state.  Life, though, changed when Dipesh’s brother, Deepak, died in an accident three years ago. He was just recovering when the Covid-19 pandemic made it worse.  “My father is a farmer. His income is not enough to make ends meet. Though I made a name for myself in kho kho, the reality is that I had to do odd jobs to support my family,” said Dipesh, who donned Goa colours at six senior national championships.  With jobs hard to come by, Dipesh was forced to take up a security guard’s job for the last six months.  “I don’t get much from it but in current circumstances, whatever I get, I have to make do with it,” said the 24-year-old who hails from Morpilla in Quepem.  With so much of darkness all around him, Dipesh finally saw hope, that too from unexpected quarters. He was selected to be part of Kho Kho Federation of India and Ultimate Kho Kho’s first scientific training camp in Faridabad from January 19.  Around 125 players are selected from across the country to attend the high-performance camp. Should Dipesh continue to impress, he will be part of the league where the promoters have promised to invest Rs 200 crore over five years.  For starters, his focus is on the 30-day camp in Faridabad, the culmination of which will see players participating in a five-day trial tournament.  “I am in the C group and I am happy to be here. I have been an allrounder all my life. For the first time, I was among the probables for the India camp for Asian Championship as well.  “The training here is different. For the first time, I came to know about proper weight training, diet, endurance, fitness. I feel a lot of changes in my game now,” said Dipesh.  The players for the league – likely in September -- will be allotted through a draft system. That explains why the organisers are getting the players in shape early in the season and Dipesh doesn’t want to let the opportunity slip out of his hands.  The Goan was already a known name in the kabaddi circles and is now attracting attention from the federation too.  “Players like Dipesh have struggled to keep themselves fit during the pandemic and don’t have enough resources. This camp will help them get back on their feet,” said KKFI president Sudhanshu Mittal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dipesh-hopes-to-see-better-days-with-kho-kho-league/articleshow/80774970.cms||Paresh Mokani
February 10, 2021||India||Child rights body and NCB team up to combat drug abuse among children||NEW DELHI: Concerned about cartels operating online, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has decided to conduct fact-finding inquiries on the availability of drugs through the internet, social media and the dark web. The commission is planning to create a team at its headquarters for regular fact finding wherein experts would also be involved in the analysis. The information will be shared with the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and other law enforcement agencies. This is one of the many interventions and recommendations which are part of a joint action plan prepared by the NCPCR in collaboration with NCB. NCPCR chief Priyank Kanoongo shared that the “Joint Action Plan on Prevention of Drugs and Substance Abuse among Children and Illicit Trafficking” is an attempt to standarise practices that can help stop selling drugs and substances in surroundings areas of schools and other educational institutes through enforcing existing laws. JAP notes that school-going children who use substances are mostly using legal but harmful substances in the form of tobacco and/or alcohol. However, the out-of-school children, especially those on the streets or slums and vulnerable populations, are at risk of experimenting with more hazardous substances, both “licit as well as illicit” in nature. In this backdrop, JAP asserts that the educational institutions must display and exhibit a board at a conspicuous place(s) outside the premises, prominently stating that sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products in an area within a radius of one hundred yards of the educational institution is strictly prohibited and that it is an offence punishable under law.” JAP also recommends random checking of footage of CCTV cameras installed around schools and educational institutions by child welfare police officers (CWPO) to prevent sale of drugs or such shops operating from around the premises. “The Educational Institution should also designate Tobacco Monitor(s) from amongst their staff, an official or a teacher or a student representative. The Plan also talks of “Prahari”-Children’s Clubs in all schools for awareness and sensitisation about the problem of drugs and related issues. The action plans also asserts that authorities must ensure that a notice should be displayed in public areas, like malls, airports, provision stores, hotels or eateries, where liquor and tobacco stores are available, stating that these shops should be out of the reach of children. "Compliance must be ensured by the district magistrate/ This report should also be submitted to the NCB and NCPCR/State Commissions for Protection of Child Rights(SCPCRs),” JAP states. JAP calls for setting up exclusive de-addiction and rehabilitation facilities for children in the 272 vulnerable districts identified by the ministry of social justice and empowerment as part of the national action plan for drug demand reduction. A study commissioned by the social justice ministry and conducted by the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre recently highlighted the high prevalence of inhalant use among children and adolescents. An estimated 4.6 lakh children need help for their inhalant use.The study shows that inhalants (with overall prevalence of 0.7%) are the only category of substances for which the prevalence of current use among children and adolescents is higher (1.17%) than adults (0.58%). In fact, many states of the country have a substantial population of children affected by disorders associated with inhalant use. The five states in India with the highest number of children that need help for inhalant use problems include Uttar Pradesh (94,000), Madhya Pradesh (50,000), Maharashtra (40,000), Delhi (38,000) and Haryana (35,000). All other states together account for 2.01 lakh inhalant users among children. NCPCR notes that an assessment of different studies and available data shows that school-going children who use substances are mostly using licit substances in the form of tobacco and/or alcohol. However, the out-of-school children, especially the street based, slum based and vulnerable populations, are at risk of experimenting with more hazardous substances, both licit as well as illicit in nature. It also comes through in studies that the hospital-based samples of adolescent treatment seekers are overrepresented by inhalant, cannabis and opioid users, who were more likely to be regular/dependent users. Street children below the age of 10 years often start with tobacco products. Many of them progress to use alcohol, inhalants and bhang, with some of them eventually moving onto illicit substances like ganja, heroin and other opioids. Multiple substance use is also common among street children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/child-rights-body-and-ncb-team-up-to-combat-drug-abuse-among-children/articleshow/80775599.cms||Ambika Pandit
February 10, 2021||India||Aadhar authentication needed for availing online renewal of licence, 15 other services||NEW DELHI: Driving licence holders and vehicle owners would need to get Aadhaar authentication to avail 16 types of online and contactless services and avoid the hassles of visiting offices of transport departments. These include obtaining learner's licence, renewal of DL, changes of address and certificate of registration, issue of international driving licence, notice of transfer and application for transfer of ownership of vehicle. According to a draft “order” by the road transport ministry, “Any individual desirous of availing various contactless services through the portal is required to undergo Aadhaar authentication. Provided that till the time Aadhaar is assigned to an individual, benefits of contactless services shall be given to such individual, subject to the production of Aadhaar enrolment ID slip.” The ministry has sought suggestions and objections to this draft order, which has been proposed as per the Good Governance (Social Welfare, Innovation, Knowledge) Rules. The rules allow Aadhaar authentication to promote ease of living. “Those who don’t want to go for Aadhaar authentication will need to visit offices personally to avail such services,” said a ministry official. This voluntary Aadhaar authentication will help the government to weed out fake documents and more than one driving licences held by individuals, which are big deterrents to road safety in India. Another official said considering that people are opting more for contactless or online services they are hopeful of this becoming popular. The state government would be asked to make this initiative popular among people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aadhar-authentication-needed-for-availing-online-renewal-of-licence-15-other-services/articleshow/80774803.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 10, 2021||Lucknow||Kailash Kher regales Lucknowites with his live performance||Kailash Kher, with his band Kailasa, brought the house down in Lucknow with his performance at the recently concluded Hunar Haat at Awadh Shilp Gram. Kailash Kher (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Kailash Kher (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) The singer crooned some of his most popular numbers including Teri Deewani which spread the warmth of love on the chilly night among the audience which was jam packed at the pandal. Seema Naqvi and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Seema Naqvi and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Among those present to watch the singer and his band’s performance were minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi with wife Seema, Baldev Singh Aulakh and Devendra Khandelwal.  – with inputs by Vishnu Jaiswal Baldev Singh Aulakh and Devendra Khandelwal (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Baldev Singh Aulakh and Devendra Khandelwal (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Suman and Ashit Kumar Panda (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Suman and Ashit Kumar Panda (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kailash-kher-regales-lucknowites-with-his-live-performance/articleshow/80769259.cms||---
February 10, 2021||India||2007 terrorist attack: Azad couldn’t stop crying, says Modi||SRINAGAR: An emotional Prime Minister Modi, while bidding adieu to the leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad whose term is ending next week, recalled the Congress leader’s emotional and humane gesture during a terrorist attack on Gujarati pilgrims in Kashmir on July 30, 2007. Four persons, including two children were killed and six others suffered injuries in the attack. Terrorists had lobbed a grenade on the bus carrying the tourists from Gujarat at Batpora, Zakura, in Srinagar at 6pm on that day. The bus was on its way to the Mughal Gardens. Sharing details of their communication during the attack, Modi said Azad was the first one to call him about the incident. “During that call he could not stop crying.” Azad later went to the airport when the bodies were sent back and kept in touch till the plane landed in Gujarat. With tears rolling down his cheeks, Azad asked for forgiveness to the surviving tourists when they boarded the special defence aircraft. Azad had also deputed an officer of the tourism department to accompany the bodies, the wounded and their families up to Baroda in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2007-terrorist-attack-azad-couldnt-stop-crying-says-modi/articleshow/80775732.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 10, 2021||World||Farmers’ protests: Tweet by UK Indian women’s group outrages Sikh community||LONDON: With divisions over the farmers’ protests having spread to Britain, an inflammatory tweet by a networking group for Indian-origin women saying “Punjab needs to be cleansed of lots of cobwebs… they forgot the massacre after Indira” has led to calls for the Metropolitan Police to investigate and caused Labour MP Virendra Sharma to step down as patron. Inspiring Indian Women (IIW), registered in Wembley, claims its tweet has been misinterpreted. A spokesperson for IIW said the tweet had been a reply to a tweet by the Office of the Prime Minister of India @PMOIndia on Monday which said — “India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs. This is a community that has done so much for the nation.” The tweet posted Monday by the group’s official handle said: “Yes, specifically Khalsa Aid… such a beautiful religion they are now brainwashed by vested interests. Punjab needs to cleansed of lots of cobwebs… they forgot the massacre after Indira”. Ravinder Singh, founder and CEO of Khalsa Aid, a Maidenhead-based Sikh humanitarian NGO supplying langar and essential commodities at the farmer protest sites, took a screenshot of the tweet and posted it on Twitter, writing: “Open threat to commit another Genocide against Sikhs from @inspiringiwomen, based in London! I think we will need @metpoliceuk to look into this!” He later tweeted he was "horrified" and said: “I am truly lost for words as i am fuming with rage!” Mandhali-born Sharma stood down on Monday as patron. Sharma, who spoke at the group’s virtual Republic Day celebrations, wrote in his resignation letter: “I am not comfortable that it was possible to issue such a strongly-worded tweet, and this with other political language you have used, including calling other Labour MPs rats from the official organisation account, makes it impossible for me to remain as patron.” IIW promotes Indian culture in Britain and acts as a support and networking group for Indian-origin women. It has 13,000 members. Recently the group raised money for acid attack victims in India. India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs. This is a community that has done so much for the nation. The wor… https://t.co/wgNbjNekQA— PMO India (@PMOIndia) 1612764216000The woman at IIW who wrote the tweet told TOI: “I was agreeing with Narendra Modi and saying, ‘Yes, especially Khalsa Aid’. I endorse Khalsa Aid and I was endorsing what Narendra Modi had said about Sikhs. But then I went on further and said but it is scary that the youth of Punjab have been brainwashed by vested interests and the cobwebs in Punjab need to be cleaned up, and let’s not forget what happened after Indira and by that I meant the Congress party. I was referring to the dirty politics and power struggle and yet the Sikhs are still not prepared to blame what happened on Congress and they are ruling Punjab. It is the Congress party responsible for the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 (sic)." She said it was insane to suggest she would ask for a genocide. "I admit my words sounded wrong, I have apologised. I didn’t mean to hurt anyone. I have two children. Why would I talk about a genocide? A close friend’s father died in the anti-Sikh riots,” she said. “It is very unfortunate this has blown out of proportion. Khalsa Aid has cropped my tweet and not included Narendra Modi’s tweet,” she said. The India team of Khalsa Aid is currently being investigated by the NIA. But Khalsa Aid says the allegations made against the charity are “baseless”. A spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police said: "On Tuesday, 9 February police received an allegation of malicious communications following a post on social media. Officers are carrying out enquiries and have arranged to take a statement from the complainant."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/farmers-protests-tweet-by-uk-indian-womens-group-outrages-sikh-community/articleshow/80776374.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 10, 2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Trapped workers up against hypothermia, dipping oxygen||TAPOVAN/DEHRADUN: Hope at the other end of the tunnel is keeping over 500 rescue personnel going at the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. As they race against time to rescue over 34 workers believed to be stuck in the 1.6-km-long debris-filled tunnel, their biggest concern is hypothermia – a potentially dangerous drop in body temperature. Meanwhile, the search and rescue teams recovered six more bodies on Tuesday from downstream areas taking the total toll of the tragedy to 32, while 174 people are still reported missing. While conditions in the area remain chilly, the slush-filled tunnel, experts say, could be much colder. Vivek Pandey, spokesperson of ITBP, said, “The rescue teams are working round the clock and tirelessly to save the trapped workers. However, our immediate concern is about the workers getting hypothermia, which can be fatal in such conditions.” Pandey said the trapped workers have one JCB and two light vehicles with them inside the tunnel, which might come in handy for them to take shelter in. The 25-foot-high and 25-foot-wide headrace tunnel – a structure that carries water to the power generators – was completely filled with debris when the rescue operations began on Sunday. It has become partially filled with slush again after they cleared the passage, which is hampering rescue operations. What gives hope to the rescue teams is the fact that the tunnel takes a sharp 90-degree-bend to the left after 180 metres, where the slush may have subsided. On the growing concern of depleting oxygen levels inside the tunnel, an ITBP official at the spot said, “There is an opening on top of the tunnel where workers are believed to be stuck. We are hoping that there are adequate levels of oxygen which can help people survive till we reach them.” Sanjay Singh, deputy commandant, ITBP, told TOI, “So far, we have been able to reach approximately 120 metres. The challenge of the rescue operation is the slush which is continuously flowing into the tunnel while we are trying to remove it.” Another team from the Indian Army had used ropes to go down on the other side of the tunnel to see if there were any bodies stuck under the grille. However, nothing was found during the search. Uttarakhand director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said, “As the rescue teams are clearing the slush and proceeding ahead, more slush and water is coming to them, making the whole process slow and difficult.” Watch Uttarakhand disaster: Trapped workers up against hypothermia, dipping oxygen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trapped-workers-up-against-hypothermia-dipping-oxygen/articleshow/80777044.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 10, 2021||World||As Trump trial opens, evidence mounts Capitol attack was planned||WASHINGTON: On December 19, Beverly Hills salon owner Gina Bisignano read a tweet from president Donald Trump: "Big protest in D.C. on January 6th. Be there, will be wild!" "We'll be there," replied Bisignano, one of tens of millions who saw the summons to Washington to battle Trump's election defeat. Meanwhile Ethan Nordean in Washington state and Enrique Tarrio in Florida were online making their January 6 plans as leaders of the extreme-right Proud Boys. Nordean, according to a court filing, on December 27 appealed to followers for funds to buy protective gear and communications equipment. A week later he and Tarrio told followers in a podcast to wear black, and said they would have to be prepared to fight. "We are looked at almost like soldiers of the right wing," said Tarrio. "This stuff is real. We are in a war." In the ranks of the extremist Proud Boys or Oath Keepers, among QAnon conspiracists and hardcore fans of the Republican president, the message was clear weeks ahead: Trump wants you to head to Washington to stop Congress from certifying Joe Biden's election win on January 6. As Trump stands trial in the US Senate for incitement of insurrection, increasing evidence in court filings shows the attack on the US Capitol was premeditated. After Trump's tweet many fans announced plans to travel to Washington, some simply for a final pro-Trump rally. But others spoke of halting the certification itself and inflicting pain on "traitors" in Congress. They prepared for it. Dozens brought combat helmets, stun guns, body armor, communications equipment, and bear and pepper spray. A handful had firearms. The night before, someone planted pipe bombs at two different locations near to the Capitol. The bombs never went off, and may have simply sought to draw police away from the Capitol as the assault began. The alleged leaders of the attack, those appearing most organized, according to court filings, were the Proud Boys and Oath Keepers. In late December in Berryville, Virginia, some 60 miles (100 kilometers) west of Washington, Thomas Caldwell was allegedly organizing for serious violence. Described as a "commander" of the Oath Keepers, a violent far-right group of mostly ex-military and police, Caldwell planned to meet just outside Washington with members of armed militia from around the region. "Let them try to certify some crud on capitol hill with a million or more patriots in the streets. This kettle is set to boil," he said on Facebook. "They have morphed into pure evil even blatantly rigging an election and paying off the political caste. We must smite them now and drive them down," he added. In Bridgeville, Pennsylvania, QAnon and Proud Boy follower Kenneth Grayson, 51, was likewise preparing. On December 23, court filings show, he texted to family and friends: "I'm there if Trump tells us to storm the fucking Capitol ... they are not going to steal this election." In Georgia attorney William Calhoun was angry about Biden's alleged steal of the election. After the election he had already been reported to the FBI for calling for an armed attack on Washington. On December 29 he posted: "Being physically present in Washington on January 6 is of key importance. We the people have no other realistic option to communicate our unwavering intent to demand fair elections now and forever -- or else." A week later he announced he was on his way to Washington "to let them know this is their last chance to Stop The Steal -- or they are going to have bigger problems." The morning of January 6, Ronnie Sandlin of Memphis Tennessee and Nathan Degrave of Las Vegas, Nevada, made a video of their plans. "I think it is time to take the Capitol and I don't say that lightly," said Sandlin. "If we need to occupy the Capitol, we will occupy the Capitol....one o'clock is when it is all going to go down." After the attack, participants declared success, having done what they planned to do. "Today the American People proved that we have the power," Calhoun posted. "We occupied the Capitol and shut down the Government - we shut down their stolen election shenanigans." Proud Boys Nicholas Ochs of Hawaii and Nicholas DeCarlo of Texas streamed a video from the scene. "We came here to stop the steal," said Ochs. "That's what I came down here to do. We fucking did it," said DeCarlo. "It may resume, but the steal is for now stopped. You're welcome, America!" Ochs replied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/as-trump-trial-opens-evidence-mounts-capitol-attack-was-planned/articleshow/80776570.cms||---
February 10, 2021||India||Engineer held in Faruqui case denied bail by sessions court||INDORE: An Indore sessions court on Tuesday rejected the bail application of Sadaqat Khan, co-accused in the Munawar Faruqui case. The court of first additional sessions judge Yatindra Kumar Guru said that Khan couldn’t be granted regular bail on the basis of parity with the interim bail granted to Munawar by Supreme Court on February 4. Police had argued that if Khan were released on bail, it could lead to a “law and order situation, as in Ujjain recently”. Khan, an engineer, was arrested on January 2 — a day after Munawar and four others — when he had gone to the district court where the others were being produced. A video of him being slapped by onlookers when in police custody had gone viral. Khan has been booked on the same charges as the rest — IPC 295A, 298, 269, 188/34 — for insulting Hindu deities and hurting religious feelings. Khan’s counsel Surendra Verma, submitted before the court that police had arrested him “without any investigation and with a political vendetta, relying on untrue facts”. He pointed out that Munawar had been granted ad-interim bail by SC, and that police had spared the owner of the café where the show was organised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/engineer-held-in-faruqui-case-denied-bail-by-sessions-court/articleshow/80777234.cms||---
February 10, 2021||India||India inks MoU to build dam for safe drinking and agri water to Kabul||NEW DELHI: India and Afghanistan signed an MoU on Tuesday for construction of the proposed Shatoot dam that India will build to provide safe drinking and irrigation water to Kabul residents. Presiding over the virtual ceremony with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, PM Narendra Modi said no external power can come in the way of India-Afghanistan friendship. Modi also expressed concern over increasing violence in Afghanistan and the “cowardly manner” in which innocent civilians and journalists were being targeted in Afghanistan. While calling for comprehensive ceasefire in Afghanistan, he said as close neighbours and strong strategic partners, both India and Afghanistan want to see the region free of extremism and terrorism. Referring to the Afghan peace process, he said unity within the country was important and hoped that a “united Afghanistan” will be capable of dealing with any challenge facing it. In his remarks, Ghani said India’s development assistance to Afghanistan is iconically marked on the country’s landscape. The MoU for Shatoot dam was signed by foreign minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart Hanif Atmar. The government said the project was a part of the New Development Partnership between India and Afghanistan. “The Lalandar (Shatoot) dam would meet the safe drinking water needs of Kabul city, provide irrigation water to nearby areas, rehabilitate the existing irrigation and drainage network, aid in flood protection and management efforts in the area, and also provide electricity to the region,” said a government statement. This is the second major dam being built by India in Afghanistan, after the India-Afghanistan Friendship Dam [Salma Dam], which was inaugurated by Modi and Ghani in June 2016. “Signing of the MoU on Lalandar (Shatoot) dam is a reflection of India’s strong and long-term commitment towards the socio-economic development of Afghanistan and the enduring partnership between two countries. As a part of our development cooperation with Afghanistan, India has completed over 400 projects covering all 34 provinces of Afghanistan,” said the statement. In his remarks, Modi highlighted the civilisational relationship between India and Afghanistan and gave an assurance of India’s continued support for a peaceful, united, stable, prosperous and inclusive Afghanistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-inks-mou-to-build-dam-for-safe-drinking-and-agri-water-to-kabul/articleshow/80777390.cms||---
February 10, 2021||India||Under pressure, Twitter starts blocking handles censured by govt||NEW DELHI: Facing the possible arrest of its top executives and a financial penalty, Twitter finally started blocking accounts flagged by the government for "carrying inflammatory and divisive comments". Top sources told TOI that the American micro-blogging giant, which has been under pressure over the past few days over comments made by users using the hashtag #ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide, has assured the government that it is looking into its concerns, and taking stock of the content on the handles mentioned in the notice sent by the IT Ministry under Section 69A of the IT Act. Sources said that of the 257 handles that had originally tweeted with the hashtag, 126 have been deactivated. Just a few days ago, Twitter had blocked them, before activating them almost immediately citing "free speech" and because it found the content "newsworthy". It has now blocked many of them again. Read AlsoRihanna’s tweet on farmer protests: How it started and where it wentA single tweet by American pop star Rihanna on the farmer protests in India has led to a perfect storm. The Indian government, backed by Bollywood and sports stars, is trying to fight a deluge of support from Hollywood stars, social media influencers, and international politiciansSimilarly, of the 1,178 handles that the government suspected to have links with Khalistani and Pakistani elements to spread misinformation and provocative content, 583 have been deactivated. A spokesperson for Twitter in India refused to respond to a detailed questionnaire. Read AlsoDorsey ‘likes’ pro-stir tweets, govt questions ‘neutrality’ of TwitterNEW DELHI: Twitter founder Jack Dorsey's decision to 'like' some of the tweets made in support of farmers protests has not gone down well with the government which feels the act raises questions over the neutrality of the micro-blogging platform. "If the founder of Twitter is openly taking sides, itTwitter has been in the eye of a storm following some of the tweets, especially those that are viewed as controversial. After American pop star Rihanna — who has a mammoth 101.6 million followers on the platform — and teen activist Greta Thunberg expressed solidarity with the farmers agitation, the online chatter around the issue grew in leaps and bounds, prompting the government to raise concerns. Read AlsoTwitter reaches out to govt on a/c blockFaced with a warning of arrest of its employees and a penal action, American social media giant Twitter has finally reached out to the government and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad for talks on the latter’s demand for blocking 257 accounts over the carriage of the hashtagThe IT ministry, headed by Ravi Shankar Prasad, told Twitter that it was obliged to comply with its instructions as they were being given keeping public order in mind and in order to defuse tensions and hatred. "Twitter is an intermediary and they are obliged to obey the directions of the government. Refusal to do so will invite penal action," the IT ministry said in a terse message, adding that the "motivated campaigns" on the platform and the controversial hashtag around Prime Minister Narendra Modi were being run to "abuse, inflame and create tension in society on unsubstantiated grounds". Twitter was told that if it did not comply with the demands of the government, then action would be taken against the company under Section 69A [3] of the IT Act, which talks about a jail term of up to seven years for senior company officials, and a financial penalty. Twitter, which has its own content-moderation policy before taking down any account, for now has decided to block the handles that were sought to be censured by the government. However, a full compliance is yet to be reached. Watch Beleaguered Twitter starts blocking handles censured by govt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/under-pressure-twitter-starts-blocking-handles-censured-by-govt/articleshow/80777447.cms||Pankaj Doval
February 10, 2021||India||SC protects Tharoor, Sardesai and five journalists from arrest||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday shielded Congress leader Shashi Tharoor and six journalists, including Rajdeep Sardesai, from arrest in any of the 11 FIRs lodged against them in Delhi, Haryana, UP, MP and Karnataka for allegedly stoking violence during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day through “fake news and views”. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared or Tharoor, “where is the danger of getting arrested” as solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for Delhi and UP police, told the bench that there would not be any rush to arrest but a considered view would be taken while investigating the FIRs. TimesViewNo journalist or individual is above the law. But the law cannot be used to harass and victimise anybody. Those accused of ‘misreporting’ should be present in court when asked to. But arresting them in advance seems to be a way of harassing them. The SC is right in protecting them.Sibal said police from other states were in Delhi and arrest of the seven people named in the FIRs appeared imminent. “Sedition charges are added to the FIRs for mere tweets. Police from any of the states where FIRs are lodged can come and arrest,” he said. The bench said the petitions of Tharoor, Sardesai and others were similar to an earlier case (filed by Arnab Goswami who faced 14 FIRs in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan for his alleged comments against Sonia Gandhi in the Palghar lynching case). The bench said Mehta could assure only about non-arrest of the accused by the police from Delhi and UP and not for other states. The SG attempted to pre-empt a protective order by assuring that he would speak with all other states, for whom he might appear in the next hearing, for not arresting the petitioners. When the bench appeared inclined to take the path laid in its judgment in the Goswami case that included protection from arrest, Mehta said, “The tweets were not innocent as is being made out in these petitions. We will show what horrendous effect these had on the violence that was unleashed in Delhi during the tractor rally. Their Twitter handles are followed by lakhs of people and circulating fake news about a farmer’s death from police shooting aggravated the situation.” The assurance failed to deter the bench from restraining police from taking coercive action against the petitioners. It sought responses within two weeks from police in the five states to the petitions and ordered, “In the meantime, there shall be a stay of arrest of the petitioners.” Tharoor and Sardesai, through Karanjawala & Co, said the manner in which the FIRs were lodged in a synchronised manner in BJP-governed states was indicative of a deeper synchronised conspiracy to harass an opposition party leader and an award winning journalist. The motive was to force them to travel to various states and appear before police during the pandemic, they said. Sardesai said he was reporting from the place of the incident and, as is required in TV journalism, had reported about the death of a farmer allegedly from police firing. His tweet and news reporting were picked up by Tharoor, who tweeted condemning police firing and condoling the death of the farmer. Both Sardesai and Tharoor said they deleted their tweets immediately after the police released a video showing a tractor overturning and claiming that the farmer died of this accident. When Goswami had sought protection from arrest for his alleged comments against Sonia, Sibal, appearing for the Maharashtra government, had defended the action and said, “There is a limit to right to free speech and expression.” He had termed Goswami's statement as an abuse of free speech and pleaded with the SC not to restrain proper investigation, which included custodial interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-protects-tharoor-sardesai-and-five-journalists-from-arrest/articleshow/80777482.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 10, 2021||India||6.7L gave up citizenship of India between 2015 & 2019: Govt||NEW DELHI: More than 6.7 lakh people gave up their Indian citizenship and took the citizenship of other countries between 2015 and 2019, the home ministry informed Lok Sabha on Tuesday.  As per figures put out in reply to a question, junior home minister Nityanand Rai said the ministry of external affairs had put the total number of Indian nationals living abroad at 1.25 crore. While 1.36 lakh gave up Indian citizenship in 2019, the number was 1.25 lakh in 2018, 1.28 lakh in 2017, and around 1.45 lakh in both 2016 and 2015. Meanwhile, around 37 lakh people were issued Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cards since 2005, though the number od such people fell to 1.91 lakh in 2020 from 3.29 lakh in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/6-7l-gave-up-citizenship-of-india-between-2015-2019-govt/articleshow/80777597.cms||Bharti Jain
February 10, 2021||India||Deep Sidhu, key accused in R-Day riots case, arrested||NEW DELHI: The special cell of Delhi Police on Tuesday arrested Deep Sidhu, a Punjabi actor-activist and a key player in the Red Fort riots during the Republic Day tractor rally — ending a 13-day manhunt spread across Delhi, Punjab and Haryana. Sidhu was nabbed from near a dhaba in Haryana’s Karnal while he was waiting to take a getaway vehicle. He was brought to the capital and sent to seven days in police custody. He is currently being interrogated by cops who are trying to unravel the conspiracy behind the riots and the whereabouts of Sidhu’s associate, gangster Lakha Sidhana. According to police, Sidhu incited young protesters to riot and indulge in violence on January 26 and started the preparations by making provocative speeches at the city borders the night before. As mayhem gripped the city during the tractor rally, Sidhu, along with Sidhana and others, led a section of the mob that ran riot at Red Fort eventually taking the lead in unfurling Nishan Sahib atop the fort. The violence triggered by him and associates led to injuries to over 140 cops, police claimed. During interrogation, Sidhu said he joined the agri agitation as he felt strongly toward the farmers’ cause, but felt outraged many a times as the elderly union leaders “weren’t not doing enough and going soft on the government”. On January 25, Sidhu got hold of the dress of a volunteer, which he wore the next day as he hit the streets. After shooting to limelight with his “Facebook Live” of the violence at Red Fort, Sidhu was denounced by the farmer unions who accused him of acting on behest of vested interest and against farmers. A day after the violence, farmers had released a video showing them trying to chase him as he first ran on foot and then fled on a bike. Since then, Sidhu was on the run. The law graduate tried plenty of tricks to dodge cops: He didn’t use his own phone or stay at one place for more than a day or two and avoided places which could have CCTVs. While on the run, Sidhu started releasing videos claiming his innocence and trying to prove himself a hero. For this, he borrowed phones or used mobiles of friends or even passers-by to record videos. The cops, a source said, got a crucial tip-off while tracking a number which Sidhu had been using to communicate with Reena Rai, a California-based actress. She was the one who was uploading Sidhu’s videos on Facebook. She is being investigated and will be asked to join investigation. Before January 26, Sidhu was staying in five-star hotels. As Delhi police teams started closing in on him, his friends began refusing him shelter or help fearing police action. A cornered Sidhu planned to flee to Bihar’s Purnea, where his wife stays but had to delay plans when he got to know that police visited her place. He managed to reach Karnal on Monday night and got in touch with an associate who offered him help and arranged for a getaway car. However, police were not far and cornered him before he could board the vehicle. Watch Republic Day violence: Deep Sidhu sent to 7-day police custody||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/deep-sidhu-key-accused-in-r-day-riots-case-arrested/articleshow/80777622.cms||Rajshekhar Jha
February 10, 2021||India||Discovered in Bhimbetka, India’s lone fossil of world’s oldest animal||BHOPAL: Hidden in plain sight, one of the rarest fossils in the world may have been discovered in the fascinating Bhimbetka rock shelters, a Unesco site about 40km from Bhopal. Researchers believe they have found the first-ever fossil in India of a Dickinsonia —the Earth’s ‘oldest animal’, dating back 570 million years — on the roof of what’s called the ‘Auditorium Cave’ at Bhimbetka. The find has been published in the February edition of Gondwana Research, an international journal. Dickinsonia fossils have shown they could exceed four feet in length but the one found in Bhimbetka is 17 inches long. Like the awe-inspiring rock shelters themselves, this fossil was discovered by chance. Two experts from Geological Survey of India (GSI) were on a sightseeing tour of Bhimbetka ahead of the 36th International Geological Congress, which was scheduled for March 2020 but was postponed twice due to the pandemic, when they spotted the leaf-like impression. Eleven feet above the ground, almost blending with the rock and easily mistaken by laymen for prehistoric rock art, they found imprints of the Dickinsonia, believed to be one of the key links between the early, simple organisms and the explosion of life in the Cambrian Period, about 541 million years ago. “The fossils were found in the roof of Auditorium Cave at Bhimbetka Rock Shelters, a Unesco World Heritage Site for Paleolithic and Mesolithic cave art, near Bhopal. They are identical with Dickinsonia tenuis from the Ediacara member of the Rawnsley Quartzite in South Australia,” says an abstract of the paper ‘Dickinsonia Discovered in India and Late Ediacaran Biogeography’ in Gondwana Research, posted on the web. The writeup is attributed to Gregory J Retallack, Neffra A Matthews, Sharad Master, Ranjit G Khangar and Merajuddin Khan. “The discovery of Dickinsonia in India allows assessment of biogeographic provinces and plate tectonic reconstructions for the late Ediacaran,” it says, adding: “This new occurrence confirms assembly of Gondwanaland by 550 Ma, but not reconstructions adjusted for true polar wander. Cloudina and other small shelly marine fossils were low latitude, but vendobionts such as Dickinsonia were at temperate to subtropical latitudes.” How did it lie undiscovered all these years? The Bhimbetka rock shelters were found by V S Wakankar 64 years ago. Since then, thousands of researchers have visited the site, but this rare fossil went undetected. “ASI deals in geologic time scale, quaternary period, that began 2.6 million years ago and extends into the present. Anything before the beginnings of human evolution is not covered,” said retired ASI joint director general, S B Ota. “I have seen the picture on social media. It is on a deposit on sedimentary rock. A paleobotanist could determine its genesis,” he added. A GSI team had conducted extensive work in the Vindhyan Hills some 20 years ago to meet operational guidelines of Unesco before Bhimbetka was declared a world heritage site. GSI mapped the area and since then the number of rock shelters has increased from 400 to 1000, said Ota, who is also a Tagore research fellow. Vindhyan Hills, where these rock paintings are located is an area of massively sculpted sandstone rock formations clustered around cave-art rich Bhimbetka Hill. “Again, GSI scope was limited to quaternary,” he said. Suddenly, time lapse has a whole new meaning at Bhimbetka. The ancient cave art is young, compared to Dickinsonia. According to Unesco, the Bhimbetka rock art is believed to date from the Mesolithic period (around 10,000 years ago), through the Chalcolithic (Microlithic) and right into the historic, medieval and recent historic periods. “Cosmogenic nuclide dating is being deployed to determine time of earliest human culture. India's oldest stone-age tools, up to 1.5 million years old, are at a prehistoric site near Chennai,” said Ota. Does ASI have any plans for it? “We have received no request for sampling of Dickinsonia,” said ASI Bhopal superintendent, Piyush Bhatt. Watch India’s lone fossil of world’s oldest animal discovered in MP’s Bhimbetka Caves||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/discovered-in-bhimbetka-indias-lone-fossil-of-worlds-oldest-animal/articleshow/80777678.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 10, 2021||India||Allahabad HC orders home guard sacked for being gay reinstated||PRAYAGRAJ: Observing that any display of affection among members of the LGBT community towards their partners in public, so long as it does not amount to indecency or has the potential to disturb public order, cannot be bogged down by majority perception, the Allahabad high court recently directed reinstatement of a home guard. He had been sacked on the charge of "indecency" on the basis of a video in which he was purportedly seen "displaying affection" to his same-sex partner. Times ViewSexual minorities are often victims of social bias in various forms. Any progressive society must ensure that they are protected and made to feel wanted, irrespective of the majority’s perception. The HC observation is a positive move.Terming it "vindictive", Justice Sunita Agarwal quashed the order cancelling the home guard’s appointment in Bulandshahr, and directed the commandant general of the Home Guards, HQ Lucknow, to take him back into service with immediate effect. The court passed the order while taking note of the reply (counter-affidavit) filed by the district commandant wherein it was stated that the "sexual orientation of the petitioner was indulgence in untoward activity". The HC said the order was is in violation of the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Navtej Singh Johar vs Union of India wherein it had observed that "the sexual orientation of a person is his individual choice and any act of treating it as an offence would be interference in the right to privacy of the person concerned". The court, in its February 2 order, said the petitioner would be entitled to all admissible dues and the honorarium shall be paid regularly as and when the same fell due.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/allahabad-hc-orders-home-guard-sacked-for-being-gay-reinstated/articleshow/80777722.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
February 10, 2021||Allahabad||Saints with unique features attracting crowd at magh mela||Prayagraj: As formidable as their ash-smeared, half unclad bodies and matted hair might look, seers and sadhus camping at Tapasavi Nagar are attracting crowds to the Magh Mela ground,. Be it Narmada Ganesh Baba or Baba Bhagwat Das, devotees from all across the country are flocking to the magh mela ground to seek their blessings. Visitors are also keen to know more about sadhus and the history of these seers who have been associated with Akhil Bharatiya Shri Panch Terah Bhai Tyagi akhara. These saints attend all Magh Melas, Ardh Kumbh and Kumbh Melas whenever and where-ever they are organised in Prayagraj, Ujjain, Haridwar and Nasik. Ahead of the Haridwar kumbh, saints and seers associated with Panch Shri Terah Bhai TyagiAkhara, Ayodhya and performing special Hatha yoga have turned to be major crowd puller at the ongoing Magh Mela. Devotees too claimed that they are visiting the camps of Tapasvi nagar, Khak chowk in sector 3 of mela to interact with seers and saints and seeking blessings. Narmada Ganesh Baba, who keeps special sandalwood paste & design on his body, has turned to be a major crowd puller at Tapasvi nagar. Baba, who keeps on moving across the country and attends all religious events and activities including Kumbh andArdh Kumbh, interacts with devotees and pilgrims and teaches spiritualism and benefits of meditation. Besides, BabaBhagwat Das, who too hails from Ayodhya and has been visiting Kumbh, Ardh Kumbhand Magh Melas since the last 18 years, has become famous for his unique quality of serving beverages. He offers tea and coffee to all the visitors who visits him to seek his blessings. Baba is keeping a thermos flask and clean utensils ready for visitors. “I have a habit of offering tea and coffee to the visitors and thus I have become known as ‘Chai Aur Coffee Wale Baba’ among devotees” he added. Moreover, Laddoo wale baba is also attracting crowd at Tapasvi Nagar who offers blessings along with laddos who so ever visits him to seek blessings. With seers busy in their meditation, religious activity and Hatha Yoga, large number of devotees are visiting these seers. There is also asection of seers who infrequently talk to visitors and are largely unmoved bythe gathering of onlookers around them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/saints-with-unique-features-attracting-crowd-at-magh-mela/articleshow/80796118.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Patna||Patna: Students, artists gear up to welcome goddess Saraswati||PATNA: Patnaites are gearing up to celebrate Basant Panchami with utmost fervour and gaiety. From buying yellow-coloured clothes to cleaning houses and decorating places of worship, they are set to welcome the goddess of knowledge. Also known as Saraswati Puja, the festival falls on the fifth day of the ‘magha’ month of the Hindu calendar and marks the onset of the spring season. Students and artists worship goddess Saraswati, who is considered an epitome of knowledge, music, art, wisdom, and learning. Jai Shreya, who will organize a small get-together at her residence, told this reporter, “My family and friends will participate in the rituals which a priest will perform. There will also be a vegetarian lunch for the guests.” Talking about the importance of Basant Panchami, city-based priest Dinesh Pandey said, “People wear yellow clothes and offer flowers to the goddess as it is her favourite colour.” Patliputra resident Prachi Pranu, who belongs to a family of teachers, will install a medium-sized idol of goddess in her house. “Basant Panchami is a grand festival. We wear yellow clothes and eat home-made sweets,” she said. Devotees will also ensure that they follow Covid safety guidelines while celebrating Saraswati Puja. “In order to avoid huge gatherings, I have called a priest to perform all the rituals,” Smita Sinha, owner of a coaching institute in Kankarbagh, claimed. Class XI student Shaurya Kumari said, “My coaching institute has decided not to have an elaborate puja like previous years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. I will stay home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-artists-gear-up-to-welcome-goddess-saraswati/articleshow/80774097.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Patna||JD(U) now BJP’s junior partner in NDA: Opposition||PATNA: The opposition parties on Tuesday said the BJP has made CM Nitish Kumar the “chhota bhai” and JD(U) its junior partner in the NDA government by giving ministerial berths to its 16 lawmakers against the latter’s 13, including the CM. Sixteen MLAs were inducted into the Nitish cabinet on Tuesday – nine from BJP and seven from JD(U). With this, the BJP has now 16 ministers and JD(U) 13. Congress’s state spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre said despite trying his best, Nitish failed to get maximum ministerial berths for JD(U) lawmakers. “The BJP has given a clear message that it will play the role of big brother in the government,” he added. RJD state spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said the new cabinet shows how BJP has prepared a pitch against Nitish. “Some former BJP ministers who had cordial relations with Nitish have not been given ministerial berth. The BJP is preparing a new team to take on Nitish. It took Nitish 85 days to expand his cabinet. This shows the rift between JD(U) and BJP,” Tiwari said, adding mid-term election was inevitable in the state. “BJP MLA Gyanendra Singh Gyanu has already expressed his discontent over the new faces in state cabinet. Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi had sought one more ministerial berth for his party, but to no avail. The tussle in the NDA has just started,” Tiwari said. However, state JD(U) spokesperson Arvind Nishad described the new cabinet as one of the best in the state. “All regions and social groups have got representation. There are young as well as experienced faces in the new cabinet. The opposition has nothing to talk about. Let them say whatever they want, but the fact is that the CM has a vision for Bihar and he will continue working on it,” Nishad said. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the NDA government led by Nitish was committed to ushering in development in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-now-bjps-junior-partner-in-nda-opposition/articleshow/80774169.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 10, 2021||Patna||Civic body gives nod to Rs 547-crore budget in Gaya||GAYA: Gaya Municipal Corporation (GMC) has approved a budget of Rs 547 crore for the financial year 2021-22. The budget was approved at the meeting of GMC standing committee held on Monday. Mayor Virendra Kumar alias Ganesh Paswan presented the budget in the meeting, which was approved by the committee members after some amendments in presence of municipal commissioner Saawan Kumar. The mayor said, “A proposal has been made in the budget to improve civic amenities in Gaya town, which includes widening of the GB road and KP road besides construction of some other roads. There is also a proposal for construction of 250 public toilets at different places in the town area.” GMC deputy mayor Akhauri Onkarnathalias alias Mohan Shrivastava said, “Development projects like widening of important roads, installation of street lights, construction of public toilets, improving the ranking in ‘Swachchhata Survekshan’ and making compost from garbage have been earmarked in the budget.” “People, especially women, often complain about lack of toilet facility in the market area. A large number of pilgrims visit Gaya town during Pitripaksh and throughout the year in general. Keeping this in view, we have decided to get public toilets constructed,” Paswan said. Regarding other projects the mayor said, “A laser light show on historical and spiritual importance of Gaya will be organised at Vaitarni pond. Beautification of Sita Kund has already been done and there is a plan to construct a ropeway at Sita Kund. Apart from these, renovation of the historical Rajendra tower at Chowk area will be also undertaken. GMC is also making an effort to improve the rating of Gaya in the forthcoming Swachchhata Survekshan.” “There is special focus on setting up solid waste management plant at the garbage dumping ground at Naili and improving the sewage system of the town. Work is going on all 53 wards,” the mayor added. Separate dustbins have already been distributed in almost every household for dry and wet garbage. Door-to-door garbage collection is being done in each ward. Dustbins have been placed at important places and garbage is lifted at regular interval. “Five vehicles have been allotted for the market area. These vehicles will collect the garbage, which shopkeepers throw on the road,” the mayor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civic-body-gives-nod-to-rs-rs-547-cr-budget-in-gaya/articleshow/80775140.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Patna||Postal department opens Citizen Service Centre in Gaya division||GAYA: The postal department is opening Citizen Service Centre (CSC) in Gaya and Jehanabad districts under Gaya division. The CSC functions at post offices having core banking service( CBS). Such centres are already functional at post offices in other postal divisions of the state including Patna. Senior superintendent of post offices, Gaya division, Ranjay Kumar Singh said, “Services like digital seva portal, labour service, pension, employment service, tour and travels, FASTag, educational services, Bharat Bill payment system, e-district/SSDG (state) and other G2C services will be available under one roof.” “In Gaya division, there are 35 CBS post offices and the CSC has started functioning at 15 places. In other 20 post offices, the service would start within one week. For efficient handling of the services and customer satisfaction, one-day online training has been provided to the selected postal department employees,” Singh added. The post offices where CSC would be functional include Gaya town, Bodh Gaya, Belaganj, Fatehpur, Buniyadganj, Khisersarai, Guraru, Sherghati and Magadh University campus in Gaya and Jehanabad town, Makhdumpur, Jehanabad court in Jehanabad district. He added, “Under digital seva portal, people can get services like birth/death certificates, soil health card, Ayushman Bharat yojana, Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana and others. Under election-related services, a voter can get Voter PVC card printed besides getting voter registration Form 6, and modification of voters’ details. Job aspirants can get registered and submit application form under employment service.” Services for not only Bihar but e-district services of Haryana, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry besides, state services of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and e-Vahan of Jammu & Kashmir will be available at the CSCs. Under tour and travel services, people can book flight and bus tickets, Rashtrapati Bhavan museum ticket and State Bank of India (SBI) e-payment of Maharashtra transport. “Under educational services, students will get the facility of Tally software registration, ITI registration, online admission and scholarship. FASTag service would provide FASTas issuance, too up, purchase and service,” the senior superintendent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/postal-dept-opens-citizen-service-centre-in-gaya-divn/articleshow/80775361.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Newly-inducted ministers vow to work for development||PATNA: The newly-inducted ministers in Nitish Kumar cabinet on Tuesday resolved to work for overall development in the state. BJP’s Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, who has been made the industries minister, thanked PM Narendra Modi and party president J P Nadda for giving him the opportunity to serve his birthplace. “I will give my best and work under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar,” Shahnawaz told a news channel before taking oath. JD(U)’s Sanjay Kumar Jha, who has got the portfolio of water resources and information and public relations departments, said the government would strive to make Bihar one of the top five states in the country by the next five years. Jha said he was happy to get another opportunity to work under Nitish. “This is Nitish’s fourth term and he has already made the platform for development in the state. We just need to implement his ideas,” Jha said. He appreciated the induction of young people into the cabinet. Another senior JD(U) leader Shravan Kumar, who will be handling rural development department, thanked Nitish for giving him an opportunity to serve the state. Shravan said it is the CM’s dream to work for development with justice. “We will follow in his footsteps. The projects under Seven Resolves–2.0 will be completed on time,” he added. Newly-made BJP minister Alok Ranjan Jha told media persons outside the party office that he would work for ushering in development in the state in general and in Kosi region in particular. Another BJP minister, Subhash Singh, said he would serve the state the same way he had been serving the people of his constituency. Subhash, the Gopalganj MLA, has been given the charge of cooperative department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/newly-inducted-mins-vow-to-work-for-development/articleshow/80774354.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Over 55k engineering seats vacant in Maharashtra||As many as 55,444 seats (44.7%) of the over 1.23 lakh in the first-year engineering courses across the state remained vacant at the end of the Centralised Admission Process for the academic year 2020-21. Last year, of 1.28 lakh seats in engineering colleges, 62,086 (49%) were vacant. Only 6% seats were vacant in pharmacy this year and 32% in management degree programmes, data released by the state Common Entrance Test Cell indicated. DV Jadhav, joint director of Directorate of Technical Education for Pune region, said, “Students have been preferring computer science and information technology streams over others. Most companies are placing students who have sound software skills and this means fewer students are choosing core streams like mechanical or civil engineering.” Amol Suryavanshi, who teaches at the mechanical engineering department of an engineering college, said students’ preferences keep changing every few years. “In a few years, the automobile industry will pick up and with so much talk about electric vehicles and EV giants like Tesla’s entry into India, there will be a market for mechanical students soon. But, such students should know basic programming language and basic electronics. The future is about multidisciplinary engineers,” Suryavanshi said. Kuldip Charak, director of faculty of management, MBA & MCA, Navsahyadri Group of Institutes, said the high vacancies are due to the delay at the start of the admission process in the state. “Many states and even deemed universities within Maharashtra had completed admissions before ours began. Admissions in rural and semi-rural belts have been fewer than last year. The process of admission was cumbersome for students. The state should have accepted the All-India Council for Technical Education’s notification which permitted admissions to management institutes without CET based on last year’s graduation marks when many students were unable to appear for various CETs,” he added. Ramdas Zol, president, Association of Management of Unaided Institutes in Rural Areas, said this is a good time for pharmacy education as there were 7,000 more applications this year compared to last year. “The entire talk around Covid vaccination has led to students thinking of careers in pharmaceuticals. Even IT companies are recruiting students from pharmacy...” Zol added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/over-55k-engineering-seats-vacant-in-state/articleshow/80777792.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 10, 2021||Vijayawada||AG to clear policy decisions in state||Vijayawada: The advocate-general will now clear all policy decisions of the state government in order to avoid litigation. The state government issued a GO on Tuesday directing all officers and heads of departments to have two-level scrutiny before a policy is made public. Chief secretary Adityanath Das issued the orders directing all officials of all departments to send policy decisions to the law department for scrutiny. Once the law department clears it, the orders or the policy decision would then be referred to the advocate-general for legal consultation, the chief secretary said. The decision to have two-level scrutiny was taken following the number of litigations raised on various policy decisions of the government in the last 20 months. “It is noticed that the policies of the government could be a subject matter of litigation whereupon the government would be called upon to justify the decisions including the process underlying the said decisions, in a court of law,” the chief secretary said in the order. The chief secretary further said that the government wanted to ensure that all parameters are followed in formulating policy decisions, “more particularly with regard to the legal framework in support of the said initiatives of the government.” The chief secretary wanted officials to follow two-level scrutiny “to ensure that the polices of the government do not suffer from legal infirmities.” He also wanted the department concerned to work with the law department in drafting any policy document and draft legislations. Once a draft is ready, the chief secretary said officials should consult the advocate-general “before issuing of such orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ag-to-clear-policy-decisions-in-state/articleshow/80773796.cms||Gopi Dara
February 10, 2021||Patna||JD(U) and BJP beef up caste bases, south Bihar ‘ignored’||PATNA: The first expansion of the Nitish Kumar cabinet on Tuesday, 84 days after taking oath on November 16 last year, has surprised many with some of the expected names ‘not’ on the list and a few finding ministerial berths which they may not have expected. The norms allow the state cabinet to have up to 36 ministers, including the chief minister. Since there were 14 ministers, including CM Nitish, and 17 more have been administered oaths, five ministerial berths are still vacant. While BJP preferred new faces to the old guards, Nitish’s JD(U) went for a mix of experience and debutants. Surprisingly again, Mithilanchal, Seemanchal and Kosi regions bagged the maximum representation among the 17 new ministers, completely ignoring south Bihar where NDA had suffered a crushing defeat in the assembly election last year. NDA, comprising BJP, JD(U), HAM-S and VIP in Bihar, had won 9 out of 10 seats in Darbhanga district. Among the new BJP ministers, Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, Nitin Nabin, Neeraj Kumar Singh ‘Bablu’, Janak Ram, Subhash Singh, Alok Ranjan Jha, Narayan Prasad and Samrat Chaudhary are the fresh faces in the Bihar NDA government. Though Shahnawaz had earlier been a Union minister and MP, BJP brought him to state politics for the first time with an MLC seat and the industries department portfolio. Only Pramod Kumar had been a minister in the previous NDA governments. Nitish brought back Sanjay Kumar Jha, Shrawan Kumar, Madan Sahni and Lesi Singh as ministers and made Jayant Raj the youngest member of his cabinet. He also rewarded Zama Khan and Sumit Singh for showing loyalty to him. Zama joined JD(U) after winning the lone seat for BSP in Bihar while Independent MLA Sumit had extended unconditional support to Nitish after the election results gave the opposition Mahagathbandhan a fighting strength of 110 MLAs against 125 of the NDA besides 5 AIMIM members in the 243-member legislative assembly. Nitish also inducted retired IPS officer Sunil Kumar as the excise and prohibition department minister at the time when his government has been questioned by the opposition over the success of liquor ban in the state. Overall, the selection of new ministers, both by BJP and JD(U), also reflects their eagerness to consolidate and strengthen their caste base electorally. While BJP played its Muslim card in Shahnawaz, JD(U) made Zama its minority community face in the ministry. Caste-wise, 4 Rajputs, 2 Brahmins, 2 Kushwahas, 2 from Vaishya, 2 Muslims and one each from Kayastha, Kurmi, fisherman, Dalit and scheduled caste found berths, with no Bhumihar among the 17 new ministers. What left the political analysts baffled was three ministers from Gopalganj district alone, which has six assembly constituencies. Besides Subhash Singh, BJP made Janak Ram, a former MP but not a member of either House, a minister, which fuelled speculation of filling the 12 MLC seats from the governor’s quota soon. Building construction department minister Ashok Choudhary is also not a member of either House. Sunil from JD(U) is also an MLA from Gopalganj district, which had elected 4 out of 6 candidates from NDA. On regional political matrix, the choice of Sumit, an MLA from Chakai in Jamui district, and Jayant Raj from Amarpur in adjoining Banka district is being seen as a JD(U) move to checkmate LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who is the MP from Jamui and had immensely damaged Nitish’s party in the 2020 polls. JD(U) could win only 43 seats compared to 74 by BJP and 4 each by HAM(S) and Vikassheel Insaan Party of Mukesh Sahani, who is already a minister in the Nitish cabinet. RJD spokesman Mritunjay Tiwari said the cabinet expansion was made as preparations for the mid-term assembly election, which is imminent in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-bjp-beef-up-caste-bases-with-cabinet-expansion-south-bihar-ignored/articleshow/80774240.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
February 10, 2021||Patna||Patna University colleges yet to start first year offline classes||PATNA: Sounds strange, yet it is a fact that while middle schools resumed offline classes from VI onward on Monday, Patna University (PU) colleges are still waiting for the instructions from the authorities concerned for starting classes of newly admitted first year degree students. These colleges are running classes of final year undergraduate and postgraduate students as per earlier orders of the state education department. But they are waiting for instructions to start other classes either at undergraduate or postgraduate level. Surprisingly, admissions to the first year UG courses have almost been completed and the colleges were contemplating to start their classes from Monday. Patna Science College principal S R Padmadeo said classes for newly admitted students would be started as soon as the college receives necessary instructions from the authorities concerned. Patna College principal Ashok Kumar said no clear order has yet been received from the university for starting first year classes. “Admission against some quota seats is still going on in the college,” he added. State higher education director Rekha Kumari told this newspaper that a decision is likely to be taken by the government soon. Meanwhile, the UGC has, in its circular dated February 5, has asked the universities to appropriately implement the earlier guidelines issued on November 5, 2020 on the reopening of universities and colleges. According to these guidelines, institutions of higher education located outside the containment zones may be opened in a graded manner after consultations with the state government and subject to adherence to the guidelines/SOP for Covid safety and health protocol prepared by UGC after duly incorporating the views of the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Both UG and PG students are quite eager to attend classes in offline mode. “We were admitted to BSc Part I chemistry honours class in Patna Science College long back, but our classes are yet to start. Classes must be started in regular mode with adherence to the Covid-19 safety norms,” said Sanjay Kumar. B N College BA Part I history honours student Namendra Prasad also expressed his concern over the delay in starting classes. Even the UGC has allowed reopening of colleges and resumption of teaching with necessary precautions, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-colleges-yet-to-start-first-year-offline-classes/articleshow/80774037.cms||B K Mishra
February 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Tobacco auctions slated to start on Mar 15||Guntur: Tobacco auctions for the coming season in Andhra Pradesh will commence on March 15. The Tobacco Board has decided to start auctions for the Flue-Cured Virginia (FCV) variety of tobacco on 11 platforms in the first phase. The board has also decided to commence the auctions on the remaining six platforms in the second phase on March 24. Tobacco growers are hopeful of getting good prices in the coming season as markets across the globe have started to resume operations. The high prices offered by merchants in Karnataka are also making growers in Andhra Pradesh hopeful about profitable prices. Growers in Karnataka fetched a record average price of Rs 177 per kilo for the bright grades while low grades too have returned a price of Rs 130 per kg. In some platforms, stocks were even purchased at over Rs 200 per kg in Karnataka. According to an official release issued by the Tobacco Board on Tuesday, the auctions in Podili-I, Kandukur-I, Kandukur-II, Kaligiri, DC Palli and Kanigiri in Southern Light Soils region (SLS), Ongole-I, Ongole-II, Tangutur-I, Kondapi and Vellamapalli in Southern Black Soils (SBS) region would be launched in the first phase on March 15. Similarly, the auctions in Devarapalli, Jangareddigudem-I, Jangareddigudem-II, Koyyalagudem and Gopalapuram in Northern Light Soils (NLS) region would commence on March 24. The Tobacco Board has authorised 115 million kg of the crop in Andhra Pradesh for the 2020-21 season. The board has decided to launch the auctions keeping in view last year’s experiences when it took more than six months to complete the sale process. According to information, about 60 million kg of stock was sold in Karnataka during the ongoing auctions. The board authorities are hopeful of winding up the sale process in Karnataka before the commencement of auctions in AP. The board has authorised a crop of 88 million kg for Karnataka where average prices are also reasonably good.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tobacco-auctions-slated-to-start-on-mar-15/articleshow/80773591.cms||Samdani MN
February 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Spl facilities at Vizag bus stn draw drivers||Visakhapatnam: The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation bus station in Visakhapatnam is a favourite with bus drivers and conductors for its special facilities. Not only does the bus station have air conditioned rooms with 72 beds but also cooking facilities and a large dining hall. Over the years, the bus station has emerged as a favourite among drivers and conductors. An RTC bus driver, KS Reddy, who drives between Kadapa and Visakhapatnam told TOI, “I am very comfortable staying here as part of my duty. I can cook my food in my own style with my local flavour and there is an air-conditioned room to rest. It really helps relieve the stress of driving for long hauls.” Talking about how the Visakhapatnam bus station is different from others, station assistant traffic manager V Narasimha Murty said, “Other bus stations may have AC resting rooms, but not the kitchen facility. Drivers and conductors cook their own fresh food in the kitchen.” There’s also an assistant to help them cook food. RTC executive engineer C Ravi Kumar said that apart from passenger welfare, it is also the responsibility of the transport corporation to think of the welfare of the crew. “We strongly believe that proper rest and healthy food for the crew can yield better results and can even prevent road accidents due to minor mistakes of drivers who don’t have enough rest due to continuous duty,” said Kumar while adding that RTC is developing the service at Waltair depot too. Nearly 300 buses come to Visakhapatnam daily from different districts and neighbouring states. Drivers have to stay in the city for at least 10 hours. The APSRTC is even planning its own rest room at Kukkatpally in Hyderabad for the benefit of its staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/spl-facilities-at-vizag-bus-stn-draw-drivers/articleshow/80773616.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 10, 2021||Patna||Ex-top cop gets prohibition department in dry Bihar||PATNA: It’s a story about two prominent Bihar-cadre IPS officers, who till recently used to call the shots in the state police force. While Sunil Kumar, a 1987-batch IPS officer (retired) was sworn-in as prohibition and excise department minister on Tuesday, lady luck has not smiled yet on his batchmate and former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey. Both the IPS officers had joined the JD(U) ahead of the state assembly polls held in October-November last year. While Sunil jumped into politics and joined the JD(U) within a month he retired as DG-cum-chairman of Bihar Police Building Construction Corporation in July last year, Pandey, then serving as the state police chief, opted for VRS in September, five months before his retirement, in anticipation of contesting the assembly elections. Sunil, who comes from a family having political background, was fortunate to get a ticket from Bhore (reserved) constituency in Gopalganj district and also emerged victorious. The seat was earlier represented by his elder brother and Congress MLA Anil Kumar. The seat, however, went to the CPI-ML (Liberation) in the seat-sharing formula in the Grand Alliance comprising RJD, Congress and three Left parties. Sunil has been allotted the prohibition and excise department, which was earlier held by Nitish’s trusted legislator from Supaul Bijendra Prasad Yadav. Coincidentally, additional chief secretary of prohibition and excise department Amir Subhani is an IAS officer of the same 1987 batch. Sunil may be now projected as a prominent Dalit face in JD(U). JD(U) MLC and spokesperson Neeraj Kumar hailed the induction of Sunil in the Nitish Kumar cabinet. “He comes from a political background. He had served as a good police officer before he joined politics. He will surely discharge his duty as a good minister,” he added. Some senior police officers, who had earlier served with Sunil, recalled that he had been close to both Nitish and Lalu Prasad. “He maintained a balance between the two political masters, which finally paid rich dividends,” a retired DG-rank officer said. Interestingly, both Sunil and Gupteshwar Pandey had served as ADGP (headquarters) before being promoted to DG rank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-top-cop-gets-prohibition-department-in-dry-bihar/articleshow/80775383.cms||Ramashankar
February 10, 2021||Patna||Prominent faces in Bihar CM Nitish Kumar’s cabinet||PATNA: Syed Shahnawaz Hussain: A BJP MLC, Syed Shahnawaz Hussain has been made the new industries minister. Hussain, a prominent Muslim face of the BJP, is a former Union minister and two-term MP. He is a native of Supaul. His elevation as minister is set to impact the political scene in Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region. Nitin Nabin: A four-term BJP MLA from Bankipur in Patna, Nitin Nabin has been appointed as minister for the first time and allotted road construction department. Son of a former MLA, Nabin Kishore Sinha, Nitin Nabin is one of the youngest faces in the state BJP. He has been allotted the department earlier held by another BJP stalwart and MLA from Patna Sahib Nand Kishore Yadav. Niraj Kumar Singh ‘Bablu’: A three-term BJP MLA from Chhatapur in Supaul district, Bablu has been made a minister the first time. Elder cousin of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who had allegedly committed suicide at his Bandra flat in Mumbai last year, Bablu is a prominent Rajput face of the party from Kosi belt. His elevation has created a flutter in the saffron party. Md Zama Khan: Md Zaman Khan has been made the minority welfare department minister. The BSP MLA from Chainpur, Khan recently had switched over to JD(U). With his entry, the ruling JD(U) has got a Muslim MLA in the 243-member state assembly. Samrat Chaudhary: A BJP MLC, Samrat Chaudhary has got the panchayati raj department portfolio. In 2014, he had served as urban and housing minister in the Jitan Ram Manjhi cabinet. Once considered a blue-eyed politician of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, Samrat was made weight and measurement department minister in the Rabri Devi cabinet in 1999. However, he had to resign from the post following a controversy over his age. He is the son of a veteran politician, Shakuni Chaudhary. Sanjay Kumar Jha: A JD(U) MLC, Sanjay Jha has once again been made the water resources department minister. A prominent Brahmin face of JD(U) in Mithilanchal region, Jha is considered close to CM Nitish Kumar. Apart from water resources department, Jha will also look after information and public relations department. A native of Madhubani district, Jha is very active on social media. Shravan Kumar: A seven-term MLA from Nalanda, Shravan Kumar has been allotted rural development department for the second time. Considered a trusted lieutenant of CM Nitish Kumar, Shravan Kumar has been active in politics since JP Movement. He had earlier served as chip whip of the JD(U). After split in Janata Dal, he sided with Nitish and joined the Samata Party. Lesi Singh: Wife of late don-turned politician Butan Singh, Lesi Singh has been allotted food and consumer protection department. A four-term JD(U) MLA from Dhamdaha, Lesi had earlier served as social department minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet. She had also served as chairperson of the state women commission. She is the lone woman legislator to get a ministerial berth in the state. Sumit Kumar Singh: Sumit Kumar Singh has been allotted science and technology department. The lone independent MLA from Chakai in Jamui district, Singh posed his faith in Nitish Kumar’s leadership and decided to support the JD(U)-led NDA government. Son of a veteran socialist leader and former minister Narendra Singh, he was elected as MLA for the first time on a JMM ticket in 2010. He has been made a minister for the first time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prominent-faces-in-nitishs-cabinet/articleshow/80774288.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Out-of-the-box courses get spotlight in online classes||NEW DELHI: Online classes at Delhi University have given colleges the freedom to start some out-of-the-box courses. From digital marketing to artificial intelligence and business analytics, such courses are self-financed and, therefore, a good source of extra revenue for the colleges. With 20-50 students in a batch, these courses started in January and February and aim at helping youngsters develop new skills. Hindu College started a course in programming in Python in collaboration with IIT-Bombay last September. “This year, we are starting a course in business analytics in collaboration with BSE Institute of Mumbai,” said principal Anju Srivastava. “These new courses are meant to enhance students’ academic work.” Hansraj College hasn’t started add-on courses, but Preetinder Kaur, assistant professor, said three courses under the ministry of skill development will be offered. “These skills will help students improve their profiles and aid their job hunt once they graduate,” said Kaur, adding that the courses on digital marketing, AI and mass communication are “open for all students, even those who are working professionals wanting to expand on their knowledge”. At ARSD College, nine online courses were introduced during the Covid lockdown. “We have started programmes like forensic science & investigation and digital marketing. We felt our students should have certain additional skills to give them an edge when they search for jobs,” said Anjali Gupta, assistant professor in the commerce department. She disclosed that ARSD was planning to start courses in filmmaking and mobile filmmaking. While many believe that these add-on courses are a good source of revenue for colleges because of the relatively higher course fees, Gupta claimed this was not the intention behind offering the new study programmes. “A course in digital marketing can cost upward of Rs 8,000, but in ARSD students can undertake it for half that amount,” she said. “The money we collect covers our costs. When signing an MoU with an institution offering the course, we insist that the courses are provided at a subsidised rate.” Venkat Kumar, principal of Sri Venkateswara College, also reasoned that while the course fees appear high, the “since these study programmes are self-financed, they are actually cheaper than the other available digital courses”. Kamala Nehru College principal Kalpana Bhakuni added that there was “limited” revenue generation through these courses because they are offered in partnership and there are overhead costs that need to be met by the college. Kaur reiterated this. “Students pay only enough to cover the facilities provided and faculty fees. We are only looking at the students’ eventual employability,” the Hansraj teacher said. “The government wants to provide courses free of cost, and as a community college, we are following a no-cost-no-profit approach.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/out-of-the-box-courses-get-spotlight-in-online-classes/articleshow/80776110.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Rethink VSP disinvestment, Pawan Kalyan urges Amit Shah||VIJAYAWADA: Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan met Union home minister Amit Shah and requested him to withdraw the proposal for 100 per cent strategic disinvestment of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Kalyan, along with the party’s political affairs committee (PAC) chairman Nadendla Manohar, met Amit Shah in Parliament and submitted a memorandum. In the memorandum, the Jana Sena chief stated that Visakhapatnam Steel Plant is the symbol of the struggle of the Telugu people as more than 32 persons sacrificed their lives to make the plant a reality in the 1960s. Kalyan stated that the lack of own iron ore is the main reason for the plant’s losses and that corrective measures can help it recover. “Jana Sena and BJP along with Andhra Pradesh people request you to reconsider the matter considering the sentiment of people of Andhra Pradesh,” Kalyan stated. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rethink-vsp-disinvestment-pk-urges-home-min-shah/articleshow/80773818.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Committeeopposing privatisation of VSP formed||Visakhapatnam: An all trade unions meeting here on Tuesday decided to intensify the agitation against the Centre’s move to disinvest Visakhapatnam Steel Plant by bringing all parties and trade unions under one umbrella. A series of protests have also been planned by the trade unions till the proposal is withdrawn. Representatives of the YSRC said the government is against privatisation of the steel plant, which is the jewel of Andhra Pradesh. At a meeting held at the government guest house, the Steel Plant Protection Council (Parirakshana Samiti) was formed and tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao asked to head the committee. “Our Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy has already met with the finance minister and our MPs are meeting the Union steel minister tomorrow. We are ready to sacrifice our lives but will not accept the privatisation of the plant ,” the minister said, also appealing to former chief minister and TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu to join hands for the benefit of the state. “The steel plant has around 6,000 crore profits overall, but the Centre has been trying to hand it over to private persons or institutions for a cheaper price even though the plant has 1.25 lakh crore assets,” the minister said. Meanwhile, a protest has been planned at the entrance to the plant at Kurmannapalem on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/committeeopposing-privatisation-of-vsp-formed/articleshow/80773812.cms||Siva G
February 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Newly-wed falls to death, parents allege foul play||Tirupati: Mystery shrouds the death of a newly-wed woman in the temple city who fell from the building she stayed in and died. Angry parents of the deceased staged protests at the hospital mortuary, alleging she was killed by her husband and in-laws for dowry. K Bindu (27), daughter of K Subramanyam of Palamaner, was married to Balaji, a resident of Tirupati, about six months ago. On Monday, she was rushed to Tirupati government general hospital. She had sustained serious injuries and died while undergoing treatment on Tuesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/newly-wed-falls-to-death-parents-allege-foul-play/articleshow/80773633.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Business||Are wellness initiatives just a fad? Focus on employee need||By James Agrawal Employee wellness as an idea has been around for quite some time now. The scope of programmes offered in this area has evolved over the years from basic safety and insurance/health coverage for employees to include their overall well-being. Today, companies offer stress management workshops, therapy sessions and various fitness initiatives to their employees. The forced work-from-home scenarios owing to the Covid-19 pandemic have led to many companies announcing seminars on mental health and anxiety management. The objective behind all these initiatives is to ensure that employees are healthier and happier. And a happy employee will ideally lead to better work outputs. This is a win-win situation for employers and employees. However, research shows that wellness initiatives have not really delivered on their promise. Various studies in the US have indicated mixed results for wellness programmes. Most companies did not report improvement in employee output or decreased absenteeism due to wellness programmes. So, does this mean that wellness initiatives are just a fad not to be taken seriously? Here are some questions to consider before dismissing the idea of employee wellness: Is your employee wellness programme an afterthought? If your employee wellness programme is just an afterthought that has been added because every other company is doing it, it is going to be ineffective. Adding one yoga session a month or conducting a one-off seminar on stress management is not going to be useful, if the wellness programme is not thought through well. We all know about companies who are not able to retain good candidates even with best-in-industry salaries. Candidates leave in many cases owing to inefficient managers or a detrimental work culture. The same analogy can be applied to wellness programmes. Although it may sound good to talk about, no sign-ups will happen if it is not useful to the employee. Offering smart watches to employees, who are in meeting rooms for the major part of the day, might not be the best way to engage them in wellness programmes. Announcing a standalone programme once every few months, to complete your to-do list, also does not help. A wellness programme should addresses issues that are of importance to employees. A good example is of companies which provided unlimited sick leave to employees, who had to work from home during the pandemic. Such an initiative shows that the employer trusts the employee and is willing to respond to a crisis. If employee wellness is truly at the heart of all employee engagement, beginning from hiring, your employees will be your ambassadors. If it is piecemeal and not integrated with your overall strategy to keep your employees happy, employee participation will be minimal and the programme will be ineffective. Are you flexible with employee wellness? Many companies offer progammes that are across the board. They believe in a ‘one size fits all’ approach. This does not work, simply because different employees will have different needs when it comes to their well-being. Differences in job roles, varied after-work family arrangements, even different commute times will affect the type of programme each employee needs. While companies can’t customise programmes beyond a point, it is important to start with identifying issues that your employees prioritise. Do you have a very young team that needs more flexibility in terms of your work-from-home policy? Or do you have a lot of employees who are fitness enthusiasts keen on seeing a more active workspace with gymnasiums? This will help in designing a programme that will see more adoption from your workforce. You could also offer a combination of one or more programmes to get feedback on what works for your employees. Employee wellness programmes need to keep evolving with the culture of your company and not stay static if they are to be successful. Companies who provided help to parents who suddenly had to work from home and take care of their children too — owing to forced lockdowns — have earned a lot of respect from their employees. Some companies helped with the kids’ playtime for a few hours every week, using volunteers who were able to take care of the children. Some others offered off-time to parents for a few days in the week to take on additional responsibilities. Is employee wellness the way of life at your organisation? Once you have a plan in place to roll out your wellness programme, you have to make sure that the entire organisation is in sync with it. A one-off announcement of a programme that does not invite feedback from employees will not help in improving wellness. Key managers in the organisation have to buy into the idea and communicate the same within their teams. Employee wellness has to be part of the culture of the organisation. Ad-hoc programmes lose steam very soon and only serve the purpose of filling up company profile descriptions, without adding any value. Your wellness programme should fulfil the objective of making employees adopt better wellness approaches — by being relevant to them in the long term. If the intent is right and the wellness programme is designed with flexibility, it has the potential to show good results. This could be a mental or physical health-based programme or even improved insurance benefits covering the entire family. Well-chosen programmes — suited to company and employee needs — will bring about real change and build your employee community. An environment of openness should be created in the organisations so as to make people talk freely about their mental state. Companies may need to employ specialists to address these problems. As a society, we also need to be more accommodative in terms of accepting and helping those suffering from problems of mind. As we all know, ‘A healthy mind stays in a healthy body’. (The writer is MD, BTI Executive Search)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/are-wellness-initiatives-just-a-fad-focus-on-employee-need/articleshow/80775778.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Business||Agnikul first to fire a fully 3D printed rocket engine||Chennai: IIT-Madras incubated space startup Agnikul Cosmos said on Tuesday it has successfully test fired it’s semi-cryogenic rocket engine Agnilet, which is completely 3D printed as a single component in a single run of a 3D printer. Agnilet, which will power Agnikul’s orbital class vehicle Agnibaan, was made in India at roughly one-tenth of the cost of conventionally assembling a rocket engine and was could be made in less than four days, the startup told TOI. Agnibaan will be capable of carrying up to 100 kg of payload to low Earth orbits up to 700 km with a plug-and-play engine configuration.“This entire engine - Agnilet - is just one piece of hardware from start to finish and has zero assembled parts. We don’t think anyone in the world has ever pushed 3D printing of a rocket engine to this extent and we couldn’t be happier to have conceived, designed, realized and test fired this engine, fully in India.” Srinath Ravichandran, chief executive officer (CEO) and co-founder of Agnikul Cosmos, said. Typically, rocket engines have numerous parts that are made separately and assembled. Agnilet was designed in such a manner that all of these parts could be rolled into just one piece of hardware, thereby automating the making of an entire engine. Agnikul said it has been testing engines at a smaller scale or those that were not 100% additively manufactured since September 2018 and this is the first time the startup has demonstrated firing of a fully 3D printed rocket engine.“We are relieved that we would not have to track or manufacture numerous parts to realize a rocket engine from now on. All that remains after printing is bare minimum post processing after which the engine can directly be assembled in our launch vehicle," Moin SPM, Co-founder and COO of Agnikul Cosmos, said. Agnikul was the first space tech company to sign an agreement with the Department of Space under IN-SPACe recently, thus benefiting from the government and ISRO’s guidance and support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/agnikul-first-to-fire-a-fully-3d-printed-rocket-engine/articleshow/80775343.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
February 10, 2021||Business||Bodal to buy chlor-alkali biz of Usha fan maker||Mumbai: Ahmedabad-based dye maker Bodal Chemicals has agreed to buy from Mawana Sugars the chlor-alkali plant in Punjab for Rs 137 crore. The transaction, expected to be completed before March 31, will help Bodal to diversify its existing portfolio by adding new chemical products. Mawana Sugars is a part of the Siddharth Shriram Group, best known as the maker of Usha fans and sewing machines. Through this deal, Siddharth Shriram will exit the chlor-alkali business, which has a Rs 237 crore turnover. The business contributed 20% to the turnover of Mawana Sugars, the company said. M&A specialist firm Singhi Advisors is advising Mawana Sugars on the sale. Mawana Sugars decided to sell the chlor-alkali business to liquidate “huge cane arrears/term debt” affecting the fortunes of the entire company. The sale of the plant will ensure long-term financial stability, the company said. Chlor-alkali products are used to make soaps & detergents, dyes, pulp & paper, and food additives. Siddharth Shriram’s first cousin Ajay Shriram (of DCM Shriram) is the second largest player in chlor-alkali after Kumar Mangalam Birla’s Grasim. In 2019, Grasim bought KPR Industries’ chlor-alkali business for Rs 253 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bodal-to-buy-chlor-alkali-biz-of-usha-fan-maker/articleshow/80775903.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Patna||Upper castes ignored in cabinet expansion: BJP MLA||PATNA: BJP MLA Gyanendra Singh Gyanu was miffed over selection of new ministers from his own party. Hours before the cabinet expansion on Tuesday, Gyanu accused the ‘middle level’ functionaries in his party of allowing ‘people with criminal antecedents and without experience’ to be inducted in the cabinet. Gyanu, the four-time MLA from Barh, also said upper castes are being ignored by the BJP, for which the party may have to face adverse impact in the future. He claimed that more than a dozen MLAs had called him in the morning to express their unhappiness. “Caste combination and regional balance has not been given due consideration in the cabinet expansion. Besides, inexperienced and chargesheeted people have been made ministers while those who have their own identity and better understanding of things have been left out,” Gyanu told TOI. Speaking on the caste combination, Gyanu said: “BJP has been banking on upper caste votes and now sidelining their representatives. Altogether 17 BJP MLAs are Rajputs, but only two were inducted in the cabinet today. Besides, neither of the two deputy CMs are from upper castes. BJP is now being made a party of Baniyas and Yadavs.” Speaking on the regional imbalance, he said many commissionaries do not have even a single minister, while districts like Darbhanga have three ministers. Gyanu alleged that some middle level netas are doing this by misguiding PM Narendra Modi and Amit Shah Ji. Apart from leaders from the state, they are also responsible for it. It seems they want to see the BJP in Bihar like in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan or Chhatisgarh, he said. Gyanu said he tried to call BJP’s state incharge Bhupendra Yadav on Monday night, but couldn’t get through. He went on to say that it will aversely impact the party in the coming elections. “They (BJP) already don’t have backward caste votes ... Almost 50% of the BJP people, who won in the last elections, are from upper castes, but proportionate representation in the cabinet has not been given to them. They (BJP) will lose upper caste votes in the coming elections, if things go like this,” he claimed. BJP functionaries, however, denied Gyanu’s allegations. “The party has struck a social, regional and geographical balance in terms of ministerial allocation. All sections have been given sufficient representations,” BJP’s state general secretary Devesh Kumar said. Another BJP functionary on condition of anonymity said 15 out of total 30 ministers in the NDA government are from the upper castes. “Four ministers are from Gyanu’s own Rajput community. Thus, there is no point of making a fuss about it,” he said. BJP’s Saran MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy, who is also a Rajput, told reporters: “I believe the list of ministers in the cabinet expansion is quite balanced and they will ensure development of Bihar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/upper-castes-ignored-in-cabinet-expansion-bjp-mla/articleshow/80774322.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 10, 2021||Patna||Covid vaccination tally crosses four-lakh mark in Bihar||PATNA/KATIHAR: The total number of people who have got the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccines in Bihar crossed the four lakh mark with 17,072 beneficiaries taking the jab on Tuesday. According to the health department, the number of beneficiaries increased from 3,97,291 on Monday to 4,14, 796 by Tuesday evening. Out of the 4,14,796 people, 3,88,315 are healthcare workers, who were vaccinated in the first phase, which started from January 16. The second phase of vaccination meant for frontline workers, including district officials, police and paramilitary personnel, revenue and panchayat Raj institution (PRI) officials, started on February 6 and altogether 26,481 beneficiaries have been given the jabs to date. The vaccination of more than 4,551 frontline workers in Katihar district is going smoothly. DM Kanwal Tanuj, SP Vikas Kumar, including 140 collectorate staff, were administered the jabs till Monday. Besides, around 200 BMP jawans also got the vaccine shot. Dr DN Jha, the district immunisation officer (DIO), said, “The vaccination process has been going on in the eight blocks of the district also. We have been told to immunize the maximum number of people on a given day. The response is good, and people are coming to take the jab.” When asked about any adverse effect on the beneficiaries after administering the Covidshield vaccine, Dr Jha said, “In few cases, we detected slight giddiness after the jab, but in the majority of the cases no such symptom was seen.” Dr Jha further said, “We are ready to provide vaccination every day, even on Sundays and holidays. But we have to reschedule the vaccination programme after taking into consideration the willingness of the frontline workers.” Meanwhile, 92 new Covid cases were registered in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the corresponding tally up to 2,61,446. As per the health department, 120 people recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours, taking the total recoveries so far to 2,59,174 and recovery rate reached 99.13%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-vaccination-tally-crosses-4-lakh-mark-in-bihar/articleshow/80774018.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Business||Will new wage code hit your take-home pay?||MUMBAI: Come April, you could see a restructuring of your salary package with a retrospective increase in gratuity and leave encashment provision impacting your take-home, and raising compensation costs for companies as the new wage code comes into effect. Companies, reeling under the Covid impact, are reviewing potential changes in the salary structure by running various models to comply with the wage code and determine compensation costs. Big-ticket components under analysis include a retrospective increase in liabilities for benefit plans, such as gratuity and leave encashment, particularly for organisations where the employee base is long-tenured. Read Also‘Game changer’ labour bills passed by HouseNEW DELHI: Three labour code bills, which will provide social security for workers in organised and unorganised sectors as well as remove hurdles for winding up of companies, have been passed by Parliament. Rajya Sabha passed the bills on industrial relations, occupational safety and social securityThe retrospective increase in gratuity and leave encashment liabilities and additional provident fund (PF) contributions, for instance, may lead to a review of the salary increment budgets for 2021. Provident Fund contributions will increase if organisations adopt the expanded definition of wages as earlier PF was calculated only on ‘basic pay’ and dearness and other special allowances. The government has consolidated 29 central labour laws into four codes, including those related to wages and social security. Nishith Desai Associates head (HR laws) Vikram Shroff said the labour codes have introduced some fresh concepts, but the most important change is the expanded definition of ‘wages’. “This definition is consistent across all the four labour codes and will have considerable implications for both employers and workers, with the possibility of adversely affecting take-home pay,” said Shroff. The computation of ‘wages’ under the new codes includes components like basic pay, dearness, retaining and special allowances. Specified items like HRA, conveyance, statutory bonus, overtime allowance and commissions have been excluded for computing wages, which, under the code, should be at least 50% of the total remuneration. Accordingly, if these specified exclusions cross 50% of the remuneration, the excess amount will be considered to determine ‘wages’ under the codes. For instance, gratuity, which was earlier calculated on the basic salary, will now be computed on ‘wages’, which could result in higher pay for the employee and a larger outgo for the employer. Typically, the compensation structure in India across industries comprises basic salary, which is in the range of 30% to 50% of the gross, while allowances make up the balance. Some companies, said experts, plan to take the basic pay to 50% of the remuneration so that the specified exclusions are capped at 50%. Read AlsoParliament passes key labour reform bills: All you need to knowNEW DELHI: In an effort to reform labour laws in the country, Parliament on Wednesday approved three key reform bills that will safeguard worker's interest and provide a transparent system to suit the changing business environment. The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020,Aon India CEO (performance & rewards) Nitin Sethi sees a rise of 6-10% in a company’s wage bill, in case it now provides basic salary at 20-30% of the total compensation. For those whose basic salary is already at 40% of the gross, the cost implication would be lower, at around 3-4%. “If the basic pay to gross pay ratio is around 30% and it moves up to 60% after implementation of the ‘Code on Wages’, we would expect the liabilities on account of the above schemes to double,” said Aon India practice leader (retirement and benefits solutions) Vishal Grover. Additionally, gratuity will be payable to fixed-term employees, irrespective of whether they complete five years of employment. The new codes may also allow an employee to avail of leave encashment at the end of every year. Most companies will recast their salary structure to comply with the wage code, said Genius Consultants CMD R P Yadav. “Expenses will increase for fixed-term employment where gratuity becomes mandatory. For the high salary & mid salary group, the cost implication will be lower. However, for the lower salary range group, the impact will be 25-30%,” said Yadav, adding increment this year may be impacted. Read AlsoHow new labour laws can help workersThe first such legislation since Independence has a long way to go to ensure benefits to the workersThe labour codes, however, do not contain a provision requiring employers to change their CTC (cost to company) structure. “Whether it is still a good practice to do so needs to be considered by each employer based on the CTC structure, especially if the basic salary plus other included components is less than 50% of the total remuneration,” said Shroff. He added that although the Budget made references to female workers’ participation, protection of migrant workers and social security coverage for gig workers, it fell short of providing clarity on the new labour codes and how the government proposes to implement them. “Employers need to be ready should any of the labour codes is made effective on April 1 to coincide with the beginning of new the financial year,” said Shroff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/will-new-wage-code-hit-your-take-home-pay/articleshow/80775825.cms||Namrata Singh
February 10, 2021||Business||Bitcoin trades in India surge four times||CHENNAI: Indian cryptocurrency exchange and trading platforms have seen a 4x surge in the number of deposit requests. The rise came within 24 hours of Tesla’s announcement of buying Bitcoin worth $1.5 billion and that it may accept the cryptocurrency as a payment option. Nischal Shetty, founder of Mumbai-based WazirX, a Bitcoin and cryptocurrency exchange and platform, said, “We saw transactions go up 300% after Tesla’s announcement.” Shetty tweeted “INR (rupee) deposit credit is delayed on WazirX. We’re getting a huge amount of deposit requests every minute. Please have patience, your deposit will be credited with some delays.” INR deposit credit is delayed on WazirX. We’re getting a huge amount of deposit requests every minute. Please hav… https://t.co/k5ukIbc7Vp— Nischal (WazirX) ⚡️ (@NischalShetty) 1612804706000Shetty said, “The cryptocurrency bill bans private cryptocurrency traders. Then the most affected will be the organised players, as the illegal ones will anyway find a way to operate. Sharan Nair, chief business officer at Bengaluru-based CoinSwitch Kuber, said transaction volumes had doubled after the Tesla announcement as compared to the daily average volume. Darshan Bathija, CEO of Vauld, said the volume of transactions on its platform has doubled. “Compared to the day before, our trading volume doubled. We saw a 60% spike in new users, and 20% in returning users. We have seen a $10-million transaction volume in the last 24 hours, as compared to our daily average of $4-5 million. Rupee deposits have doubled from Rs 16 crore per day to Rs 30 crore today.” Bathija said, “When large international markets come out with positive regulation on cryptocurrency and Bitcoin, India has taken the complete opposite stance. Their (rest of the world) interpretation of private virtual (crypto) currency is straightforward — not issued by any central bank.” Lack of definite definition for private cryptocurrency in the recent bill has placed Indian traders and exchange platforms in a fix. Unocoin’s CEO and co-founder Sathvik Vishwanath said, “We saw over 4,000 new registrations (depositors) to trade on our platform since morning, which is much higher than the 500-600 per day. The value of rupee deposit stood at Rs 4.5 crore within the first few hours of trade today and is expected to reach Rs 10 crore — which is equal to the trade value of 3-4 days. Every rupee that comes in ends up in Bitcoin purchase.” With no access to officials currently, Unocoin’s CEO and co-founder Sathvik Vishwanath fears the bill could place one entity with the right to operate private cryptocurrency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/deposit-requests-in-india-surge-4x/articleshow/80775408.cms||Mamtha Asokan
February 10, 2021||Vadodara||Saints adorn role of ‘padman’||Vadodara/ Anand: At a time when menstruating women are treated as untouchables in many parts of the country, a religious trust has started a drive to distribute sanitary pads to the rural women and girls. With an aim to promote menstrual hygiene amongst adolescent girls and under-privileged women, Gokuldham Nar, a Swaminarayan sect having its religious and education campus on Tarapur-Dharmaj highway in Anand’s Petlad taluka, has launched a campaign to distribute 3.40 lakh sanitary pads. “Around 36% girls in India don’t go to schools during menstruation. Similarly, 41 % girls are quarantined due to old myths. Our goal with this initiative is to address the socio-cultural taboos and beliefs in menstruation,” said Harikeshav Swami, who along with Sukhdev Swami inspired the drive. “Our campaign will show solidarity towards adolescent women facing these challenges and let them know they are not alone in busting age-old myth,” he said. With donations from Africa-based donors, the pad distribution campaign kicked off under the aegis of Swami Charitable Trust on National Girl Child Day on January 24 through a function entirely managed by women. Around 10,000 women in the age group of 15 to 30 years have been provided boxes of sanitary pads which can suffice the need of six months. “So far, talking about menstrual hygiene was considered a taboo. But the campaign started by the saints and Gokuldham Nar is beginning of a new chapter,” said Asha Dalal, founder chairman of Jagrut Mahila Sangathan, an Anand-based NGO working in the field of women empowerment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/saints-adorn-role-of-padman/articleshow/80773598.cms||Prashant Rupera
February 10, 2021||Patna||Met: Minimum temperature to rise in coming days||PATNA: Weathermen say discomforting cold conditions are expected to remain confined to western Uttar Pradesh for the next few days, allowing gradual surge in day as well as night temperature. An anti-cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh is also supporting gradual northward movement in mercury column. India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday stated that the minimum temperature is expected to increase by two to four notches in eastern India, including Bihar, over the next four to five days. “As per our prediction for the next five days, minimum temperature is expected to remain above 10 degrees C at most places in the state, except its south-western parts. Maximum temperature is also expected to remain in the range of 20-25 degrees C. A gradual rise in temperature is expected across the state henceforth, wherein central parts are expected to be comparatively warmer,” Sanjay Kumar, meteorologist at Patna Meteorological Centre told TOI on Tuesday evening. Meanwhile, Gaya remained the coldest place on Tuesday morning as the minimum temperature recorded stood at 6.5 degrees C. The minimum temperature at Patna, on the other hand, was recorded at 10.1 degrees C, which was a notch lower than the corresponding normal. Mohammad Zeeshan Ansari, an officer at Patna centre, said an anti-cyclonic circulation over north Madhya Pradesh was leading to warm southwesterly and westerly winds in Bihar. “As a result of the wind direction, day as well as night temperatures are expected to surge by two to three over the next two to three days,” he said. Private weather agency Skymetweather also stated that cold wave conditions are going to shrink and pave way for pleasantly warm days ahead. However, snow in the mountains will continue with intermittent breaks in between. It further stated that eastern India will remain free from any significant weather activity but second half of the week will be cold and windy for most parts of Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-min-temperature-to-rise-in-coming-days/articleshow/80773952.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Pedana MLA’s home burgled, Rs 2 lakh stolen||VIJAYAWADA: Unidentified persons broke into Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh’s residence in Krishna district on Monday night and stole Rs 2 lakh cash. According to Bandar rural sub-inspector Kondaiah, the incident happened between 10:30 pm to midnight when the MLA was out of town preparing for the gram panchayat elections. The incident came to light after the MLA returned home to find it broken into. Preliminary investigation of the crime scene revealed that the miscreants first broke the lock of the main door and then broke into the bedroom to steal the money. Police said that while the identity of the culprits is yet to be ascertained they have obtained crucial CCTV footage of the area. Police brought in a clues team and a dog squad to gather evidence. Police said that the culprits must have been following the MLA’s movements regularly and had conducted a proper recce of the area before committing the offence. A case was registered at Pedana police station and an investigation is underway. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pedana-mlas-home-burgled-rs-2l-stolen/articleshow/80773840.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Business||Indian Overseas Bank saw Q3 net profit at Rs 212 crore||Chennai: Indian Overseas Bank has posted a profit of Rs 212 crore for the third quarter on the back of improvement in its assets quality, lower provisioning against stressed assets and a 82.36% increase in other income. The public sector bank had reported a loss of Rs 6,057 crore in the same period a year ago. IOB MD Partha Pratim Sengupta said the recovery was aided by a number of measures. “We decided to come out of the stressed corporate sector by reducing our exposures and we are going towards capital light advances with focus on retail, agri and MSME segment, and our treasury has performed well,’’ he added. The bank also cleaned up red ink due to capital infusion. “Infusion of capital by the Government of India in the last financial year helped us improve our books. Following this we made adequate provisions and restarted our business,” he added. Exceeding the set recovery target of Rs 1,000 crore per quarter, IOB has achieved recovery of Rs 1,055 crore in Q3. It had recovered Rs 760 crore in Q2. On coming out of the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA), Sengupta said, “We have achieved all the parameters to move out of PCA. However, the leverage ratio is still pending due to lack of benefit from certain assets. It is our duty to show good results. It is left for the RBI to decide now.” IOB’s income saw an increase of 82.4% at Rs 1,543 crore in the December quarter, as against Rs 846 crore last Q3. Total income stood at Rs 5,787 crore as against Rs 5,199 crore in the year ago period. IOB’s asset quality has improved with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) falling to 12.2% of the gross advances by December 31, 2020, as against 17.1% by the end of December, 2019. Net NPAs declined to 3.1% from 5.8% in the same period. The Provision Coverage Ratio stood comfortably at 91.9%. Capital adequacy ratio has gone up to 11.5%. The bank has made provision aggregating to Rs 924 crore (including Covid-19 provision of 683 crore) to cover stressed accounts. This includes an additional provision of Rs 241 crore for stressed accounts on adherence to the Supreme Court order. On September 3, the apex court, in an interim order to consider the hardships of the pandemic and moratorium, directed that accounts which were not declared NPA till August 31, 2020 shall not be declared NPA till further orders. However, gross advances dipped to Rs 1.37 lakh crore in December, 2020, from Rs 1.38 lakh crore in December, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-overseas-bank-saw-q3-net-profit-at-rs-212-crore/articleshow/80775418.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Vijayawada||AP mulls spl police stations to uphold rights of farmers||Vijayawada: In a first in the country, the Andhra Pradesh government has proposed to open special police stations to protect the rights of farmers. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday directed officials of the agriculture department to work with the state police on the issue. The state government has also started the process to float a separate insurance company to deal with farmers. The chief minister was speaking at a review meeting on agriculture and allied sectors at his Tadepalli residence on Tuesday. The state has special police stations to deal with crimes against women, besides marine police stations. If it materialises, special police stations for farmers would be the third category in the state and the first of its kind in the country. Jagan told the officials that the state government had introduced several initiatives besides new legislations to protect the interests of farmers. The aqua farmers too have special legislation to protect their rights, the chief minister said. “Ensure that no farmer is cheated at any level. We must protect them at every level from seeds, fertilisers, pesticides and marketing,” Jagan told officials. Jagan told the police and the agriculture departments to work on having special police stations in the state exclusively to deal with farmers’ cases. Farmers include tenant farmers and farm labourers, the chief minister said. He asked officials to create awareness among farmers on contract farming. The chief minister also wanted officials to display in all Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) the merits of contract farming and the government’s initiatives to protect the farm sector. He said the RBKs should also work as resource and knowledge centres for farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-mulls-spl-police-stations-to-uphold-rights-of-farmers/articleshow/80773741.cms||Gopi Dara
February 10, 2021||Business||Tata Steel’s Q3 operating profit hits record Rs 9.5k cr||Mumbai: Tata Steel’s third quarter earnings were the highest ever, refilling the company’s kitty even as it plans to cut debt and explore bid opportunities in Neelachal Ispat Nigam, which has been put on the block by the government. The steelmaker’s operating profit rose 161% to Rs 9,540 crore on the back of improved realisations from its India business. The company, a unit of India’s largest conglomerate — the Tata Group, has been doubling down on its domestic market after deciding restructuring options for businesses in Europe and Southeast Asia. Over the last four years, it spent Rs 40,000 crore to acquire homegrown players — Bhushan Steel and Usha Martin Steel. Last month, the government invited preliminary bids for its stake in Neelachal Ispat. Tata Steel’s free cash flow was Rs 12,078 crore during the third quarter of fiscal 2021, driven by strong operating performance of its India business, disciplined capital expenditure and working capital management. The company said on Tuesday that it reduced its debt by Rs 10,325 crore during the third quarter and will continue to reduce the leverage. Tata Steel has a debt of Rs 1.08 lakh crore, the highest among Indian steel companies. The Mumbai-based company is looking for a strategic resolution for its European portfolio after its talks to sell the Netherlands plant to Sweden’s SSAB collapsed. The European portfolio, which also includes the UK unit, continues to be a drag on the Indian company. Tata Steel said that the process to separate the Netherlands and UK businesses is currently underway. Tata Steel’s increased focus on its home market comes amid the government’s investments in infrastructure and recent policy developments to drive economic growth, boosting growth prospects of steelmakers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-steels-q3-operating-profit-hits-record-rs-9-5k-cr/articleshow/80775874.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Business||HDFC Bank beats SBI in Covid scheme loans||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank has outdone State Bank of India (SBI) in disbursements under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) introduced by the government as a part of the Covid relief package. The scheme involved a government guarantee for additional loans, up to Rs 3 lakh crore, extended to businesses facing stress due to the Covid pandemic. Of the total loans of Rs 1.4 lakh crore extended by banks up to January 25, 2021, HDFC Bank has disbursed Rs 23,504. This is nearly 17% of the loans sanctioned. SBI, with disbursals of Rs 18,700, has a market share of 13.3%. According to banking analysts, this demonstrates HDFC Bank’s capabilities in lending to small businesses. The ECLGS came in two phases. The first ECLGS-1 was for only small businesses and, in the second ECLGS-2 round, it was extended to large industries that were part of the 26 stressed sectors. HDFC Bank’s performance has enabled private sector banks outdo public sector banks (PSBs) in funding for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector. In response to a query in Lok Sabha, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur said that the total amount of loans sanctioned and disbursed by the banking sector was just a shade under Rs 2 lakh crore and Rs 1.4 lakh crore, respectively. Of this, the sanctions and disbursements by public sector banks were Rs 83,162 crore and Rs 61,226 crore. In the case of private banks, the sanction and disbursement numbers were Rs 1.15 lakh crore and Rs 80,227 crore. In the public sector, after State Bank of India (SBI) the second-highest disbursements are by Punjab National Bank (PNB). In the private sector, ICICI Bank with Rs 12,982 crore is the second-largest lender, followed by Axis Bank with Rs 8,099 crore. PSBs have traditionally been the dominant lenders to the MSME sector. But the typical trend for last few years is that private banks and non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) have strongly competed with PSBs in gaining a larger share of the MSME sector. However, that trend changed after the nationwide lockdown. As of June 20, NBFCs had a share of 9.7% of MSME lending — down from 13% in March, followed by private banks with 38.7% share in loans and PSBs with 51.6% marketshare, according TransUnion Cibil. The state-run lenders still account for over 60% of the banking business in the country. SBI, in an investor call on February 4, had said that the bank had sanctioned Rs 26,000 crore (cumulative) under the ECLGS. Of this, Rs 23,000 crore has been disbursed cumulatively. The bank also said that only Rs 488 crore was disbursed under ECLGS-2 and the rest was in ECLGS-1. In the call, the bank’s chairman Dinesh Khara said that although the window for restructuring for medium and small business enterprises is available up to March 31, the additions would not be substantial. He said that the ECLGS disbursements were lower in the latest quarter because the bank had picked up SME growth in segments other than the ECLGS scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bank-beats-sbi-in-covid-scheme-loans/articleshow/80775930.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 10, 2021||Patna||Bihar: E-catering service of IRCTC evokes good response||PATNA: The e-catering services, resumed by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) on February 1, have so far evoked good response from passengers under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR). The facility is available in long-distance passenger trains. IRCTC senior public relations officer A K Jha said 2,847 passengers had booked meals on February 1, 3,484 on February 2, 4,195 on February 3, 5,255 on February 4, 5,512 on February 5, 6,968 on February 6 and 7,525 on February 7. “The IRCTC has earned around 40 lakh in a week through e-catering services in the eastern zone alone,” he said. The IRCTC has restarted e-catering services at 57 stations, including Patna Junction and Pt. Deendayal Upadhyaya station, in the first phase. “These two stations of the ECR are also delivery points for meals. An array of quality and hygienic meals, including regional delicacies, are being provided to the passengers,” he added. Jha said during the pre-Covid period, the IRCTC used to provide e-catering services to 20,000 passengers per day. “However, the corporation suspended the e-catering services on March 22 last year due to the pandemic. It, though, continued supplying ready-to-eat food packets to passengers in a few selected special passenger trains, including Rajdhani Express,” he said. The demand for resumption of e-catering services grew louder as passengers were finding it difficult to carry food items from home. “The ECR is currently running 216 pairs of long-distance special passenger trains from Bihar,” Jha said, adding resumption of e-catering services has provided much relief to passengers of long-distance trains. Jha said passengers are availing e-catering services either by placing orders online on www.ecatering.irctc.com or dialling 1323. “Passengers can also download IRCTC app – ‘Food on Track’ – on their cellphones to place orders for meal during journey. Cash on delivery facility is also available on the app,” he added. “Since pantry car facilities in long-distance trains have also been suspended due to the pandemic, passengers were facing difficulties. Resumption of e-catering services has provided some relief to these passengers. Thankfully, Covid cases have also come down substantially in the state,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/e-catering-service-of-irctc-evokes-good-response/articleshow/80773993.cms||Kumod Verma
February 10, 2021||Patna||Bihar: MoU inked to check pollution through artificial intelligence||PATNA: The state will now use artificial intelligence and remote sensing technology to spy the main sources of air pollution and take action against the violators. To begin with the new initiative, the Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) on Tuesday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Under the MoU signed online by BSPCB chairman Dr Ashok Kumar Ghosh and India based representative of the UNDP Shoko Noda, the BSPCB would use the Geo AI platform developed by the UNDP Accelerator Lab and the University of Nottingham. Ghosh told this newspaper that the BSPCB would use the ‘digital solution’ technology for identifying the faulty brick kilns, places of stubble burning and urban areas with loads of pollutants emitted by vehicular traffic in all the 38 districts. However, the initiative will begin with the brick industry in the state. “Of the total 6,000 brick kilns, about 1,000 are yet to follow the new zigzag technology to check emission of pollutants. As most of them are situated in far remote areas, it was not possible to physically inspect all. Now, the artificial intelligence will pinpoint their location,” said Ghosh. Though stubble burning is not a common practice in Bihar, some cases were reported from Supaul and Nawada, he said. The major cause of air pollution in the state is the emission from vehicles, which in the event of traffic congestion and humid weather, increases much. Ghosh said the BSPCB has 11 monitoring stations and 24 under the process of installation. The artificial intelligence technology would, however, help identify the lanes and roads under heavy load of air pollution at different times, he said. “About 40% of deaths worldwide were due to air, water and soil pollution and the BSPCB, concerned over this fact, has now started using space intelligence to check it in the state,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mou-inked-to-check-pollution-through-artificial-intelligence/articleshow/80773918.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Business||Disposal of plastic waste: Coke, Pepsi, Bisleri fined||CHENNAI/DELHI: The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has fined beverage makers Coke and Pepsi and bottled water maker Biseri for violating filing statutory returns to government bodies regarding the collecting and disposal of plastic waste. While Bisleri has been penalised Rs 10.75 crore, Pepsico India Holdings will have to pay Rs 8.7 crore and Hindustan Coca Cola Beverages has been asked to pay Rs 50.66 crore fine. All companies have been granted a timeframe of 15 days to remit the penalty and fulfil the rules that have been violated. Extended producer responsibility (EPR), is an exercise and a policy method in which producers take accountability on behalf of the organization for the disposal of products they create once they have been designated no longer useful by consumers. While Bisleri penalised for 21,500 tonnes of plastic at Rs 5,000 a tonne, Pepsi was held responsible for 11,194 tonnes of plastic waste and Coke provided documents to CPCB saying it collected 4,417.78 tonnes of plastic waste for the period January to September 2020 as against a EPR target of 1,05,744 tonnes. Other beverage makers including Patanjali were penalised for Rs 1crore while Nourishco Benevarges has been asked to pay up Rs 85.9 lakh. Both Coke and Pepsi said they were examining the CPCB notice. Coke’s spokesperson said: “We are in receipt of the notice issued by the Central Pollution Control Board. As part of the global operations of The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) we operate in full compliance with the regulatory framework and within the ambit of the laws of the land, both in letter and spirit. We are currently studying the order and will be working with the relevant authorities to resolve the issue, within the stipulated timeframe.” PepsiCo India said it was a law abiding corporate citizen and complies with all its Extended Producers’ Responsibilities for collection of plastic waste. Just like some other industry members, PepsiCo India has received a notice from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) proposing to levy an environmental compensation for non-certification by the Urban Local Bodies of its Progress Reports filed with CPCB. “The notice is being examined and an appropriate response is being filed.”- said a PepsiCo India spokesperson. A Bisleri spokesperson later said, "Bisleri is a compliant organisation and adheres to the provisions of PWM Rules, directions and orders passed thereunder from time to time. We have timely submitted all the requisite documents as and when advised by CPCB duly endorsed from SPCB/PCC/ULB’s. As a dedicated and socially responsible corporate, we have adhered to all the guidelines issued by the government." "Both SDMC and EDMC in Delhi are aware and have been most supportive of our program. We are currently working closely with the regulators to share detailed information relating to our actions on compliance to resolve the issue at the earliest," she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/disposal-of-plastic-waste-coke-pepsi-bisleri-fined/articleshow/80775475.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
February 10, 2021||Surat||Textile traders extend support to CAIT’s strike against GST law||SURAT: Textile traders in Surat have extended their support to the nation-wide strike on February 26 called by the Confederation of All India Traders’ (CAIT) against irregular rules in the GST law. Textile traders said that the GST laws are becoming complicated with each passing day. The basic form of GST has been distorted by the GST Council and has become a failed tax system for the taxpayers in general. Voicing protest against the distorted tax system is the only way to showcase the displeasure of the trading community, said traders. “Traders’ community is totally exhausted with the frequently changing rules under the GST law. Instead of doing business, the traders are busy all day to resolve the GST issues arising out of the distorted system. We have called a meeting to discuss the bandh call announced by the CAIT,” said Manoj Agarwal, president of FOSTTA. Devkishan Manghani, advisor, Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s (SGCCI) textile trade committee said, “Majority of the textile traders are supporting the nation-wide bandh called by CAIT against the GST rules. It is very difficult for the small traders to survive as they have to hire a tax consultant for GST filing.” According to Manghani, the GST infrastructure has been revised more than 937 times in the last four years since it was first implemented in the country. The one nation, one tax slogan has completely failed. Every day, there are new notifications issued by the GST Council, which is confusing the entire trade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-traders-extend-support-to-caits-strike-against-gst-law/articleshow/80773626.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Woman’s body found in southwest Delhi||A 32-year-old woman was found dead with a slit neck at her residence in southwest Delhi’s Kishangarh on Tuesday. Police suspect the role of her husband and his friend behind the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/womans-body-found-in-sw-delhi/articleshow/80776120.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Three of 10 people infected by Covid in Tamil Nadu by November 2020: Sero survey||CHENNAI: Three out of 10 people had tested positive for antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — as of November 2020 in Tamil Nadu, shows a serological study done by the directorate of public health. The findings, which are yet to be peer reviewed, show that more than 2.3 crore people in the state were infected until last November — nearly 36 times the number of people who had officially tested positive for Covid-19 infection. The representative study done in association with scientists from the US between October and November 2020 showed that the average sero-prevalence in TN was 31.5% — ranging from 11.1% in the Nilgiris to 51.05% in Perambalur district. Chennai, one of the worst affected districts in TN, had 40.9% sero-positivity. Coimbatore had 20.4%, Trichy 32% and Madurai had recorded 38% sero-positivity. “This means several people who got the infection never knew they had been infected. The 0.052% infection fatality rate for the period was far lower than the present case fatality rate of 1.5% which uses total positive cases as a denominator,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-of-10-people-infected-by-covid-in-tn-by-nov-2020-sero-survey/articleshow/80780221.cms||Pushpa Narayan
February 10, 2021||Madurai||Three of 10 people infected by Covid in Tamil Nadu by November 2020: Sero survey||CHENNAI: Three out of 10 people had tested positive for antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — as of November 2020 in Tamil Nadu, shows a serological study done by the directorate of public health. The findings, which are yet to be peer reviewed, show that more than 2.3 crore people in the state were infected until last November — nearly 36 times the number of people who had officially tested positive for Covid-19 infection. The representative study done in association with scientists from the US between October and November 2020 showed that the average sero-prevalence in TN was 31.5% — ranging from 11.1% in the Nilgiris to 51.05% in Perambalur district. Chennai, one of the worst affected districts in TN, had 40.9% sero-positivity. Coimbatore had 20.4%, Trichy 32% and Madurai had recorded 38% sero-positivity. “This means several people who got the infection never knew they had been infected. The 0.052% infection fatality rate for the period was far lower than the present case fatality rate of 1.5% which uses total positive cases as a denominator,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-of-10-people-infected-by-covid-in-tn-by-nov-2020-sero-survey/articleshow/80780223.cms||Pushpa Narayan
February 10, 2021||Delhi||No Covid-19 death in Delhi after 9 months||NEW DELHI: For the first time in over nine months, Delhi did not record a single death due to Covid on Tuesday. The last time the city had recorded zero deaths due to Covid-19 in 24 hours was on May 11. Health minister Satyendar Jain said the reduction in deaths due to Covid was a victory of the collective will of people of Delhi. “Today no death has been reported due to Covid infection. Delhi’s collective will is gradually winning over the infection. I congratulate the people of Delhi for taking proper precautions and our healthcare and frontline workers who have fought this battle tooth and nail (sic),” Jain tweeted. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also congratulated the citizens for the milestone. “Congratulations to Delhiites. Today, there have been no deaths due to Covid-19. New cases have also come down and the vaccination drive is going at full speed (sic),” Kejriwal wrote on Twitter. He added that the people of Delhi had fought a tough battle against the infection, and they needed to keep up precautions even now. The capital recorded its first death due to Covid-19 on March 13 last year when a 69-year-old woman from Janakpuri succumbed to the disease at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. The second death was also reported in March. In April and May, Delhi recorded 57 and 414 deaths, respectively. In June, the death toll touched 2,269. Between July and October, fatalities due to Covid in a month oscillated between a minimum of 481 and maximum of 1,221. However, in November again, deaths due to the infection peaked to an all-time high of 2,663 in a month, averaging nearly 88 deaths daily. In December and January, Delhi recorded 1,362 and 317 deaths due to Covid-19. In February, till Tuesday, 29 deaths have been recorded due to the disease. “In the past few weeks, the positivity rate of Covid-19 in Delhi has remained below one percent. However, it was for the first time on Tuesday that there were no deaths due to the disease. This development adds to a sense of relief,” said a senior doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital. He added that people shouldn’t get complacent and continue taking precautionary measures, such as wearing masks and washing hands regularly to prevent the spread of the disease. The cumulative death toll in Delhi currently stands at 10,882, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.18% on Tuesday. Delhi recorded 100 fresh cases in the past 24 hours, from the 56,410 tests conducted the previous day. The infection tally in the capital, meanwhile, rose to 6,36,260, authorities said. The active cases tally on Tuesday dropped to 1,052 from 1,096 the previous day, as per the health bulletin. The total number of tests conducted the previous day, included 31,300 RT-PCR tests and 25,110 via rapid antigen testing. Delhi had recorded 96 Covid cases on January 27, its lowest in over nine months, and the first time the daily incidence count had stood below the 100-mark in that month. On Friday and Sunday, two deaths were reported in the capital, same as on February 2, which was the lowest in the past 10 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-covid-19-death-in-capital-after-9-months/articleshow/80776122.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Surat||Five held for multilevel marketing fraud||SURAT: Economic Offence Cell (EOC) of city police arrested six people on Monday for their alleged involvement in Rs 45.32 lakh fraud with a 59-year-old resident of Dindoli area. The accused had duped the retired man by luring him to invest in a fraudulent scheme of DSGM India Pvt Ltd. Police arrested the founder of the company, Bhargav Pandya, along with agents Jitendra Mohanto, Kaushik Rathod, Sanjay Desai and Vinod Vankar. Other accused in the case are Pandya’s wife Shivani, Pandya’s brother Mahendra, manager Honey Singh and an agent Navin Mohanto. Police are in search of the other accused. The complaint was lodged by Abhimanyu alias Aba Patil, formerly an Ayurvedic medicine seller. Investigation so far revealed that Patil was contacted by agents of the accused company in November 2018 and they first asked him to become a member by paying Rs 7,500 for which he will receive some Ayurvedic products. He was offered a commission if he brings in more members. Patil was later lured of higher returns by investing in other businesses of the company. The company officials told Patel that they are into PVC pipe manufacturing and construction as well. Trusting them, Patil and 16 other people invested total Rs 63.11 lakh. The investors received some amount back till April 2019 as commission, which later stopped. “Like Patil, many other people who had invested did not get their money back,” said V K Parmar, assistant commissioner of police, EOC. Police estimate that the entire fraud could be of much larger amount and will be known only when all the victims come forward. Many investors have received some portion back as commission, police informed. Police booked the accused under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including 406, 409, 420 and 120b dealing with criminal conspiracy. Police also booked the accused under IT Act, the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act and the Gujarat Protection of Interest Depositors (In Financial Establishments) (GPID) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/five-held-for-multilevel-marketing-fraud/articleshow/80773651.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Covid vaccination in Delhi: Districts gear up for second dosage||NEW DELHI: It has been 24 days since the Covid vaccination drive started on January 16 and the Delhi government is now gearing up for giving the second shot to people who received the first shot during the initial days of the drive. The list of vaccinated persons has been prepared by district health authorities who will be reaching out to them to ensure they get the second dose on time. The second dose to healthcare workers who took the first shot on Day 1 of the vaccination drive on January 16, is likely to be given on February 13, according to sources. The government may also need to increase the number of vaccination centres to accommodate the sessions for administering the second dose. A health department official said that the second dose of vaccine would be given only after the beneficiary has completed 28 days from the date the first vaccine was given to him. “Since the vaccine is effective only after getting the two doses, we will be giving the second dose immediately to all the individuals as soon as they complete 28 days,” said the official. The vaccine is currently being given to healthcare workers and frontline workers who have been enrolled for vaccination and their basic details are already fed into the Co-WIN application, the central vaccination management system.  Rampal Gurjar, 35-year-old nursing officer posted at Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital in East Delhi, who was the first to receive the jab when it was launched at the hospital, said he was well and feeling more confident after getting the shot. “I had no hesitation in getting the vaccine. In fact my family members also encouraged me for it. I am waiting for the second dose after which I will become completely safe from the coronavirus,” said Gurjar. A district immunisation officer said that an SMS would be sent to the vaccinated beneficiaries who complete 28 days. They will be asked to report to a given centre at a given time. “It will be a re-run of the first vaccination. They will be vaccinated and put under observation for 30 minutes,” said the immunisation officer who did not want to be identified. In case any vaccinated beneficiary has fever on the day they are scheduled to get the shot, they will be given the vaccine once the fever subsides. All those vaccinated have been under monitoring for adverse events and any adverse reaction. “None have reported any major effect on their health condition. Even the negligible number of people who reported minor adverse events immediately after getting the jab recovered soon and are doing well,” said an official. So far, more than 1.3 lakh individuals have been vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-vaccination-districts-gear-up-for-second-dosage/articleshow/80776138.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Three of 10 people infected by Covid in Tamil Nadu by November 2020: Sero survey||CHENNAI: Three out of 10 people had tested positive for antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — as of November 2020 in Tamil Nadu, shows a serological study done by the directorate of public health. The findings, which are yet to be peer reviewed, show that more than 2.3 crore people in the state were infected until last November — nearly 36 times the number of people who had officially tested positive for Covid-19 infection. The representative study done in association with scientists from the US between October and November 2020 showed that the average sero-prevalence in TN was 31.5% — ranging from 11.1% in the Nilgiris to 51.05% in Perambalur district. Chennai, one of the worst affected districts in TN, had 40.9% sero-positivity. Coimbatore had 20.4%, Trichy 32% and Madurai had recorded 38% sero-positivity. “This means several people who got the infection never knew they had been infected. The 0.052% infection fatality rate for the period was far lower than the present case fatality rate of 1.5% which uses total positive cases as a denominator,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-of-10-people-infected-by-covid-in-tn-by-nov-2020-sero-survey/articleshow/80776140.cms||Pushpa Narayan
February 10, 2021||Salem||Three of 10 people infected by Covid in Tamil Nadu by November 2020: Sero survey||CHENNAI: Three out of 10 people had tested positive for antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — as of November 2020 in Tamil Nadu, shows a serological study done by the directorate of public health. The findings, which are yet to be peer reviewed, show that more than 2.3 crore people in the state were infected until last November — nearly 36 times the number of people who had officially tested positive for Covid-19 infection. The representative study done in association with scientists from the US between October and November 2020 showed that the average sero-prevalence in TN was 31.5% — ranging from 11.1% in the Nilgiris to 51.05% in Perambalur district. Chennai, one of the worst affected districts in TN, had 40.9% sero-positivity. Coimbatore had 20.4%, Trichy 32% and Madurai had recorded 38% sero-positivity. “This means several people who got the infection never knew they had been infected. The 0.052% infection fatality rate for the period was far lower than the present case fatality rate of 1.5% which uses total positive cases as a denominator,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/3-of-10-people-infected-by-covid-in-tn-by-nov-2020-sero-survey/articleshow/80780226.cms||Pushpa Narayan
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Gautam Gambhir launches second community kitchen in east Delhi||NEW DELHI: BJP national president and Delhi unit in-charge Baijayant Jay Panda on Tuesday inaugurated a community kitchen, second such facility opened by east Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir to help the poor have a healthy meal. It has been started in New Ashok Nagar under Gambhir’s campaign ‘food for all’. The campaign helps provide food to about 1,100 poor, labourers and others at an affordable price of Re 1. Panda hailed the initiative and stated that about 22 crore people of the country were provided with food during the Covid pandemic by the central government. Gambhir said the first such kitchen came up in Gandhi Nagar last December, where over 1,000 people are getting food for a nominal cost of Re 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gambhir-launches-second-community-kitchen-in-e-delhi/articleshow/80776142.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Trichy||Three of 10 people infected by Covid in Tamil Nadu by November 2020: Sero survey||CHENNAI: Three out of 10 people had tested positive for antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — as of November 2020 in Tamil Nadu, shows a serological study done by the directorate of public health. The findings, which are yet to be peer reviewed, show that more than 2.3 crore people in the state were infected until last November — nearly 36 times the number of people who had officially tested positive for Covid-19 infection. The representative study done in association with scientists from the US between October and November 2020 showed that the average sero-prevalence in TN was 31.5% — ranging from 11.1% in the Nilgiris to 51.05% in Perambalur district. Chennai, one of the worst affected districts in TN, had 40.9% sero-positivity. Coimbatore had 20.4%, Trichy 32% and Madurai had recorded 38% sero-positivity. “This means several people who got the infection never knew they had been infected. The 0.052% infection fatality rate for the period was far lower than the present case fatality rate of 1.5% which uses total positive cases as a denominator,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-of-10-people-infected-by-covid-in-tn-by-nov-2020-sero-survey/articleshow/80780224.cms||Pushpa Narayan
February 10, 2021||Erode||Three of 10 people infected by Covid in Tamil Nadu by November 2020: Sero survey||CHENNAI: Three out of 10 people had tested positive for antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — as of November 2020 in Tamil Nadu, shows a serological study done by the directorate of public health. The findings, which are yet to be peer reviewed, show that more than 2.3 crore people in the state were infected until last November — nearly 36 times the number of people who had officially tested positive for Covid-19 infection. The representative study done in association with scientists from the US between October and November 2020 showed that the average sero-prevalence in TN was 31.5% — ranging from 11.1% in the Nilgiris to 51.05% in Perambalur district. Chennai, one of the worst affected districts in TN, had 40.9% sero-positivity. Coimbatore had 20.4%, Trichy 32% and Madurai had recorded 38% sero-positivity. “This means several people who got the infection never knew they had been infected. The 0.052% infection fatality rate for the period was far lower than the present case fatality rate of 1.5% which uses total positive cases as a denominator,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/3-of-10-people-infected-by-covid-in-tn-by-nov-2020-sero-survey/articleshow/80780222.cms||Pushpa Narayan
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Karumbukkadai-Athupalam flyover extension work begins||Coimbatore: The extension works of flyover from Karumbukkadai to Athupalam began with municipal administrator minister SP Velumani participating in bhoomi puja of the project at Athupalam in the city on Tuesday.After participating in the puja, the minister said the flyover work once completed will help ease traffic on the stretch.Addressing Muslims at Athupalam, the minister said, “Those who ruled the state earlier didn’t focus on Athupalam area. I treat everyone equally. I had taken steps to provide all facilities for Muslims in the area,” Velumani said.To mark former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s 73rd birth anniversary, AIADMK will conduct marriages for 73 couples in Coimbatore. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam will participate in the function. “The land acquisition for Coimbatore International Airport expansion is underway. Once the airport expansion is completed, around one lakh people will get employment opportunities,” Velumani said.He lashed out at DMK for failing to fulfill the promises made during the last Lok Sabha election and the opposition party did not do anything for Muslims. “We are brothers and our (AIADMK) government is helping Muslims in Kottaimedu and Pollachi,” Velumani said.Later, the minister oversaw the preparatory work at Chettipalayam for a jallikattu event to be held on February 21. “As many as 1,000 bulls and 900 bull tamers from across the state will participate in the jallikattu. We are expecting at least five lakh people to witness the event. Those who win the first three places will be given a car and mopeds,” Velumani said.Later addressing party workers in Tirupur, Velumani reiterated that the party continues to enjoy the support of minorities. “There is a propaganda that minorities will not vote for AIADMK. That's wrong. Minorities are ready to vote for EPS, because people from all walks of life have accepted EPS as chief minister. There is a difference between principles of our party and alliances. Minority welfare is our priority,’’ he said.He however urged AIADMK cadres to intensify their field work before the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/karumbukkadai-athupalam-flyover-extension-work-begins/articleshow/80776173.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Surat||Surat: Defrauded by job promise for sons, man loses Rs 12 lakh||SURAT: Police arrested two persons on Tuesday for allegedly duping a sanitation worker of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) of Rs 12 lakh by promising him jobs for his two sons in the regional transport office (RTO). One of the accused introduced self as an employee of Road Transport Office (RTO) and promised a job to two sons of the complainant Lakshman Vijuda in Rs 16 lakh. Jatin Maniya alias Nikhil Savani, a resident of Adajan and Vicky Khuman, a cab driver were arrested for alleged cheating SMC worker Lakshman Vijuda (45). The accused were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including 465 (forgery), 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 419 (cheating by impersonation), 471 (fraudulently use a forged document as genuine) and others. According to police, Khuman is a neighbour of Vijuda. He told Vijuda that he knows an RTO officer who could help his sons get a job in the RTO. He arranged Vijuda’s meeting with Maniya in October 2020, where Maniya introduced self as RTO inspector Nikhil Savani. Maniya had also forged AADHAR card in his fake name. Maniya told Vijuda that he can help in getting his two sons the job of an assistant in RTO and demanded Rs 11 lakh for each one. After negotiations, Maniya agreed to help get jobs for both sons for Rs 16 lakh. Till January Vijuda had paid Maniya Rs 12 lakh in different instalments but did not get confirmation on the job for his sons. Vijuda had borrowed from relatives and mortgaged jewellery to arrange for the amount. In January, one of Vijuda’s sons went to inquire about Maniya in the RTO where he came to know that there was no officer by the name of Savani (fake name that Maniya used). Meanwhile, Maniya eloped with a girl from Godadara area and the girl’s family filed a complaint against him with the police. During the preliminary inquiry, police found from Maniya’s call records that he had talked multiple times with Vijuda and his sons over the phone. Vijuda told police that the number they were talking about was of RTO inspector Nikhil Savani. Police then told Vijuda the truth that the number was of Miyani. Later Vijuda realised that he was cheated and he lodged a complaint with the police. The investigation further revealed that Miyani was arrested for loan fraud in 2017 by Athwa police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/defrauded-by-job-promise-for-sons-man-loses-rs-12-lakh/articleshow/80773680.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Seven samples from Delhi zoo test positive for bird flu||NEW DELHI: Seven samples of bird droppings collected from four locations across the Delhi zoo have tested positive for avian influenza, officials said on Tuesday. The samples had been sent for testing to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) on February 3. Earlier, six samples sent to Bhopal on January 19 had all tested negative for bird flu. Zoo officials said all possible precautions were being taken on the premises, with random samples of bird droppings being collected regularly. “All safety measures and protocols of Central Zoo Authority (CZA), ministry of environment and AHD, Delhi government, related to avian influenza are strictly being adhered to. The field staff and a team of veterinarians is constantly monitoring the situation too,” said the zoo in an official statement on Tuesday, adding that birds in captivity and in free range were all behaving normally. Zoo officials also said surveillance was continuing, with lime solutions, virkon-S and sodium hypochlorite being sprayed regularly across the zoo premises. The Delhi zoo has remained shut since the lockdown and officials said this will continue, until further notice. In 2016, the Delhi zoo was shut down for nearly three months after several bird deaths were reported due to bird flu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/7-samples-from-city-zoo-test-positive-for-bird-flu/articleshow/80776184.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Peek into the Chola-era chambers of commerce||By Suganthy Krishnamachari The trade guilds of yore operated like chambers of commerce. Inscriptions hold details about such guilds in south India, which worked to protect their members’ interests, worked for the benefit of society and played a crucial role in sustaining empires. Read the entire story on TOI+What Chola Chambers of commerce looked like||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/peek-into-the-chola-era-chambers-of-commerce/articleshow/80774771.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: At over 12,000, record numbers get inoculated||NEW DELHI: As vaccination for Covid-19 entered the 24th day, 12,717 healthcare and frontline workers turned up on Tuesday to get inoculated. Though the figure was 69.1% of the 18,400 beneficiaries expected, this was the highest turnout in a single day so far. Only seven adverse events were reported, one of the lowest since inoculation began. However, all of them were minor reactions, which is common with almost all vaccines. The numbers surged significantly on Tuesday after remaining below 55% for nearly a week. Around a fortnight ago, a 91.5% turnout for vaccination had been reported, but the total number of people who got the jab was only 7,408. Compared with that period, the target of vaccination has more than doubled now. The highest jump in turnout was witnessed in New Delhi district where 1,320 individuals got vaccinated compared with 636 on Monday. No adverse event was reported in the district. A major jump was witnessed in West district where 1,496 people turned up compared with 1,134 a day earlier. In South district, 1,945 beneficiaries were inoculated compared with 1,503 on Monday, while 1,582 people turned up in Central district on Tuesday compared with 1,134 a day earlier. The number of vaccination centres has been increased from 22 to 26 in South district, the highest among all districts. The number of centres in all other districts remains unchanged. Overall, the number of people who have been vaccinated has crossed 1.32 lakh. The key factor behind the surge in turnout was allowing frontline workers to get the jab. At several vaccination centres, paramilitary and Delhi Police personnel, sanitation workers and government employees turned up to get the shot. The magistrates of several districts also came forward to receive the shot to encourage government employees to get vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-over-12000-record-numbers-get-inoculated/articleshow/80776156.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Winged visitors to district drop by 60%||The Coimbatore Nature Society, which participated in the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC), has found a 60% drop in the number of migratory birds visiting the wetlands in the district over the past five years. They say this is a clear sign that the wetlands in the district have become unusable for the birds in terms of quality of water, and availability of food and shelter. They have recommended immediate action to preserve the wetlands. As per the AWC data, 978 migratory birds were spotted across 28 wetlands in the district this year, down from 2,592 birds during the same period in 2017. G Prakash, a member of the Coimbatore Nature Society and an avid birdwatcher, says there is a big drop in the number of ducks, including the northern shoveler, northern pintail and garganey, and waders like sandpipers and common greenshanks. “In fact, greenshanks, which could earlier be seen in double digits at several wetlands, was spotted only twice during the census. Even the number of ducks, which we used to spot in hundreds, have dropped to a small fraction of it.” Some species like black-tailed godwit could not be spotted at all this year, he says. Migrant birds like barn swallow, blyth’s reed warbler, blue-tailed bee-eater and common sandpiper were spotted in large numbers. Other important sightings included temminck’s stint, small pratincole and whiskered tern. While land birds such as oriental turtle dove, greater spotted eagle, brown shrike, sykes’s warbler, taiga flycatcher, red avadavat and common rosefinch were spotted, they were rare. The number of migratory bird species has also fallen to 31 this year, from 35 in 2017. “The main reason for the fall, we believe, is loss of habitat as a result of concretization of wetland banks and desilting of wetlands with machines, removing even the native vegetation and aquatic life in the process. Because of this, many ducks, which fly to nearby paddy fields in search of food and return to rest in waters, are affected,” says Prakash. At 6,091, a record number of resident birds were spotted at the waterbodies this year. “The increase is significant, despite the fact that we have surveyed 28 wetlands this year, compared to 26 last year,” says Prakash. “The reason is resident birds may move between wetlands depending on food availability and other factors to manage a crisis. On the contrary, migrant birds may move to better wetlands skipping the district completely.” Birdwatchers say the Public Works Department and the city corporation should be more conscious in using machines to remove invasive species and rethink on concretizing wetland banks. Among the wetlands, Ukkadam recorded the highest number of 67 bird species, followed by Achankulam (61). In terms of the most number of birds, Singanallur topped the list with 486, followed by Kannampalayam (410). Indian spot-billed duck, little egret, cattle egret, Indian pond heron, white-throated kingfisher and little cormorant were seen at most wetlands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/winged-visitors-to-district-drop-by-60/articleshow/80776201.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Shivneri driver assaulted, 2 in net||PUNE: The Bund Garden police on Monday night arrested two men and booked their accomplice on the charge of attacking the driver of a Shivneri bus with beer bottles over honking at the Maldhakka Chowk signal around 11.15pm on Sunday. Sub-inspector Sachin Pawar, who is investigating the case, told TOI, “We have arrested Mangalwar Peth resident Badal Dhaware (28), who is a recovery agent with a private bank, and Kondhwa resident Mehboob Shaikh (26), who works with a mobile phone gallery, following an FIR lodged by victim Amol Gaikwad (34) of Dehu Road. A search is on for the third suspect, a 22-year-old youth, who is on the run.” A magisterial court on Tuesday ordered Dhaware and Shaikh’s remand in police custody till February 10. Driver Gaikwad got six stitches to his head and an injury to left hand. Pawar citied preliminary investigation and said, “The three men, travelling in car belonging to Kanadi, had blocked the road near Maldhakka signal while arguing with another motorist. The motorist claimed that the trio had grazed past his car before reaching the signal. Around this time, the Shivneri bus driven by Gaikwad came from the rear and stopped, as it could not move ahead due to the blocked road. After waiting for some time, Gaikwad started honking in an attempt to get the trio clear the road. But the latter got furious and attacked Gaikwad.” Gaikwad told TOI on Tuesday, “I had dropped passengers at the state transport bus terminus at the (Pune) railway station and was on the way to the Swargate bus division when I stopped behind a car at the traffic signal. The car driver had picked up a dispute with the three men. I had to wait behind for nearly 15 minutes." Gaikwad said, “I started honking on finding that the car was not moving ahead. The three men allowed the car to leave, but entered into the bus and attacked me with two beer bottles. I sustained head injuries. They also abused, thrashed and kicked me. I managed to apprehend Dhaware, while the two others took to heels. The three men did not cause damage to the bus that had no passengers. A police patrol rushed to the spot and took Dhaware into custody. After seeking medical treatment, I registered an FIR.” Senior inspector Yashwant Gawari from Bund Garden police said,“Dhaware shared with us the identities of the other two men, Mehboob Shaikh and the 22-year-old youth. He said the bus driver had also abused them. Shaikh was later arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shivneri-driver-assaulted-2-in-net/articleshow/80776214.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Veggies pricier on rising fuel rates, many opt for chicken||PUNE: Rising fuel rates and transportation charges have triggered a near-double increase in the retail prices of green vegetables over the past few days and compelled people to depend much on chicken, the cost of which has dipped following the bird flu outbreak. The price of a litre of petrol and diesel in the city will be Rs93.77 and Rs83 respectively on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the rates were Rs93.48 and Rs82.74. Sushil Shinde, a vegetable seller in Fatimanagar, said, “Transportation charges have gone up by Rs50 since the past week following the rise in fuel prices. Earlier, I used to spend Rs200 a day to carry vegetables from Market Yard. Now I am spending Rs250. This has impacted vegetable prices. If the fuel prices continue to soar, vegetables can become more expensive.” The rising vegetable prices have prompted families to change their daily food menu as well. Vinayak Zarekar, who lives with his family in a housing society on NIBM Road, said ‘rajma’ and various kinds of grams have replaced vegetables in their dishes. “We were avoiding chicken because of the bird flu but we are having eggs. The Covid-19 pandemic had already affected the house budget. The rise in vegetable prices is an added blow,” said Zarekar. Ram Kadam, chairman of the Pune district Motor Goods Transport Association, said, “We had to increase transportation costs by almost 30% for various commodities, including vegetables. We fear a further rise in the charges if the fuel prices continue to increase.” On Tuesday morning, a sizable crowd was seen waiting for their turn at the Poonawalla Chicken Centre on Shivarkar Road at Wanowrie. “The price of a kilo of chicken has gone down to Rs170 from Rs195. A chicken dish now seems a cheaper option than a vegetable dish. Bird flu will not affect most households, because chicken dishes are nicely cooked,” said a customer waiting at the counter. Vijay More, founder of Amir Chicken Centre, which has branches all over Pune, said the overall 15% decrease in the sale of chicken following the bird flu outbreak in the state was not a cause for much worry. “Sales have started recovering and we have not seen any major decline in demand from households, hotels and restaurants. Most chicken dishes in India are cooked at high temperatures. With vegetables costly, many are preferring to buy chicken,” he said. Another factor that is bothering vegetable sellers is the change in weather. “The amount of vegetables reaching the city is less due to the weather. This is also pushing up prices. Transporters have told us that if fuel prices don’t go down, transportation costs will increase to almost Rs380 from the existing Rs260 for an autorickshaw-load of vegetables,” said Sanjay Bhat, who runs a vegetable stall at Hadapsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/veggies-pricier-on-rising-fuel-rates-many-opt-for-chicken/articleshow/80776207.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Petrol rate nearly Rs 94 a litre, diesel crosses Rs 84 in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Both petrol and diesel prices touched a record high in the city on Tuesday. Petrol prices escalated to just 17 paise shy of Rs 94 a litre at Rs 93.83 while diesel hit a new all-time high with a 37 paise hike to Rs 84.36 in the city. Fuel prices have risen nearly Rs 4 per litre in little over a month since the start of 2021. Parbhani in Maharashtra now has the highest petrol rate in the country at over Rs 96.  All India Motor Transport Congress chairman (core committee) Bal Malkit Singh announced “in view of rising diesel prices, transporters have fixed a nationwide meeting on Saturday to plan their protest in various states” and they do not rule out the possibility of a countrywide chakka jam. The total hikes this year— between January 1 and February 9—were Rs 3.53 per litre for petrol and Rs 3.89 for diesel, according to data procured from oil companies. On Tuesday, petrol prices in as many as 21 districts in Maharashtra were over Rs 94 a litre while 12 districts had diesel rates over Rs 84. The price of petrol in neighbouring Thane and Navi Mumbai was just 6 paise shy of Rs 94, retailing at Rs 93.94. The price of diesel here has already crossed Rs 84 and is retailing at Rs 84.47. The highest price of diesel in the state was in Amravati at Rs 85.75 followed by Aurangabad at Rs 85.52. When it came to petrol, apart from Parbhani, Nanded too had a high petrol price with local pumps dispensing the fuel at Rs 95.84 per litre. Both petrol and diesel prices have risen nearly Rs 18 in the past 10 months. Petrol price has escalated from Rs 76.31 on April 2 last year, with at least 20 hikes, to touch Rs 93.83 on February 9, 2021. Similarly, diesel price shot up from Rs 66.2 in April last year to Rs 84.36 on February 9. Increasing taxes and VAT, which are high in Maharashtra, have upset consumers. Apart from petrol and diesel, there have been other fuel price hikes that have hit travel budgets this month. CNG price was hiked on Tuesday by Rs 1.50 from Rs 47.90 per kg to Rs 49.40 at over 200 city pumps. Similarly, the rate of 14.2 kg domestic LPG cylinder was also hiked a few days back by Rs 25—from Rs 694 to Rs 719. Activists from political parties such as Shiv Sena and AAP had recently taken out protest rallies against fuel price hikes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/petrol-rate-nearly-rs-94-a-litre-diesel-crosses-rs-84-in-mum/articleshow/80774822.cms||Somit Sen
February 10, 2021||Chennai||In age of apps, bullet journaling makes youth take up pens||CHENNAI: For Natalie G, sticking to her fitness routine during the pandemic became a challenge due to the closure of gyms and household chores. However, what helped her stay on track was the discovery of bullet journaling - a customizable self-care routine that many of youngsters have taken to over the last year. The best part? It had her put down a pen to paper — real-time, after a long time. A system popularised by New York-based writer and digital product designer, Ryder Carroll, a bullet journal or BuJo is a manual journaling method that has become a hit among youngsters, amid an explosion of digital planners and apps that saw a spike during the lockdown. What is working for this long-form journaling method isn’t just limited to recording your day, but that it comes as a creative way to express yourself; packed with weekly and monthly calendars, art, and goal, habit, and mood trackers – all handmade. This is also what makes it different from an ordinary diary post. "I have used many habit tracking and journaling apps. None of them have been as personal and motivating like the BuJo I designed myself," says Natalie, a public relations professional from Mogappair. BuJo has also helped Natalie to be mindful about her progress in eating healthy, gardening, and social media detox. "I drew small boxes with the number of days in a month, with illustrations of the themes to make my journaling clear. This would have been impossible in a pre-made journal." She marks the tasks she accomplishes each day with a highlighter of a designated colour. "Blue is for fitness and green for eating healthy. Highlighting each day makes me feel in control," says the 27-year-old. For Neethu Anand, a Villivakkam-based communication professional who recently moved to Australia, bullet journal is a creative outlet to track her feelings, which an everyday scheduling book cannot do. The 25-year-old finds it more productive that her BuJo helps her break down complex tasks. "I use it on occasions when I feel the need to express my emotions through art with doodles, sketches, and dialogue bubbles," she says. Bullet journals can be just functional with boxes and columns for events or highly creative with calligraphic text and pages reserved for ‘Brain Dump’, a space to throw anything that comes up in one’s mind. Satshya Tharien, a Mangaluru-based content creator, says BuJo helps her in compiling her calendar, notes, gratitude journal, and event planner. "Everything on my mind is integrated into a single notebook," says the social media content creator, who has been promoting BuJo and its techniques on her Instagram page. Tharien says the method works at a personal and professional level. Psychologist Khushali Manikandan, has been recommending this method to her clients to help them keep track of their daily routine. "I had told my clients to take to this habit especially during the pandemic. Writing down points can cement an activity in one’s mind," she says adding that it has helped her recognise her clients’ patterns. "Last year was turbulent and 2021 is seen as a year to gain back a stronghold on various aspects of life, including mental well-being. Bullet journaling can aid in providing that grip," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-age-of-apps-bullet-journaling-makes-youth-take-up-pens/articleshow/80774816.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Wide reach: Green links to rejoin fragmented Delhi's Central Ridge||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s Central Ridge may soon be modelled along the lines of New York’s Central Park, with Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems (CEMDE)—the body responsible for carrying out its bio-restoration— looking to attract as many visitors as possible once it is ecologically revived. While no physical structures will be built inside the forest, natural walkways, cycleways, water bodies and green bridges will be used to connect the fragmented portions of the 864-hectare ridge area. Larger parks falling in the vicinity, including Talkatora Garden, Bhuli Bhatiyari Park, Buddha Jayanti Park and Bhagwan Mahavir Vanasthali Park, will also be integrated inside, said officials. “It will be one large forest area, connected by green walkways and bridges, which will help wildlife move from one area to another. Though a part of the ridge, a number of parks in its vicinity were fragmented. We aim to connect all these together and plant a number of native forest communities,” said CR Babu, professor emeritus at DU and head of CEMDE. Times ViewThere are few public places outside Lutyens’ Delhi where the ordinary people can enjoy an outing in an eco-friendly environment. This is a good move. If imaginatively implemented, it will improve the quality of many lives. This is also a good way to preserve the place and avoid encroachment and squatting.Babu, who is executing the project over a period of five years, says there will be visible changes to the landscape inside the ridge within a year’s time. Work is to begin in a 100-hectare patch along Sardar Patel Marg, opposite Taj Palace and Maurya Sheraton hotels. “People visiting hotels will be able to walk inside the forest and feel nature up close. Once vilayati kikar is removed, people can come across native tree species and special features will be developed for the plateau or rocky areas. Water bodies will be revived and people will also be able to take part in a safari,” said Babu. “Three-storey vegetation of 70-100 metres wide will be developed all along the periphery of each block to form greenways. Native trees, shrubs and herbs of dry, deciduous forest communities will be used. In areas close to hotel complexes, institutional areas or residential areas, recreational zones will be developed,” stated the project proposal. “Some deep depressions, which receive rainwater, will be developed into water bodies by erecting small earthen bunds that will be grassed,” it added. Ten dry-deciduous communities have been chosen for the ridge, including adina-mitragyna, butea-holoptelea, mitragyna-terminalia and madhuca-kusum. For the rocky terrain and plateaus, 11 tropical thorn and scrub forest communities have been chosen. “The rocky outcrops will be used for development of bio-edaphic communities, represented by euphorbia scrub and other native succulents, which are on the verge of extinction,” said the proposal. Babu told TOI a meeting for the project was held on Tuesday, with preliminary work to begin from Wednesday onwards. “We met forest officials to discuss the project. The area, around 100 hectares, for phase-I will now be scouted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wide-reach-green-links-to-rejoin-fragmented-central-ridge/articleshow/80776192.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 10, 2021||World||Senate votes to proceed with Trump trial||WASHINGTON: The US Senate voted on Tuesday to proceed with the impeachment trial of former president Donald Trump, rejecting defence arguments that it was unconstitutional. Defence lawyers had argued that Trump should not face a trial in the Senate for inciting insurrection because he was no longer president. But the Senate voted 56-44 to proceed with the trial, with six Republicans joining Democratic lawmakers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/senate-votes-to-proceed-with-trump-trial/articleshow/80777759.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Builders protest against steel and cement price hike||Coimbatore: Eight construction associations in the district would protest the abnormal increase in steel and cement prices on Friday by boycotting work. Around 10,000 small and medium builders and contractors and more than 50,000 construction workers would participate in the one-day strike.Representatives of the associations said the sudden hike in prices have affected construction contractors, who are unable to complete the projects within the estimated price. They said the common people, who have begun building houses with all their savings, have also been hit by the price rise.The associations, including the Association of Consulting Civil Engineers, Builder’s Association of India, Contractor’s Welfare Association, the India Institute of Architects and the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India, among others, have announced their plans to ceremoniously stop work on Friday. “We will also take out a procession to Chidambaram Park at VOC from the Women’s polytechnic college and then petition the district collector directly,” said K Chinnaswamy, vice-president, All India Builders' Association of India..According to the office-bearers of the associations, steel price has gone up to 65,600 per tonne from 35,000 last year, while the cement price has increased to 420 a bag from 280. “As a result, construction cost has spiralled up. Many building contractors are unable to finish projects within the stipulated time or price quoted in the tender. They would face huge losses,” Chinnaswamy said.Construction firms, meanwhile, said cement companies had formed a cartel and been increasing prices to improve their profit margin. They also blamed the government for not taking any action to protect the interests of the construction industry and public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/builders-protest-against-steel-and-cement-price-hike/articleshow/80776260.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Fishermen’s group opposes undersea Metro proposal||The Maharashtra Machchimar Kruti Samiti has opposed the state public works department proposal to build an undersea Metro to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj statue in the Arabian Sea at Nariman Point. In a press release the Samiti said they were already opposed to the memorial in the sea and the undersea Metro would completely destroy their livelihoods. It has demanded that the memorial be shifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fishermens-group-opposes-undersea-metro-proposal/articleshow/80777903.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||10 more garbage cafes to tackle plastic in Delhi's Najafgarh||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday carried out a drive to remove plastic waste from the central verge, roadsides and other public areas. The sanitation drive took place in markets, public places, schools and parks. As part of the drive, workers of the civic body sweeped the roads in south Delhi areas multiple times and lifted the plastic waste lying on them. “Different stretches of around 70 kilometres area were cleaned and nearly 250 kilograms of plastic waste were lifted from the green belts falling under the jurisdiction of Najafgarh zone,” said a senior civic body official. On the same day, 10 more ‘garbage cafes’ where meal coupons would be provided to those depositing plastic waste, were opened in Najafgarh localities, taking the total number of the cafes in the zone to 11. SDMC has a total of 34 such cafes in its jurisdiction. “Anybody depositing one kilogram of plastic waste with garbage cafes will get a coupon for a free breakfast, lunch, or dinner in restaurants, which are our partners for the green initiative. The plastic waste may include empty plastic water bottles, cold drink bottles, plastic cans and other such items,” said another SDMC official. Last month, the south civic body had opened 23 garbage cafes, offering free meals in restaurants for one kilogram of plastic waste. Under this unique initiative, 12 such cafes were opened in the south zone, 10 in the central zone and one in the west zone. “The initiative will motivate citizens of Delhi to come forward and reduce the city’s plastic waste and get rewarded for the same in the form of free meals,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10-more-garbage-cafes-to-tackle-plastic-in-najafgarh/articleshow/80776263.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Hitchhiker in khaki holds up motorist at gunpoint||PUNE: A 44-year-old senior MNC employee was held up at gunpoint by a hitchhiker and his two accomplices on Monday morning. When he tackled the armed suspect and gave them the slip, the trio fled the spot and left his car and valuables intact. The complainant — a Punawale resident — alerted the Hinjewadi police, who registered a case under the Indian Arms Act. The complainant said he was driving to work when he was flagged down by a man wearing khaki trousers and a jacket. The man was also holding a lathi. “I thought he was a policeman and stopped the car. He asked me to drop him on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass,” he told TOI. On the way, the complainant asked the man which police station he was posted with. “The man told me that he was not a policeman, but attached to the homeguards and was on his way to bandobast duty,” the complainant said, adding that the man declined his offer to drop him a little further. As soon as they reached the bypass, the suspect whipped out a pistol and told the complainant to stop the car. “Two men arrived at the spot. One of them entered the car, while the other restrained me from outside,” the complainant said. The suspect told him to go to the back seat, but the complainant grabbed the revolver instead and escaped. “I came back to the spot a few minutes later and saw the car was parked where I left it. I also saw that my laptop, smartphone and wallet were intact. I then alerted the Hinjewadi police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hitchhiker-in-khaki-holds-up-motorist-at-gunpoint/articleshow/80776255.cms||Mihir Tanksale
February 10, 2021||Surat||Marriage nod denied, teens end lives in Surat||SURAT: An 18-year-old boy and his 17-year-old cousin sister were found hanging from a ceiling fan in a room of the boy’s residence in a chawl in Sachin GIDC area on Monday evening. Preliminary investigation revealed to the police that the duo took the extreme step after their respective parents disapproved their union and were refusing to get them married. The family members told the police that Santram’s mother and Lakshmi’s father are cousins. The cousins knew each other since their childhood and lived in nearby villages in Fatehpur district of Uttar Pradesh. According to the families, instead of refusing their demand directly, they tried to delay the matter on the pretext of financial crisis which the lovelorn teens did not seem to buy. Bodies of Santram Nishad and Poona Nishad were found hanging on Monday evening after the boy’s family members returned home from work. The deceased used the same dupatta to hang themselves and kept the front door open. The bodies were sent for post mortem and preliminary findings revealed that they killed themselves in the afternoon. Santram was a labourer but was jobless since lockdown. He lived with his two brothers and all of them worked as labourers. Lakshmi used to stay in her village but had come to live with her parents a few months ago. Her father is a labourer too. “They developed a relationship in past four to five months. They wanted to marry but the family members were not ready,” said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/marriage-nod-denied-teens-end-lives/articleshow/80773707.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC picks nodal officer to sort out safai staff’s woes||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has appointed a nodal officer to initiate dialogue with the municipal corporation’s sanitation workers’ unions. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva also issued notice to the Aam Aadmi Party government and the municipal corporations on a plea by Municipal Corporation Sanitation Supervisor Unions, which sought constitution of a redressal committee to not just hear their problems, but also consider their demands. The plea sought direction for the constitution of a grievance cell with a proper mechanism for redressal of demands and grievances of the workers. In its direction, the high court noted that “the deputy labour commissioner shall initially have a meeting with one authorised representative from each of the nine unions, which comprise the petitioner union. Thereafter, the deputy labour commissioner (South district) shall communicate with the officers of the concerned municipal corporations.” The court further directed civic officers to cooperate with the deputy labour commissioner, who will be the nodal officer. In their submission, the petitioner unions told HC that they were conscious of the fact that because of their strike, residents of the capital were suffering, though they were not the ones against whom the sanitation workers have any grievance. Which is why, as a goodwill gesture, the workers’ union has decided to withdraw their strike and resume work so that steps can be taken for the constitution of a redressal committee for their grievances. The high court appreciated the gestures shown by the petitioner and the sanitation workers’ unions and sought a status report within two weeks on the progress made by the nodal officer in meeting and considering the demands of the sanitation workers. The high court scheduled the matter for February 25, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-picks-nodal-officer-to-sort-out-safai-staffs-woes/articleshow/80776235.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: 10%-20% increase in Swasthya Sathi rates||KOLKATA: Rates of Swasthya Sathi scheme — that had been deemed too low to be feasible by private hospitals — were raised by the state government by 10%-20% after a meeting at Nabanna on Tuesday. Private hospitals, on the other hand, were left disappointed with the revision, which, they claimed, was inadequate to make the scheme sustainable for them. They have asked chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay for another revision and the matter has been referred to health secretary. District hospitals joined the meet virtually. “We had promised a rationalisation and upward revision of rates which has been done. We will make sure that both state and private hospitals offer the scheme so that patients with Swasthya Sathi cards get seamless healthcare services,” said Bandyopadhyay. A statement by the government said rates for 33 commonly used packages under five disciplines — general medicine, general surgery, cardiothoracic, endoscopic procedures and obstetrics and gynaecology will be increased by 10%-20%. It will lead to an additional expenditure of Rs 200 crore per year for the state and has been recommended by a committee of experts headed by the director of medical education. It went on to add that a total amount of Rs 1,773 crore has been spent on beneficiaries so far. Sixteen Kolkata private hospitals and over 50 private health establishments from districts joined the meeting. “While the hike in package rates is inadequate, the rise in rates for medical management of patients under the scheme is too low. So, we have asked for another revision,” said Belle Vue CEO P Tondon, who was present at the meeting. Daily charge for medical management of non-critical cases has been raised to Rs 1,800 from Rs 1,500 while for critical cases (ICU) it has been hiked to Rs 3,300 from Rs 3,000. “We welcome the move to revise the charges. But the rise in medical management charges is inadequate. We have asked for a revision and hope it will be considered,” said Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) president Rupak Barua. He added that the association and an expert panel formed last month had proposed separation of charges for medical management cases. “Instead of a consolidated amount, we had sought separate rates for bed charges, doctors’ consultation and medicines,” said Barua, also AMRI Hospitals CEO. “We are grateful to the honourable chief secretary and honourable health secretary for revision in rates of the packages in 5 out of the 13 broad specialties. We have expressed our concerns on rates for medical management which still remains extremely unviable,” said RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences zonal director R Venkatesh. A release said to ensure no refusal, over 400 new private hospitals were empanelled taking total number of private hospitals to 1,537 with an increment of total beds from 45,827 to 57,305.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/10-20-increase-in-swasthya-sathi-rates/articleshow/80774827.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Corporation survey to identify dangerous buildings fails to serve its purpose||NEW DELHI: The building collapse at Quresh Nagar in Old Delhi on Tuesday has once again raised questions on the survey conducted by the municipal corporation every year to identify dangerous buildings and ensure their safety. In the Walled City, where most buildings are decades old and such incidents have been reported frequently in the past 2-3 years, even special surveys announced by the municipality in 2019-20 have not served the purpose. In 2020, North Delhi Municipal Corporation had identified 116 repairable buildings, 115 of which were in Sadar Paharganj zone. The area also had two dangerous buildings. In 2019, of the 49 dangerous buildings, 26 were in the same zone. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash claimed that no construction was going on in the building that collapsed on Tuesday and it had not been declared dangerous. “The initial survey suggests that the building fell due to corrosion of the iron T-girders supporting the red sandstone roof. It was also found that a case between the owner and the tenant was pending in court due to which renovation work was not done,” the status report of north corporation mentioned. The mayor said, “People don’t allow survey teams inside the complexes, especially in congested areas. This makes it difficult to ascertain their condition from outside. Also, people in the Walled City mostly carry out illegal construction on the weekends or after sunset when officials can’t track them.” “After this incident, I have asked officials to strictly survey old buildings that need repairs or are dangerous for habitation, apart from checking for illegal constructions. Those needing repair would be asked to conduct renovation immediately and those considered dangerous would be vacated and demolished,” added Prakash. According to municipal norms, no additions or changes can be done in buildings in the Walled City. If it is absolutely necessary, special permission is needed and new buildings norms have to be followed, which is impossible to adhere to in case of old structures. “To avoid this exercise, people do illegal constructions. In many cases, since the structures are old, additional construction without strengthening the base results in building collapse,” said a senior corporation official. Aditya Sharma, a structural engineer, said unless the bylaws were simplified and the nature of implementation was changed, the situation won’t improve. “For structural safety of buildings, two NGOs took the matter to Delhi High Court after which the corporations started empanelling structural engineers. Notices were issued to get retrofitting done in buildings. But the court can’t monitor everything,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-survey-to-identify-dangerous-buildings-fails-to-serve-its-purpose/articleshow/80776221.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Two pelt govt bus with stone, held||Coimbatore: Police arrested two men on Tuesday for throwing stone at a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation Limited (TNSTC) town bus on NSR Road at Saibaba Colony in the city on Monday night. The arrested men were identified as S Saddam Hussain, 24, and S Karthik, 22, both residents of KK Pudur at Saibaba Colony. Saddam and Karthik, who were under the influence of alcohol and riding on a scooter on NSR Road, refused to give way for a TNSTC town bus (route no- 70B) heading towards Marudhamalai from Gandhipuram on Monday night. When the bus driver, V Ravikumar, 47, continuously used horn, the duo stopped their scooter in front of the bus and fought with the driver. Later, they pelted a stone at the rear windshield of the bus and fled from the scene. Ravikumar lodged a complaint with the Saibaba Colony police who registered a case and arrested the duo. They were booked under section 75 (1) (c) of the Tamil Nadu City Police Act and sections 341, 356 (1) of the Indian Penal Code and 3 of TNPPDL Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-pelt-govt-bus-with-stone-held/articleshow/80776224.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Bhopal||LPG burns hole in pockets as fuel prices skyrocket||BHOPAL: Progressively rising petrol prices breached the Rs 95 per litre mark on Tuesday across the country.  Petrol price in Bhopal on Tuesday rose from Rs 94.93 per litre to Rs 95.19 per litre. For the last three days, prices of petrol and diesel had been constant at Rs 94.83 per litre and Rs 85.13 per litre, respectively. Diesel prices, too, saw a rise on Tuesday and it sold for Rs 85.50 per litre on Tuesday. Domestic LPG prices were also increased on January 4 by the oil companies from Rs 700 per cylinder (14.2 Kg) to Rs 725 per cylinder. On December 10, 2020, petrol price in the city stood at Rs 91.46 per litre and diesel at Rs 81.64 per litre, on October 10, 2020, the prices of petrol and diesel in Bhopal were Rs 88.76 and Rs 78.04 per litre, respectively. As the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG are steadily going upwards, unease among common people is also rising over the issue. At petrol pumps, one can find people fretting over rising prices of fuel almost every single day. “Except for those who have official vehicles and don’t have to bother about fuel prices, everyone is feeling the pinch. In the Union budget, we were expecting some relief as petrol is about to touch Rs 100 per litre, but cess was imposed by the government in the same proportion as they reduced the excise duty, thus giving no relief to people,” lamented Rishi Shrivastava, a salesman. President of MP Petrol Pump Owners’ Association, Ajay Singh, attributed rise in petrol and diesel prices to rising prices of crude in the international market “Though there was no relief for consumers in the Union budget, I still feel that both the state and the Union government will reduce the taxes by Rs 2-3 in the next few days as the petrol prices inch closer to Rs 100 per litre mark. The government also knows that people may not be very vocal in protest over rising prices of petrol and diesel now, but if petrol price touches Rs 100, there will definitely be hue and cry among the people and in the media as well. I still hope the petrol price will be arrested before it reaches that mark,” he said. “Ingredients we use to make snacks are far costlier than before and then rise in LPG prices adds to our woes. We can’t raise prices of snacks we sell, and when we do it, we lose customers, who have started coming to our stalls after a lot of hesitation,” said Rajesh, who runs a small eatery in Shahpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lpg-burns-hole-in-pockets-as-fuel-prices-skyrocket/articleshow/80774830.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||Hypothermia biggest threat to safety of 34 workers trapped in Chamoli tunnel: Rescue teams||Tapovan/Dehradun: Hope at the other end of the tunnel is keeping over 500 rescue personnel on their toes at the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. As they race against time to rescue over 34 workers believed to be stuck in the 1.6-km-long debris-filled tunnel, their biggest concern is hypothermia – a potentially dangerous drop in body temperature. Meanwhile, the search and rescue teams recovered six more bodies on Tuesday from the downstream areas taking the total toll of the tragedy to 32, while 174 people are still reported missing. As cold conditions prevailed in the region, the slush-filled tunnel, experts say, could be colder from inside. Vivek Pandey, spokesperson of ITBP, said, “The rescue teams are working round the clock and tirelessly to save the trapped workers. However, our immediate concern is that the workers do not get hypothermia, which can be fatal in such conditions.” Pandey said that the trapped workers had one JCB and two light vehicles with them inside the tunnel, which might have come in handy for them to take shelter in. The 25-foot-high and 25-foot-wide headrace tunnel – a structure that carries water from intake to the power house for power generation – was completely filled with debris when the rescue operations began on Sunday. It has partially been filled with slush again after they cleared the passage, which hampered the rescue operations. What gives hope to the rescue teams is the fact that the tunnel takes a sharp 90-degree-bend to the left after 180 metres, where the slush may have subsided. On the growing concern of depleting oxygen levels inside the tunnel, an ITBP official at the spot said, “There is an opening on top of the tunnel where workers are believed to be stuck. We are hoping that there are adequate levels of oxygen which can help people survive till we reach them.” Sanjay Singh, deputy commandant, ITBP, told TOI, “So far, we have been able to reach approximately 120 metres. The challenge of the rescue operation is the slush which is continuously flowing into the tunnel while we are trying to remove it.” Another team from the Indian Army had used ropes to go down on the other side of the tunnel to see if there were any bodies stuck under the grille. However, nobody was found during the search. Uttarakhand director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said, “As the rescue teams are clearing the slush and proceeding ahead, more slush and water is coming to them, making the whole process slow and difficult.” Rescue operations are expected to continue through the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hypothermia-biggest-threat-to-safety-of-34-workers-trapped-in-chamoli-tunnel-rescue-teams/articleshow/80773738.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Fire breaks out in cotton warehouse||Coimbatore: A major fire broke out in a cotton warehouse at Singanallur in the city on Monday night. Firefighters struggled for more than five hours and put off the fire in the wee hours of Tuesday. Fire service personnel said that none was injured in the fire, but the thick smoke billowing out from the warehouse had affected the residents in the locality. The extent of cotton and other materials damaged in the fire is yet to be ascertained. The warehouse is owned by Rajesh Kumar, a resident of R S Puram. On Monday evening, the warehouse was locked by supervisor Uma Maheswari after the day’s work. Around 9pm, residents spotted smoke from the warehouse and informed fire service personnel. Soon fire tenders from Singanallur, Sulur and Peelamedu rushed to the spot and started dousing the fire. They could put off the fire only after more than five hours of struggle as there was a huge quantity of cotton. Police have registered a case and are probing the cause of the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fire-breaks-out-in-cotton-warehouse/articleshow/80776266.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: 17-year-old boy detained on sexual exploitation plaint||PUNE: The Mundhwa police on Tuesday detained a 17-year-old boy after a girl lodged an FIR accusing him of sexually exploiting her after promising to marry her. The boy was sent to an observation home after he was produced before a juvenile court. Sub-inspector Ashwini Bhosale from Mundhwa police said, “The girl (17) and the boy were in a relationship for two years. The crime came to light after the girl told her mother that she was pregnant.” The police have registered an FIR relating to rape and sexual assault under the IPC and Protection to Children from Sexual Offences Act. “We have referred the girl to a government hospital for medical examination,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/17-yr-old-boy-detained-on-sexual-exploitation-plaint/articleshow/80776264.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Covid fight: Schools go for smaller sections to allow only 10-12 students in a classroom||KOLKATA: It is possible that a child might not get to physically see his/her best friend while in school and that might take away half the excitement of going back to school after nearly a year. Most schools have divided every section into smaller sub-sections so that not more than 10-12 boys and girls are put together in a classroom. On Tuesday, such minute divisions were done and classrooms were allotted to each roll number. At the end of the day, anything between 50-100 classrooms were readied to hold just a handful of students from IX-XII. Each child will be given his/her specific route to the room/lab allotted and will not be allowed to move anywhere else but the washroom. Principals have started addressing students and parents and this will continue till Wednesday. On Thursday and Friday, school counsellors will take over to address any doubt. There will be breaks between classes but kids will only be allowed to shout across to each other and not go up to each other’s seats, exchange notes or exercise copies, leave alone doing the high five. They have to have tiffin alone sitting on the desk and no sharing will be allowed. A teacher will be present in the classroom all the time to ensure that there is no deviation. The privacy of the washroom is also gone since these will be monitored throughout the school day not only by housekeeping staff but also teachers who will monitor washrooms on a rotational basis. “It looks and feels like a war. We will have 50% students on campus from IX-XII daily, spread over five full floors. Each child comes to school thrice a week. There will be no online teaching for these classes. For Class-XII Science, only lab seating has been arranged and they will not be allowed to go anywhere else, except the washroom,” said Indrani Chattopadhyay, principal of DPS Ruby Park. At La Martiniere for Girls, too, classes X and XII will come in first and arrangements have been made to divide and sub-divide them in many classes. “It’s a big school and space is thankfully not an issue with us,” said principal, Rupkatha Sarkar. Tripods, cameras and numerous laptops have been rolled into 50 classrooms of Birla High School. A teacher physically teaches a group of 10 boys but she is live-streamed to the other sections too, said principal Loveleen Saigal. “This has been done to ensure that teachers do not have to repeat the same lesson,” she added. At DPS New Town, subject-wise divisions have been made and the school is bringing in only 25 students per subject. Schools are either formally sending health declaration forms or are verbally asking parents to declare if anyone in the family had been affected by Covid over the past 15 days. South Point School is sending such forms out which parents have to fill in and send every evening to get a pass for their child for the next day. South Point School was awarded the Workplace Assessment for Safety and Hygiene — Wash Certificate on Tuesday by the Quality Council of India. Heritage School is among the many who are counselling parents not to send kids if there has been a case of Covid in the family over the last fortnight or whether they have been in touch with a patient outside the family during this time. “It’s just to make sure that the kid doesn’t infect others,” said Seema Sapru, principal of the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-fight-schools-go-for-smaller-sections-to-allow-only-10-12-students-in-a-classroom/articleshow/80774839.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 10, 2021||Bhopal||Fossil of world’s ‘oldest animal’ found in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Hidden in plain sight, one of the rarest fossils in the world may have been discovered in the fascinating Bhimbetka rock shelters, a Unesco site about 40km from Bhopal. Researchers believe they have found the first ever fossil in India of a Dickinsonia —the Earth’s 'oldest animal', dating back 570 million years — on the roof of what’s called the ‘Auditorium Cave’ at Bhimbetka. The find has been published in the February edition of Gondwana Research, an international journal. Dickinsonia fossils have shown they could exceed four feet in length but the one found in Bhimbetka is 17 inches long. Like the awe-inspiring rock shelters themselves, this fossil was discovered by chance. Two experts from Geological Survey of India (GSI) were on a sightseeing tour of Bhimbetka ahead of the 36th International Geological Congress, which was scheduled for March 2020 but was postponed twice due to the pandemic, when they spotted the leaf-like impression. Eleven feet above the ground, almost blending with the rock and easily mistaken by laymen for prehistoric rock art, they found imprints of the Dickinsonia, believed to be one of the key links between the early, simple organisms and the explosion of life in the Cambrian Period, about 541 million years ago. “The fossils were found in the roof of Auditorium Cave at Bhimbetka Rock Shelters, a Unesco World Heritage Site for Paleolithic and Mesolithic cave art, near Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. They are identical with Dickinsonia tenuis from the Ediacara member of the Rawnsley Quartzite in South Australia,” says an abstract of the paper ‘Dickinsonia Discovered in India and Late Ediacaran Biogeography’ in Gondwana Research, posted on the web. The writeup is attributed to Gregory J Retallack, Neffra A Matthews, Sharad Master, Ranjit G Khangar and Merajuddin Khan. “The discovery of Dickinsonia in India allows assessment of biogeographic provinces and plate tectonic reconstructions for the late Ediacaran,” it says, adding: “This new occurrence confirms assembly of Gondwanaland by 550 Ma, but not reconstructions adjusted for true polar wander. Cloudina and other small shelly marine fossils were low latitude, but vendobionts such as Dickinsonia were at temperate to subtropical latitudes.” How did it lie undiscovered all these years? The Bhimbetka rock shelters were found by V S Wakankar 64 years ago. Since then, thousands of researchers have visited the site, but this rare fossil went undetected. “ASI deals in geologic time scale, quaternary period, that began 2.6 million years ago and extends into the present. Anything before the beginnings of human evolution is not covered,” said retired ASI joint director general, S B Ota. “I have seen the picture on social media. It is on a deposit on sedimentary rock. A paleobotanist could determine its genesis,” he added. A GSI team had conducted extensive work in the Vindhyan Hills some 20-years ago to meet operational guidelines of Unesco before Bhimbetka was declared a world heritage site. GSI mapped the area and since then the number of rock shelters has increased from 400 to 1000, said Ota, who is also a Tagore research fellow. Vindhyan Hills, where these rock paintings are located is an area of massively sculpted sandstone rock formations clustered around cave-art rich Bhimbetka Hill. “Again, GSI scope was limited to quaternary,” he said. Suddenly, time lapse has a whole new meaning at Bhimbetka. The ancient cave art is young, compared to Dickinsonia. According to Unesco, the Bhimbetka rock art is believed to date from the Mesolithic period (around 10,000 years ago), through the Chalcolithic (Microlithic) and right into the historic, medieval and recent historic periods. “Cosmogenic nuclide dating is being deployed to determine time of earliest human culture. India's oldest stone-age tools, up to 1.5 million years old, are at a prehistoric site near Chennai,” said Ota. Does ASI have any plans for it? “We have received no request for sampling of Dickinsonia,” said ASI Bhopal superintendent, Piyush Bhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/stunning-find-at-bhimbetka-fossil-of-earths-oldest-animal/articleshow/80774876.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||24-year-old Kolkata girl tops all-India examination||KOLKATA: A Kolkata girl currently pursuing her doctoral studies from Calcutta University has topped an all India examination conducted to determine eligibility for Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) and Lectureship as an assistant professor. Swarnali Dey, 24, has topped the Joint CSIR-UGC NET examination, considered one of the toughest in the country. The all India examination was conducted in November last year, the result for which was declared late last week. The Dey household in Kanchrapara in North 24 Parganas has not stopped receiving congratulatory messages ever since. Swarnali who is a travel, music and photography enthusiast, was herself “pleasantly surprised” by the 100-percentile score. “I was expecting a good result but topping in the entire country has surpassed even my expectations,” said Swarnali who is currently pursuing doctoral studies from Department of Botany in Ballygunge Science College of Calcutta University as a DST INSPIRE Fellow. “I am very happy with my result and want to pursue teaching just like my parents. It has been my dream since childhood,” said Swarnali. Her father Biswajit Dey is an associate professor of Commerce at Barrackpore Rastraguru Surendranath College and mother Subarna Dey is a teacher at Springdale Primary School in Kalyani. “I qualified Joint CSIR-UGC NET in 2019 with lectureship but my target has always been to get a JRF,” said Swarnali. Swarnali completed her school education from Springdale School, Kalyani and completed Botany Honours from Bethune College where she ranked second in the entire university. She then obtained her post-graduation degree from the Department of Botany, University of Calcutta with a first class first rank in2019. According to Swarnali, she focused more on important topics than on covering the entire syllabus. She also diligently took the mock tests to sharpen her command over the subject. “I did not follow any particular strategy to crack the examination. There were days when I was glued to the book and on others I was not. Revising the lessons is one of the most important things,” said Swarnali. Swarnali is grateful to her teachers and professors in her school, college and university who groomed and helped her. “My parents are my pillar of strength,” said Swarnali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/24-year-old-kol-girl-tops-all-india-examination/articleshow/80774856.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||Chamoli villagers suspect radioactive device behind disaster||Dehradun: Villagers of Raini village in Tapovan area of Chamoli that lies near the area which saw the maximum destruction caused by Sunday’s flash floods have expressed concerns that the flash floods may be the result of heat being produced by a radioactive device that was lost in 1965 during a secret expedition to Nanda Devi. The expedition was conducted by American intelligence agency CIA and the Indian government’s Intelligence Bureau (IB) to plant nuclear-powered surveillance equipment on the summit of Nanda Devi, India’s second-highest mountain range (after Kanchenjunga) for spying on China. However, the mountaineering team conducting the expedition got caught in a blizzard and had to return, leaving the device at the base of the mountain. A year later, when they went back to the area, they could not find it; subsequent expeditions have also not been able to trace the device, which has a life span of over 100 years and is believed to be still somewhere in the area. On Sunday, the day the flash floods struck the area near Raini village, which is situated in the buffer zone of Nanda Devi Biosphere, villagers said they noticed an extremely pungent smell in the air as muck and rubble from the mountain came rolling down and fell into the Rishiganga river. “The smell was so intense that we were not able to breathe for some time. Had it been only debris and snow, it would not have carried such a smell. This has triggered concerns in our village that the long-lost radioactive device – about which our elders used to tell us – may be behind the incident,” said Deveshwari Devi, a resident of Jugju village, from where several men had served as porters during the 1965 expedition. Incidentally, Amrita Devi, wife of one of the porters of the expedition, Kartik Singh Rana, who is now 90 years old, also died in Sunday’s flash floods after being swept away in the raging waters of the Rishiganga. Prem Singh Rana, Kartik Singh’s son, told TOI that “all the villagers are living in the fear that one day, even we might get swept away in such a deluge.” “The government should conduct an investigation and find out the status of the radioactive device and whether it has triggered the flash floods. Only then shall we feel at ease.” The villagers’ concern about the radioactive device also stems from the fact that the Nanda Devi (West) base camp is situated right at the spot where the Rishiganga gorge is located, from where the Rishiganga river emerges. “During the 1965 expedition, we are told that the mountaineering team faced bad weather while they were above the base camp and they had to leave the device at a safe place there. If the device is buried under the snow somewhere in the area and is radiating heat, then of course there would be more melting of snow and further avalanches. We urge the government to immediately start a search operation for the device before there are more disasters,” said Sangram Singh Rawat, a villager who along with his family has been spending the night in the forest near Raini village ever since Sunday’s disaster since he says that they don’t feel confident enough to return to the village. Meanwhile, a senior scientist in the chemistry department of the Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun, when queried on whether the radioactive device could be generating heat that may be melting snow as is being alleged by villagers, said, “Since it is a radioactive element, it is natural that it would be emitting radioactive rays that have potential of harming the water and other elements in its vicinity. However, we can assume that since it was being transported as part of an expedition, it would be taken in a sealed chamber, and therefore, there are less chances of any radiation emitting outside.” Nanda Ballabh Sharma, DFO of the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve, told TOI that in light of the 1965 expedition incident, a survey of the area is conducted every 10 years since the 1970s by a joint team of the Indian Army, ITBP, forest officials as well as scientists of prominent institutions like the GB Pant Institute of Himalayan Environment & Development to check that there is no harm to the flora and fauna in the area. The last such survey was conducted in 2016, he added. Interestingly, in 2018, state tourism and irrigation minister Satpal Maharaj had raised the issue of the radioactive device polluting the snow trickling down from the Nanda Devi range into the Ganga and had urged PM Modi to take urgent action in the matter. On Tuesday, Maharaj told TOI that after Sunday’s natural disaster, the necessity of the device’s retrieval is even more important. “Though nothing has happened so far that can be directly related to any type of activity in the device but it’s potential threats, especially in people’s minds, can’t be ignored. I will again write to DRDO and the Centre to locate and remove the device so that we can end this mater once and forever,” said Maharaj.  (with inputs from Ishita Mishra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chamoli-villagers-suspect-radioactive-device-behind-disaster/articleshow/80773756.cms||Shivani Azad
February 10, 2021||Kochi||Over 7k people sought help at post-Covid clinics in 3 months||Kochi: More than 7,000 people sought medical assistance at post-Covid clinics in Ernakulam between November 13 and February 2, emphasizing more on the need to follow Covid-19 protocols, including avoiding unnecessary gatherings, which health authorities have been repeatedly urging public ever since the pandemic struck last year. And as per the district analysis report released in February, 2,001 people with post-Covid symptoms visited the clinics that were started at 128 government institutions between November 13 and December 31. The patients who were treated at private hospitals are followed up by the respective hospitals itself. According to the report, 1,038 people sought medical assistance at clinics for respiratory illness. Post-Covid clinics function on Thursdays (every week) and any patient who needs more medical assistance is referred to general hospital which functions as referral institution. “Most of the people seeking medical assistance at the clinics are complaining of fatigue. Many express psychological issues which involve apprehension, though there is no medical deformity. In such cases we give them assurance since they are traumatized owing to the infection,” said a health officer at Piravom taluk hospital which also has a post-Covid clinic. Meanwhile, authorities are planning to strengthen the existing clinics by training doctors and nurses again in post-Covid symptoms. The health department had already imparted training to the medical practioners. The district administration also planning to tie up with BPCL to conduct camps to evaluate the health condition of those who were hospitalized due to Covid-19. “Patients who had respiratory issues and who were admitted to hospitals during Covid infections will be screened at camps in Aluva, Muvattupuzha, North Paravur and General Hospital on four Sundays next month. We expect 2,000 people during the camps. X – ray, pulmonary function test and blood test of the patients will be conducted at the camp where teams of cardiologists and pulmonologists will be present. Those who need follow ups will also be done in later stage,” said Dr Mathew Numpeli, Ernakulam DPM of NHM. The report also showed that 595 people with comorbidities, 466 with musculo skeletal, 171 neurological, 168 with cardiological symptoms and 90 for psychological issues sought assistance from post-Covid clinics for post-Covid symptoms between November 13 and December 31. A total of 1,09,507 (3.34%) Covid-19 cases were reported till January in Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/over-7k-people-sought-help-at-post-covid-clinics-in-3-months/articleshow/80755121.cms||T C Sreemol
February 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Drunk duo create ruckus at hospital, thrash doctor & cop||PUNE: Two drunk men, who reached Chakan rural hospital for treatment of injuries after falling from their motorcycle, created a ruckus by abusing and assaulting a doctor, a security guard and a policeman early on Monday. The doctors at the hospital treated the duo, Shrikant Ambore (24) and Kanhaiya Dhavale (24), both from Kharabwadi, and then handed them over to the Chakan police. Vinayak Mohole, the hospital doctor, lodged an FIR in this connection. “We registered an offence against them under the Maharashtra Prohibition Act, besides offences under the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Maharashtra Medicare Service, Persons and Medicare Institutions (Prevention of violence and damage or loss of property) Act,” a Chakan police officer said. Dr Mohole told TOI, “On Monday, around 1am, I was checking patients when we heard someone honking and accelerating a motorcycle. When our guard, Dnyaneshwar Hivrale, told them to stop, they snatched Hivrale’s stick and started hitting him. They pushed and abused me, too.” After the police reached the spot, one of them started running away. Police constable Bajrang Sable ran after him and caught him. “The suspect hit the constable on his ear, following which he fainted on the spot. The suspect was nabbed later,” Mohole said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drunk-duo-create-ruckus-at-hospital-thrash-doctor-cop/articleshow/80776285.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Growing mosquito menace worries residents as dengue cases go up||Coimbatore: With 74 people getting diagnosed and hospitalized with dengue in the first five weeks of this year in the district, residents are worried about the growing mosquito menace, because of which they are forced to keep the windows and doors closed after 5pm. What’s worrying them the most is the day mosquitoes.As per the data available with the health department, 56 people were hospitalized with dengue in January and another 18, 10 of them children below 12 years, in the first seven days of February.Dr S Raja, city health officer, says, “We always recommend hospitalization of children with dengue, as their platelet levels have to be monitored.” At least 39 of the 56 dengue cases in January were recorded from the rural parts of the district.With February figures rising faster than that in January, residents are a worried lot. “We do see some mosquitoes in our houses during the day too,” says Sudhavalli R, a resident of Periyanaickenpalayam. “They look slightly bigger and we are engulfed with the fear about the dengue carrying mosquitoes.”While dengue is caused by aedes aegypti mosquito, which by and large appears during the daytime, residents are concerned about the evening mosquitoes as well. “They, mostly culex mosquitoes, also spread a lot of diseases and cause rashes,” says Shanthini V, a resident of Narasimanaickenpalayam. “So, we keep all our windows and doors closed by the evening.”Local bodies say they are fogging all areas at least once or twice a week and ensuring that drains are constantly flowing and not stagnating, to keep mosquitoes away. “People should start taking social responsibility and ensure there are no mosquito breeding grounds on their premises,” says Dr S Raja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/growing-mosquito-menace-worries-residents-as-dengue-cases-go-up/articleshow/80776269.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||NSG conducts drill at Isha Yoga Centre||Coimbatore: The National Security Guard (NSG) conducted a counter-terrorism drill at Isha Yoga Centre in the city on Tuesday. Around 20 cops from Alandurai police station participated in the drill. The drill started at the centre around 7.30pm. After receiving information about infiltration of terrorists into the centre, Alandurai police and rural police rushed to the spot. Meanwhile, a team of NSG commandos climbed down from a chopper using a rope at the centre and started an operation to neutralize the terrorists. Medical teams, officials from revenue department, fire department and other departments reached the centre promptly as part of the drill. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nsg-conducts-drill-at-isha-yoga-centre/articleshow/80776283.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Chennai||AIADMK puts up brave front amid Sasikala homecoming||CHENNAI: The AIADMK is putting on a brave front even as sections in the party expressed apprehensions about V K Sasikala denting the party’s prospects in some 25 constituencies in the six southern districts, where the mukkulathors, a thevar sub-sect, are dominant. The party rank and file has reposed faith in the leadership, but chances of disgruntled members jumping ship just ahead of election cannot ruled out, admitted some senior leaders. On Monday, on her way home from Bengaluru, Sasikala sought to assert herself as the AIADMK general secretary and urged partymen to stay united to ensure that “the common enemy (DMK)” did not get the upper hand. “But (her nephew) T T V Dhinakaran tried to get the government dissolved. Despite that, Edappadi K Palaniswami has been steering the government for four years. He is ready to face anything,” minister O S Manian told reporters in Kancheepuram. The cadres and functionaries felt the crowd that rallied behind Sasikala was ‘orchestrated’ like “any other political meet,” with the sole aim to capture the reins of the AIADMK. Sasikala has failed to strike a chord with the majority of partymen, say AIADMK leaders. The party is united despite the leadership being firm in not having any tie-up with her, they point out. But amid the fear and nervous anticipation of what is in store in the coming days, partymen are upbeat too. The recent announcement of chief minister Palaniswami waiving crop loan could well be a game changer, they say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-puts-up-brave-front-amid-sasi-homecoming/articleshow/80774869.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 10, 2021||Pune||Save-fuel refresher course for transport utility drivers||PUNE: The rising diesel prices have prompted transport utilities to start refresher courses for the drivers and technicians on ways to save the fuel, both while on and off the wheel. Prices of a litre of petrol and diesel in the city will be Rs93.77 and Rs83, respectively, on Wednesday. Prices of petrol and diesel in the city again increased on Tuesday after a gap of three days. A litre of petrol cost Rs93.48, while diesel was sold at Rs82.74 for a litre. On February 5, the price of petrol had increased to Rs93.14 a litre, highest in the city since 2013. The price of diesel had then increased to Rs82.38, also an all-time high in Pune. Responding to the spiralling prices, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) and the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) have started refresher as well as new courses for their drivers and technicians to save fuel. A senior PMPML official said the transport utility had over 503 diesel buses in its fleet. “The drivers are back to the drawing board and are being taught the simple ways to save fuel. Among the course components are the basic aspects, such as the importance of switching off the bus engines while at signal, driving at moderate speed, checking the tyre pressure and not to unnecessarily apply brakes,” the official said. “The maintenance of buses also plays a key role in saving fuel. Mechanics from our various depots have been included in the training programme. Last week, we provided training to a huge number of drivers in association with a public sector oil and gas company,” the official said. Shekhar Channe, vice-chairman and managing director of the state-run MSRTC, also emphasized on such training sessions for the drivers and mechanics. An MSRTC official said, “Our fleet has only diesel-run buses. It will take a while before we have buses running on other fuels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/save-fuel-refresher-course-for-transport-utility-drivers/articleshow/80776275.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt allots Rs 47 crore for Covid centres in 3 Marathwada districts||MUMBAI: The state relief and rehabilitation department on Tuesday released nearly Rs 47 crore to enhance healthcare infrastructure in the three districts of Marathwada. An order issued by joint secretary Subhash Umranikar said Latur, home to medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, was sanctioned Rs 9.3 crore. Beed, home to social justice minister Dhananjay Munde, would receive Rs 12.1 crore. For Parbhani, the amount mentioned was Rs 25.5 crore. An official said containment zones and Covid-19 centres had already been set up in these districts but it was felt that it would be better if more zones and Covid-19 centres were set up to tackle future requirements. “We felt that there was need to strengthen healthcare infrastructure in these districts. Therefore, a specific demand was submitted to the public health department. The proposal was approved after it was scrutinised by a high-level committee,” the official said. District health officers have been given specific instructions to ensure that very limited quantities of emergency medicines are purchased. “We should purchase medicines only for ensuing 15 to 20 days, so that there is no surplus in view of the high cost of medicines,” the official said. The relief and rehabilitation department will provide temporary accommodation, clothing, food and medical care, thermal scanners, meet the cost of consumables for sample collection, provide support for checking, screening and contact tracing, and provide PPE for essential staff, and set up additional laboratories for conducting tests and ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/government-allots-rs-47cr-for-covid-centres-in-3-marathwada-districts/articleshow/80777119.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||Rescue teams use cables and carriages to make makeshift ropeways||Tapovan (Chamoli): With over 15 villages cut off after Sunday’s flash flood that caused several bridges to collapse, a joint team of the ITBP, Army, SDRF and NDRF started building makeshift ropeways by installing cables between peaks and attaching carriages to them. One carriage can fit two to three persons at once. “The work will be completed soon,” Praveen Alok of NDRF told TOI. Rama Devi, a resident of Zuagfad village, said, “Building bridges will take time. Making ropeways is an effective way to help people reach their families and let rescue forces visit affected areas.” Pushpendra Rana, a resident of Raini Chaklata, added, “I have been stranded in Joshimath since Sunday while my family is in one of the cut off villages. I hope to see my family once the ropeway is finished.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rescue-teams-use-cables-and-carriages-to-make-makeshift-ropeways/articleshow/80773794.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 10, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Trekker falls to death into 100ft gorge, friend rescued||NAVI MUMBAI: A 24-year-old trekker from Airoli died after falling into a 100-ft gorge at Chanderi fort. His friend, stuck atop the fort, was rescued by Panvel taluka police with the help of Nisarg Mitra NGO members after 12 hours on Sunday. Senior inspector Ravindra Daundkar said both were school friends and were regular trekkers for four years, since college. Vaibhav Kawade was a BSc Environmental Science graduate, while Sagar Bhilare (24), a resident of Mulund, has a BPharm degree and works for a private firm. Daundkar said they used the wrong pathway. “Instead of trekking from Badlapur, from where there is a proper way, they used a shortcut with improper access from Maldungi village in Panvel taluka. They parked their bike at the foothills and started trekking at 8.30am. Kawade fell at 11.45am. Bhilare alerted Thane police control, after which we received the emergency call around noon,” he said. “The NGO members responded quickly. Bhilare was found at a risky spot. The rescue team climbed down the gorge using ropes and safety gear and it took around 12 hours to find Kawade. He was found severely injured and was declared brought dead at the hospital,” he said. Daundkar said they had told Maldungi villagers not to allow trekkers from their side of the village and if they argue, they should inform police. “We will put up a signboard prohibiting trekking from the Maldungi-village end,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/trekker-falls-to-death-in-100ft-gorge-friend-rescued/articleshow/80775699.cms||George Mendonca
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Pool cars ready with safety steps||KOLKATA: Pool car owners in the city and suburbs have decided to ferry students if the parents get in touch with them after senior schools resume classes from Friday. They have assured the parents that drivers and helpers of pool cars and school buses will wear masks and follow other safety guidelines and that students will not be crammed into a single vehicle —a common scene in the city before the pandemic. The pool car owners said that they were not going for a fare hike. But ferrying a single child in a big vehicle might not be a viable option. If such a case arises, they will negotiate with the parents. The West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners and Operators Association that held a meeting with all members on Tuesday decided to operate its normal fleet of buses for the next few days without changing the fare. Several parents have been worried over how they will send their wards to school once in-person classes resume by the end of this week. Some parents have decided to take leave from work to drop and pick up their children from schools. However, it is a long-term solution for them. “We want the entire process to resume so that pool car owners can re-start their business. Our industry has gone through a very bad patch for almost a year. We are not thinking of revising the fee structure at present. First, we want to see how many parents opt for pool car services,” said Arupam Dutta, vice-president of Pool Car Owners’ Welfare Association. There are close to 1,500 licensed pool cars in the city and suburbs. Some parents are paying a small amount of the entire fee for the pool car services. “We will decide on the monthly fees after students from junior classes start attending schools,” said Dutta. (With inputs from Dwaipayan Ghosh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pool-cars-ready-with-safety-steps/articleshow/80774935.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||‘Seat sharing talks with AIADMK will start soon’||Coimbatore: BJP leader H Raja on Tuesday said seat sharing talks with the AIADMK would commence at an appropriate time and the saffron party would get adequate number of seats it deserved. Talking to reporters in the city, where he had come to inaugurate `Modi Camp’ that was organised by Kovai Makkal Sevai Mayyam to help public enrol for government welfare schemes, Raja said there was ample time left for the seat sharing talks, as election dates were yet to be announced. Downplaying the DMDK’s displeasure over the delay in seat sharing talks, Raja said the same would be a smooth affair in the AIADMK alliance, as was the case during the Lok Sabha election. “Seat sharing would be finalized at the appropriate time.” On allegations that the Centre was neglecting Tamil in Kendriya Vidyalaya Schools while imposing Sanskrit and Hindi, Raja said it was the DMK that was exploiting the Tamil sentiments for political gains. “The Centre was always supportive of Tamil growth and it was the BJP that was taking efforts to promote Tamil in all spheres.” He said the Kendriya Vidyalaya schools were established for the wards of the central government staff, who get transferred across the country, and the languages taught in the schools were intended to equip the students continue studies anywhere in the country. The BJP leader also lauded finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for allocating a major share of fund for Tamil Nadu in the Union Bbudget. However, when there were several Union ministers from the DMK in the Congress-led UPA government, they could not get budgetary allocations to this extent, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/seat-sharing-talks-with-aiadmk-will-start-soon/articleshow/80776305.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Firm proprietor booked on charge of cheating 30 investors of Rs 1.8 crore||PUNE: The Yerawada police on Tuesday booked the proprietor of an investment firm at Kalyaninagar on the charge of duping 30 investors of over Rs1.79 crore from October 2018 on the pretext of offering them good returns. Assistant inspector Ravindra Alekar from the Yerawada police said on Tuesday, “The investors had filed a complaint application on February 6 after the news spread that the Karad police had arrested Hriday Dasgupta (40) of Kolkata, the suspect in the instant case, in another cheating case on January 27. Dasgupta is currently in custody of the Ahmednagar police. We conducted a preliminary inquiry and registered an FIR. The legal process to seek Dasgupta’s custody will be initiated at the earliest.” Alekar said, “Dasgupta earlier worked in a financial firm dealing in shares. He then launched his investment firm in a rented office at Kalyaninagar. He lured his colleagues, friends and other people to make investment in his firm and promised to pay them 8% interest per month. He promised his clients that he would repay the principal money a year after the investment.” He said, “Initially, Dasgupta paid the promised interest to investors. Trouble began after he suddenly stopped paying them interest per month. He also avoided repaying the principal amount after the maturity period. The investors realised that they were tricked after he closed the office and switched off his cellphone. His whereabouts were not known and the investors’ efforts to trace him proved futile.” An investor, Pankaj Wankhede (39) from Manjiri Budruk, registered an FIR related to criminal breach of trust, cheating and misappropriation under the Indian Penal Code and the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act. Wankhede told TOI, “I got friendly with Dasgupta because we worked in two firms dealing in shares. One day, Dasgupta told me that he had started an investment firm and showed me the licence for running the business in 2018. He lured me to invest in his firm and promised good returns. I invested Rs3.4 lakh and he paid me interest of Rs23,500 for a month. Then he closed the office suddenly around two years ago.” He said, “The investors started making rounds of his office and after efforts to trace him proved futile, a total of 39 people came together and formed a group. We then filed a complaint application for taking action against Dasgupta. The police conducted preliminary inquiry and registered the FIR.” Another investor, Prabhakar Sinha, said, “I trusted Dasgupta because he was my former boss. I invested over Rs28 lakh in his firm. He only returned Rs10 lakh to me,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/firm-proprietor-booked-on-charge-of-cheating-30-investors-of-rs-1-8cr/articleshow/80776340.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 10, 2021||Pune||Ex-servicemen in Dhanori question road-widening plan||PUNE: Subedar-Major Ramanand Verma was posted in Jammu and Kashmir during the Kargil war, soon after he and his colleagues in the city inked a deal in 1999 to purchase small Gunthewari plots at Bhairavnagar in Dhanori for their post-retirement homes. Verma, other ex-servicemen and two former state government officals are up against the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s move to widen the Anand Park lane (survey number 48) in Bhairavnagar to nine metres as it would cut through the front margins of their bungalows. What has come as a shock to them is that the civic body has proposed to widen only a 250-metre section of the lane in front of their bungalows, and not the entire one-kilometre-long lane. Also, the section shortlisted for widening -- from Anand Mangal Karyalaya off the Vishrantwadi-Dhanori road to Anand Residency, is already 7.5 metres wide. The subsequent section of the same lane from the Anand Residency to the Sai Baba temple is just 4.5 metres wide, but it has not been shortlisted for widening. “I fail to understand what purpose the widening only a part of the internal road will serve,” Verma said. Local BJP corporator and senior party leader from Dhanori Anil Tingare also admitted that shortlisting a section of Anand Park road for widening was an absurd move. When pointed out that his party-led standing committee had approved the list of 335 roads for widening to nine metres, Tingare said, “I am not questioning the road-widening policy. I am opposed to shortlisting of this road. I can suggest several other roads in Dhanori which need widening. I shall raise this issue at the party forum.” In their official objection letter, slated for hearing on Wednesday, 40 residents said the proposal had been framed to benefit some builders and developers. Vijay Singh Pal, a resident of the area, said, “My father Captain S N Pal, who passed away a few years ago, and all other residents here had constructed these houses after giving their entire life to the nation. We do not need any Transfer of Development Rights as we cannot afford to redevelop our homes.” Sanjay Ghorpade, who retired from Bombay Engineering Group (BEG) as a Hawaldar, said, “Our water tanks, sewage plants and parking area would be taken over due to the widening.” Ghanshyam Shinde (72), retired from BEG as honorary captain, said, “From where I shall bring money to reconstruct the compound wall?” When TOI visited a parallel road to the lane, it was noticed that a 50-metre section of a 12-metre-wide road passing behind the Amba Nagri complex to Anand Vihar multipurpose hall was left incomplete. When it was pointed out to Tingare, he said, “Completing this road should be a priority. I shall tell the PMC to focus on constructing the DP roads in this area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ex-servicemen-in-dhanori-question-road-widening-plan/articleshow/80776312.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 10, 2021||Pune||Descriptive, MCQ-based proctored online tests for last year SPPU pupils||PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University has decided to go ahead with online examination for students studying in over 800 affiliated colleges and university departments spread across three districts for the academic year 2020-21 for the first semester. The Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) meeting held on Tuesday, decided on conducting a multiple-choice-question (MCQ) based online examination for its pre-final year students, while the final year students need to appear for both descriptive and objective (MCQ) questions online. Mahesh Kakade, director of examination and evaluation, said the pre-final year students would appear for MCQ-based questions online for 50 marks in a one-hour duration. The university would make clusters of colleges where teachers can come together and evaluate the descriptive answers with various checks in place as it happens during the offline assessment. Kakade further said the online examination would be conducted by the same vendor who had tied up with SPPU to conduct the examinations online last year as their contract is valid till October. However ‘intensive’ proctoring would be implemented in the examination. “This time we will ensure there is no malpractice during the examination. The web camera would need to be compulsorily on throughout the examination. The student would get a maximum of five warnings in case he breaks any rules of the examination post which his answer sheet will be terminated. How the proctoring would be done again would be discussed with the vendor and a detailed release regarding the examination system would be issued by February 15,” Kakade said. On the allegations that the university is refusing to cut down the examination fee taken from students despite the expenses of procuring answer sheets, question paper reduced due to the online conduct of examination, Kakade said, “It is untrue that we have no expenses now. For each question the paper-setter gives, the university pays Rs 10. Then there are translation costs involved. Even conduct of online examination is not without its own expenses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/descriptive-mcq-based-proctored-online-tests-for-last-yr-sppu-pupils/articleshow/80776291.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 10, 2021||India||Kisan unions eye pan-India panchayat-level gatherings||NEW DELHI: Farmers’ unions opposed to the central farm laws may try to replicate panchayat-level gathering of western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana in other parts of the country in coming days even as they wait for a signal for talks from the government on any fresh proposal to end the current stalemate. Aiming to take their movement pan India, the unions will formally announce their plans after reaching a consensus in the meeting of their joint protest platform and highest decision-making body Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday. Though the final details will be announced after the meeting, the broad contours of their four-pronged strategy includes panchayat-level mobilisation in different states (beyond Punjab-Haryana-western UP), more ‘chakka jams’, allowing free passage to vehicles at toll plazas and boycott of products of two corporates (Ambani-Adani). Under the strategy, farmer leaders will move out from protest sites around Delhi to different states in coming days for mobilisation where they will use PM Narendra Modi’s remarks of ‘andolanjeevi’ (professional protesters) and ‘parijeevi’ (parasites) to garner support not only among farmers, but also among industrial workers, unemployed youths and others with the help of trade unions. They will, during mobilisation, use the word ‘corporatejeevi’ (one who survives on corporates) for the ruling party leaders. “We will announce our course of action with consensus after the SKM meeting. It would be a collective decision on how to take the movement forward,” said Hannan Mollah, leader of left parties-linked All India Kisan Sabha and former Lok Sabha MP. Asked how the current deadlock will end, Mollah, one of the working group members who attended talks with the government, said, “We are ready for talks provided government creates a conducive atmosphere for it and comes out with a fresh proposal.” Referring to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s proposal of putting implementation of farm laws on hold for 18 months, Mollah said, “We were expecting the PM to offer something more during his speech in Rajya Sabha on Monday. Instead, he sought to insult farmers by his ‘andolanjeevi’ and ‘parjeevi’ remarks...” The last round of talks between farmer leaders and government were held on January 22 when the unions rejected the offer to put implementation of farm laws on hold for 18 months and continued to insist on repeal of the legislations which were enacted last year to give farmers freedom to sell their produce outside state-regulated ‘mandis’ (agri markets) and encourage contract farming under-protected legal framework.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kisan-unions-eye-pan-india-panchayat-level-gatherings/articleshow/80777738.cms||Vishwa Mohan
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Death rate due to Covid in initial days was 24%, shows study||MUMBAI: While the recovery rate from Covid-19 stands at 94% and the doubling rate is 560 days in Mumbai today, a closer look shows that the death rate has been high among people with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. A study of 1,393 patients among the first to be admitted to state government’s St George’s Hospital near CSMT at the start of the pandemic in March-April 2020 showed 24% mortality. The study, whose preprint is available at SSRN online journal, found that 68% of those who died had diabetes. “Two-third of the victims were aged over 50 and half of those who recovered were aged under 50,’’ said lead author Dr Ajay Bhandarwar, who heads the general surgery department of JJ Group of hospitals. Every third victim had diabetes and/or hypertension. “This research was carried out in the period when treatment protocols were not clear. It was still early days of the pandemic and there was considerable delay in patients coming to hospitals,”' said Dr Bhandarwar. Patients were brought to hospitals in a critical stage, and in immediate need of ventilator support as Covid-19-causing SARS-CoV-2 virus affects the lungs. Mortality was hence high in the first three months in Mumbai, said the doctor. It was in this period that health experts realized the importance of starting patients early on oxygen support. “We realized that people with comorbidities and aged over 50 needed to be considered as high-risk and needed careful monitoring.’’ Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state government’s task-force on Covid-19 who is an endocrinologist by training, said, “Indian Covid-19 has behaved differently from the rest of the world. We have high recovery rates. Most people could be managed at home and only those with comorbidities needed hospitalisation.’’ While youngsters also needed hospitalization, most of them had at least one chronic disease. “The most common comorbidity among hospitalized youngsters is obesity,’’ added Dr Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/death-rate-due-to-covid-in-initial-days-was-24-study/articleshow/80775700.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Woman, daughter jump to death||Coimbatore: A woman and her daughter ended their life by jumping into a well at Uthuppalayam near Annur early Tuesday morning. Police said the woman took the extreme step after a fight with her husband over a family dispute. The deceased were identified as S Dhanalakshmi, 38, and her daughter S Swetha, 17, both hailed from Adi Dravidar Colony at Uthuppalayam near Annur in Coimbatore district. Some villagers of Uthuppalayam had gone to Chinnasamy Thottam to attend nature’s call and found a pair of sandals near the well. They informed Annur police who rushed to the well and found two dead bodies. The police alerted Annur fire and rescue services personnel who reached the spot and retrieved the two bodies. The preliminary inquiry revealed that Dhanalakshmi worked as a cook under the mid-day meal scheme at Kunnathurampalayam primary school and her daughter Swetha had completed Class XII. Her husband Selvam who works as a sanitary worker on consolidated payment at a TNSTC depot was an alcholic and often fought with his wife and daughter. On Monday night, Selvam fought with his wife again. Dhanalakshmi and her daughter Swetha left their home without informing Selvam. They tied a dupatta around their waist and jumped in a deep well. They drowned on Monday night and the dead body was fished out from the well and the police sent the dead bodies to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-daughter-jump-to-death/articleshow/80776337.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||Price of Dutch roses nearly doubles with increased demand before Valentine's Day||PUNE: The price of Dutch roses, a premium variety of red rose, has surged within a week at the Pune Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC). On February 1, a bunch of about 15-20 roses cost Rs 80 whereas on Tuesday the price had climbed up to Rs 140, ahead of Valentine’s Day. According to an APMC official, the supply has been limited this year since production was hit due to last year’s lockdown and Cyclone Nisarga that hit the state in June. The officials said that the prices are likely to surge further as the Valentine’s Day nears. The official, who wished to remain anonymous, said that they are expecting a price hike in the coming week due to limited availability of Dutch roses this year. Representatives of the Talegaon Flower Growers’ Association said that there has been a drop of almost 50% in production this year and most of the produce has been made available for the domestic market across the country, which could result in an increase in prices. Malharrao Dhole, secretary of the association, told TOI, “Due to the lockdown in Europe, United Kingdom and Australia, the export of flowers has taken a major hit this year. So, a major chunk of flowers that was to be exported will instead be available in the domestic market. However, even this produce is lower than what is usually available at this time of the year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/price-of-dutch-roses-nearly-doubles-with-increased-demand-before-v-day/articleshow/80776335.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 10, 2021||Pune||Assessment for admission to RIMC will be on June 5||PUNE: The Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) examination for admission to standard VIII for the Dehradun campus for January 2022 term will be held in Pune for entire Maharashtra on June 5 and the oral examination will be conducted on October 6. A statement from RIMC said only boys are eligible to apply for admissions to the RIMC, Dehradun. The candidate should either be studying in standard VII or have passed standard VII from a recognised school at the time of admission to the RIMC in January 2022. Candidates should not be less than 11 and half years old but not more than 13 years as of January 2022. They should be born earlier than January 2, 2009 and not later than July 1, 2010. The application form and booklet of old question papers can be obtained from the RIMC, Garhi Cantonment, Dehradun via speed post. The online prospectus-cum-application form and booklet can also be obtained by making online payment on the RIMC’s website. The filled application forms should reach the commission of Maharashtra State Council of Examination by April 15. The institute traces its origin to the Prince of Wales Royal Indian Military College, inaugurated on 13thMarch 1922 by his Royal Highness, Prince Edward VIII the Prince of Wales. It is an establishment of the Ministry of Defence alongside institutions like National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Officers' Training Academy, Chennai, and Indian Military Academy, Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/assessment-for-admission-to-rimc-will-be-on-june-5/articleshow/80776369.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Fire engulfs 30 acres forest land in Erode||Erode: Fire broke out in Palamalai forest in the district on Monday night, destroying trees on around 30 acres. Forest department officials managed to put out the fire, which broke out at 9pm on Monday, by 4am on Tuesday. Situated near Nerinjipettai in the district, Palamalai forest is home to a myriad of trees, including teak, and animals such as deer and sloth bear. A forest officer said, “Local villagers alerted us about the fire around 10pm. We rushed to the spot immediately along with the fire and rescue services personnel.” The team, however, couldn’t take fire tenders to the forest, because of lack of proper roads in the jungle. “We cleared dried leaves and trees in the immediate vicinity and thus managed to reduce the damage to the forest by curbing the fire from spreading,” the officer said. Forest officials have registered a case and initiated an inquiry to ascertain if the fire was man-made or not. “The villagers usually set dried trees on fire for coal. We are probing this angle,” the officertold TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fire-engulfs-30-acres-forest-land-in-erode/articleshow/80776368.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Early leave, no staff room sharing to keep teachers safe||KOLKATA: Many school authorities are making arrangements for the safety of teachers some of whom are senior and will play a key role in management’s efforts to implement Covid-19 safety guidelines. The precautionary measures include excusing a young mother from sharing the staff room and allowing teachers to stay at home if they feel any symptom or discomfort. Most teachers have also been worried about the health of their family members. “All the safety measures we are taking automatically impact the teachers too as they are a very big stakeholder in the school education system. From taking temperature to making masks mandatory to cleaning of the washrooms regularly, we are taking all possible steps for the safety of our teachers,” said Sujoy Biswas, principal of Rammohan Mission School. Several teaches in the senior classes most of whom are over 50 years of age have voiced concern over their safety travelling to school by public transport and controlling young children who will be excited seeing their friends after such a long period. “The real time situation in a class is very different. These students are young and coming to school after almost a year with a lot of pent up energy. They are bound to get excited seeing their friends,” said Mitali Mukherjee, a senior teacher of a south Kolkata school. Several teachers are also concerned about the health of their family members. A young teacher in a central Kolkata school has an eight-month-old daughter at home. “Though the management has been very kind to say I can opt not to come but I teach an important subject in Class X and Class XII. How can I be at home while my students are in school. I have decided to attend after the school authorities on a special case basis allowed me to sit in a classroom instead of the staffroom during free periods and I can leave as soon as my classes are over,” said the teacher. “We have been saying continuously that even senior school should be reopened in a phased manner only allowing students for practical classes initially. The schools can then start in-person classes for classes IX and XI for a couple of hours and gradually increase the time. This will help both the students and teachers gain confidence and give an idea on how to safeguard themselves,” said Saugata Basu, general secretary of the West Bengal Government Teachers’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/early-leave-no-staff-room-sharing-to-keep-teachers-safe/articleshow/80774961.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 10, 2021||Goa||Will resolve Margao’s kabrastan issue: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: BJP will not only resolve Margao’s kabrastan issue, but that of other parts of the state, too, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday. He said that his government will, wherever possible, build kabrastans in various areas of the state. “I think politics has been played with the Margao kabrastan issue. We will build one at Margao,” he said, adding that the deputy collector has been directed to identify a location. “The government will solve the kabrastan issues in the state,” Sawant said. The chief minister said that BJP has always resolved issues faced by the minorities and will continue to do so. “BJP has never differentiated the minorities. We are all Hindustani,” he said. Observers say that the government decision on kabrastan will help BJP to score brownie points over Margao MLA Digambar Kamat. Some time ago, Urfan Mulla, who joined the BJP from Congress along with Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar, had visited Pajifond and met Muslim leaders about resolving the kabrastan issue. Khabrastan has been a major issue for the minority community in South Goa. Every time elections draw close, the issue comes to the fore in Margao, a political commentator said. Early 2019, then TCP minister and Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai had made a statement that then chief minister Manohar Parrikar had cleared a file regarding a kabrastan in Margao. After announcing a minority cell of BJP, Sawant said the government will help the community’s schools in the state. He also said that minorities have realised that other political parties have used them. “Within one-year BJP will win the confidence of the minorities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-resolve-margaos-kabrastan-issue-sawant/articleshow/80776499.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Solapur youth’s plea to Sachin: Back farmers||MUMBAI: Ranjeet Bagel, 21, made a trip from Gadegaon in Pandharpur, Solapur district, to the city to convince Bharat Ratna and former cricketer Sachin Tendular to speak in favour of the protesting farmers. He stood with a banner outside Tendulkar’s home for about 30 minutes on Monday. “He is one of us and we felt it was wrong of him to not stand up for the farmers. I felt very strongly that someone needs to speak to him and convince him. I could not meet him so I stood outside his gate with the banner,” said Bagel who left for his village on Tuesday evening. After Bagel’s picture with the banner went viral on social media, AAP’s Preeti Sharma Menon got in touch with him to express her party’s support. In an open letter to Tendulkar, she wrote, “Ranjeet Bagel, a farmer’s son has come all the way from Solapur to Bandra with a simple prayer—- a tweet in support of our ‘annadaatas’, the farmers. In return for your tweet, once again countless Indians will shower you with love and blessings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/solapur-youths-plea-to-sachin-back-farmers/articleshow/80777976.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||Lack of transport keeps most children at home even as 70% schools start sessions||PUNE: Transport facilities, including school vans, autorickshaws and limited PMPML buses available to ferry students, are posing huge problems in commuting to schools which in turn has affected attendance in standards V to VIII in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits. The schools were given permission to reopen from February 1 and after a fortnight, nearly 70% schools have started but the attendance is only about 27 % largely because of poor transport facilities. However, the schools still wear a deserted look. The classes for standards IX to XII were started earlier and the attendance in city limit schools has been growing. PMC education officer Shivaji Daundkar said, “Nearly 80% schools have reopened and the attendance has crossed 50% in most schools.” Parents of students studying in some schools in core city areas are wary of sending their children to school over lack of transportation facilities. Dinesh Mhatre from Chandannagar said his son was in standard VI, but the school was nearly 10km from his residence. “The school is functioning for four hours and on alternate days, currently. The school van driver has decided not to ply for now. The van does not have full capacity students, and there are restrictions too. So, it is difficult to send my son to school.`` Vishwas Kadam, another parent, from Ghorpadi, said, “ We have applied to the school for a stop near our house but it does not seem to work. My child is continuing with online class as the school is conducting hybrid teaching.” Meenakshi Raut from the primary education office of the education board of the PMC said, “Many parents are willing to send their children to school but transportation is a big hurdle in most cases. Consent from parents has also been submitted, but the students are not coming to school because of lack of school buses and also low frequency of public transport.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lack-of-transport-keeps-most-children-at-home-even-as-70-schools-start-sessions/articleshow/80776351.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Minimum temperature down to 8.6°C, third lowest this winter||PUNE: The city’s minimum temperature on Tuesday dropped to the third lowest level of this winter with the mercury plunging to 8.6ºC. Tuesday was the first time since the third week of December last year when the minimum temperature reached close to 8ºC. The lowest February minimum temperatures in Pune in the past decade were 5.1ºC in 2019 and 4.6 degrees C in 2012. Jalgaon and Pune were the coldest spots in Maharashtra on early Tuesday morning, with the minimum temperatures at 7ºC and 8.6ºC, respectively. “The minimum temperature has been below normal in some parts of the state, more so in locations such as Pune, Jalgaon, Solapur, Parbhani, Nanded and Aurangabad and many places in Vidarbha. We expect the temperatures to start rising from Wednesday on account of the southerly/southwesterly wind regime in Maharashtra. On Tuesday, the winds in Maharashtra were coming from the northwest regions. The result was the drop in temperature,” an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said. The IMD forecast a gradual rise in minimum temperatures by 2-4°C over most parts of Maharashtra during the next 4-5 days. An update from Skymet Weather Services stated that no weather activity was expected over the central parts of India for the entire week. “The flow of dry and cold winds from the north will get restricted due to the prevalence of anti-cyclone. Both the minimum and maximum temperatures will be on the rise over Gujarat and Maharashtra,” the update stated. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature in Lohegaon was higher than Shivajinagar, at 13.2ºC, and in Pashan it was 10.2 degrees C. For Shivajinagar, the minimum was around 2.8ºC below normal, while Lohegaon experienced a normal minimum temperature. By February 15, the minimum temperature in Pune may rise to a pleasant range of 14-15ºC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/minimum-temperature-down-to-8-6c-third-lowest-this-winter/articleshow/80776373.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||Link between plutonium device, avalanche unlikely: Leader of ’65 expedition||Dehradun: Allaying fears that the plutonium device long lost on the Nanda Devi mountain could have triggered the massive avalanche which led to the flash floods in Chamoli recently, Capt MS Kohli (retd), who was the leader of the 1965 expedition to set the instrument up, said that the machine is “very unlikely to emanate heat or blow itself up.” He added that the device cannot get activated on its own even if the casing ruptures. Kohli further said that it is not appropriate to link two separate events like the loss of a plutonium device and a disaster like an avalanche. The Indian Navy veteran said, “The device is most likely trapped among the glaciers. Since it is immobile, it must be lying in a dormant state. We spent three years trying to trace it. There is no way it can trigger any untoward incident as the instrument needs other components, too, to be fully operational.” “As all our efforts in tracing the device went in vain, I suggested an alternative theory that it might have fallen off the Nanda Devi peak. To this, the then atomic energy commission chief said that we could try dropping two non-reactive objects of the same weight in the same area and see what happens. We tried that and the other objects too went missing. Those were never found either,” he added. Kohli said that the only threat posed by the missing device is nuclear contamination of the Ganga and its tributaries. “As we were not able to locate the machine even after three years, we put in place steps to ensure that it does not pollute any of the surroundings. We even conducted tests in the area for three years to detect any kind of nuclear contamination of water. There was none,” he added. However, the veteran mountaineer noted that the government should once again actively search for the device using the latest technology so that it does not pose any threat to the future generations either.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/link-between-plutonium-device-avalanche-unlikely-leader-of-65-expedition/articleshow/80773814.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Maximum temperature may rise to 37°C today||MUMBAI: While Tuesday morning began with the minimum temperature here dipping, by evening the maximum temperature rose again. The minimum recorded in the morning by IMD Santacruz was 17.6 degrees Celsius, which was 0.1 degree below normal, compared to 18 the day before. Weathermen attributed the dip to light easterly winds. IMD Colaba recorded a minimum of 20.4, while it was 21.6 the day before. By evening the maximum at Santacruz was 35.3, while it was 34.5 on Monday. Colaba recorded a maximum of 34.6, while it was 33.8 the day before. IMD has forecast clear skies and the maximum temperature will rise to 37 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maximum-temperature-to-rise-to-37c-today/articleshow/80775717.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Daily wagers’ son scores in central police force exam||PUNE: Sharan Kamble lived in a 10x10 mud house with his elder brother and parents in Barshi, Solapur till three years ago. To save money, he would travel on the top of vehicles to his college for two years to complete his HSC. He sold vegetables in his village to help his parents who are daily wage earners and studied during the day to save kerosene used to light the lamp in his house. On Friday, when the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) results were announced, Kamble stood 8th in the all-India ranks for assistant commandant examination, bringing him closer to his dream of becoming an IAS officer. Candidates who pass the examination are selected for Border Security Force, Central Reserve Police Force, Central Industrial Security Force, Indo-Tibetan Border Police and Sashastra Seema Bal. Gopinath and Sudhamati Kamble cannot read or write, but ensured that both their children, Dadasaheb and Sharan, studied well. Both were good in studies and extremely hard working. “I studied in a Marathi medium school till standard X and for XI-XII, I had to travel 10-12km to a nearby town. We could not afford the bus fare so we would travel atop vehicles paying Rs 5. Standard XI was tough because we were not fluent in English. I would revise my lessons before reaching the school sitting on the vehicle’s roof and on my return journey. We did not have electricity until I went to an engineering college,” he said. When Dadasaheb, and one year later, Sharan, were allotted seats in Walchand Engineering College, Sangli via CET, the family had no clue how to pay the fees. Scholarships covered the fees, but they needed to pay before reimbursement. “We did not know about education loans. We just borrowed money and paid the fees and the other expenses. My parents finished a five-day job in two days, and take up more work to earn as much as they could at the cost of their health,” he added. When his brother was placed in an IT company in Pune after finishing BTech, there was some relief. “He wanted to pursue the civil services, but let it go. He rebuilt our house. After engineering, I qualified in GATE and did my MTech from IISc. I then started reading newspapers. I got a Rs 20 lakh package offer, but I wanted to get into the civil services,” Kamble said. He is now waiting for the UPSC Main results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-wagers-son-scores-in-central-police-force-exam/articleshow/80776376.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 10, 2021||Salem||10-year-old boy found murdered, probe on||Krishnagiri: A 10-year old boy was found murdered with burn marks all over the body at the foothills of Malleswaran hillock near Burgur here on Monday evening.  District superintendent of police Bandi Gangadhar has formed two special teams to nab the accused. Burgur deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Thangavel said the body was first spotted by the villagers of Karakuppam Kottalatti. “They alerted us immediately.” The DSP said the boy was severely beaten up and there were burn marks and deep cut wounds on the body. “He succumbed to the injuries that were sustained during the torture. The burns were caused by objects like cigarette butt and burning wooden logs.” Burgur police inspector Murali has registered a case and initiated an inquiry. He said they were yet to establish the identity of the deceased. “One of teams has gone to Andhra Pradesh and the other one to neighbouring districts such as Tirupathur and Vellore.” The body was, meanwhile, sent to the government hospital in Krishnagiri for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/10-year-old-boy-found-murdered-probe-on/articleshow/80776375.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Poor response from frontline railway staff to vaccination drive||MUMBAI: The response for the vaccination drive among frontline staff at railway hospitals and clinics here has not been encouraging, as only 23% of enrolled personnel opted for it on Central Railway and 40% on Western Railway. On WR, 2,397 personnel were registered but only 949 took the vaccine. On CR, only 583 of 2,560 registered on the COVAX app opted. A Central Railway Mazdoor Sangh leader said most staff in the health department of railways weree themselves wary of taking the vaccine due to fear of an adverse impact. “The administration should take steps to increase the drive so that other frontline staff like ticket-checkers, motormen and guards too opt for it confidently,” he said. A CR official said, “Staff only go for vaccination if the they receive a message on their mobile on time and location. Since most have not got messages, the numbers appear to be low.” However, a union leader said, “Government has now allowed walk-ins for those who registered and want to take the vaccine. They need not wait for the message.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/poor-response-from-rly-staff-to-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80775704.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||CCTV images do not show abduction of slain sailor||MUMBAI: A police team has found camera clips in Chennai that show the navy sailor who was set ablaze in Palghar had been roaming outside the airport there. In his dying declaration to the police, Suraj kumar Dubey (26), a leading seaman at INS Agrani, Coimbatore, had stated that he was abducted by three unidentified men from outside the Chennai airport around 9.30 pm on January 30. Dubey was found with severe burn injuries on a road in Vevji village in Talasari taluka around 4.45 pm on February 5. Locals informed the police and admitted him to the government hospital in Dahanu. He then told the police that he was held captive in Chennai for three days and brought to the jungle in Vevji around 9 am on February 5 and set on fire using petrol. CCTV images from outside the airport found Dubey roaming around the airport till the wee hours of January 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cctv-images-do-not-show-abduction-of-slain-sailor/articleshow/80778033.cms||Sandhya Nair
February 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Scooter-borne trio snatch man’s phone||PUNE: The police on Tuesday booked three men, riding on a scooter, for snatching a 28-year-old man’s smartphone while he was booking a cab outside the state transport bus terminus at Pune railway station around 12.15am on Monday. Assistant inspector Amol Kale of the Bund Garden police station said, “Devesh Chandra, a physics teacher currently residing at Thane, reached Pune from Dadar in a private vehicle. He was booking a cab to reach Mohammadwadi, when the three men came from the direction of Alankar Chowk and the second pillion rider snatched his phone. The suspects sped away in the direction of Maldhakka Chowk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scooter-borne-trio-snatch-mans-phone/articleshow/80776389.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Officials fail to capture rogue elephant||Udhagamandalam: The exercise of capturing the rogue elephant ‘Shankar’, which killed three people in Gudalur division of forests in the Nilgiris in December last, continued for the fourth day on Tuesday but in vain. A dart was sent aiming at the rogue elephant by the team comprising veterinarians and forest officials, but it missed as the jumbo kept running, according to a forest official. “We were hopeful that the operation would succeed as the 40-year-old jumbo was located alone near Cherambadi in Pandalur range in Gudalur division. The herd of elephants which escorted the elephant in the past few days moved away from it”, said Vijayan, assistant conservator of forest, Gudalur division. “The jumbo was found inside thick bushes hence we could not get more opportunities for darting. The single trial of darting went in vain as the animal was running inside the bushes,” the forest official said. In the past few days, it was seen that the rogue elephant was stealthily moving towards the Kerala border. “The jumbo has been wandering within the Nilgiris forest boundary but inside thick bushes,” the official said. The elephant was located by the operation teams at around 11am in Cherambadi range of forests. Five kumkis, four from the Theppakadu elephant camp in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) and one from the Anamalai Tiger Reserve, have been stationed in Cherambadi area for the operation. Besides forest officials, the teams consist of Dr N S Manoharan, retired joint director, veterinary service who is also currently consultant to Tamil Nadu Forest Academy, Dr Sugumaran, forest veterinary officer and Dr. Rajesh, veterinarian attached to the MTR and experts and trackers from Gudalur division and Coimbatore divisions. “The operation will continue tomorrow,” said Vijayan. Named as Shanker in the recent elephant profiling exercise in the Gudalur division, the tusker strayed into Kerala forest after it killed three people including a father and son in Cherambadi in the second week of December last and thus creating panic among the public A few days ago, Shankar was located again in the Cherambadi range of forests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/officials-fail-to-capture-rogue-elephant/articleshow/80776379.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chennai||This transport hub is Chennai corporation’s grand plan for Broadway||CHENNAI: An imposing structure may become the new landmark and a hub of activity in North Chennai if all goes as per plan. Greater Chennai Corporation will call for an expression of interest to construct a Rs 900cr multimodal facility complex in Broadway in place of the present bus terminus. Originally proposed in 2003, the project did not take off owing to several impediments. There was no alternate site to park buses, approval from the Archaeological Survey of India did not come and the location being next to the Madras high court, a heritage structure, compounded the problems. The civic body has been working on the proposal and has conducted studies to finalise a plan to build a 21-storey building with 80 bus bays in the first phase and another 44 in the second. The building will have a shopping complex, office space, commercial establishments, hotels and dormitories. In a meeting held last month, the government asked the civic body to call for an expression of interest (EoI). “We are planning a multimodal complex with multilevel car parking. We will have space to park 2,528 two-wheelers and 1,880 four-wheelers,” said an official. “Located at the most congested part of the city, this will be a state-of-the-art building that will make heads turn.” According to MTC, there are 695 buses on 70 routes that do 3,872 trips a day from the terminus. Buses travelling from the south and central parts of the city to the north have to pass through the terminus. While the plan is to set up a multimodal facility, the government has prioritized the bus station. In the last meeting, officials told the corporation that a minimum of 80 bus bays are required. “We have completed the study. We need to find an alternative parking spot for MTC buses when the construction begins. The corporation land pockets are small and cannot house all buses at the same time. The government doesn’t have any other land nearby. The present suggestion is to park the buses on the road until the construction is complete,” an official from Chennai Smart City Limited, also part of the project, said. “We will meet the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development board on February 15 for approval and call for an expression of interest. Since the project is already approved, we will have no issues with funds,” the official said. The 4.42-acre land, inclusive of a parcel belonging to metro rail, will be used for construction. The contractor can set up stores and earn revenue from rent and use the parking fee to meet the construction expenses. However, whether it will be a revenue-sharing model with the corporation or an agreement based on monthly rent will be decided later, another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/this-transport-hub-is-corporations-grand-plan-for-broadway/articleshow/80774983.cms||Komal Gautham
February 10, 2021||Pune||Nashik youth steals mobiles; arrested||PUNE: The police on Monday arrested Toyas Patil (19), an unemployed engineering diploma holder from Nashik, for stealing two mobile phones, totally worth Rs1.03 lakh, from a shop on Fergusson College Road on Friday evening. The police said Patil posed as a customer and asked for two phones of a particular brand on the pretext of wanting to buy them. However, soon after the shop owner put the phones on the counter, Patil picked them up and ran away. The shop manager, Ganesh Patil of Warje, later reported the matter at the Deccan Gymkhana police station. The police tracked and arrested Patil from Nashik and recovered the stolen phones from his possession. Toyas wanted expensive mobile phones so he resorted to theft, police added. Earlier, after he picked up the two phones and ran away from the spot, the shop attendants attempted to chase him but failed. Following the shop manager’s complaint, the police team studied the CCTV footage available in the area and analysed the technical data, which led them to Toyas in Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nashik-youth-steals-mobiles-arrested/articleshow/80776380.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Tea Board takes promotional steps to boost sales in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: As part of various domestic tea promotional activities, the Tea Board of India (South) handed over 10 fabricated traffic barricades inscribed with tea promotional advertisement to the Nilgiris SP, V Sasi Mohan. These barricades will be on display at various tourist spots in the Nilgiris.In March last year, the Tea Board of India (south) had erected 15 welcome sign boards at the various entry points of the hill district to welcome vistors.M Balaji, executive director, Tea Board (south) said, “The board is creating a wide-spread awareness to increase the per capita consumption of tea among the general public through various programmes.” He added, “The Nilgiris district is now a year-round tourist destination. The footfall recorded at the various tourist spots also shows a progressive level.”According to him, in order to create more awareness among the visiting tourists to the hill retreat, the Tea Board has handed over 10 traffic barricades with tea promotional advertisements to the police for display at various tourist spots to boost quality tea consumption among the tourists as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tea-board-takes-promotional-steps-to-boost-sales-in-nilgiris/articleshow/80776384.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Bhopal||167 test +ve as only 38 dists in MP report new Covid cases||Bhopal: A total 167 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state on Tuesday, taking the count of positive cases to 2,56,758. Apart from the fresh cases, two deaths were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 3,825. The latest Covid deaths were reported from Bhopal and Harda districts.On Tuesday, new cases were reported only from 38 of the 52 districts of the state. Districts where no new cases were reported on Tuesday include Hoshangabad, Shivpuri, Sehore, Katni, Harda, Chhatarpur, Singrauli, Bhind, Umaria, Tikamgarh, Alirajpur, Mandla, Ashok Nagar and Agar Malwa. Of the 38 districts where new cases were reported, fresh cases were reported in double figures from three districts.The highest number of cases was reported from Bhopal where 44 people tested positive, followed by Indore where 33 tested positive and Jabalpur where 11 persons tested positive. On the brighter side, 219 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, the count of total people who have recovered so far in the state reached 2,50,946.A total 15,282 samples were tested on Tuesday, of which 167 tested positive, thus the positivity rate—which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Tuesday stood at 1.0 per cent.As on February 9, there were 1,987 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/167-test-ve-as-only-38-dists-in-mp-report-new-covid-cases/articleshow/80774984.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||‘Artists can have views’||Pune: Vocalist Rahul Deshpande said, “We are artists but we can have opinions as citizens. I think we have an environment in which we can express our own views. There is a conducive atmosphere so celebrities must have felt what they felt and said it. I don’t think it is improper, it can be their personal opinion as citizens, which can be correct for them.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/artists-can-have-views/articleshow/80776386.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||BMC panel nod for Rs 1,600 crore desalination plant at Manori||MUMBAI: BMC’s standing committee on Monday cleared a plan to set up a desalination plant at Manori in Malad. The civic standing committee, which gave an in-principle approval for the plant, has also given the go-ahead to appoint a consultant for the project. Officials said the plant, which will come up on 12 hectares of land which is with MTDC, will have a capacity of 200 million litres per day. While the project cost is pegged at Rs 1,600 crore, the cost of operation and maintenance for 20 years is around Rs1,920 crore, an official said. A detailed project report is expected to be prepared in around eight months and construction will take 30 months. The official said the plant will be set up under the ‘Swiss Challenge Method’. Under this method, a project can be awarded to a private firm on an unsolicited proposal. IDE Water Technologies Ltd, a global expert in this field, has submitted an unsolicited (self-suggested) proposal to the BMC, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-panel-nod-for-rs-1600-crore-desalination-plant-at-manori/articleshow/80777151.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||54 new Covid-19 cases recorded, 500 IIM-K students quarantined||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 54 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally of the virus to 96,590. Also, two more coronavirus-related fatalities pushed the toll of the infection to 1,673. On Tuesday, 500 students of IIM Kashipur were quarantined after five students of the institute tested positive for Covid-19. Swinging into action, the Uttarakhand health department sent nasal swab samples of 250 students for Covid-19 test. "Soon after the IIM officials informed us of the contraction, we decided to isolate students as a precautionary measure. The samples of the remaining 250 students will be taken for Covid-19 test on Wednesday," Dr Amarjeet Singh, nodal officer for Covid-19 monitoring, Kashipur. The number of active cases have gone down to 790 with 67 people getting recovered on Tuesday. “The recovery rate crossed the 96% mark in the state. At present, 760 people are infected in Uttarakhand,” said Abhishek Tripthi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand health department has so far managed to inoculate 85,159 healthcare and frontline workers. As many as 1,547 vaccination sessions have been held in the last 25 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/54-new-covid-19-cases-recorded-500-iim-k-students-quarantined/articleshow/80773825.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 10, 2021||Pune||GOC-in-C meets J&K women’s team||PUNE: Lieutenant General J S Nain, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Command, interacted with the women’s cricket team from Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir, along with members of Aseem foundation, an NGO, at the command headquarters here on Tuesday. The team’s visit to Pune and Mumbai from February 4 to 15 is part of the initiative by the NGO and the army to promote sports and enhance interaction between people living in border areas and those staying in other parts of the country. “The army commander stressed on the importance of sincerity, dedication, hard work and humility in all actions, while reaffirming the army’s unstinted support and resolve towards promoting development in remote regions with special emphasis on women empowerment,” a release issued by the defence PRO said. Lieutenant General Nain encouraged students to be part of the ‘Super 30 programme”, which is an initiative to prepare local students for admission to the IITs. The army commander motivated the cricket players to strive for excellence in all their endeavours while felicitating each member of the team and the foundation. The team visited Aundh Military Station where they interacted with troops of the Shivneri Brigade and got a first-hand glimpse of army life and training activities in a peace station on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/goc-in-c-meets-jk-womens-team/articleshow/80776400.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||CM launches 3 smart schools in Doon||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat inaugurated three Smart Schools — GIC Rajpur Road, GIC Khudbuda and Senior Secondary School Khudbuda — in Dehradun. In a function at GIC Rajpur Road, CM Rawat said that under the present scenario, the importance of smart schools has increased. He said that the three schools are equipped with smart labs and virtual classrooms. All these schools would be connected with each other through the internet. CM Rawat added that 600 schools in remote areas of Uttarakhand have been linked with virtual classes and efforts are underway to provide the best possible education and facilities to the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-launches-3-smart-schools-in-doon/articleshow/80773849.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 10, 2021||Pune||Posers on water supply consultant appointment||PUNE: Opposition has come to the fore against a proposal to appoint a consultant for the 24x7 water supply project in merged villages. Opposition party leaders have demanded that approval given to the proposal should be reconsidered. A review proposal has been tabled before the standing committee of the civic body. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned to spend Rs13 crore on the consultant. Those opposing the move claim that the approval has been given without making adequate allocation in the budget. The consultant will make a detailed project report for 11 merged villages as well as 23 villages proposed to be added in the municipal limits. The merger process of 23 villages has not been completed yet, and water quota for them has also not been finalised. “It is very early to make such an appointment. What is the urgency? The PMC is suffering from financial losses due to Covid-19. Spending such huge amount on consultancy is uncalled for aid declining revenue,” said Prithviraj Sutar, leader of Shiv Sena in PMC. He said that they have demanded that the proposal be scrapped for the time being. So, a review on the need and feasibility of the project has been called for. “The proposal has been sent to the civic administration for seeking its opinion. Once a detailed report on it comes, we will take a final call on whether to scrap the proposal or not,” said Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee. He said that the civic administration will not spend the money in one go. The payment will be made in phases. The approval has been given to ensure better planning of the water supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/posers-on-water-supply-consultant-appointment/articleshow/80776396.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Doctors begin relay hunger strike against ‘mixopathy’||PUNE: Doctors attached with the Indian Medical Association Pune branch started their two-day relay hunger strike at the IMA hall on Tilak Road from Tuesday morning. The nationwide relay hunger strike started in Delhi on February 1 and will conclude on sFebruary 14. Pune members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) will observe the hunger strike for two days till Wednesday. Members of the IMA are protesting against the notification issued by the Centre Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), a statutory body under the Ayush ministry, which stated that postgraduate Ayurveda doctors could perform select surgical procedures after taking a bridge course of six months. JA Jayalal, the IMA’s national president, was also in Pune on Tuesday to strengthen the agitation. “Mixing of allopathic surgeries with Ayurveda will also hamper the growth and very existence of the ancient branch of Ayurveda,” Jayalal said. Gynaecologist Aarti Nimkar, the president of the IMA’s Pune branch, said, “We are protesting against the CCIM notification allowing Ayurved postgraduate students to perform 58 surgeries. All the 6 lakh IMA members in India, including the undergraduate and postgraduate medical students, are taking an active part in it.” Eye surgeon Sanjay Patil, the chairman of the IMA’s Hospital Board of India, said they wanted the government to withdraw the CCIM notification. “The four committees of the National Medical Commission (NMC) should be dissolved immediately, which are formed to support such mixopathy,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctors-begin-relay-hunger-strike-against-mixopathy/articleshow/80776419.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Salem||Salem: Two held for smuggling gold without receipts||SALEM: The railway protection force (RPF) officials on Tuesday seized 3kg of gold jewelleries worth Rs 1.25 crore from two passengers who failed to produce receipts for the valuables. RPF officials led by inspector of Salem railway junction Aravind Kumar were on regular check on the junction premises. Two men who disembarked from an Chennai-Coimbatore express train with handbags were intercepted by the officials. “On interrogation, the two men didn't give proper answers to our questions,” Arvind Kumar said. RPF officials found 3kg of gold jewelleries in their handbags. Sivaraj, 22, and Bagirath, 30, failed to produce receipts or documents for the gold jewelleries. “Both were from Rajasthan and they haven't informed us about their destination yet,” the inspector added. The RPF officials handed over the gold jewelleries to the income tax department for further inquiry. Salem RPF officials have registered a case and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/2-held-for-smuggling-gold-without-receipts/articleshow/80776394.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||Criminal shot dead at busy Kesnand Phata||PUNE: A criminal on police records, Sachin Nana Shinde (29) of Kesnand, was shot dead by two scooter-borne assailants on Tuesday afternoon in front of an ATM kiosk at Kesnand Phata along the busy Pune-Ahmednagar highway. Prima facie, police suspect old enmity as the motive behind the crime. Inspector Pratap Mankar of the Lonikand police said, “The incident occurred around 12.30pm when Shinde, who had various body offences to his name and was recently released from prison on bail, and his friends were having a chat with each other. Two men reached the spot on a scooter. The pillion rider got down from the two-wheeler, pulled out a firearm and opened fire at Shinde from close range.” Mankar said, “The bullet hit just above the nape (back of the neck) of the victim as his friends ran away from the spot. The assailant then rushed back to the scooter and the two men sped away. Local villagers raised an alarm and Shinde was taken to a nearby hospital, where the medical authorities examined and declared him brought dead.” “ For now, we registered a case of murder. We are not ruling out old enmity as possible cause behind the killing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-shot-dead-at-busy-kesnand-phata/articleshow/80776391.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Bhopal||Betul & Neemuch get new collectors||Bhopal: The state government posted district collectors in Betul and Neemuch on Tuesday. After chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s video conference with district and divisional officers on Monday, collectors of two districts were transferred, apparently on the CM’s orders. Betul collector Rakesh Singh and Neemuch collector Jitendra Singh Raje were shifted. The IAS officers have been posted as deputy secretaries at Mantralaya. Their replacements were announced on Tuesday. In the orders issued by the general administration department in the day, Amanbir Singh Bains was made collector, Betul and Mayank Agrawal was transferred as collector, Neemuch. Both are 2013 batch IAS officers. Amanbir Singh Bains was serving as municipal commissioner, Satna and Mayank Agrawal was additional collector, Indore. It would be their first posting as district collectors. Amanbir Singh Bains is the son of MP’s chief secretary, Iqbal Singh Bains. It would be for the first time in MP that father is incumbent CS and son is a district collector at the same time. In the past, an IAS served as chief secretary and his son as superintendent of police. When KS Sharma was the chief secretary his son, IPS Manish Shankar Sharma, who is now ADG, served as district SP. It was between 1999 and 2001.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/betul-neemuch-get-new-collectors/articleshow/80775012.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC sets aside minister’s stay on MBMC councillors||MUMBAI: Bombay high court set aside an order of Maharashtra minister for urban development Eknath Shinde that stayed a civic resolution that had nominated four councillors (three of BJP and one from Congress Lokshahi Aghadhi) to Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation (MBMC) and rejected one from Shiv Sena. HC directed the minister to decide the matter afresh, within eight weeks, after a proper hearing to all, including the municipal corporation which passed the resolution, and complainant, Sena’s Geeta Jain. HC said under law the state had to support by reasons its decision to suspend a civic resolution. It said a “perusal’’ of the minister’s order “indicates that no such opinion’’ was expressed and held his order to be in violation of MBMC Act. There was no dispute over four nominated candidates and the “minister passed a one-line order... and stayed the resolution,’’ said a bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and V G Bisht in its order of February 5. The minister had stayed it on December 7, 2020, on a complaint by Jain that of the five, Sena’s Vikram Singh was wrongly rejected by MBMC. Ajit Patil, Anil Bhosale, Bhagwati Sharma and group leader in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Hasmukh Gehlot had filed a petition last year to challenge the minister’s order as being contrary to rules. Patil, Bhosale and Sharma are nominated councillors, said their counsel Birendra Saraf and Aseem Naphade. Saraf submitted that though the complaint was against rejection of the Sena candidate, the minister stayed the entire resolution. The stay was in gross violation of municipal Act, which required him to first form an opinion that the corporation’s order was in excess of its powers, or may lead to “breach of peace’’ in society, or was against larger public interest, said Saraf. Government pleader P P Kakade said the minister’s order was on a complaint and the stay was pending a hearing as a detailed report was called for from MDMC. After the August 2017 elections for municipal councillors for 95 seats, BJP won 61, Sena 22 and CLA 12. Under Maharashtra municipal corporation rules five councillors have to be nominated after the general election results. On January 24, 2020, the civic chief issued a public notice and six persons applied; one withdrew. On December 4, 2020, the civic chief recommended five names, including Vikram Singh and Shafique Khan (CLA). On December 7, MBMC declared Patil, Bhosale, Sharma and Khan nominated, rejecting Singh as he had been given a work order on April 1, 2020, for supply of food packets during lockdown as Pratap Foundation chairman. HC said if the minister after eight weeks passes any adverse order against the candidates, the order shall not be enforced for four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-sets-aside-ministers-order-staying-mbmc-resolution/articleshow/80775724.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Start research on vaccine, Uddhav Thackeray urges Haffkine Institute||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged Haffkine Institute to carry out research and develop a Covid-19 vaccine. He said the state government would cooperate with the institute in setting up an advanced Vaccine Research Centre there. Thackeray on Tuesday took a review of Haffkine Institute and said it needs to focus on research and manufacturing of the vaccine. “It should make an effort to transfer Covid vaccine-related technology from ICMR and Bharat Biotech,” said Thackeray. He said the institute should prioritise research as its key task is to research and develop vaccines against diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uddhav-urges-haffkine-institute-to-research-develop-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/80775730.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kids, parents all set to reset body clock||KOLKATA: Getting up early in the morning, having an early breakfast and rushing off to school may sound routine, but it hasn’t remained so for most of the students, who stayed away from schools in the past 11 months, and their parents. After the initial euphoria of going to school has settled down, the students of classes IX to XII and their parents are worried about the long list of readjustment that is needed to be on the school campus on time. Many children said they had become used to getting up late in the day, just about half an hour before the online classes started. The breaks in between were used for breakfast and sometimes when the camera was off and the hunger pangs were hard. Eating during the virtual classroom was also not uncommon, though one had to be careful about not being caught. The bathroom was just a few steps away, so bathing could be postponed till the class was over. A large number of parents said the biological clock of their wards had changed completely. So, many students have already started getting up early to reset the body clock. Most of the kids also got used to staying awake till late night, studying and chatting with friends, surfing internet and playing games. However, they will have to once again try to sleep early so that they will be able to get up by 5am or 6am for schools that start between 7am and 8am. “My son was getting up as late as 10:30am and then he would somehow get ready for his online classes. He is studying in Class-XII, so I didn’t want to interfere too much. But now he will have to be in school by that time,” said Sarbani Chatterjee, whose son, Shirshendu Chatterjee is a student of Salt Lake CA School. His father Nabendu Chatterjee, a scientist at Niced, will have to use the family vehicle to leave home by 10am and he will not be able to drop the child in school. The family lives in Lake Town and the school being 15 minutes away, Shirshendu will have to go to the school by a public transport. There are several parents who have given up the school bus or pool car because they didn’t want to go on paying the steep transport charges during the pandemic. They are finding it difficult to get back to these transport modes immediately and they are now having to arrange for their wards’ pick-up and drop by themselves. Take the case of Tirthankar Sarkar, who lives in Tollygunge and has given up the school bus of DPS Ruby Park for his son. He works in a construction firm and will have to ride his two-wheeler to drop his son by 7am at school while his wife, a primary schoolteacher, will have to bring the kid back. “We will gradually have to wean him off us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kids-parents-all-set-to-reset-body-clock/articleshow/80775016.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||New complaint and arrest in porn film case||MUMBAI: Three days after the crime branch unearthed a pornographic film racket, rescued a woman and arrested five persons, a 21-year-old model lodged a complaint with the police alleging that she, too, had been exploited by the gang. This is the third woman to approach the police with such a complaint against a person named Yasmin Rowa Khan. The crime branch on Tuesday arrested Khan’s husband, Dipankar Paritosh Khasnavis, in the case. It was the eighth arrest in the case. Khasnavis was produced before the 37th metropolitan magistrate and remanded in police custody till February 10. The crime branch had on Monday arrested Umesh Kamat, a close friend of a celebrity British businessman. Kamat, who represents UK-based company Kenrin, is accused of uploading at least eight pornographic videos shot by arrested model and actress Gehena Vashist on the social media app Hotshot. The 21-year-old model in her complaint alleged that she had won a beauty contest and was looking for a break when she came in contact with a woman called Alisha. Alisha introduced her to her husband “Monu”, a cameraman. The victim said she was given an energy drink and coaxed into doing nude and obscene scenes . Later, when the victim went to her hometown, some friends told her that her nude videos were on social media. The victim told the police that when she approached them she learnt Alisha and Khan were the same person. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-complaint-and-arrest-in-porn-film-case/articleshow/80778037.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||Kelkar Museum mulls thematic exhibitions abroad||PUNE: The Raja Dinkar Kelkar Museum in the city is exploring the possibility of holding thematic exhibitions of artefacts abroad through the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), Delhi. Dr Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, president, ICCR, Delhi, visited the museum earlier this month and evinced interest in collaborating with the museum to showcase some of the artefacts in various museums and shows across the world. “The discussion was informal and at a primary stage, but I am expecting some formal communication to take this initiative forward. During the time of the founder, Dr Dinkar Kelkar, the museum participated in a festival inaugurated by Rajiv Gandhi in Washington DC. With the support of the ICCR, we now hope to participate in such activities again,” said Sudhanva Ranade, director, Raja Dinkar Kelkar Museum. “What makes the museum interesting for institutions abroad is the way the founder dedicated over 70 years of his life building his vast ,” said Ranade. The proposed developmental plan of the museum has been on hold for a couple of years now. The state government had allotted six acres of land in Bavdhan for building a state-of-the-art museum, incorporating technology to provide cultural education for visitors and virtual tours, among other plans. “Technology and culture must go hand in hand. We plan to integrate technological advancement in the display and presentation of collection with touchscreens, providing information about the artefacts, their significance and history. A visit to the museum needs to be informational and educational experience,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kelkar-museum-mulls-thematic-exhibitions-abroad/articleshow/80776404.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 31% renewable sources power likely by 2023, says Adani CEO||MUMBAI: Adani Electricity CEO Kandarp Patel on Tuesday announced that of the total power supplied to three million consumers in Mumbai, 31% will come from renewable sources by 2023. This includes solar, hydro and other renewable sources. “In line with the group’s vision of increasing its renewable energy footprints, Adani Electricity will source 862MW, which is 31% of total supply in our licence area, from renewable sources by 2023,” he said. Sources said the biggest chunk of 700MW will come from hybrid power (solar plus wind). Adani is also finalising a vendor for smart meters and expects to roll out the programme in the coming weeks. The programme is the largest in the country with seven lakh meters being installed across licence areas in Mumbai, he said. The meters will help consumers to monitor consumption in real-time and reduce consumption according to needs. Officials said Adani had taken steps for consumers like a video contact centre, which will help consumers avail services from home by connecting to an agent virtually. “Consumers will be able to set up appointments with video contact centre executives as per convenience. We plan to launch the service in April,” an official said. Mumbai’s demand for power is expected to touch 5,000MW and the capacity of transmission line is only 2,700MW now, with limitations on increasing embedded generation due to environmental concerns. “The only option to avoid incidents like the blackout of October 12 is to bring additional power to Mumbai, and this will also help reduce power purchase cost,” the official said, adding, “Adani Transmission Ltd is working on a Kharghar-Vikhroli transmission line, which will bring 1,000MW to the city. The project is expected to be completed by December 2022.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/31-of-supply-from-renewable-sources-by-2023-adani-ceo/articleshow/80775731.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||Kolhapur finance firm MD held on charge of duping investors||PUNE: The city police on Monday night arrested the managing director (MD) of a Kolhapur-based seed finance company and booked two of its woman directors and a constable on the charges of cheating and threatening depositors of lakhs of rupees by promising them attractive returns on investments. A police team carried out simultaneous searches at the head office of Shubh Trade Beej India Private Limited in Kolhapur and another establishment near Navale bridge in Pune and seized Rs51.5 lakh cash, an SUV, computers, hardware articles and documents, besides arresting the company’s MD, Abhijit Sawant (40). Nikhil Mirge (29), a builder from Nanded City, had lodged an FIR with the Sinhagad road police, accusing the company of duping him of Rs59.3 lakh. Four other investors have also come forward with their complaints. The police are estimating that the company, registered in Kolhapur nearly eight months ago, might have duped more than 500 investors. Apart from cheating, conspiracy and criminal intimidation, the police have invoked charges under the MPID Act, the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes Act and the Arms Act against the four persons booked so far. The police constable booked in the case had become friends with Sawant during his posting at the Sinhagad road police station. He is now posted with the Khadki police station. The police added that the constable was accused of threatening Mirge with a pistol and implicating him in false cases when the builder had visited Sawant’s office in the city on January 20 to seek refund of his investment. Mirge said in his FIR that after going through the company’s advertisement of schemes in various newspapers, websites and other platforms in July 2020, he had invested Rs63 lakh. Initially, the company gave him returns but later stopped paying. When contacted, Mirge told TOI, “I would not like to comment on the development as of now.” City police commissioner Amitabh Gupta, who had directed the simultaneous searches, said, “We have registered the offence of cheating and threatening against the company officials and the police constable. We will probe the case and the constable’s role will be explored further.” Senior inspectors Devidas Gheware and Shankar Salgar and their team from Sinhagad Road police carried out the searches at four locations in Kolhapur and Pune. The police said Mirge continued to demand money from Sawant, who had sent some men to his residence and damaged his car to threaten him into silence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kolhapur-finance-firm-md-heldon-charge-of-duping-investors/articleshow/80776450.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Vasai builder fakes his own abduction, traced in Vapi||MUMBAI: A small-time builder from Vasai who owed over Rs 80 lakh to prospective buyers staged his own abduction and was traced in Vapi, Gujarat. Valiv police tracked down Ramsajivan Pal (55) to a rented apartment in Vapi on Sunday and brought him back to Vasai. He was even working as a guard in a factory. On January 19, Ramsajivan left home saying he was going to the bank. But he called soon and informed his family that he had been abducted by unknown persons. A case of kidnapping was registered with the police. Ramsajivan built chawls in Vasai and a cheating case has been registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vasai-builder-fakes-his-own-abduction-traced-in-vapi/articleshow/80777595.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Puducherry||CM Narayanasamy to call on President to demand recall of Lt governor Bedi||PUDUCHERRY: Chief minister V Narayanasamy said on Tuesday that he would call on the President of India to urge him to recall lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi for “interfering in the day-to-day affairs of the elected government and stalling its welfare and development schemes”. He said boycotting assembly polls was being considered till statehood was accorded to Puducherry, but said a decision would be taken regarding poll boycott only after consulting the party high command. Addressing a press conference, Narayanasamy said he “personally” endorsed the call given by All India NR Congress founder-leader N Rangasamy to all political parties to boycott polls until the Centre conferred statehood to Puducherry. “But all political parties must come together and arrive at a consensus on the issue. We will consult the party high command before taking a decision,” Narayanasamy said. He said he would discuss the statehood issue with the party high command when he visits Delhi on Wednesday. He, along with welfare minister M Kandasamy, left for Delhi on Tuesday to call on the President on Wednesday. Former Lok Sabha MP M Ramadass also welcomed Rangasamy’s call to boycott polls demanding statehood and urged all political parties to consult their respective high commands and take a decision. Ramadass in a statement said the poll boycott would lead to a constitutional crisis, forcing the Union government to decide on conferring statehood. He pointed out that the Centre constituted a parliamentary standing committee on home affairs under the chairmanship of the then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj to decide on the statehood for Puducherry in 2005. The panel visited Puducherry in 2005, and held discussions with politicians, officials and others to elicit opinion on granting statehood. The committee recommended to the Centre to confer statehood to Puducherry. Ramadass said the demand for statehood must be transformed into a people’s movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/narayanasamy-to-call-on-prez-to-demand-recall-of-lt-guv-bedi/articleshow/80775068.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||It’s early February and Sakkardara lake has gone dry||Nagpur: A near-dry Sakkardara lake, one of the historic and major lakes of Nagpur, is an unusual sight in February. For the first time in its 200-year-old existence, the Sakkardara lake is almost dry. Usually the water level during February every year is 10-15 ft, said locals. “Generally, the water level reduces during May and June. But this time it was early,” said women from the Sonjhari community of gold scavengers, who are busy scavenging the lake for valuables. The lake, spread over 19 acres, can store water up to 30ft when filled to its maximum capacity. TOI on Tuesday visited the lake and found that at present the water has dried up with some patches having knee deep water. Given the present pace, the lake may dry up completely by February end or early March. Narendra Titarmare, a local resident, said the entire catchment of the lake has been encroached upon by slum dwellers. “Besides, the Nagpur Improvement Trust which owns the adjacent garden and lake ignored the lake for decades. Though it has entrusted a private contractor to maintain the garden and lake, the agency has completely ignored it,” he pointed out. Former MLA Sudhakar Kohale, who had got Rs8.50 crore sanction for the lake, blamed the present MVA government for the current status of the lake. The lake has historical significance to the city and as a result, “I tried to save it. After I got elected as MLA from this part of the city in 2014, I got funds sanctioned from the Devendra Fadnavis led state government for rejuvenation of the lake. But the present government has stopped the funds,” Kohale said. He, however, refused to comment why the present MLA Mohan Mate is not taking any interest to push the project. The state government had sanctioned Rs8.50 crore for the lake’s beautification work, which included construction of the side wall, jogging track and landscape. The work order was issued to one Jagdamba Jakapurkar firm and it had also started the work. Even a 22.5ft compound wall at the east side of the lake was also constructed. But with the change of government in the state, the sanctioned fund was withheld, said an official from Nehru Nagar zone resulting into stopping of the work. To a query, the officer clarified that the lake was dried up due to desilting of the lake work done some six months ago. Besides, a huge quantum of water was also drained out to pave way for the desilting work, he said. “This work has blocked the springs of the lake,” the officer admitted. He, however, claimed that more desilting work will be carried out in near future and this will definitely open the springs of the lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/its-early-february-and-sakkardara-lake-has-gone-dry/articleshow/80775082.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Water conservation must become way of life for every citizen||By- Kalpana RameshWater woes jeopardize the existence of millions of people around the world. our cities in India are soaring with issues – the climate is changing making cities prone to excessive rainfall and urban floods while on the contrary there is water shortage and pollution. Water has a connection with built heritage, culture as well as livelihoods. Rapid growth and urbanization have aggravated water issues and highlighted the dire need for water management. Around 70% of the groundwater sources are exhaustively overdrawn due to unregulated growth. Fresh water sources are reducing due to rapid urban expansion. With more than 60% of our sewage not being treated, effluent waste from industries etc. contribute to groundwater contamination. All of this collectively has had a destructive impact on our health. This needs to be addressed now. Traditionally, most Indian cities had developed an intricate system of harvesting rainwater through tanks and lakes. Urban water bodies served to soak up rainwater in the cities and were the primary sources of water supply. But with construction activity gaining momentum – post the 1970s in case of Hyderabad – these water management structures have lost their relevance. Worse, more than 50% are impermeable surfaces. The Blue Hyderabad campaign by The Rainwater Project has been launched to address this. It calls for collective action to build rainwater harvesting structures and improve groundwater levels in the city with lakes as the fulcrum. The project is built on the idea of conserving water to create sustainability for water while protecting natural resources from depletion. As part of this initiative, Hyderabad is divided into 98 watersheds. Water conservation efforts are being initiated in the heart of Hi-Tec City - the most densely populated area -- with support from local communities, government agencies, concerned citizens, religious institutions, students, academic institutions, NGOs, corporate groups and others. The project aims to reach out to all other basins in the city and eventually make Hyderabad water positive. Blue Hyderabad also aims to achieve water self-reliance through sustainable water management practices and help build water sustainable cities. It also inspires action driven awareness among communities/societies, students and volunteers to word around concepts of rainwater management and help implement them. The project that’s worked on revival of lakes and is now restoring an ancient stepwell – with participation from people across sections of society -- drives home one important message: that each one of us can together create a larger impact for water. Urban floods can be reduced with decentralised water management. We revere water in our religions; but we need to revere water in the environment around us too and help restore every water body around us with small steps which can catapult into a large restoration. Nothing is impossible if we make up our mind and contribute time towards the environment. It’s an investment for our future generations. In other words, water conservation is not a job that is reserved for scientists, hydrologists, foresters, wildlife managers, city planners, environmentalists or farmers. It is up to each and every one of us to conserve water. The trick is making water conservation a way of life and everyone’s business—not just something we think about once in a while. (The writer is founder, The Rainwater Project)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-conservation-must-become-way-of-life-for-every-citizen/articleshow/80776463.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||Rs 1 crore for saffron flag on Sinhagad fort||PUNE: The civic body has planned to spend Rs 1 crore on installing a saffron flag at Sinhagad fort. The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) gave its green signal for this expenditure at a meeting on Tuesday. Apart from the flag installation, around Rs74 lakh would be spent on the beautification of the entry gate to the fort and its surrounding areas. “The demand for funds for the flag was pending for long. It has been approved. Its civil work will start soon,” said Hemant Rasane, the chairman of the PMC standing committee. Rasane said the “project is a matter of pride and spirit”. In another decision, the PMC decided to spend around Rs22 crore on building a culvert on Ambil Odha. Rs 30 crore would be given to the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited to cover its losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-1-crore-for-saffron-flag-on-sinhagad-fort/articleshow/80776455.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 1.5 hectares of wetland cleared of huts||In a joint action by the police, salt pan, revenue department, Mangrove Conservation Cell and the BMC, around 450 illegal hutments on 1.5 hectares of mangrove land were cleared at Chheda Nagar, Chembur.  The action was taken following a complaint by the Mangrove Conservation Cell that mangrove land had been encroached upon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-5ha-of-wetland-cleared-of-huts/articleshow/80778039.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Vadodara||Withdrawals ahead of polls in Vadodara||Vadodara: A series of withdrawals of nominations for the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) took place Tuesday. Those who withdrew nominations include BJP rebels. Those who withdrew nominations include Bhavina Chauhan who had filed nominations as an independent rebelling against the BJP after the party gave ticket to an ‘outsider’ Shailesh Patil. Chauhan was seen as a single candidate propped by those who were disgruntled. The BJP also ensured that Ankit Rajwadi who had filed nomination as an independent withdrew from the race. He had decided to contest the polls as the VMC had removed vegetable vendors from the Tulsiwadi area. Kanti Patel from ward 10 and a candidate from the old city area withdrew candidatures in favour of the Congress. Kanti told media persons that he had done so as he did not want to work against the party. BJP claimed that in all nine persons withdrew nominations in its favour. A team of BJP members including office bearers of the city unit had been assigned the task of identifying candidates that could withdraw nominations and work on them. Stress was laid in particular on party rebels who could have damaged the prospects of BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/withdrawals-ahead-of-polls-in-vadodara/articleshow/80773653.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Rajkot||Married woman, paramour found hanging in cattle shed in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A young man and a woman, who were in love, allegedly ended their lives, as they could not get married despite several years of courtship. In fact, the parents of the woman, Kajal Sohla (21), had got her married to another man in Rajkot city a few months ago. However, she had returned home due to some marital discord. Sohla and her lover Jaideep Dangar (25) were found hanging near a cattle shed in Nani Amreli village of the adjoining Padadhari taluka on Tuesday morning. Dangar used to work at the cattle shed. Preliminary investigation revealed that the duo hailed from different castes and were sure that their parents wouldn’t agree to their marriage ever. As Dangar did not return home till late on Monday, his family went to the village searching for him and found the two bodies hanging from a tree. Dangar’s family initially did not recognize Sohla, but later they informed her parents too when they identified her. Parents of both the deceased told police they were not aware that Dangar and Sohla were in love for a long time. Sohla’s parents had not even realized when she had left home to take the extreme step. The duo’s bodies were sent for postmortem on Tuesday and a case of accidental death was registered at Paddhari police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/married-woman-paramour-found-hanging-in-cattle-shed/articleshow/80773822.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Farmers confused over crop loan waiver promise||TRICHY: Though the Tamil Nadu government has issued a notification on crop loan waiver as announced by the chief minister on the floor of the assembly on February 5, farmers say there is no clarity about who would benefit from the scheme. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami informed the state assembly that his government would waive Rs 12,110 crore crop loans given to 16.4 lakh farmers by cooperative societies. Following the CM’s announcement, a government order (GO) was issued for crop loan waiver on Monday. He seems to have made a hurried announcement and even the subsequent government order (GO) may have been issued without much home work as many questions remain unanswered for farmers, said secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers’ Protection Association Swamimalai S Vimalnathan. Farmers are a confused lot as there is no clarity as to which all categories of loans would be covered under the waiver scheme. Will all loans taken by farmers from cooperative banks be covered under the scheme or will only crop loans be waived? Will all gold loans taken by farmers be waived? It may be noted that there is a cap on banks giving agriculture gold loans at low rates of interest. Beyond a limit, gold loans won’t qualify for agricultural category. The government order, issued on February 8, seeks to cover all the outstanding loans as on January 31, this year. What if some farmers have fully or partially repaid loans between January 31 and February 5, when the CM announced the waiver? Will their money be reimbursed? Guidelines on the conversion of medium-term crop loan to short term loans are also not mentioned in the order, Vimalnathan further said quoting some of the officials who shared their views. The guidelines issued by the registrar of cooperatives on Monday specify a series of dos to be followed by the primary cooperative societies, beginning with identification of beneficiaries and their liabilities, adopting resolutions and forwarding them to joint registrars, who will verify their claims and recommend loan waiver. The list of beneficiaries would be displayed at primary cooperative societies inviting objections, if any. Benefits are subject to clearance by cooperative audit department. A separate committee is to be formed to look into objections. The state-level consolidated list is to be sent to the registrar of cooperative societies by February 15. With hardly six days remaining, how can officials verify more than 16 lakh loan accounts, involving Rs 12,110 crore is a question. The government’s rush is obviously to beat the model code of conduct, expected by March 1. There is also demand from farmers that those who have repaid loans, despite should not be omitted from the scheme. Their should be returned to them, said Vimalnathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/farmers-confused-over-crop-loan-waiver-promise/articleshow/80775083.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 10, 2021||Kochi||Ernakulam: Applicants have to wait long to get driving licence||KOCHI: People who are applying for driving licences with the Ernakulam regional transport office (RTO) will have to wait for at least three months to get their slot to undergo a driving test. According to the motor vehicles department (MVD), they are in the process of clearing the applications that were pending due to the lockdown and related restrictions. The department could resume driving tests only from September 14. Ernakulam RTO has received 21,925 applications for driving licences, including those for renewal, in 2020. The office issues more than 3,000 driving licences every month starting from October 2020 to 2021 so far in the Ernakulam RTO limit. Before the pandemic, less than 3,000 licences used to be issued from the office every month. As many as 3,502 driving licences were issued in 29 days in January this year. Motor vehicle inspectors are not allowed to conduct driving tests for more than 60 applications in a batch. Driving tests for two batches are being conducted daily, officials said “Earlier, applicants used to get slots in two days for conducting driving tests. Now, their wait continues for a minimum of three months and a lot of applications are getting accumulated in the RTO. This situation will remain for some more months until the pending applications are cleared. Following the restrictions, the applications for various purposes have come down in 2020 compared with 2019,” said a MVD official in Ernakulam RTO office. Inspectors under the Ernakulam RTO could carry out only 10,355 driving tests till December 31, 2020 against 16,133 in 2019. As many as 24,716 licences were issued last year against 30,265 in 2019. Though the applications have come down, traffic violations continue to remain unchanged. The enforcement wing has issued 2,755 check reports in Ernakulam for various traffic violations by motorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/applicants-have-to-wait-long-to-get-driving-licence/articleshow/80773875.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC denies bail to 2 accused in fake crypto currency case||MUMBAI: Bombay HC on Monday rejected the bail applications of two accused in a 2018 ‘fake crypto currency’ case in which 15,800 investors were duped of over Rs 113 crore through schemes such as ‘cryptozanania’.  “Evidence also suggests money invested…has been diverted in the companies established in Poland, England, Harju County, Dubai-UAE, Switzerland,” said the HC, observing the key accused is yet to be traced and the release of the duo may hamper further probe. Justice S K Shinde denied bail to Sachin Shelar, 43, and Taha Kazi, 26, saying, “It is unlikely that they are not beneficiaries of the amount siphoned off from 82 bank accounts of companies.” The duo, arrested in June 2018, is lodged at Thane jail. Police have sent 104 gadgets including phones, pen-drives and laptops for digital forensic audit, the report of which is awaited. “Once the report is received,” police may be able to trace the money trail, the HC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-denies-bail-to-2-accused-in-fake-crypto-currency-case/articleshow/80777155.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Farmers confused over crop loan waiver promise||TRICHY: Though the Tamil Nadu government has issued a notification on crop loan waiver as announced by the chief minister on the floor of the assembly on February 5, farmers say there is no clarity about who would benefit from the scheme. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami informed the state assembly that his government would waive Rs 12,110 crore crop loans given to 16.4 lakh farmers by cooperative societies. Following the CM’s announcement, a government order (GO) was issued for crop loan waiver on Monday. He seems to have made a hurried announcement and even the subsequent government order (GO) may have been issued without much home work as many questions remain unanswered for farmers, said secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers’ Protection Association Swamimalai S Vimalnathan. Farmers are a confused lot as there is no clarity as to which all categories of loans would be covered under the waiver scheme. Will all loans taken by farmers from cooperative banks be covered under the scheme or will only crop loans be waived? Will all gold loans taken by farmers be waived? It may be noted that there is a cap on banks giving agriculture gold loans at low rates of interest. Beyond a limit, gold loans won’t qualify for agricultural category. The government order, issued on February 8, seeks to cover all the outstanding loans as on January 31, this year. What if some farmers have fully or partially repaid loans between January 31 and February 5, when the CM announced the waiver? Will their money be reimbursed? Guidelines on the conversion of medium-term crop loan to short term loans are also not mentioned in the order, Vimalnathan further said quoting some of the officials who shared their views. The guidelines issued by the registrar of cooperatives on Monday specify a series of dos to be followed by the primary cooperative societies, beginning with identification of beneficiaries and their liabilities, adopting resolutions and forwarding them to joint registrars, who will verify their claims and recommend loan waiver. The list of beneficiaries would be displayed at primary cooperative societies inviting objections, if any. Benefits are subject to clearance by cooperative audit department. A separate committee is to be formed to look into objections. The state-level consolidated list is to be sent to the registrar of cooperative societies by February 15. With hardly six days remaining, how can officials verify more than 16 lakh loan accounts, involving Rs 12,110 crore is a question. The government’s rush is obviously to beat the model code of conduct, expected by March 1. There is also demand from farmers that those who have repaid loans, despite should not be omitted from the scheme. Their should be returned to them, said Vimalnathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-confused-over-crop-loan-waiver-promise/articleshow/80775083.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 10, 2021||Pune||Cops deploy 6 teams in Unawane murder case||PUNE: The Pimpri police on Monday registered an offence against four unknown persons for kidnapping and murdering chit fund business owner Anand Unawane. Unawane was kidnapped from Pimpri on February 3. His body was found near Mahad in Raigad district on Saturday (February 6). A case of murder has been registered with the Mahad MIDC police. Meanwhile, the Pimpri Chinchwad police have deployed six teams to trace the suspects. After Unawane went missing, his brother, ishnu, filed a missing person’s complaint with the Pimpri police on February 5. “During investigation, we came to know that around 10.15pm on February 3 four men pushed Unawane in the hatchback of a car,” a police officer said. Unawane’s body was found in the river at Mahad. “We have registered an offence under section 364 of the Indian Penal Code,” the officer said. Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner of police, Pimpri Chinchwad, told TOI, “Six teams of the Pimpri Chinchwad police are currently involved in the probe. We are working on some clues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-deploy-6-teams-in-unawane-murder-case/articleshow/80776457.cms||---
February 10, 2021||India||Send netas like Advani, Rajnath for talks: Tikait||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Naresh Tikait said ministers sent by the Centre for talks to end the deadlock over farm laws “did not talk much as they were under pressure”. He suggested that leaders like L K Advani, Rajnath Singh, Yogi Adityanath or former PM Manmohan Singh should come to the table for talks on the issue. The farmers’ union and the government, mostly represented by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, have so far held 11 rounds of talks to end the impasse over the three laws. All the meetings have remained inconclusive. “Bring Advani, Yogi (Adityanath) or Rajnath Singh to resolve the issue. Bring former PM Manmohan Singh to resolve the matter,” Tikait said in Muzaffarnagar’s Sisauli, his hometown, on Monday night. He also reiterated his stand that if the government doesn’t want to repeal the laws, it should put them on hold till 2024. “We are ready for a compromise. They should also take back the FIRs registered against the protesters,” Tikait added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/send-netas-like-advani-rajnath-for-talks-tikait/articleshow/80778034.cms||Mohd Dilshad
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||When the internet helped me make a new beginning||By - Yash KankariaLast year was our biggest teacher. It taught us how hurdles of nature can complicate our journey to success. The Covid-19 pandemic led to such a crucial turn of events that the whole world was in dire straits. But according to me, apart from causing distress, the pandemic also helped different sectors evolve with the assistance of digitalisation. The internet acted as the head honcho in this lockdown and transformed our work cultures into something very modern and technical. I started my lockdown journey just like others by binge-watching web shows, playing games and getting addicted to the unproductive side of the internet. After a month of being grounded due to the pandemic, I was casually observing the digital patterns of markets and how new opportunities were being created over the internet and it piqued my interest. Later, I was in a discussion with my friend about digitalisation which was the turning point for me, information about the worthwhile side of digital opportunities was the constant source of motivation for me. Then, I started learning affiliate marketing and digital marketing and got myself certified as a digital marketer but what good does it make if we don’t implement our knowledge somewhere. Living by Garrison Wynn’s words, “knowledge is not power, implementation is power” I started implementing my knowledge in productive means. I wrote an e-book on affiliate marketing and tried to reach audiences with the help of opportunities available online. Later, I had a burning desire to earn money at a young age and become financially independent, this is when I took a big step in my life. I had a few startups planned out and started hustling for it. I started up with a POD store and a digital marketing agency and the journey was beautiful. Then I got into content writing and now I’m hustling hard to make all my dreams come true by advancing my skills every day. A lot of people get demotivated by failures, they think success can be achieved overnight but it’s definitely not a piece of cake. I’ve faced a lot of failures myself in my startups but it helped me attain success by providing an immense amount of experience. Experience and the guts to never give up is all that matters! (The writer is an intermediate student)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/when-the-internet-helped-me-make-a-new-beginning/articleshow/80776490.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||Fatigued GMCH accused of diverting Covid samples, patients to IGGMCH||Nagpur: Excessive workload over the last 8 to 10 months seems to be taking a toll on Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) state level Viral Research Diagnotic Lab (VRDL) and dedicated Covid hospital staff. Of late, the GMCH has started diverting new Covid patients to IGGMCH while the lab officials too are reluctant to process Covid samples beyond a certain number. On an average, both the GMCH and IGGMCH labs are testing an average of 700 samples collected from different sources including primary health centres (PHCs) of NMC. Sources say the GMCH lab has become reluctant and diverting samples from its attached PHCs to IGGMCH, which has tested the maximum number of samples till date despite being a medical college level lab. The IGGMCH lab was the only lab for Covid testing for sometime before the government permitted other labs in the city and region. For refusing patients, the GMCH had been citing ‘fire audit’ as the reason for not further taking admissions. However, the audit has been completed and the administration is waiting for NOC from the fire department. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande told TOI only one such case came to his notice. “An asymptomatic patient had come. The patient was advised home isolation in the morning. Later, the patient developed fever and coughing in the evening. He was mistaken that GMCH didn’t admit him and then he directly went to IGGMCH,” he said. Dr Gawande added that GMCH hasn’t stopped admitting Covid patients. With the permission of the district collector, the GMCH had planned to shift all its Covid patients to IGGMCH for fire audit following the Bhandara fire tragedy. However, the plan was dropped following stiff opposition from IGGMCH. Officials said there were shortage of RTPCR kits led to the refusal. In the last seven days, GMCH has processed a whopping 4,023 samples while IGGMCH has done 2,840. Till February 7, GMCH had been running an average 650 samples a day. But in last two days, the figure came down to 201 on February 8 and 457 a day later. On Monday, the GMCH lab officials had returned samples collected from several PHCs and officials carried them from one lab to another for most part of the day. Ultimately, GMCH officials took them when other labs refused to take them. Surprisingly, the development comes in the wake of Central government team pulling up city authorities for failing to bring Covid cases down. Officials said when a medical college has become reluctant towards Covid, how can cases come down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fatigued-gmch-accused-of-diverting-covid-samples-patients-to-iggmch/articleshow/80775114.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Kya hua tera wada? talk was not made to walk||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad will be a “zero-waste city”, “slum-free city”, “smart city”, “green city”, with “budget-vegetable markets”, and fast “inter-modal transport hub” and to top it all a “next-gen Lal Darwaza bus station” — these slogans may now sound all too familiar now. These promises were made to be broken. Since the past five budgets, these promises have remained only on paper and in the last budget for the year 2020-21, the BJP expressed its determination to have the city free of air pollution, zero slum city and a better public transport. Times ViewEvery budget promise that the AMC makes is an assurance to citizens that the infrastructure boost will aid the city’s economy and improve the quality of life. But if these promises are broken frequently, citizens will lose faith in the local governance. It is time the AMC carries out a budget-promise audit and gets its act together.However, the party officials said that the 2020-2021 was the year in which the party could not up or allocate funds for the development work, but the leadership ensured that several projects were inaugurated and even work also began on these projects. The budget for the year 2016-17 has promised that the city will have an app known as ‘Amdavadi app’ which will help the citizen know what works were being done in their areas. The app promised in 2016-17 still eludes the residents and not even the website of the AMC gives out details of the projects taken up in the individual areas. The BJP in its budgets since 2016 promised a 24x7 water supply in three wards of the city, fibre optical network and an integration of BRTS and AMTS and even putting feeder buses for BRTS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kya-hua-tera-wada-talk-was-not-made-to-walk/articleshow/80775123.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata to bid for ‘City of Literature’ tag||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation and British Council have held preliminary talks on pitching Kolkata as a ‘City of Literature’ under the UNESCO Creative Cities Network (CCN) programme. “We believe Kolkata is uniquely placed to make a bid for the City of Literature tag,” said Firhad Hakim, chairman of the KMC board of administrators. CCN offers opportunities for cities to draw on peer learning processes and collaborative projects in order to capitalize on their creative assets and use this as a basis for building sustainable, inclusive and balanced development in economic, cultural, environmental and social terms. British Council had tried to put forward Kolkata’s bid in 2018, but the attempt failed due to lack of coordinated efforts. The pitch for the City of Literature, one of seven creative fields, has to be made from the office of the mayor and must be ratified by the Centre. Only four cities from a country can make a bid in any year. Among the various aspects that will be looked into are quality, quantity, and diversity of publishing in the city; educational programmes focusing on domestic or foreign literature at primary, secondary, and tertiary levels; role of literature, drama, and/or poetry in the city; literary events and festivals that promote domestic and foreign literature; existence of libraries, bookstores, and public or private cultural centres; involvement of the publishing sector in translating literary works from diverse national languages and foreign literature; and active involvement of traditional and new media in promoting literature and strengthening the market for literary products. Sources said that British Council, which is acting as a facilitator, wants Kolkata to adopt climate change as a theme to resonate with the UN’s emphasis on climate issues and because Kolkata is among the most vulnerable cities threatened with inundation due to rising sea level owing to climate change. “We believe Kolkata is uniquely placed for the honour. The city has produced five Nobel laureates and hosts the world’s largest commercial book fair,” a British Council official said. In addition, at least three literary festivals are annually held here. Five British cities — Edinburgh, Exeter, Manchester, Norwich and Nottingham — have bagged the honour. Other designated Cities of Literature include Barcelona, Dublin, Durban, Granada, Krakow, Lahore, Melbourne, Milan, Prague, Reykjavik and Seattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-to-bid-for-city-of-literature-tag/articleshow/80775101.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Trichy||Trichy: Colleges refuse fee refund to students opting out||TRICHY: Many students who chose to opt out of arts and science colleges in Trichy city have found to their dismay that the colleges are refusing to refund their fees. This was despite a guideline issued by University Grants Commission (UGC) directing colleges to refund the fee in the wake of the pandemic situation. R Aishwarya, 17, got admission to BSc Mathematics course in an arts and science college in July last year. Though she wanted to pursue engineering, she opted for BSc as she wasn’t sure about getting a seat in a reputed engineering college. She decided to try her luck with Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission (TNEA Online Counselling) 2020 in November and luckily got a seat. She wrote to the arts and science college seeking refund of Rs 11,000 as she had decided to join the engineering college. However, the college refused to refund the fee citing the fact that she had attended online classes. However, the UGC in its guidelines issued dated December 17 had asked colleges to give full refund of fee because of cancellation of admission or migration of students, considering the pandemic. This guideline was issued following several complaints from students who had taken admission in private and self-financing universities and deemed-to-be universities and later opted out for various reasons. Aishwarya’s father R Raguraman said the college refused to recognise the UGC order saying his daughter had benefited from the online classes conducted by the college. The college termed the demand for refund highly unjust in a written communication to him. It also said that they have to pay a part of the fee paid by students to Bharathidasan University to which the college is affiliated. The fee must be paid even in case the student has discontinued the course. Aishwarya is one among many students who have been denied refund by colleges refusing to comply with the norms. “But the irony is that even BDU claims to be unaware of such a guideline from UGC,” said Raguraman, who received a written reply from BDU. Regional joint director of collegiate education A Mekala said that colleges refuse to refund the money as the seat left vacant by an outgoing student in the middle of an academic year cannot be filled. As this is causing loss to the colleges, they refuse to refund the fee. “No doubt that UGC norms have to be followed. Action will be taken against colleges in case of getting written complaint from students and parents,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/colleges-refuse-fee-refund-to-students-opting-out/articleshow/80776500.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 10, 2021||Pune||PCB to send vehicle tax waiver plan to defence estates brass||PUNE: The general body of the Pune Cantonment Board on Tuesday decided to refer a proposal to exempt its contractor from making vehicle-entry tax (VET) deposits for the lockdown period, from April to June last year, to the Principal Director of Defence Estates. As per the original agreement, the contractor appointed was to deposit Rs1.40 crore in tax collections per month with PCB. However, with vehicular movement coming to a standstill during the lockdown, VET was not collected. The proposal came up for discussion at a time when the board is struggling to pay salaries to 350-odd employees. The term of this GB ends on Wednesday. A section of elected members were in favour of granting a waiver to the contractor. However, PCB chief executive Amit Kumar said the original agreement had no clause for such a waiver. The contractor — citing circumstances like restrictions on vehicular movement, partial opening of markets, P1/P2 norms, etc — deposited Rs85-90 lakh per month during the post-lockdown period from July. A team of PCB officials ratified these claims. The contractor has since urged PCB to treat this as the final monthly deposit considering the circumstances. The CEO again said the contract had no provision for this. Following this, the GB decided to refer the matter to the PDDE for a final opinion. Meanwhile a section of officials, who did not wish to be named, suggested that rather a waiver, the contractor should be given the option to pay the dues in instalments. “Private agencies don’t share their profits from VET collections with the board. Similarly, the board should not be burdened with any losses,” one official said. The board, in a bid to boost revenue, decided to convert free parking lots to pay-and-park facilities. Also, the board will now tax private buildings in its jurisdiction, where advertisement hoardings were installed without permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-send-vehicle-tax-waiver-plan-to-defence-estates-brass/articleshow/80776492.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Money, muscle power & liquor at play in Bar elections: Madras HC||CHENNAI: With corrupt practices such as communal, religious and political prejudice, besides money and muscle power in full display, election to lawyer associations and Bar Council is no different from general election, rued the Madras high court on Tuesday. “Due to such unavoidable corrupt practices, election process in our country has become a mockery,” a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice R Pongiappan said, adding that money and liquor are “generously offered” to prospective voters. The judges made the observation while setting aside a Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry order constituting a committee to conduct election to Salem Bar Association. “Sadly, our Bar leaders are not properly elected by following democratic process, without any malpractice. Present members of the so-called noble profession are readily selling their votes for money, liquor, foreign tours, etc., This is the practice in almost every election for association or bar council. One bar association election is the subject matter of this case,” the bench said. According to the petitioner V Madesh, a member of the Salem Bar Association, a senior member of the Salem bar was appointed election officer to conduct election for Salem Bar Association. The senior member had been conducting the election for the past three years. However, the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry passed orders dated January 3, 7 and 11 in 2019 appointing a seven-member committee to conduct the election. Challenging the validity of the appointment, the petitioner has moved the court. Allowing the plea, the bench set aside the constitution of the election committee and instead directed the senior member of Salem Bar appointed by the general body to conduct the election in accordance with rules on or before April 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/money-muscle-power-liquor-at-play-in-bar-elections-madras-hc/articleshow/80775135.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Temperature may rise from today in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The cold spell that Kolkatans have enjoyed so far may disappear soon. The Met officials have predicted that the mercury will start rising from Wednesday. By the weekend, both the day and might temperature can reach slightly above the normal mark, bringing an end to the long cold spell this winter. “The temperature will rise from Wednesday onwards. We expect the mercury to hover between 14 and 15 degrees in the next two days. By the weekend, the mercury may touch the 17°C-18°C-mark. Till Thursday, mornings could still be cold, but the weather may not be so pleasant during the day time,” said G K Das, director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Centre Kolkata. From 15.1°C on Monday, the minimum temperature dipped to 13.2°C, three notches below normal. Now the northwesterly wind that brings in the chill is slowly losing its pace. Even though Kolkatans can still get the winter feeling in the morning, the maximum temperature can shoot up by a degree above the normal mark by Wednesday, thus resulting in the disappearance of the chill during the day time. “Till Tuesday, the northwesterly wind was coming at a good speed but it is gradually losing its pace and this wind system will be replaced by the moist-laden hot westerly wind in the next few days. As we are heading towards mid-February, the mercury is expected to rise in our region,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/temp-may-rise-from-today/articleshow/80775091.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Teens are talking, are you listening?||In 2020, amid the noise of the pandemic, the ensuing lockdown, the shutting of schools, and the sudden upheaval of their lives as they knew it, some teens managed to collect their thoughts and find their voice. Then they did what most teens do — grabbed a pair of headphones and turned up the volume. Only it wasn’t to shut out the world, but to stream into it. Read the entire story on TOI+Teens are talking, are you listening?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/teens-are-talking-are-you-listening/articleshow/80775129.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||CM inaugurates and lays foundation stone of projects worth crores in Mussoorie||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday inaugurated several projects and laid the foundation stone of other projects for the Mussoorie assembly constituency on Tuesday. The total projects inaugurated and announced were worth over Rs 33 crore. The CM dedicated Rs 2.37 crore Beerpur bridge to the people. The projects for which the CM laid foundation stone include — Rs 4.13 crore for overhead tank and supply line, Rs 4.16 crore beautification of trenching ground, Rs 1.44 crore for tubewell as Kishan Nagar, Rs 92.03 lakh New Mitti Behdi, Rs 5 crore for road repair on Dehradun Kimdai route, Rs 4.54 crore for road repairs from Rajpur to Kuthalgate, Hathibadkala to Malsi, Purukul to Mansi, and from Jhadipani to Barlowganj. “Our government is dedicated towards development. We are focusing on each assembly constituency and development work is being carried out in a planned manner,” CM Rawat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-inaugurates-and-lays-foundation-stone-of-projects-worth-crores-in-mussoorie/articleshow/80773890.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 10, 2021||Trichy||Research scholar on sit-in protest against supervisor in BDU||TRICHY: A 24-year-old PhD scholar began a sit-in protest inside Bharathidasan University (BDU) campus on Tuesday seeking action against his supervisor for allegedly preventing him from carrying out research by engaging him in menial jobs. B Jeeva, who has been protesting in front of the chemistry laboratory, says he was victimised by his research guide V Thiagarajan, assistant professor of Chemistry department, for refusing to do his personal works.  Jeeva said his guide used to make him fill his water bottle and get photocopies taken from shops. “I was also asked to take classes for postgraduate students of the department apart from guiding them for final year research project. Since such works were affecting my research activities, I refused to do them which didn’t go well with him,” said Jeeva. Thiagarajan wrote to the university registrar in February last year expressing his wish to terminate Jeeva from his project for insubordination and “worst performance”. BDU Registrar G Gopinath said that a syndicate subcommittee which heard both sides has referred the matter to DST for a final decision since it is the funding authority. “We carried out talks with the student and even proposed to reinstate him. The head of the department served a letter in this regard. But he has refused to accept it and insist on taking action against the research supervisor,” said the registrar. Speaking to TOI, Thiagarajan refuted the allegations levelled by Jeeva and said he was terminated last year, but that he has been intentionally creating a ruckus to malign his reputation. Senior officials in the university said Jeeva did not show progress in the research work. Jeeva said the committee which carried out the inquiry, comprising staff from the university was biased and didn’t consider his opinion. He said he could not show progress as Thiagarajan denied him access to the laboratory and the required chemicals for his study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/research-scholar-on-sit-in-protest-against-supervisor-in-bdu/articleshow/80776503.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||20-year-old killed by friend, minor||A 20-year-old Ghansoli youth, Anil Shinde, who had gone missing on February 5, was found murdered with his partially decomposed body dumped in the mangroves near a cricket ground in the node on Monday night. The Rabale police have arrested two of his friends, including a minor from Nashik. They allegedly killed him over a love affair. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/20-year-old-killed-by-friend-minor/articleshow/80778041.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Women must use app while travelling alone’||Swati Lakra, Additional Director General of Police, Women Safety, answers queries from TOI readers about measures being taken by her team to make city roads safer for women, helplines available to those in distress and how it’s easier for women to join the police force nowWe hear about rape cases all the time. Do you think there is enough fear of the law among offenders? What is pulling back the government from taking stricter action against rapists? -- Lalith KumarRape is one of the most heinous crimes. It infringes on the personal safety, dignity and human rights of the survivor. The offender draws courage from the silence of the survivor. However, due to an increase in willingness to report, offenders do fear the legal repercussions. We already have very strict laws to address this issue and due to building the case with strong technical evidence, regular monitoring mechanisms, we have been getting several convictions in these cases ranging from life sentences and capital punishments also. A special taskforce has been formed in the Women Safety Wing which monitors the investigations of these rape cases to ensure proper investigation within the time lines as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court. The Bharosa centres are being set up in every district of Telangana in order to support such women and children who are victims of heinous offences. This centre aims to reduce the trauma and re- victimisation of the women who are sexually abused. Bharosa provides police, prosecution, medical, legal and psychotherapeutic counselling and rehabilitation services. The Bharosa Child friendly court which was setup in 2018 has been able to increase the conviction rate from less than 10% to 30% due to these interventions. We are working towards further increasing the rate of convictions. I would also like to mention here that the Hon’ble Supreme Court in one of its judgement has mentioned that “the Bharosa centre in Hyderabad can be used as a model for other One Stop Centres in the country” Safety of women travelling on city roads is a matter of serious concern. The number of incidents of eve teasing, indecent behaviour, making inappropriate advances are rising by the day. What measures are the Telangana police taking to make our roads safe for women? -- Parimala G TadasThe available crime statistics and various surveys conducted has placed Hyderabad among the safest and most liveable cities in the country when it comes to women safety. Being acutely aware of the need for enhancing women safety in public spaces, the State Police launched SHE Teams in 2014. These SHE Teams work incognito and nab such people who behave in an indecent manner with evidence and produce before the magistrate ensuring convictions. SHE Teams can be reached through multiple channels including WhatsApp, Social Media and Phone. In case of an emergency, please dial 100. In non-emergency situations, SHE Teams can be approached so that appropriate action may be taken to address issues. There is also an option in the Hawkeye mobile application by the name of Women Travel Made Safe. You are encouraged to use this when travelling alone so that in case of any emergency, appropriate help can be rendered at the shortest period of time. We are with you in ensuring safety for all women and children in Telangana. Women Safety Wing is a separate vertical in the state. All areas are covered by several patrol vehicles and also blue colts (two-wheeler motorcycles) to patrol the roads 24X7 to ensure that our roads are safe. CCTV cameras are also present on almost every stretch of the road. Therefore, any one indulging in inappropriate behaviour is bound to be caught. Women Safety Wing is a separate vertical in the police department which constantly creates awareness among citizens regarding various initiatives taken by the State Police and the work of SHE Teams throughout the state are also closely monitored here. Often when women are being harassed on the streets and they approach traffic cops, they refuse to help. In such cases, is there any specific helpline for women in distress? -- Sriram CAll police officers, irrespective of whether from Traffic or Law & Order are duty bound to come to the aid of a citizen in distress. The right step to take in case of a Police Emergency is to Dial 100, since it is empowered to mobilise and dispatch resources to meet an emergency need, and since all calls and post call action is tracked, this is a citizen’s best first option to exercise. The lane leading to St John's Junior College from St John's Church is very unsafe for women. There are not enough street-lights and those that are there do not work. We also see unscrupulous men hanging out there. Even during day-time it's risky for school children. Can you please address this? – MeghanaThank you for bringing this issue to my notice. I understand that a poorly lit road can make its commuters feel very unsafe. The concerned SHO- Tukaramgate PS has been advised to increase patrolling in this area. Additionally, the GHMC authorities are also being contacted to replace faulty lights and ensure that the dark spot is reduced in this area. We will also ensure that CCTV cameras are installed in the vicinity so that the monitoring can be done from the Police Stations. Would like to highlight the nuisance going on opposite Anmol Hotel, LIC Building bus stop, near Secretariat and near the petrol bunk. Every evening about 15 to 20 call girls wait here for customers. Men also stop their vehicles and don't even bother to look around and violate rules. Earlier complaints have failed to yield any result. Can you please look into this? -- Moses FrancisThe concerned Saifabad SHO has been contacted and I understand that the issue you have brought about is genuine. In the past, several cases have been booked in this area under the ITPA Act. There has also been some outreach and counselling activities conducted among the population with the aid of a reputed NGO. In light of your complaint, the concerned have been advised to increase patrolling by Mobile Units and Blue Colt Units. There have been a string of murders/assaults in Hyderabad, in broad daylight. In many cases even women have been grievously injured. Have the police beefed up its monitoring system post these incidents? -- Meenakshi SCrime statistics for the last three months compared with previous years’ crime numbers shows that murders involving women victims is only one-third of that of last year. Having said that, we are constantly improving the police surveillance systems to ensure that we reduce any possibility of such issues ever occurring. Towards this, Hyderabad, which is already among the top three cities withthe most number of surveillance cameras is further investing in setting up a world class centralized command and control centre. In addition to that, we are also strengthening the Dial 100 capabilities, increasing field strength by deputing newly recruited workforce into key surveillance positions etc. Citizens are requested to make use of the Dial 100 emergency response mechanism which we are continuously working towards improving. However, it is the continued support from citizens in terms of feedback, complaints and suggestions that enables us to further strengthen our systems and processes. We hear about SHE cabs and shuttle service being launched in the city, but never seen many on the roads. Are they only limited to some areas? How does one avail of them? - Dhanya LakshmananThere are currently eight SHE Shuttles operating in Cyberabad Commissionerate area and two in Rachakonda Commissionerate limits. These are exclusively deputed in the service of women employees in IT corridors free of cost. You can track a SHE Shuttle by downloading the Reach Safe app from play store. While 14 SHE Cabs were initially launched, currently, only a limited number of these are functioning and they are deputed at the airport. Additionally, the Women on Wheels initiative under the women & child welfare department also runs around four cabs. Since the numbers are low and most are deputed for specific purposes, I agree that these won’t be visible in many numbers on the road. Cases of domestic violence increased substantially during the lockdown. Apart from the economically weak, even women in middle class homes from Hyderabad suffered. But these women couldn’t reach out for help since they thought that all help centres are only for poor women. Is that true? If not, who can these women approach for help? -- Ananya ShankarYou are absolutely right about the increase in instances of domestic violence during lockdown. In fact, this has been observed as a global phenomenon with countries as diverse as the US and Ireland reporting similar trends. The lockdown has been specifically hard on women. In Hyderabad, for addressing the issue of domestic violence, we have counselling centres linked with women police stations as well as Sakhi Centres that are operated by women and child welfare department. These are agnostic to the economic status of the victim and should be equally used by all women. During the lockdown a domestic violence application was developed by the Women Safety Wing of Telangana State Police with an IVR System with a pool of expert counsellors who would handle cases telephonically which were diverted when required from Dial 100 calls. In case of a threat to personal safety Dial 100 should be contacted and in non-emergency situations, jurisdictional police station may be contacted for further support or 181 may be dialled. I live in a women’s PG in Somajiguda, which is within a residential apartment. Often times society members threaten to shut down the PG saying that such facilities are not allowed within gated communities. Is there a rule like that? Because if not, women like me should be made aware so that we can stop people from humiliating/threatening us like this. -- Sheetal KThe law regulating paying guest accommodation is enacted and enforced by the GHMC Act. The police have a limited role in this matter. However, in the matter of threatening, this is an offence under the IPC and legal action can be initiated. You are encouraged to make all concerned aware that such actions are unlawful and will entail police intervention. If it’s on commercial basis, it needs to get registered with GHMC. In the present case, it is all the more serious since you are a woman and your right to live in this city with pride and dignity is a fundamental right guaranteed by the constitution. In case of continued threats, please file a formal complaint with the jurisdictional Police Station. Is it more difficult for women to join the police force? What should they do (or train) to become capable of cracking this job? – Leena S S PIn fact, it is now easier for women to join the police force. With 50% of the population being women there is a requirement for at least 50% of women also in the police force. In fact, the Telangana Government has reserved 331/3% of all emerging vacancies for women candidates. Due to this during the recent recruitments, the number of women in the force has almost doubled. The State Police Service also offers reasonably good infrastructure and a positive work environment for women. To join the State Police Force, you can watch out for vacancy notifications and apply as and when they are published. Details of eligibility pertaining to past recruiting drives can be found out on https://www.tslprb.in/ . You can also join the Indian Police Service by clearing the Civil Service Examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/women-must-use-app-while-travelling-alone/articleshow/80776505.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cyber cell-bank coordination helps get back Rs 1.7 lakh from frauds||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Police has managed to stop transfer of huge amounts of money from accounts of potential victims to cyber crooks, thanks to some quick intervention by the banks and coordination by cyber cells. While Amrita Bhattacharya of Watgunge police station area got back Rs 1.1 lakh, Amit Kumar from Beniapukur prevented a loss of Rs 60,000 as they contacted cops immediately. “The cyber cell of Port division retrieved the entire amount that Bhattacharya had lost to the fraudsters who coaxed her to download a remote app,” DC (Port) Zafar Ajmal Kidwai tweeted on Monday evening. Kumar had alerted the local cops within 10 minutes of losing the money. Police said they communicated with the two banks and the e-wallet firms where the money was transferred through various official channels. “The money transferred to these banks and e wallets were frozen and later returned to the complainant,” explained an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyber-cell-bank-coordination-helps-get-back-rs-1-7l-from-frauds/articleshow/80775153.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Food delivery executives delivered me from certain death, recalls journalist||KOLKATA: Journalist Mayukh Ranjan Ghosh, who is recuperating from a critical injury that he had suffered in a bike accident on January 22, told his friends that he was alive only because two food delivery executives stepped forward to help him when no one else did. Ghosh lost his friend and colleague Soham Mullick in the accident near Lords crossing on Prince Anwar Shah Road. Ghosh recounted that he lay on the road with a fractured skull and a severely injured right eye for 30 minutes after the accident with no one stepping forward. He even dialled numbers of people he knew in important positions but no one responded. When all seemed lost, two youths — Subhasish Saha (23) and Dipak Lal Gupta (24) — arrived on the scene. Saha and Gupta are enlisted with food delivery aggregator Swiggy. Saha was on his way to deliver food from an outlet near South City Mall to a customer’s house at Manohar Pukur Road when he saw Ghosh and Mullick lying on the road. Gupta was returning home when he stopped at the accident site. “We saw one person lying still on the road and another with severe injuries to the head and face desperately seeking help with folded hands,” recounted Gupta, who dialled 102 for an ambulance around 4am before rushing to Jadavpur PS when there was no response. After the cops assured them an ambulance would reach the spot, he returned to the spot. As the minutes ticked by, the duo realised time was of essence and decided to stop a passing taxi and take the two to hospital. Two others — Paltu, who runs a local eatery, and Shanu, who has a tea stall in Lake Gardens, — accompanied them to help out with the immediate expenses as Saha and Gupta had only Rs 900 on them, of which Rs 800 was paid to the cabbie. Mayukh was admitted to SSKM before being shifted to the ICU at Institute of Neurosciences, Kolkata, a day later. Saha and Gupta were glad Ghosh was out of danger but rued that they couldn’t save Mullick. In February 2020, a similar incident occurred on the Lake Garden flyover around 3.20am. Saha saw the man on the road with a fractured skull. He rushed him to M R Bangur Hospital. But due to the intensity of the injury, the doctor him to take the victim to the SSKM trauma care centre that had just opened. After 17 days in ICU, the victim was reported to be out of danger. “It’s from that experience I decided to rush the duo to SSKM this time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/food-delivery-execs-delivered-me-from-certain-death-recalls-journo/articleshow/80775104.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘BJP offered us cash to withdraw’||Ahmedabad: A Congress candidate from Jodhpur ward, Manish Shah, claimed that BJP leaders offered them cash to withdraw their nomination. Shah claimed that one candidate of the Congress went missing last night. Manish Shah, the fourth Congress candidate from Jodhpur, claimed that BJP leaders offered huge sums of money to the other three Congress candidates, Nitesh Chavda, Jasi Vaghela and Bhagwati Patel. Shah said, “All of us four candidates were sitting together when BJP members came and offered us a large sum of money to withdraw our nominations. I was not offered the money as BJP leaders know I am committed to the Congress. The BJP members then told the other three to accompany them and said they would allow them to go once they withdrew their nominations. However, all four refused and stated that they were committed and did not want to make any deal.” Shah claimed that after this incident, Chavda went missing but returned later. Congress MLA Gyasuddin Shaikh in a letter to the state election commission said that city police were threatening independent candidates from Dariapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-offered-us-cash-to-withdraw/articleshow/80775184.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Trichy||6 teenagers employed as labourers rescued from Trichy shops||TRICHY: Six teenagers, who were employed as labourers in Trichy, were rescued by a team of officials during an inspection on Tuesday. The boys, aged 15 to 17 years were employed in two-wheeler mechanic shops, radiator service centre and an optical shop in Othakadai area. The joint inspection was carried out by members from the labour department, anti-child trafficking unit (ACTU), national child labour project (NCLP) and Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA). Programme manager of child labour elimination and effective rehabilitation society (CHEERS), S Gowtham of Trichy said the inspection was part of the pledge against the abolition of bonded labourers and the ‘Operation Smile’ drive that is going on from February 1 to 15. Gowtham said the rescued boys were school dropouts. Few cited their loss of interest in education as the reason for taking up the jobs. One boy stated that the drinking habit of his father and his responsibility to earn for his family was the reason for taking up the job. “One boy was working for two years and others completed around one year or a bit more in the shops,” he said. The boys were being paid Rs100 for 12 hours per day. BBA state coordinator H Natharsha Malim said that that he lodged a complaint with the Palakkarai and Cantonment police stations. “Though the laws are stringent, lack of enforcement affects the rehabilitation measures. If police register cases against the employers, only then legal action can be taken and compensation can be made available to the victims,” Malim said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6-teenagers-employed-as-labourers-rescued-from-trichy-shops/articleshow/80776514.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Khedawala not to resign as MLA||Ahmedabad: Congress MLA from Khadia-Jamalpur Imran Khedawala, who had submitted his resignation as MLA to the party high command on Monday, withdrew it on Tuesday following an assurance given by the party to look into his grievances. Khedawala had resigned in protest when the party offered tickets to two candidates in addition to the four he had recommended for Behrampura ward in Ahmedabad city. “I had taken time from assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi to meet him and submit my resignation. But, Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee president Amitbhai Chavda told me in the morning not to do anything in haste.” “I assured the chief that I will not do anything against the interest of the party,” Khedawala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/khedawala-not-to-resign-as-mla/articleshow/80775189.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: New govt arts colleges reopen for first year students sans subject teachers||CHENNAI: After months of online classes, thousands of first year students finally entered college campuses for in-person classes on Monday. But for 2,000 students in 10 new government arts and science colleges, in-person classes began without subject teachers and in some cases without any furniture too. Ramar, a BComm student in one of the colleges, said the institution just took attendance the first two days and no classes were held. After months of attending online classes at neighbouring colleges, Ramar, like many of his peers, was looking forward to in-person classes. “We thought that offline classes would be better than online classes, but the first two days were disappointing,” he said. Pothum Ponnu, another student, said her college told students that teachers would be appointed by next Monday. “One faculty member gave orientation,” she said. While students were able to still learn something with online classes, with reopening, these classes have come to a halt, a student said. As of Tuesday, the six new colleges in Rishivandiyam in Villupuram district, Ranipet, Sankarankovil in Tenkasi district and Srivilliputhur in Virudhunagar district, Tharangambadi in Karur district and Kuthalam in Nagapattinam district have just one faculty member per college. The other colleges have two or three faculty members, a far cry from the allotted 17 teaching posts per college. “I am the only faculty member in my college. I have to open the college and put out chairs for students and take attendance and give orientation. It was really difficult to manage more than 200 students all by myself,” said a faculty member in charge of one of the new colleges. The faculty member rented chairs for 10 days as there was no furniture in the college. Some new colleges postponed semester exams expecting more faculty members. “But, there is no change in terms of faculty members and infrastructure. We have to prepare the students for upcoming semester exams. The government can depute some faculty members or appoint guest lecturers to help rural students,” another faculty member said. Sources in the higher education department said the directorate of collegiate education is in the process of transferring faculty members to the new colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-govt-arts-colleges-reopen-for-1st-yr-students-sans-subject-teachers/articleshow/80775194.cms||A Ragu Raman
February 10, 2021||Coimbatore||1.79 lakh people vaccinated in Tamil Nadu: Minister||TRICHY: Saying that the health staff will be administered Covid-19 vaccine for only the next two days, health minister C Vijaya Baskar has asked them to get vaccinated at the earliest. He said as many as 1.79 lakh frontline workers have been vaccinated in the state so far with 8,000-10,000 people taking the shots on a daily basis. He was attending a vaccination drive at Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital where district collector P Uma Maheswari and district superintendent of police L Balaji Saravanan took the shots on Tuesday. The state received 12.34 lakh doses of vaccine so far and more doses are expected to arrive. “Widespread awareness campaign has helped 1.74 lakh people take vaccine shots in the state so far. Apprehension among people on a new vaccine is usual. That’s the reason why I also took the vaccine shot to create awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1-79l-people-vaccinated-in-state-min/articleshow/80781123.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Salem||1.79 lakh people vaccinated in Tamil Nadu: Minister||TRICHY: Saying that the health staff will be administered Covid-19 vaccine for only the next two days, health minister C Vijaya Baskar has asked them to get vaccinated at the earliest. He said as many as 1.79 lakh frontline workers have been vaccinated in the state so far with 8,000-10,000 people taking the shots on a daily basis. He was attending a vaccination drive at Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital where district collector P Uma Maheswari and district superintendent of police L Balaji Saravanan took the shots on Tuesday. The state received 12.34 lakh doses of vaccine so far and more doses are expected to arrive. “Widespread awareness campaign has helped 1.74 lakh people take vaccine shots in the state so far. Apprehension among people on a new vaccine is usual. That’s the reason why I also took the vaccine shot to create awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/1-79l-people-vaccinated-in-state-min/articleshow/80781128.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Trichy||1.79 lakh people vaccinated in Tamil Nadu: Minister||TRICHY: Saying that the health staff will be administered Covid-19 vaccine for only the next two days, health minister C Vijaya Baskar has asked them to get vaccinated at the earliest. He said as many as 1.79 lakh frontline workers have been vaccinated in the state so far with 8,000-10,000 people taking the shots on a daily basis. He was attending a vaccination drive at Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital where district collector P Uma Maheswari and district superintendent of police L Balaji Saravanan took the shots on Tuesday. The state received 12.34 lakh doses of vaccine so far and more doses are expected to arrive. “Widespread awareness campaign has helped 1.74 lakh people take vaccine shots in the state so far. Apprehension among people on a new vaccine is usual. That’s the reason why I also took the vaccine shot to create awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1-79l-people-vaccinated-in-state-min/articleshow/80776529.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Erode||1.79 lakh people vaccinated in Tamil Nadu: Minister||TRICHY: Saying that the health staff will be administered Covid-19 vaccine for only the next two days, health minister C Vijaya Baskar has asked them to get vaccinated at the earliest. He said as many as 1.79 lakh frontline workers have been vaccinated in the state so far with 8,000-10,000 people taking the shots on a daily basis. He was attending a vaccination drive at Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital where district collector P Uma Maheswari and district superintendent of police L Balaji Saravanan took the shots on Tuesday. The state received 12.34 lakh doses of vaccine so far and more doses are expected to arrive. “Widespread awareness campaign has helped 1.74 lakh people take vaccine shots in the state so far. Apprehension among people on a new vaccine is usual. That’s the reason why I also took the vaccine shot to create awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/1-79l-people-vaccinated-in-state-min/articleshow/80781124.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Madurai||1.79 lakh people vaccinated in Tamil Nadu: Minister||TRICHY: Saying that the health staff will be administered Covid-19 vaccine for only the next two days, health minister C Vijaya Baskar has asked them to get vaccinated at the earliest. He said as many as 1.79 lakh frontline workers have been vaccinated in the state so far with 8,000-10,000 people taking the shots on a daily basis. He was attending a vaccination drive at Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital where district collector P Uma Maheswari and district superintendent of police L Balaji Saravanan took the shots on Tuesday. The state received 12.34 lakh doses of vaccine so far and more doses are expected to arrive. “Widespread awareness campaign has helped 1.74 lakh people take vaccine shots in the state so far. Apprehension among people on a new vaccine is usual. That’s the reason why I also took the vaccine shot to create awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1-79l-people-vaccinated-in-state-min/articleshow/80781126.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||Five months on, Covid ambulance owners still unpaid||Nagpur: School van and ambulance owners have accused the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) of holding back their dues since they were roped in July, just when the city witnessed the peak of Covid-19. The NMC had enrolled 10 private ambulances for round the clock service in each of its 10 zones. Later, 25 school vans were also converted into ambulances with the permission of Regional Transport Office (RTO). These were hired at a flat rate of Rs1,600 per day including fuel, drivers pay and other services. Each van had two drivers in two shifts. Hemant (name changed), one of the owners, said he had attached his ambulance on July 28. “Mine was among the first 10 vans to be attached from July 28. On August 26, a testing camp was held in the zone for all. Unfortunately, I tested positive. I was sent in quarantine at MLA Hostel. When I returned, I came to know that my ambulance was de-boarded without any explanation and my dues were held back,” he said. Like many others, Hemant had submitted a bill of around Rs50,000 for his services over a period of 30 days. Till date, the dues remain to be cleared. “All sorts of reason like money is yet to be received by the zone, bill is yet to be cleared and what not are given to us. Last Monday, I met the officials again. They said that now we will be paid after the NMC budget,” he said. While Hemant’s dues are fairly meagre, there are some to whom the NMC owes several lakhs. Another owner Ramesh (name changed) said he and his family are facing a lot of problems in daily sustenance. “I live on rent. How do I explain to my landlord. We have borrowed a lot of money. Already, the income was down and the pending dues are making it more difficult,” he said, adding that his bill is worth over Rs5lakh. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI that he will look into the issue. “They will be paid,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/five-months-on-covid-ambulance-owners-still-unpaid/articleshow/80775159.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Six from Rane camp in BJP join Shiv Sena at CM bungalow||MUMBAI: The BJP has received a major setback in Maharashtra’s Konkan region, with six BJP corporators and party workers — all supporters of party MP Narayan Rane — joining the Shiv Sena in the presence of party president and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday evening. The induction happened at Varsha bungalow, the chief minister’s official residence. Uday Samant, guardian minister of the district, was present on the occasion. Talking to the media, he said that the corporators had joined the Shiv Sena for the development of the district. He said that chief minister Thackeray welcomed all the corporators and wished them well. He said the government had sanctioned a Rs 14 crore water supply scheme for the Vaibhavwadi council. The major development comes two days after Union home minister Amit Shah inaugurated the medical college run by BJP MP Narayan Rane in Sindhudurg district. While reacting to the corporators’ move, BJP MLA and Narayan Rane’s son Nitesh said that these corporators were a “Valentine’s Day gift” to the Shiv Sena as the latter “had been our love of yesteryears”. Nitesh, on Tuesday, released a video on Twitter saying: “It is said that yesteryear’s love should not be forgotten and that Sena is our love of yesteryears.” The BJP MLA said: “When Rane Saheb (Narayan Rane) called Uddhavji to sign a routine file related to setting up of the medical college, he (Uddhav Thackeray) had responded positively and signed the file. We are aware that he will not accept anything from us in return. So, we are sending corporators to thank them on the occasion of Valentine’s Day and they should accept them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/six-from-rane-camp-in-bjp-join-sena-at-cm-bungalow/articleshow/80777608.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||Met predicts overcast sky in disaster-hit Tapovan, light snow & rains in higher terrains of Chamoli||Dehradun: Higher terrains of disaster-hit Chamoli district in Uttarakhand are likely to receive light rain and snowfall in the next 24 hours starting Tuesday night, the meteorological department said here. But Chamoli’s Tapovan area, where the rescue operation to save 34 workers is going on, is unlikely to receive showers, the weatherman said, giving some relief to hundreds of workers fighting their way through the sludge and rocks into a tunnel to pull out people stuck there. But the Tapovan area is likely to witness an overcast sky, said Rohit Thapliyal, senior meteorologist at the regional meteorological department. Clear weather conditions are vital for the rescue operation to continue in full flow and rainfall, if occurs at all, can hamper or slow down the operation, a senior police official told TOI. According to the forecast, high altitude areas of Chamoli district are likely to receive 15.5mm rainfall and snowfall during the next 24-hours starting from February 9 night. “There is a feeble western disturbance which is passing over the western Himalayan region. As a result, light rain and snowfall can occur at higher reaches of Chamoli, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Bageshwar and Pithoragarh district,” Thapliyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/met-predicts-overcast-sky-in-disaster-hit-tapovan-light-snow-rains-in-higher-terrains-of-chamoli/articleshow/80773905.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||796 candidates in battle for 191 Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation seats, BJP wins Naranpura||AHMEDABAD: A total of 796 candidates will contest for the 191 Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation seats. The BJP candidate from Naranpura was declared winner after her rival Congress candidate withdrew her candidature on Tuesday. On Monday, nominations of Congress candidates from Sardarnagar and Thakkarbapanagar were rejected. Bhartiben Panchal from Vastral and Chandrikaben Raval from Naranpura withdrew their nominations on Tuesday, reducing the number of Congress candidates to 188. The BJP had candidates on each of the 192 seats. Of the top five wards where the number of candidates was high, three are minority-dominated wards of Gomtipur, Maktampura and Behrampura. Of the bottom five wards with lowest candidates, four are from the western parts of the city. Bahujan Samaj Party has fielded 54 candidates, while Aam Aadmi Party had fielded candidates on 158 seats. The number of independents in the fray is 102 and other smaller parties have fielded 89 candidates. The official said that Naranpura seat is reserved for women candidates from where BJP candidate Brindaben Surti has been declared winner. All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) had fielded it candidates on 20 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/796-candidates-in-battle-for-191-seats-bjp-wins-naranpura/articleshow/80775271.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||Forest dept to set up rapid response teams||Pune: The local forest department has partnered with NGOs, such as RESQ, to train and equip rapid response animal rescue teams. The 10-week long and six-module course includes a three-day intensive training and drills programme. Officials and guards from all forest ranges in the district will participate in the programme. A statement said the rapid response teams will have dedicated office space, equipment such as tranquiliser guns, rescue nets, barricades and a dedicated rescue van. Also in the pipeline is a dedicated phone number. The move follows a botched rescue of a gaur in December, in which the animal died. “The first gaur rescue incident was extremely unfortunate, but it was also a wake-up call,” RESQ president Neha Panchamia said. A precursor to this programme was crucial in the handling of a second incident of a gaur straying into human habitation in late December. “Few officials and NGOs are trained for such situations. After the first gaur incident, RESQ organized training to ensure stakeholders know their role in a conflict,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/forest-dept-to-set-up-rapid-response-teams/articleshow/80775208.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Plea in HC challenges compulsory mask rule||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court was moved on Tuesday against the rule mandating the wearing of masks and the lawyer requested the judges for an early hearing of the issue. Advocate Girish Das requested an early hearing on the issue. He submitted that the state government’s notification issued in June 2020 making the wearing of masks in public places mandatory has been challenged in his petition. The lawyer submitted that the notification making it mandatory to wear a mask in public places is against the law and against the guidelines issued by the World Health Organization (WHO). He argued further that wearing of masks is compulsory where one-metre of distance between two individuals cannot be maintained. When this is observed, there is no need to wear a mask, he submitted. On hearing this, Chief Justice Vikram Nath rejected the request for a early hearing and commented that the court would hear the matter in 2024. He also said that the court would hear the petition and the petitioner should be ready for the costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plea-in-hc-challenges-compulsory-mask-rule/articleshow/80775269.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Trichy||Trichy: Residents slam traders’ opposition to land acquisition for NH service roads||TRICHY: Even as the land acquisition process for the long-pending service lanes for Trichy -Thanjavur national highway has gained pace, traders on the stretch where service roads have been sanctioned have raised a new demand. Claiming that the land acquisition for service lanes will impact their business and livelihood, the association of traders have sought an elevated highway instead of the service road. However, the move by the traders have not gone down well with the residents of Palpannai and Thiruverumbur who have been waiting for the services lanes to come up for long. The demand for service roads for the 14.5 km stretch between Palpannai and Thuvakudi on Trichy-Thanjavur NH has been on since 2014. Meanwhile, after several legal interventions, the NHAI through district revenue department published the notification to acquire 1.5 lakh sq m of land for the service lanes in November 2020. Claiming that service lanes would not prevent accidents on the stretch, traders said that hawkers would continue to encroach the service lanes and unauthorised parking would thrive. “Service roads will not resolve any issues, but an elevated corridor will decongest the stretch,” said, Ve Govindarajalu, state general secretary, Tamilnadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu. “Protests will be held to sanction adequate sum to expedite the land acquisition,” S Sakthivel, organiser, Federation for Retrieval of Trichy-Palpannai-Thuvakudi Service Road, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-slam-traders-opposition-to-land-acquisition-for-nh-service-roads/articleshow/80776563.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Govt to pay Rs 5L to kin of custodial torture victim||Chennai: State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) directed the Tamil Nadu government to pay compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the family of a man who died of injuries allegedly caused due to custodial torture by the Sivaganga district police in June 2013. Police said the deceased, Kumar alias Kokki Kumar, was involved in the murder of sub-inspector Alwin Sudhan. Sudhan was killed in an attack on policemen during Maruthupandiar Jayanthi on October 27, 2012. At least 13 people were arrested in connection with the attack within a fortnight. Kumar, 26, of Avarangadu near Tirupachethi was a close friend of M Prabhu and Bharathi,, who were among other accused in the case and were gunned down by police on November 30, 2012. Kumar’s father Pandimuthu moved the commission saying a police team dragged his son out of the house and attacked him using iron rods and cricket stumps. In response, police maintained that Kumar resisted arrest in a different case and then attempted to attack policemen. When he tried to escape, he fell on a hard surface and sustained injuries, the said. Later after his arrest, Kumar developed health complications and was declared dead on arrival at Government Rajaji hospital, Madurai. The commission directed its investigation division to submit a report on the matter. In April 2015, the SP of Sivaganga district submitted a report stating that Kumar had died due to multiple injuries caused by the policemen. After perusing the submissions, the commission held that that there was violation of human rights and directed the government to recover the compensation from the five officers, including DSP Velladurai, involved. The commission also recommended disciplinary action against the officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-to-pay-rs-5l-to-kin-of-custodial-torture-victim/articleshow/80775237.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu govt vehicles ignore HC bar, continue to sport bull bars||TRICHY: A month after regional transport office (RTO) officials started cracking the whip against the installation of illegal crash guards in vehicles following a directive from the Madras high court, government vehicles in Trichy continue to flaunt them. Crash guards or bull bars fitted in front of the vehicles were undermining the proper working of airbags and also posing a threat to pedestrians and two-wheeler riders. Following the court directive in December 2020, the Trichy East, Trichy West and Srirangam RTOs had so far removed crash guards from around 250 vehicles. “The court directive applies to all vehicles with crash guards. A notification insisting all vehicles to remove them is yet to be released by the RTOs,” P Aiyarappan, a road safety activist said. The crash guards also enable a provision for the vehicle owners to fit additional high beam lights and loud horns that cause more inconvenience to fellow vehicle users. Although the owners can be penalised up to Rs 500 as per the Motor Vehicle Act, RTOs are only making them remove the guards. “The drive to remove the crash guards is continuing. We will insist the government employees to abide by the court order,” a senior official with the Trichy RTO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-vehicles-ignore-hc-bar-continue-to-sport-bull-bars/articleshow/80776544.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||Covid cases down, GMCH again having drugs, kits shortage||Nagpur: As soon as the Covid-19 case-load reduced in the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), the old problems have started resurfacing. The hospital is facing acute shortage of the gloves and some common medicines, complained resident doctors. Generally residents are first to interact with patients’ relatives in GMCs. As many medicines are not available, they have to convey it to the patients’ relatives and ask them to purchase medicines from market. Most patients who visit the GMCH are from poor families and do not have money to buy medicines. While some manage to do so, others may express their anger, residents fear. Shortage of hand gloves in medical college could be even dangerous. GMCH performs at least 25 emergency surgeries on patients coming from distant places. As resident doctors ask patients’ relatives to bring hand gloves before starting surgery, some presume doctors are deliberately delaying surgeries for minor things like hand gloves. “Resident doctors have to face patients’ anger. This may result in some untoward incident in future. So, we raised this issue in videoconferencing with the DMER chief,” said Dr Arpit Dhakate of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) president at GMCH. The video conferencing was held on Sunday. Dr T P Lahane, director of medical education and research of state, assured the medicines supply will resume in two weeks. “This crisis is being faced by other medical colleges too. It is a state-level issue and will be resolved,” he said. Medicines and surgical items required for state-run hospitals are procured through Haffkine Bio Pharmaceutical Corporation Ltd (HBPCL). GMCs get funds for the medicine procurement but they have to deposit 90% of the funds with Haffkine. Only 10% can be spent on local purchase. Doctors stated that both government hospitals in Nagpur are still to receive a big chunk of funds and they are relying on 10% local purchase which has resulted in shortage of many commonly used medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-cases-down-gmch-again-having-drugs-kits-shortage/articleshow/80775228.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||5 cases of cancer among cops, kin||Five cases of cancer and several instances of pre-cancers were diagnosed among the police force and their families as part of screenings conducted by the Tata Memorial Hospital and Tata Trusts. Over 10,830 police personnel from Mumbai have been screened for common cancers as part of the project. These cops have started availing treatment at the Tata Hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-cases-of-cancer-among-cops-kin/articleshow/80778042.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Trichy||Srirangam Yatri Nivas to reopen from today||TRICHY: The Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department has planned to reopen the Yatri Nivas on Kollidam flood bank road, a guest house facility for devotees visiting the Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam from Wednesday after around 11 months. HR&CE officials said that devotees can use the official website of the Srirangam temple to book the rooms online. A section of rooms will also be available for those arriving in person. The facility, with cottages, dormitory and separate rooms which can accommodate up to 1,000 people at a time was closed in March 2020 post the outbreak of Covid-19. Though the temple had reopened in September, the facility remained shut. As several requests were made to reopen the centre, the HR&CE on Tuesday said that all the rooms in Yatri Nivas shall be available from Wednesday. “Several rounds of sanitation and disinfection processes were carried out. It is completely safe for pilgrims to stay in our facility. The centre was periodically cleaned for the past few months,” an official with the HR&CE department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/srirangam-yatri-nivas-to-reopen-from-today/articleshow/80776587.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Kochi||Kerala PSC row snowballing, more protests across Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Tuesday witnessed more protests on the PSC rank lists row and the regularisation of contract employees in various departments. A section of protesting youths demanding extension of the PSC civil police officer rank list in front of the Secretariat scaled a nearby multi-storeyed building and threatened to jump from there. The youths figure in the CPO rank list that came into force in July 2019, in which SFI activists Nazim, Siva Renjith and Pranav had topped allegedly through malpractices. The rank holders had launched the agitation on Monday. Four youths scaled the three-storeyed building around 5pm, following which more police officers and fire and rescue personnel were rushed to the spot. Senior officers negotiated with them from the ground while a few officers climbed the building and overpowered them and brought them down. They were taken to the City Armed Reserve Camp and booked under charges of unlawful assembly and trespass. Later in the night, Youth Congress activists took out a protest march to the Secretariat in protest against the arrests. Police used water cannons to disperse them. Vinayak, one of the rank holders, said their rank list based on exam conducted in 2017 was stayed for four months owing to the crime branch case against SFI activists who allegedly used smartwatches and phones to cheat in the exam. Three more months were lost due to the pandemic-related lockdown while the rank list expired in June 2020. ‘’The government extended 493 rank lists during the lockdown but it refused to hear our pleas for the same," Vinayak said, adding that the PSC chairman had told them that only the government had discretionary powers to extend the rank lists. Meanwhile, in Kannur, those included in PSC last grade rank list conducted a 'shayana pradakshinam' in front of the district collectorate. Police used water cannons to disperse Fraternity Movement activists who took out a protest march to Kozhikode collectorate.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/psc-row-snowballing-more-protests-across-state/articleshow/80778426.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Goa||Goa to resume work on pending infra projects: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: At a review meeting with the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) on Tuesday, chief minister Pramod Sawant decided to go ahead with pending projects such as the construction of hospitals and road infrastructure. Sawant told reporters that the meeting was called to decide on the projects that were stalled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the government would take up construction of a superspecialty hospital, dental college and projects of the Goa Medical College on priority. He also said projects that have been 70% completed so far will be taken up. “We reviewed the projects that could be completed by December 19 and discussed how funds would be provided,” the chief minister said and added that the status of ongoing central government projects were discussed and instructions to complete them were issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-state-to-resume-work-on-pending-infra-projects/articleshow/80776598.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Here’s to bookmarking through the pandemic||The year 2017 was the first time Tiruvannamalai-based Thannaram Publications took part at the Chennai Book Fair. The young company works to promote books on environmental conservation, Gandhian ideology and conscious parenting. And over the 13 days at the fair, it bagged a large number of orders despite the niche themes it works with.Last year following the pandemic, several book fairs across the state — including Madurai, Erode and Neyveli —were cancelled, and for publishers like Thannaram, what this meant was not just a dip in business, but a lost opportunity to network, which is instrumental for their growth.To bridge this gap, young, small-time publishing houses in the state have come up with innovative public engagement programmes. Many of them lead up to February 24, when, much to their relief, the Booksellers and Publishers Association of South India (BAPASI), has finally scheduled the Chennai Book Fair."After the lockdown, we decided to make free copies of close to 300 of our books available on our website — all originally priced between `400 and `450. They included social activist Krishnammal Jagannathan’s autobiography and Jeyamohan’s book of short stories, ‘Yaanai Doctor’ (The Elephant Doctor)," says a team member of Thannaram.Following the cancellation of physical events, the team also upped its scanty online presence by organising virtual discussions on their books and authors on literary groups. "We also looked for people who — after reading some of our books — brought about meaningful changes like going sustainable, and did short videos of their testimony," says the team member. "We work out of a sustainable, service-based community in Tiruvannamalai. Since our inception, we hadn’t even made ourselves available on Kindle. Now, we’re using every online medium in our reach." Many times, a book fair that draws up to a lakh footfalls a day is a platform to tap into newer readers. In a physical stall, authors make themselves available for interactions and the publishers have the opportunity to incite interest and curiosity among visitors.With all this gone, the only way to reach out to readers is by going to them, realised Chaeyan Brothers, the siblings originally from Alanganallur, Madurai. The writer-publisher brothers, Chandru and Karthikeyan, first set up a stall on a stone bench on the foothills of Annamalai Hills in Tiruvannamalai. Soon after, they transformed their Royal Enfield Thunderbird into a mobile bookstore that over the last four months, has covered the Tiruvannamalai, Trichy, Madurai, and is now touring Chennai.The brothers have set up their mobile bookshop everywhere from highway motels where they stop for tea, to a beach ride to watch the moonrise in Besant Nagar. "It started as a means to cope, but we have sold more than ever," says Chandru. "More importantly it has opened up to us a new world of patrons. We had sadhus in Tiruvannamalai buy from us and transwomen at the Marina engage in discussions on social evolution — which is the theme of our second book. It has given us more stories to take home."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/heres-to-bookmarking-through-the-pandemic/articleshow/80775256.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Developers to halt construction for a day||Ahmedabad:A slew of developers across Gujarat will keep their construction sites shut, suspending operations for a day on February 12. The decision has been taken by Builders’ Association of India (BAI) to protest the artificial hike in raw material prices. “The prices of steel, cement and diesel have skyrocketed, which are of key use on construction sites. There is an unbearable price rise in these commodities making construction activity a challenge. As a mark of protest, builders would put up banners citing the hike in price of raw materials and also keep construction activity at sites suspended,” mentions a statement issued by BAI. The protest has also been supported by members of Gujarat Institute of Housing and Estate Developers (GIHED)-CREDAI, Gujarat Contractors’ Association (GCA) and Association of Consulting Civil Engineers, Ahmedabad centre and other developer bodies. The protest and demonstration will be held as part of a nationwide call. Developers have termed the rise in prices of steel and cement as unjustified and artificial. BAI has sought that a Cement and Steel Regulatory Authority is formed to address price concerns cropping up from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/developers-to-halt-construction-for-a-day/articleshow/80775262.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala PSC row snowballing, more protests across Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Tuesday witnessed more protests on the PSC rank lists row and the regularisation of contract employees in various departments. A section of protesting youths demanding extension of the PSC civil police officer rank list in front of the Secretariat scaled a nearby multi-storeyed building and threatened to jump from there. The youths figure in the CPO rank list that came into force in July 2019, in which SFI activists Nazim, Siva Renjith and Pranav had topped allegedly through malpractices. The rank holders had launched the agitation on Monday. Four youths scaled the three-storeyed building around 5pm, following which more police officers and fire and rescue personnel were rushed to the spot. Senior officers negotiated with them from the ground while a few officers climbed the building and overpowered them and brought them down. They were taken to the City Armed Reserve Camp and booked under charges of unlawful assembly and trespass. Later in the night, Youth Congress activists took out a protest march to the Secretariat in protest against the arrests. Police used water cannons to disperse them. Vinayak, one of the rank holders, said their rank list based on exam conducted in 2017 was stayed for four months owing to the crime branch case against SFI activists who allegedly used smartwatches and phones to cheat in the exam. Three more months were lost due to the pandemic-related lockdown while the rank list expired in June 2020. ‘’The government extended 493 rank lists during the lockdown but it refused to hear our pleas for the same," Vinayak said, adding that the PSC chairman had told them that only the government had discretionary powers to extend the rank lists. Meanwhile, in Kannur, those included in PSC last grade rank list conducted a 'shayana pradakshinam' in front of the district collectorate. Police used water cannons to disperse Fraternity Movement activists who took out a protest march to Kozhikode collectorate.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/psc-row-snowballing-more-protests-across-state/articleshow/80785469.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu tops among big states in utilising central smart city funds||CHENNAI: Though smart cities in Tamil Nadu may not be topping the charts, the state is the best performer among bigger states as far as utilisation of Union government funds is concerned. Data tabled in Parliament shows that TN had utilised 97% of the Rs 3,189 crore allotted to it by the Centre. According to a senior bureaucrat, fund utilisation is a reasonable metric to indicate the pace of progress and implementation of projects. “The state government pitches in with an equal amount of funds as per the agreement,” the official added. In comparison, Gujarat has used 95% of allotted funds, while Rajasthan has utilised 94%, Karnataka 91%, Uttar Pradesh 87% and Maharashtra 87%. Jharkhand is the only state which scores higher in terms of this metric, but it has only one smart city project, compared to Tamil Nadu’s 11. Smart city projects are underway in Chennai, Coimbatore, Erode, Madurai, Salem, Thanjavur, Tuticorin, Trichy, Tirunelveli, Tiruppur and Vellore. As per official data, TN has completed 167 projects totalling to Rs 2,873crore, while work orders for 310 projects worth Rs 12,986 crore have been issued. Tenders have been floated for 20 schemes worth Rs 488.3 crore. Though Chennai started a year late, the administration has caught up with others and even overtaken some, Raj Cherubal, CEO of Chennai Smart City Limited, told TOI. “Expenditure is a measure of projects moving forward from concepts to execution and completion,” he said. According to officials, some smart cities have gotten stuck at project approval or detailed project report stage and are unable to tender out projects and show utilisation. In Chennai, the smart city projects nearing completion include the multi-level car park in T Nagar. The next major project is the intelligent traffic management system, which will cost around Rs 900crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-tops-among-big-states-in-utilising-central-smart-city-funds/articleshow/80775272.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Kolhapur||Hawkers threaten to shut down vegetable markets across Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: City-based hawkers have threatened to shut down vegetable markets if the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) goes ahead with its plan of taking action against illegal hawkers. Meanwhile, the KMC has again postponed the action of evicting the illegal hawkers who set up their stalls within the 100-m radius of Mahalaxmi temple. The work to mark the restricted zone and hawking zone is also going on. In hawking zone, separate markings are being made for each hawker in a box pattern to carry out the business. Civic chief Kadambari Balkawade has asked the anti-encroachment department officials to first complete markings and then decide how many hawkers can be accommodated in the hawking zone. Pandit Pawar, head of the anti-encroachment department, said, “As per our primary estimate, most of the hawkers from 100-m radius of the temple can be accommodated in the permitted zone where hundreds of hawkers are already carrying out their businesses. The hawkers are adamant to move to the permitted zones of the approaching roads of the temple. We have asked for police bandobast to start the drive. Also, with election-related works going on, we are also facing shortage of staff to carry out drive.” Other than the threat, the hawkers are also planning to move court to get stay over the proposed action. Samir Nadaf, a hawker and activist from Mahalaxmi temple area, said, “We sat down with the lawyers for last two days. The action proposed is illegal as the civic chief or anyone in the KMC does not have the sole authority to initiate the action to evict the hawkers. It is the work of the town vending committee which is yet to be formed. We have been receiving support from several associations across the city and associations of hawkers from vegetable markets are one of them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/hawkers-threaten-to-shut-down-vegetable-markets-across-city/articleshow/80773147.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Webinar on music and spirituality||The Mumbai University’s department of music, in collaboration with Renaissance Universal (RU) & Renaissance Artists and Writers Association (RAWA), has organized a webinar on Music, Spirituality and Contemplations of Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar at 10.30am on February 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/webinar-on-music-and-spirituality/articleshow/80778047.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||Tiger killed in territorial fight in TATR buffer||Chandrapur: An adult tiger was killed in a territorial fight in the agriculture fields near village Arjuni under Moharli (buffer) range of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve. Autopsy examination has confirmed the death was due to severe bleeding from multiple injuries in a territorial fight with another tiger, said CCF, TATR, Jitendra Ramgaonkar. The dead body of the severely injured tiger was found on the farm of one Namdeo Kite, just 200 meters from Bhanuskhindi Protected forest of TATR. Officials identified the tiger as T40 on the basis of record available with tiger reserve. Ramgaokar claimed that there were fresh injuries suffered in a territorial fight between two adult male tigers. “The incident of territorial fight has been corroborated by villagers and members of primary response team of Arjuni village, who were monitoring the area since early morning,” he said. Officials informed that the tiger was a three-year-old male. There were injury marks on the neck, face and hind legs of the dead tiger. Sources said there were two deep puncture wounds on the neck, which had lead to puncturing of trachea of tiger. Profuse bleeding from the wound led to its tiger, the vets involved in the post mortem have inferred. Sources informed that foresters have begun intense search operation to locate the other tiger involved, suspecting it might also have sustained equally severe injuries. This is the second death of a tiger in Chandrapur and eight in the country this year. The post mortem was carried out by a team of veterinary doctors comprising Dr Ravikant Khobragade, Dr Kundan Podchelwar and Dr Rahul Shendre. Honorary wildlife warden Bandu Dhotre and wildlife activist Mukesh Bhandakkar were present as representative of NTCA and PCCF respectively. Senior officials including deputy director (buffer) G Guruprasad, deputy director (core) and Nandkishor Kale were present. The dead body of the tiger was incinerated at the spot in the presence of witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-killed-in-territorial-fight-in-tatr-buffer/articleshow/80775266.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 10, 2021||Trichy||Farmers confused over govt’s crop loan waiver promise||Trichy: Though the Tamil Nadu government has issued a notification on crop loan waiver as announced by the chief minister on the floor of the assembly on February 5, farmers say they are a confused lot as there is no clarity as to who all would benefit from the scheme.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami informed the assembly that his government would waive Rs 12,110 crore crop loans given to 16.4 lakh farmers by cooperative societies. Following the CM’s announcement, a government order (GO) was issued for crop loan waiver on Monday. The CM seems to have made a hurried announcement and even the subsequent government order (GO) may have been issued without much home work as many questions remain unanswered for farmers, said secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers’ Protection Association, Swamimalai S VimalnathanFarmers are a confused lot as there is no clarity as to which all categories of loans would be covered under the waiver scheme. Will all loans taken by farmers from cooperative banks be covered under the scheme or will only crop loans be waived? Will all gold loans taken by farmers be waived? It may be noted that there is a cap on banks giving agriculture gold loans at low rates of interest. Beyond a limit, gold loans won’t qualify for agricultural category.The GO issued on February 8 seeks to cover all the outstanding loans as on January 31 this year. What if some farmers have fully or partially repaid loans between January 31 and February 5, when the CM announced the waiver? Will their money be reimbursed? Guidelines on the conversion of medium-term crop loan to short term loans are also not mentioned in the order, Vimalnathan further said quoting officials who shared their views.The guidelines issued by the registrar of cooperatives on Monday specify a series of dos to be followed by the primary cooperative societies, beginning with identification of beneficiaries and their liabilities, adopting resolutions and forwarding them to joint registrars, who will verify their claims and recommend for loan waiver. The list of beneficiaries would be displayed at primary cooperative societies inviting objections, if any. Benefits are subject to clearance by cooperative audit department. A separate committee is to be formed to look into the objections. The state-level consolidated list is to be sent to the registrar of cooperative societies by February 15. With hardly six days remaining, how can the officials complete multiple levels of verification of more than 16 lakh loan accounts, involving Rs 12,110 crore is a pertinent question. The rush by the government is obviously to beat the model code of conduct, expected by March 1.There is also a demand from farmers that those who have promptly repaid loans, despite the pandemic and financial crunch, should not be omitted from the scheme. The money such farmers have remitted should be returned to them, said Vimalnathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-confused-over-govts-crop-loan-waiver-promise/articleshow/80776600.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 10, 2021||Ludhiana||BJP counters Cong, mayor on garbage collection project||Ludhiana: The issue of a private company, A2Z, quitting the door-to-door garbage collection project seems to have given new lease of life to the BJP, which has been under constant attack from the Congress on the farmers’ laws issue. A press conference was organised by the party leadership at its Ludhiana head office on Tuesday, which was presided over by its district president Pushpinder Singhal. Launching an all-out attack against the congress and mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, BJP district president Singhal said, “A2Z company has quit the contract of door-to-door collection of garbage from the city due to which reports of garbage piling in some parts of the city due to this are coming in and this problem will get more serious in the coming days. It is very shocking that the mayor, Balkar Singh Sandhu, has woken up from his ‘Kumbhkarni’ sleep after one and half months when the company had informed the municipal corporation that it was going to quit the work in the first week of February. It is a big failure of the mayor as hundreds of tonnes of garbage gets accumulated daily and the company which has the contract of lifting the garbage conveys it in advance that it is going to quit, but still he did nothing to counter the problem, which has ensued now.” Singhal added that, “I want to ask the mayor that who will be responsible for the outbreak of any epidemic due to piling of garbage heaps in the city due to non-management of the garbage after the company responsible for doing so has backed out. Being head of the councillors, the mayor should have acted swiftly and called for a house meeting and taken suggestions of the councillors. But instead, he preferred to remain silent and kept everyone in the dark about it. Moreover, there are reports that A2Z company was not working properly. If this was the case, then its contract should have been terminated long back. The entire chain of events stinks of a conspiracy by some people linked to the ruling party and the matter needs to be thoroughly probed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-counters-cong-mayor-on-garbage-collection-project/articleshow/80773945.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Rajkot||Cops don tribal attire to nab accused||RAJKOT: They are usually seen donning the khakis, but cops from local crime branch of Porbandar police recently tried on the tribal attire of shirt and ‘langot’ to nab a murder case accused from Alirajpur district of Madhya Pradesh. LCB sleuths had received information that the accused Parsingh, who was absconding for the last three years, was hiding at his native place in Bayda village. A team was sent to the neighbouring state to get him back. But when policemen reached Parsingh’s village, they did not know his house and on inquiring the locals would have tipped off the accused. So the cops camped in the village for two days wearing the tribal attire so that they could mix among with the locals. The unusual exercise paid off on Tuesday when police found Parsingh in his house. When questioned, Parsingh admitted to his involvement in the 2018 murder case of Bagvadar police station, but also told cops that he had committed robberies and burglaries in area falling under the jurisdiction of Tankara police station in Morbi, Gondal City and Gondal Taluka police stations. Madhya Pradesh police too had booked him in 2012 and 2017 for a robbery and assault case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-don-tribal-attire-to-nab-accused/articleshow/80773947.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Goa||Goa CM assures solution to 70% of water woes by March 31||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who reviewed water supply to each taluka on Tuesday, said the state is facing a shortage of 76MLD (million litres per day). To bridge the shortfall, he said water would be drawn from mining pits and rural water supply schemes and that by March 31, at least 70% of the issue would be resolved. Goa’s total requirement is 589MLD but only 513MLD is presently supplied, the chief minister said. A micro-plan to cater to Bardez’s water needs is expected to be finalised in eight days. The taluka will receive an additional 10MLD of water, of which 5MLD will be supplied from the Porvorim water treatment plant and the rest from rural schemes, Sawant, who met with officials of various departments, said. Science and technology minister Michael Lobo said the government has taken steps to resolve the water shortage across the state even as he assured to meet with the PWD every week over water supply to Bardez. He further said that while it requires 90MLD, it receives only 67MLD. “There is a 27MLD water shortage in the taluka. Work on new 15MLD water treatment plant at Porvorim is nearing its final stages. A March 30 deadline has been set for it to treat and supply 5MLD to Porvorim. Some can be diverted to the Siolim or Calangute constituencies,” he said and added that there is a demand for the establishment of a 15MLD water treatment plant atop the Saligao plateau specifically for the Calangute constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-assures-solution-to-70-of-water-woes-by-march-31/articleshow/80776694.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Ludhiana||Bizmen question project report on Buddha Nullah rejuvenation||Ludhiana: Controversy around the Rs 650 crore Buddah Nallah rejuvenation project does not seem to die down. On Tuesday, several businessmen led by Tarun Jain Bawa, president of Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association, organised a press conference regarding this project and claimed that some officials were misguiding chief minister Amarinder Singh. Giving reference of a report of an engineering college, they claimed that the estimation of the nullah’s study of flow rate of water had been wrongly projected in the report approved by the government. Bawa once again reiterated his stand that his association could get this project completed at half the cost. Bawa said that, “Rs 650 crore is going to be spent on the project of rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah undertaken by our CM. It has been observed that there were some ambiguities as well as recklessness on the part of the administration in response to which me and other businessmen have been protesting over a prolonged period of time. On Tuesday, a report, which has been prepared by the Testing and Consultancy Cell of the Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) on the expenses of manufacturing industry and trade associations, has been brought forward, which brings forth enlightenment on the project and this must be brought to the notice of the people of Ludhiana.” Bawa added that, “There is a huge difference between reports on the study of flow rate of water prepared by PMIDC (Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company) and testing and consultancy cell of GNDEC. The difference in estimation of the nullah’s study of flow rate of water calculated by both bodies is so immense that the dream project of its rejuvenation of our CM will come under a lot of questions. The report on study of flow rate of water prepared by GNDEC elaborates that the discharge water level of the nullah to be cleaned is approximately 2,000 MLD as compared to the study of flow rate of water report prepared by PMIDC, which is approximately 700 MLD. This explains less compatibility of the project estimation report prepared.” Bawa further said, “If the rejuvenation project of Buddha Nullah is not carried out without proper surveillance, then the desired results won’t be achieved after such a huge expenditure of public funds. Furthermore, there are huge design flaws in the project regarding pipeline foundation and many more, as proposed by the government recognised bodies. The cost of the rejuvenation project has been estimated at Rs 650 crore and the project tender has been allotted for Rs 519 crore. We have provided a quotation regarding the same tender to the administration at a much lesser price through a private cell of Rs 325 crore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-question-project-report-on-buddha-nullah-rejuvenation/articleshow/80773959.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Trichy||Assets of Sasikala kin confiscated in Thanjavur||THANJAVUR: A notification has been issued by the Thanjavur district administration to confiscate three assets belonging to V N Sudhagaran and J Ilavarasi, relatives of expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala. Collector M Govinda Rao on Tuesday issued the order attaching properties measuring 12,766sqft (survey number 3077), 13,174sqft (survey number 3079) and 604sqft (survey number 3078) located at VOC Nagar 1st Street in Thanjavur city, belonging to V N Sudhagaran and J Ilavarasi, partners of Lex Property Development (P) Limited. The collector in a statement said the action was in compliance with the Supreme Court order issued in 2017. It may be recalled that the Tamil Nadu government had confiscated six assets belonging to the two of them including six grounds and 1,081sqft land at Wallace Garden in Nungambakkam and additional buildings on February 7. The Chengalpet collector on Monday notified the confiscation of six properties owned by these two within the district limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/assets-of-sasi-kin-confiscated-in-thanjavur/articleshow/80776632.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||In 14 days, 1,290 Covid vaccine doses went waste; zero in two pvt hosps||Nagpur: Wastage of Covid-19 vaccine doses has continued in the city despite two private hospitals setting a model for ensuring zero wastage. Enough vaccine for 1,290 persons has gone waste in the city in 14 days since vaccination began on January 16. As per civic body’s data, 10,340 doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants working in hospitals run by the civic body, government and private institutions were given vaccination at 20 centres till February 4. In all, 1,105 vials consisting of 11,630 doses were utilized at these centres. Thus, 1,290 doses had gone unused. It amounts to 11.09% of total. As reported by TOI earlier, the wastage of doses has continued to be high at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) which is the only centre in the city for Covaxin. Each vial of Covaxin has 20 doses. Covishield has been supplied to 18 centres. Each vial of this vaccine contains 10 doses. In these 14 days, 999 HCW were vaccinated at GMCH for which 58 Covaxin vials were utilized. Number of doses used was 1,160 or 161 (13.88%) doses went waste. At 18 other centres, 1,047 vials containing 10,470 doses were utilized. They vaccinated 9,341 HCWs. Thus, 1,129 (10.78%) doses went waste. Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI) developed its own model to avoid wastage. In 10 days of vaccination there, OCHRI did not waste a single dose while vaccinating 1,190 HCWs. Director of OCHRI Dr Anup Marar told TOI, “We continue vaccination of scheduled HCW from the NMC from 9am to 2pm. Then, we go for on-the-spot scheduling of registered HCWs with permission from NMC. We invite interested HCW and get them vaccinated in case some doses remain in vial after 4pm. Centre closes at 5pm. If two or three HCWs turn up at the centre after 4pm for on-the-spot scheduling, we ask them to come next day and avoid opening a new vial of 10 doses. Each dose matters as entire world had seen the severity of the pandemic.” Alexis Hospital had also ensured zero wastage in eight days and vaccinated 785. The hospital created a record of sorts. As per infectious disease specialist from the hospital Dr Nitin Shinde, each vial of Covishield has some extra quantity over 10 doses. The hospital is utilizing that to create extra doses. The state government had allowed wastage upto 10%. City’s wastage in 14 days was 11.09%. NMC officials said, “Any wastage above permissible limit of government would be investigated. We are initiating measures to minimize wastage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-14-days-1290-covid-vaccine-doses-went-waste-zero-in-two-pvt-hosps/articleshow/80775282.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 10, 2021||Ludhiana||5 Cong councillors take on MC commissioner, civic body||Ludhiana: In what can be termed as embarrassment for the ruling Congress, five councillors of the party led by Congress leader Kamaljit Singh Karwal have opened a front against municipal commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and the municipal corporation as well. The delegation had gone to meet Sabharwal on Tuesday on the issue of notices sent by the MC to hundreds of shopkeepers on violations of change of land use (CLU), failing to comply with would result in sealing of the property. The Congress leaders alleged that instead of giving them a proper hearing, Sabharwal asked them to hurry up and gave very casual response to them on the serious issue, which they had gone to apprise him about. Owing to his attitude they walked out of the meeting and said would complain to the chief minister against him. They have also warned MC officials that no shop will be allowed to be sealed and in case any official tries to do this, he will be dealt with seriously. Giving more information, Karwal said, “The behaviour of MC commissioner was very shocking as five councillors had gone with me to raise a very sensitive issue, ignoring which could cost businessmen their livelihood. During the meeting he was in his full attitude and tried to show his ‘afsarshahi’ to us because of which we walked out. He totally disrespected the democratically elected public representatives and we will report this matter to the chief minister and demand his transfer from here. As far as the matter of CLU notices is concerned, it is sheer harassment of hundreds of businessmen who have been sent these notices as during these times of economic crisis, where from will they bring money to pay for the CLU charges. But now, when the MC commissioner has shown his attitude and stand of the MC is also clear, we dare him and other officials to seal even a single shop now. We will not let this happen at any cost and any official trying to seal a shop will be dealt with accordingly.” According to Jaswinder Singh Thukral, husband of councillor of ward number 39, “We had gone to meet the commissioner only after taking appointment from him, but in the meeting he showed strange behaviour and did not listen to our problem attentively at all and kept asking us to hurry up. This is not a way to deal with the elected representatives, and that too of the ruling party. Moreover, when the issue is so serious that livelihood of hundreds of shopkeepers is at stake and MC officials have already started sealing the shops of innocent businessmen, who were unable to respond to their notices in three days time. We had gone there only to chalk out a way to solve this problem, like allowing affected businessmen to pay these charges in instalments or deferring the notices. After coming to know about this kind of behaviour meted to us by the MC commissioner, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu met us and has assured that he would get the problem of CLU notices resolved and also ensure that the MC started the scheme of payment in instalments.” Meanwhile, the MC commissioner could not be contacted for his take on this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-cong-councillors-take-on-mc-commissioner-civic-body/articleshow/80773975.cms||Mohit Behl
February 10, 2021||Aurangabad||Man with alleged links to terror outfit arrested in Nanded||AURANGABAD: A man with suspected links to Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF), a banned terror outfit, was arrested in Nanded city of Maharashtra and taken to Punjab on a transit remand on Sunday afternoon. Police officers said on Tuesday that the suspect, Gurpinder Singh (37), was rounded up from the vicinity of Punjab Bhavan, near the Nanded tehsil office, but the development was kept under wraps as he had to be taken to Punjab. “The Punjab police’s special operation cell, intelligence wing (CID), members of anti-terrorism squad and Nanded police’s LCB conducted a joint operation for about 48 hours before zeroing in on the suspect,” said the officers. “There was a JMFC warrant in an Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act case against the suspect and our local crime branch team helped them track and arrest him,” Nanded superintendent of police Pradipkumar Shewale told TOI. When contacted, Punjab special operation cell’s senior inspector, Jaswinder Singh, who led the Punjab police’s multiple teams, said that a terror suspect had revealed, under interrogation in December last year, Gurpinder’s name. “We placed it on record before the court, which issued a warrant against him,” he said. “A Nanded court gave us transit remand of the accused,” added Singh. An FIR was registered under UAPA, along with sections of the Indian Arms Act, by Punjab’s special operation cell having police station in Amritsar on December 19, 2020, naming four suspects, three of whom have been arrested while another is in Belgium. The FIR states: “The (arrested) suspects — Sarabjit Singh alias Kirat, Amandeep Sing alias Bhinder and Gurdeep Singh alias Baghi — are active members of Khalistan Zindabad Force and were conspiring to commit terrorist activities in Punjab. “They are in touch with Belgium-based KZF terrorist Jagdish Singh alias Bhoora, who is motivating and facilitating them by arranging funds from different countries, procurement of weapons and asked them to recruit people to carry out terror activities. “These suspects have already acquired arms and ammunition and were planning to carry out targeted killings of leaders of Hindu organisations and people who are against the Khalistani ideology, to disturb communal harmony and law and order in the state of Punjab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-with-alleged-links-to-terror-outfit-arrested-in-nanded/articleshow/80773170.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur division records lowest Covid vaccination turnout of 41% on Tuesday||NAGPUR: The Nagpur division on Tuesday recorded its lowest single-day Covid-19 vaccination turnout at 40.74%, since the launch of the programme on January 16. The office of deputy director of health services said 2,526 health care workers (HCW) and front-line workers (FLW), out of 6,200 target, turned up for the inoculation in five districts on Tuesday. The turnout was highest in FLW. As against target of 3,100, 1,356 (43.74%) took the jab. Only 1,170 (37.74%) of targeted 3,100 HCW turned up for the inoculation. Actual turnout will be lower than 40.74%. The turnout is being calculated as per target of 100 per centre. But scheduling of 120-200 HCW and FLW per centre is being done. There was no vaccination in Chandrapur district for regular immunization of children on Tuesday. Also, number of centres was reduced from 79 to 62 in remaining five districts where vaccination happened on Tuesday. Vaccination was not conducted in 17 centres probably for regular immunization of children. Before this, lowest turnout was 54.39% on February 8. Highest achievement of 102.35% was registered in the division on January 23. The turnout in city was lower than average of the division. Only 558 (31%) of targeted 1,800 HCW and FLW took the jab. It will be lower if calculated as per scheduled HCW and FLW. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has increased number of vaccination centres for FLW from three to seven on Tuesday. Still only 245 (35%) of targeted 700 turned up. In HCW, turnout was 28.45% as 313 of targeted 1,100 took the jab. The officials told TOI, “First schedule of registered HCW is over. Majority of HCW are not coming for vaccination in second schedule. Lowest turnout has continued in FLW,” they said. The average achievement of the state was 47.25% on Tuesday. In Amravati division, 2,332 HCW and FLW took the jab in four districts. There was no vaccination in Buldhana district. Thus, 4,858 HCW and FLW were vaccinated in Vidarbha on Tuesday. Total number of vaccinated HCW and FLW increased to 1,10,226 in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-div-records-lowest-covid-vaccination-turnout-of-41-on-tue/articleshow/80775328.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Pallavaram municipality is dumping raw sewage into lake again: Residents||CHENNAI: Even as a case is pending before the National Green Tribunal, activists of Kovilambakkam panchayat union caught on camera the Pallavaram municipality discharging raw untreated sewage into the Keelkatalai lake surplus channel from the Keelkatalai sewage pumping station. Two large hoses were laid out for to transfer the raw sewage and the dumping has been on for more than a month, the union said, adding that a complaint has been registered with the CM cell and with concerned authorities. Putheri lake in Pallavaram municipality flows into the Keelkattalai lake and the channel then enters Kovilambakkam and ends at Pallikaranai. “Openings have been made at several points along the canal to discharge sewage. We have taken photos, videos with GPS with date and time stamp and intend to submit to the NGT in the ongoing pollution case of the Kovilambakkam canal. We will demand compensation for the pollution as per the Supreme Court orders,” said J Sankar, coordinator of Federation of Sunnambu Kolathur Residents Welfare Associations. “Despite no rainfall for more than a month, the canal is brimming due to huge sewage inflow from the municipality and it can be inspected at anytime. We demand immediate stoppage of this illegal act and penal action on the erring officials.” Poor maintenance of pumps, failure of power backup facilities, pipeline breakage are the main reasons behind the dumping, residents said. The NGT had taken up the case suo moto after a TOI report in January and sought a report from the authorities. However, there was a delay in submission and the panel was asked to submit the report this month. The Pallavaram municipality filed an affidavit saying that there was no discharge from the municipality. Municipality commissioner C Mathivanan told TOI that all 70,000 households have underground drainage connections. “There is no way any sewage is illegally being pumped. Moreover, if there is some sewage, it is the water that is overflowing through manholes and getting mixed with the storm water drain,” he said. At Kovilambakkam panchayat, residents said there was no sewage discharge into the lake as they used septic tanks and soak pits. The PWD, which owns the canal, remains a mute spectator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pallavaram-municipality-is-dumping-raw-sewage-into-lake-again-residents/articleshow/80775342.cms||Komal Gautham
February 10, 2021||Ludhiana||All 5 candidates elected unopposed at DTBA AGM||Ludhiana: The annual general meeting (AGM) of District Taxation Bar Association (DTBA), sales tax, was held at the association’s office located in the building of state taxation department on Monday evening. During the meeting, the process of nomination filing for the general body of the DTBA too was held and since only one candidate for each post filed the nomination, all five were elected unopposed. For the post of president, Arun Kanwal has been elected and this is the seventh time he will be holding this post. For the post of vice-president Jaswinder Singh has been elected, while for the post of secretary Ashok Wadhera has been elected. Prince Vivek has been elected to the post of finance secretary, while Sutikshan Tandon has been elected as the joint secretary of the DTBA. The entire process was conducted by the returning officer, Bal Krishan Gupta, and his team. Senior advocate Harish Rai Dhanda too was present at the meeting. Speaking to TOI, newly elected president Kanwal said, “It is a great honour to lead one of the best and biggest professional body in Punjab. I am indebted to all my well-wishers for their love and support extended to me. I will make sure that our team will live up to the expectations of the members and we will always stand up to the cause of our members and fraternity.” Meanwhile, during the meeting, members of the DTBA Sunil Sharma, Ravi Joshi and Chander Sehgal were honoured for services rendered during the Covid pandemic. The accounts, income and expenditure of the DTBA for the last year were also discussed in the meeting and were passed by the members present on the occasion with voice vote. Others prominent persons present on the occasion included Santosh Kumar Rath, Varinder Sharma, BR Kaushal, Arvinder Singh, Manoj Bajaj, Lovish Dhingra, Gagan Arora, Ashok Gupta, Naresh Gaba and Vijay Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/all-5-candidates-elected-unopposed-at-dtba-agm/articleshow/80773988.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||Villagers around Uttarakhand flood site abandon home, move into forests & caves||CHAMOLI/DEHRADUN: Kali Devi has not had a moment of sleep since Sunday. “I moved here with my children and family on Sunday. Who knows what would have happened had we stayed?” she asked. The 60-year-old from Jugju village, right next to the epicentre of the Uttarakhand flood devastation, Raini village, has been living in the forests uphill for three days. The days are not too bad, but the nights bring a chill to the bone — because temperatures drop to zero, and because wild black bears roam the dense Himalayan forest. Locals from Raini village run off to jungles and caves for shelter after the Sunday's cloud burst incident. They ar… https://t.co/5lqBUXV32H— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1612927466000Yet, about 40 like her have been doing just this, hiding out in forests and caves up in the hills since Sunday. “The flood wiped out houses in the foothills. How do we know something won’t happen in the dead of the night to us? The water can’t reach as high as the forest, we are hoping. We are better off here,” said Virender Singh, 42. His aunt went missing on Sunday. During the day, he goes looking for her, gathers food supplies and quickly makes it back. Those with very young children are moving into large cave-like formations that bears often live in. “They stink. There is excreta all over, and it’s possible that bears could come in any time. But there is nothing else to do,” said Anita Devi, 34, from Jungju. While they stay up in fear, others have had to abandon home because they’ve lost access to basics. While the district administration said food packets are being airdropped by the ITBP, in villages like Painga and Moranda, close to Raini, there has been no power supply since Sunday. Others have been cut off after bridges were destroyed in the flood. So, some of their residents have also moved into forests and caves. “There is no road leading up to our village anymore. If something were to go wrong, no one would be able to help us,” said Bichana Devi, 30. “It gets horribly cold at night in the forest, but we consider ourselves safer here.” Being cut off also means there is no news, which has added to their anxiety. Many worry that they would not even find out if there was a warning. Shobha Rana, gram pradhan of Raini Chaklata village, said, “It has been completely dark here. Villagers are disconnected from one other. We have sought solar lanterns for those villages at least. They live in constant fear of another disaster.” Her husband, Shankar Rana, added, “Politicians have been coming and going. No one listens to the problems of the people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/afraid-shocked-villagers-around-ukhand-flood-site-abandon-home-move-into-forests-caves/articleshow/80774006.cms||Shivani Azad
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks AIIMS reply on plea against STP||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought the reply of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on a plea seeking that the construction of a sewage treatment plant (STP) near residential colony of Gautam Nagar be stopped as it would be a health hazard for the residents and lead to stench. Justice Prathiba M Singh asked the institute to file a detailed reply to the plea and listed the matter for further hearing on April 27. The court was hearing a plea by Gautam Nagar Residents Association challenging the decision to install a STP, situated just 30 feet away from the residential area. When the court wondered why the association approached it so late as the construction work had been going on for so long, the counsel said work was going on in the basement and no one was aware about it and they came to know about the plant recently and had given a representation to the authorities. Opposing the plea, AIIMS maintained that it was a premature petition and they had received the representation of the association and were preparing the reply, which would be given to the petitioner after getting approvals from the higher authorities.  The association said the STP was being installed near newly constructed Raj Kumari Amrit Kaur OPD and was just adjacent to the road dividing Gautam Nagar, that is, area of the petitioner and AIIMS. It said the installation of STP near the residential area was very detrimental to the health of people living in the area and there could be an increase in respiratory and skin diseases. “There is higher risk of inhabitants being irritable and moody. There is a higher risk of gastrointestinal problems. There is also a risk of prevalence of pathogenic airborne microorganisms originating from the wastewater treatment plant. So the installation of STP in such close proximity of the residential area is a clear violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” it said, adding that it would also give out foul smell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-seeks-aiims-reply-on-plea-against-stp/articleshow/80775376.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||Lawyers appeal Ganediwala be made permanent HC judge||Nagpur: Under sharp criticism from the women and child rights groups for her controversial judgments, Justice Pushpa Ganediwala on Tuesday found some support from the city lawyers practising in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. A group of lawyers, including some well-known faces, have drafted a representation “To whomsoever it may be concern” requesting the Supreme Court collegium to reconsider its decision to withdraw recommendation to the central government to make her a permanent judge of Bombay HC. The lawyers are taking signatures on it from members of the High Court Bar Association (HCBA) and District Bar Association (DBA) members. It would be then dispatched to President of India Ramnath Kovind, Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others. The decision to withdraw the recommendation was taken by the collegium on January 28 after her highly debatable verdicts were published in the media. The collegium had recommended her as permanent judge on January 20 but at that time her judgments weren’t published. Coming out in support of the 52-year-old judge, the lawyers clarified that the representation wasn’t a condonation of her January 19 judgment where she ruled that skin-to-skin contact was must for establishing charges under the Prevention of Crime Against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. She modified the sentence of accused, who was sent for three years in jail under the POCSO Act, to one year under Section 354 for outraging modesty. The verdict led to massive furore in judiciary with women and child rights activist up in the arms against the judge. Next day, attorney general KK Venugopoal pointed it out to the CJI led bench stressing on the need to stay it immediately. Else, he warned it would set a dangerous precedent across the nation. SC then stayed the verdict on January 27. According to the lawyers, the collegium had overreacted to the news by withdrawing its recommendation of Justice Ganediwala, who hails from Paratwada in Amravati district of Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lawyers-appeal-ganediwala-be-made-permanent-hc-judge/articleshow/80775352.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||On Shah, Saamna says leaders of BJP frustrated as they lost power in state||MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena, while hitting out at the BJP and Union home minister Amit Shah’s statements made during the inauguration of a medical college built by Narayan Rane in the Konkan, has said that the BJP leaders are upset and making repetitive statements out of frustration as they could not come to power in the state. An editorial in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamna stated that Shah had not said anything new. Whatever he said was a repetition, said Saamna. “The situation has come out of frustration of losing power in Maharashtra. One could see the signs from behaviour and action of BJP leaders,” the edit said. Shah on Sunday had said that the BJP had made no closed-door promise to Shiv Sena on the chief minister’s post. The Marathi daily said that the BJP stupidity in not keeping its promise had brough the Sena ‘achhe din’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/on-shah-saamna-says-leaders-of-bjp-frustrated-as-they-lost-power-in-state/articleshow/80777641.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Agra||UP: Aunt beats boy, 5, to death for soiling bed, dumps body in pit||AGRA: A five-year-old boy was allegedly beaten and smothered by his 38-year-old aunt — mother of three — after he soiled the bed in Farrukhabad’s New Fauji Colony three days ago. The woman then buried the body in a seven-foot-deep pit in a jungle in connivance with her father. The woman and her father were, however, arrested on Tuesday and police dug out the body and sent it for postmortem. The boy’s mother had died three years ago and then her grandmother also died. He had been staying with his aunt for the past seven months as his father wanted him to study with other children in Farrukhabad, said police. On Monday, victim Yash Pratap’s uncle Shailendra Singh informed police that the boy had gone missing from a fair where he had gone with his aunt Neeraj, following which a kidnapping FIR was lodged, said police. Police, however, did not spot Yash with Neeraj while scanning CCTV footage of the area. Meanwhile, Yash’s father Brijendra Singh, who lives in Etah district, said his sister-in-law had told him on February 7 that his son had gone missing from the fair, but she changed her statement the next morning, saying she had locked Yash outside the house after he wetted the bed, but when she opened the doors after 45 minutes, the boy was not there. The CCTV footage scanning and the woman's changing statements made police suspicious and they took her on their radar. After a persuasive interrogation, she finally admitted to having killed the boy, said police, adding that the woman took them to the location where she had buried the body with the help of her 65-year-old father Ram Bahadur. Farrukhabad superintendent of police Ashok Kumar Meena told TOI, “During interrogation, she told police that after the boy’s death, she called her father and informed him about the matter. Ram Bahadur, who lives in Kampala, 60 km from Neeraj’s house, advised her to bring the body to his place and he would make some arrangements.” “The woman took the body in a black bag to his father’s house under Kampel police station jurisdiction in an auto. They then dumped the body in a deep pit in a jungle under the protection of the forest department. We have added sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code to the existing FIR,” said the SP. The post-mortem report revealed that the boy was smothered to death, said the SP, adding that several injury marks were also found on his body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mother-of-three-beats-5-year-old-nephew-to-death-for-soiling-bed-buries-body-with-help-of-her-father/articleshow/80773991.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Four caught for robbery in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two juveniles were among four people held for allegedly robbing a man of his mobile phone, cash and other valuables at knifepoint in northwest Delhi’s Bharat Nagar on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-caught-for-robbery/articleshow/80775402.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||Fruit vendor’s death after mayor’s statement triggers protest||Nagpur: A fruit vendor, Girish Verma, 50, resident of Tarodi Khurd, died of a heart attack on Tuesday. Citizens claim he died after mayor Dayashankar Tiwari announced all those not vacating land for SAI Complex should be arrested. The citizens resorted to a rasta roko outside Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) in Civil Lines with Verma’s body kept in an ambulance. The protest started at 4.45pm and continued till 8pm when the Sadar police detained the protesters. The agitation of the Tarodi Khurd residents was led by zilla parishad members Avanti Lekurware and Nana Kambhare. The duo blamed Tiwari’s statement printed in a newspaper for Verma’s cardiac arrest. The mayor had suggested police action against property owners who have encroached on the land allotted for Sports Authority of India (SAI) regional centre. Shouting slogans, the agitated residents were demanding action against mayor Dayashankar Tiwari and municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B for the death. According to Lekurware and Kambhare, Verma did not die of natural causes, but it was murder by Tiwari. A roadside fruit vendor, Verma had purchased 1500 sq ft plot at Tarodi and has recently undertaken construction work of his house. Verma is survived by wife and two sons, Pratik and Alkesh, studying in BCom and polytechnic. In 2017, NMC had issued notices to about 250 people having houses on land allotted for the SAI regional centre to demolish the structures, and it triggered panic among residents. Later, the residents approached the high court and brought a stay, said Lekurware. According to her, NMC is treating the ‘legal’ residents like encroachers. They did not make any encroachment there but purchased plots with their hard-earned money. The government should initiate action against those who sold the plots to gullible citizens, said Kambhare. Sadar police tried to convince Verma’s kin to take the body for last rites. But the ZP members and agitated residents took a firm stand that until the mayor and civic chief turned up they would not leave the spot. Mayor Tiwari was present in this office when the protest started. But he left NMC HQ from the rear gate leaving the protesters miffed, and they were still sitting with the body outside the civic body till 8pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fruit-vendors-death-after-mayors-statement-triggers-protest/articleshow/80775377.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 10, 2021||Kolhapur||Satej Patil tests Covid-19 positive; 64 cases in Satara district||KOLHAPUR: District guardian minister Satej Patil, through his social media account, on Tuesday informed that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and will remain in isolation as per the advice of the doctors. Recently, home minister Anil Deshmukh also tested positive for Covid-19 and is currently undergoing treatment. On Tuesday, as many as 14 new cases were reported across the district, taking the number of active cases to 115. The death toll remained constant on 1,729 as no casualty due to the contagion was reported. The total number of Covid cases in the district has now increased to 50,025, out of which 48,181 have been cured. Sangli district reported 24 fresh cases and no death on Tuesday. The district has 120 active patients and till date, the district has reported 48,217 cases, out of which 1,752 have succumbed to infection while 46,345 have been cured. Meanwhile, as many as 64 cases were reported across Satara district along with one death — an 80-year-old woman from Koregaon tehsil. So far, Satara district has reported 57,051 cases of Covid-19, out of which 1,831 have died while 54,349 have been cured. The number of active cases stands at 871. Solapur adds 50 cases With 26 and 24 new cases in rural and city areas respectively, Solapur district added 50 cases to its tally of positive cases. A 60-year-old woman from Barshi tehsil and a 68-year-old man from the city were the two casualties reported due to the contagion on Tuesday. Solapur rural till date has reported 39,838 cases and 1,167 deaths. The number of active patients in rural areas stands at 310, while 38,361 have recovered from the infection. In comparison, Solapur city has till date registered 11,921 Covid cases and 644 deaths. There are 321 active patients, while 10,956 have been cured so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satej-patil-tests-positive-64-cases-in-satara-dist/articleshow/80773194.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Rajkot||Congress candidate in ward 14 withdraws nomination, suspended||RAJKOT: The Rajkot city Congress suspended two of its workers after one of the candidates withdrew the nomination, leaving the party leaders embarrassed.Vijay Jani had got a mandate to contest election for Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) from ward 14. However, he withdrew his form on Tuesday. The Congress on Tuesday suspended Jani and Mansur Vala, president of ward 14 for anti-party activity for six years. One Congress candidate was disqualified on Monday over the two-child norm, now the party will contest only on 70 seats out of total 72.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-candidate-in-ward-14-withdraws-nomination-suspended/articleshow/80774021.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Private coaching class owners submit SOP to minister, seek nod for reopening||MUMBAI: Amid reopening of schools and colleges in the state, coaching classes have demanded the government allow them to resume offline classes.  Representatives of Maharashtra Class Owners Association met higher and technical education minister, Uday Samant, and submitted their standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening. Except for MMR, schools across the state have reopened for classes VI to XII, while colleges are set to resume physical sessions from February 15. However, the government hasn’t greenlighted the reopening of private coaching classes yet. The association’s representatives on Monday met Samant to seek permission for physical classes. The group will also meet school education minister Varsha Gaikwad. “Students are losing out on preparation for examinations that mostly happens at coaching classes. Enrolments for the next academic year are low too and it’s difficult for most class owners to operate. If classes continue to remain shut, we might not be able to sustain ourselves. A lot of teachers and administrative staff might lose their jobs. We are also losing out on our rented spaces because we are unable to pay the landlords,” said Santosh Vasakar, president of the association. The association has drafted an SOP which its members will follow to ensure student safety. It includes RT-PCR tests for staff, only one student per bench, requiring students to carry a bottle of water and sanitiser, ensuring social distancing and reporting to the authorities in case a student or staff member shows Covid-19 symptoms. “We are willing to follow all safety measures to ensure the reopening doesn’t impact anyone adversely,” said Vasakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pvt-coaching-class-owners-submit-sop-to-min-seek-nod-for-reopening/articleshow/80778053.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 10, 2021||Madurai||Upload details of work carried out under kudimaramath scheme on website: HC||Madurai: Observing that transparency is the foundational factor for government in implementing schemes, Madras high court on Tuesday directed the state government to upload details of the works carried out under kudimaramath scheme on the official website for public view.A division bench of Justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that the petitioner, advocate R M Anbunidhi, filed the PIL with the specific plea that authorities should upload the following details about the kudimaramath scheme on the website: Nature of waterbody, work required to be carried out, work done, persons doing the work, cost of project, progress made and completion of work. “Transparency would prevent corruption and facilitate completion of works. When works are carried out for the public, they are entitled to know the nature and progress of work,” observed the judges.The judges said there is no logic in the details being accessed by the department alone and the information will have to be made available to the general public. The special government pleader stated that the matter is being taken up with the government and is likely to be considered favourably. The judges also directed to upload the pictures taken before and after completion of work to give the indication of work done. The exercise should be completed within 12 weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/upload-details-of-work-carried-out-under-kudimaramath-scheme-on-website-hc/articleshow/80775380.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||Man kills younger brother in Roorkee||Roorkee: A 47-year-old man, Dharampal, was allegedly killed by his elder brother 60-year-old Sukkad Valmiki in a village near Piran Kaliyar in Roorkee on Tuesday. According to reports, Valmiki started shouting at Dharampal's wife as she made him wait for his dinner. Intervening in the matter, Dharampal spoke in favour of her wife and resented Valmiki's remarks. The altercation between brothers turned so violent that Valmiki allegedly stabbed his brother Dharampal, a father to four children. “We have sent Dharampal’s body for autopsy and have arrested Valmiki. The accused has been booked under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code,” said Jagmohan Ramola, in-charge of Piran Kaliyar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-kills-younger-brother-in-roorkee/articleshow/80774020.cms||Tapan Susheel
February 10, 2021||Madurai||HC seeks response of govts on metro rail in Madurai||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the central and state governments on a plea which sought to implement metro rail project in Madurai.A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi sought the response while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by K K Ramesh, a litigant appearing as party-in-person from Madurai district.The petitioner stated that Madurai is a city with nearly 20 lakh population. Due to the increase in vehicles, traffic congestion is increasing everyday due to which people are not able to reach their destinations on time. He stated that the metro rail project would be very helpful to prevent traffic congestion in the city.He stated that the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry had also urged the central and state governments to implement the metro rail project in Madurai. The trade body had also suggested two routes for the project -Melur to Thirumangalam and Thiruppuvanam to Checkanurani.Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-response-of-govts-on-metro-rail-in-madurai/articleshow/80775392.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Agra||Rattled by legal notices, Agra farmers set to invite Rakesh Tikait to hold mahapanchayat||AGRA: In the face of legal notices served to them by local authorities, senior farmer leaders in Agra district at a meeting on Tuesday approved a proposal for organising a mahapanchayat under the leadership of Rakesh Tikait. They assigned the responsibility of formally inviting Tikait to Kirawali block on February 20 to Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Agra division head Gajendra Singh Parihar. More than 30 farmers in Agra district have received legal notices, so far. According to BKU leaders, the final date of Tikait’s visit to Kirawali block in Agra will be finalised in a few days, because Tikait has back-to-back meetings scheduled in several districts of Haryana for the next ten days and he has also been getting calls from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh to hold meetings. Expressing their apprehensions over legal notices being issued by local authorities, the leaders said that they had decided to hold a mahapanchayat to see what action they would take against thousands of people attending the gathering. Farmers and social activists in western Uttar Pradesh have been complaining of “intimidation and high-handedness” by police after legal notices were sent to dozens of farm leaders during the ongoing agitation against the three “black laws”. Most of the leaders have been asked to sign a surety bond, promising “lawful behaviour” under CrPC 107/116 [breach of peace]. Warning the farmers to stay away from the protest, notices were also issued by police under CrPC 149 [police to prevent cognizable offence]. Confirming the development, Parihar told TOI: “Farmers want Rakesh Tikait to lead a mahapanchayat in Kirawali block of Agra district on February 20. I will be formally inviting him on their behalf. As he is leading a major protest at Ghazipur border and having a busy schedule, it will take a few days to finalise the date of his visit to Agra.” “Farmers of Agra district will not bow down to legal notices being issued to them by the authorities. The protests will intensify in coming days,” added Parihar. BKU Agra district president Rajveer Lawaniya said, “Despite legal notices being issued by police and administration on the state government’s instructions, farmers in Agradistrict continue to participate in protests. More than 200 farmers from different parts of Agra district are camping at the Ghazipur border. Rakesh Tikait will be leading a mahapanchayat in Agra later this month and we will see how many notices they (authorities) will issue. The central government will have to repeal the three farm laws and ensure legal guarantee for the MSP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rattled-by-legal-notices-agra-farmers-set-to-invite-rakesh-tikait-to-hold-mahapanchayat/articleshow/80774013.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 10, 2021||Madurai||Bus conductor, 37, hacked to death by neighbours||Madurai: A 37-year-old bus conductor with Sattur TNSTC depot was hacked to death by his neighbours in Virudhunagar district. The deceased has been identified as Santhana Mahalingam, 37, of Kumaralingapuram village. While he was pruning branches of a tree next to his house on Monday, one of them accidentally fell on an electricity line snapping power supply to a few houses nearby. His neighbours Chandrasekar and his brother Gunasekar questioned him leading to a verbal argument. Other neighbours who gathered there pacified them and asked them to leave the place. The brothers again picked up a quarrel with Santhana Mahalingam later in the night and hacked him to death using sharp weapons, said police. A police team reached the spot and shifted the body to a government hospital, where postmortem was performed. Based on a complaint by his wife Sudha, a case was registered with the Vachakarapatti police station.  Police said that they picked up three people including the brothers for inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bus-conductor-37-hacked-to-death-by-neighbours/articleshow/80775403.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Kolhapur||Locals threaten to take Jal Samadhi in Shirol||KOLHAPUR: Locals from Shirol and nearby areas have threatened to take Jal Samadhi — protest by sitting in water — if the administration fails to take action against those causing pollution of the Panchaganga river. A shoal of dead fish was found at the Shirol barrage of Panchaganag river on Monday morning. This triggered angry reaction from the locals who complained that they are getting polluted water for irrigation. Last time when a similar incident had taken place at Terwad, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) had issued closure notices to the textile units. Sagar Shambhushete, a resident of Nandni village, said, “We submitted a petition with the tehsildar office and have asked to hold a meeting with all stakeholders immediately. The meeting has been scheduled on Wednesday and will be attended by the MPCB officials as well.” Political leaders from Shirol too have rolled up their sleeves and are planning to take up the issue with the government. Former Shiv Sena MLA Ulhas Patil said he will lead a delegation to meet state environment minister Aditya Thackeray on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/locals-threaten-to-take-jal-samadhi-in-shirol/articleshow/80773212.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Agra||UP: Man gets life term for raping minor daughter||AGRA: The Special Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) court convicted a man to life imprisonment for raping his minor daughter repeatedly for 10 days in 2015. The court dismissed his plea for grant of minimum sentence, as no one would be there to take care of his elderly mother. The court also slapped a fine of Rs 1.75 lakh on the accused. A labourer by profession, the man had raped his 12-year-old daughter for 10 days in the absence of his wife, who had gone to attend to her sister recuperating after a surgery. The crime came to light when the girl’s mother returned home and found her daughter depressed and silent. After learning about her ordeal, she lodged a police complaint at Jagdishpura police station in Agra on June 10, 2015. “In a civil society, no one can imagine that a father can do such a kind of inhuman, condemnable and shameful act with his own daughter,” noted additional district and sessions Judge of POCSO court, VK Jaiswal, in its order. Special public prosecutor (POCSO) Vimlesh Anand, said the judge noted in his order that one should ask the worth of a daughter from someone who doesn’t have one. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-gets-life-term-for-raping-minor-daughter/articleshow/80774028.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar expands team after long wait, 17 new mantris take oath||PATNA: Almost three months after the formation of the NDA government, the state cabinet was expanded on Tuesday with the induction of 17 more ministers. With this, the size of the cabinet has gone up to 30 against the maximum strength of 36 ministers. Out of the 17 ministers inducted on Tuesday, nine are from BJP and eight from JD (U). BJP has a majority in the cabinet with nine new ministers in addition to seven already inducted when the NDA government was formed on November 14, last year. The number of ministers of JD (U), on the other hand, has gone up from four to 12. The Jitan Ram Manjhi-led Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Mukesh Sahni-led Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) have one minister each in the NDA government led by CM Nitish Kumar. BJP national spokesperson, Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, who got elected to Bihar legislative council was the first to be administered oath by governor Phagu Chauhan at Raj Bhawan here on Tuesday. He has been allotted the industries portfolio. Shahnawaz said earlier in the day that he had worked with Nitish in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government at the Centre when Nitish was Union agriculture minister. Among the others sworn in were BJP’s MLA from Chhatapur and late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s cousin Neeraj Kumar Singh ‘Bablu’, JD (U) MLA and retired IPS officer and former DG Sunil Kumar and former ministers Sanjay Kumar Jha and Shrawan Kumar. Sanjay Jha, who has been allotted water resources and information and public relations departments, took the oath of office in Maithili. Rajput community representation highApart from former ministers, including Jha, Shrawan Kumar, Madan Sahni and Leshi Singh of JD (U), and Pramod Kumar and Samrat Choudhary of BJP, all others are first-time state ministers. The first-time ministers from BJP are Neeraj, Janak Ram, Gopalganj MLA Subhash Singh, Bankipore MLA Nitin Nabin, Nautan MLA Narayan Prasad and Saharsa MLA Alok Ranjan Jha. JD (U)’s first-time ministers are former DG and Bhorey MLA Sunil Kumar, Sumit Kumar Singh, who won as an Independent from Chakai and Amarpur (Banka) MLA Jayant Raj among others. A few of them are first- time MLAs as well, including former ADG Sunil Kumar, Jayant Raj and Sumit Kumar Singh. While BJP remains in the role of ‘big brother’ with more ministers, both NDA allies – JD (U) and the saffron party ensured to address their respective caste arithmetic. For instance, the cabinet now has two Muslim faces — Shahnawaz and Mohammad Zama Khan, who won the last assembly election as a BSP candidate but joined JD (U) recently. Representation from the Rajput community was the highest with BJP as well as JD (U) inducting two Rajput faces each from their quota. Both parties also had one new minister each from Kushwaha and Maithil Brahmin community. Meanwhile, allegations of criminal antecedents of some newly inducted ministers were raised. For instance, retired IPS officer Amitabh Kumar Das wrote on his Facebook page on Tuesday that he informed DGP that Leshi Singh had an “armoury” of AK 47 and AK 56 rifles. “Lesi Singh is the widow of the slain mafia don Bootan Singh,” Das wrote. PATCH: Cabinet represents all areas, communities: NitishCM Nitish Kumar extended his greetings and congratulated the newly inducted ministers after the swearing-in ceremony. “I would request everyone to fulfil their responsibility and serve Bihar will complete dedication. We have also decided the ministerial portfolio to be allotted to the newly inducted ministers,” CM told reporters. Nitish also claimed that efforts have been made to ensure representation from all sections of society. “Whenever a ministerial cabinet is constituted, the representation of every area, society and section is given due consideration. We try to ensure that almost all areas are duly represented. The size of the cabinet is limited but it remains our effort that people from all areas are represented in the cabinet in a broader sense,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-expands-team-after-long-wait-17-new-mantris-take-oath/articleshow/80774035.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||Special Covid warrior fund in MUHS budget for medicos||Nagpur: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) passed its budget for 2021-22 on Monday with a ‘Covid Suraksha Kawach Yojna’ (Covid protection scheme) for medical students. The beneficiaries will get up to Rs1 lakh assistance in case they are infected with Covid-19 while serving in their respective medical colleges affiliated to MUHS. In case of death of a student, the family members will get financial assistance up to Rs3 lakh under this scheme. The health university’s 2021-2022 budget is distributed under three heads: conservation, development, independent projects and plans. The combined income of the university is expected to be Rs351.25 crore and the combined expenditure is expected to be Rs356.16 crore, so the fiscal deficit is expected to be Rs4.91 crore. This is the last budget in the tenure of vice-chancellor Dr Dileep Mhaisekar, who is completing his five-year term this month. Dr Mhaisekar said the focus will be on local research, which is the need of the hour. “An independent research department has been set up in the university to promote research. But, we want to take this to all our affiliated colleges. All colleges will now set up separate research cells. These cells will promote research by coordinating at the university and college level,” he said. Dr KD Chavan, registrar, said special provision has been made to strengthen sub-centres of the health university at Nagpur, Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, and Latur. “Lot of development works have been proposed. These include construction at Airoli, development works at Nashik, land purchase and construction at Nagpur, Aurangabad, Pune, Kolhapur,” he said. The budget allotted Rs1 crore for organization of e-lecture series in affiliated colleges, Rs25 lakh to upgrade MUHS mobile application, Rs30 lakh for social awareness campaigns, Rs5 crore for student welfare schemes, Rs10 lakh for MUHS online research journal, and Rs15 lakh for the health centre in MUHS premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/special-covid-warrior-fund-in-muhs-budget-for-medicos/articleshow/80775401.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 10, 2021||Madurai||Plea to declare slender loris habitats in Dindigul, Karur as sanctuaries||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the central and state governments on a plea to declare the habitat of slender loris at Dindigul and Karur districts as sanctuaries or conservation reserves. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by K Pushpavanam, a law student from Madurai district. The petitioner stated that he came across a TOI news report titled ‘NGO strives to protect slender loris habitat near Ayyalur forests in Dindigul district.’ He stated that slender loris is found mostly in the districts bordering the eastern ghats at Dindigul and Trichy districts. He stated that the Kadavur region in Karur district is also one of the significant habitats of the species. Slender loris are placed under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act and the reasons for decline in the population of the species is due to human activities such as cutting of trees and encroachments in the forest areas for cultivation purposes. Though the state forest officials have sent a proposal to declare Kadavur region as a protected area, no steps were taken in this regard yet. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-declare-slender-loris-habitats-in-dindigul-karur-as-sanctuaries/articleshow/80775400.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Hold classes only for students of any 2 years in a day, colleges told||CHENNAI: Classes of students of any two years alone should be held on any given day and hostels students should be under a 14-day quarantine even if they test negative for Covid-19, the state government has directed arts and science colleges and polytechnics across the state. In engineering colleges, if there is space constraints to maintain social distancing, any two years have to attend classes in a day. In an effort to ensure social distancing, the government came out with a fresh set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) a day after institutions across the state reopened for all under graduate and post-graduate students. According to the new guidelines, no more than 50% of the students should be present on the campus at any given point. Institutions have also been asked to break each class into multiple sections, with one in every three seats kept vacant, and allowed to extend teaching hours as per the requirements. While advising institutions to generally avoid holding cultural and sports activities, the government said such events could be conducted if physical distancing could be ensured. The SOP also mandated institutions to maintain air-conditioning in the 24°C to 30°C range. In view of the Covid cluster at IIT Madras, the state government has added new protocols with regard to reopening hostels. “Since many hostel students come from different locations, they shall remain in quarantine and self-monitor their health for a period of 14 days before being allowed to attend classes (even if they bring a negative test report),” chief secretary Rajeev Ranjan said in the order. Sharing of rooms will not be allowed in hostels, meals should be served in small batches and takeaway options made available for students and staff. “Hostels should define the number of students in dining halls at any point in time. Mess timings should be increased to avoid overcrowding,” the order said. Several college principals, however, said maintaining 14 days quarantine was not practically possible. “We can maintain less than 50% student strength by dividing classes into batches or asking only science students to attend physical classes. But, quarantining hostel students for 14 days is difficult,” said one principal. Another principal, on a condition of anonymity, said the government was allowing 100% occupancy in buses and theatres but asking colleges to maintain 50% strength. Anna University released a staggered academic schedule to maintain just one student per room in hostels after classes for first year students began on Monday. The state government also permitted teacher training institutes to function with up to 25 students per classroom. The authorities have also been allowed to conduct typewriting exams in March and April by following Covid-19 protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hold-classes-only-for-students-of-any-2-years-in-a-day-colleges-told/articleshow/80775405.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Bank scam: ED questions former Shiv Sena MP for 2 hours||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday questioned former MP and Shiv Sena leader Anandrao Adsul for two hours in connection with the alleged misappropriation of funds and bad loans in City Cooperative Bank. Adsul is the chairman of the bank. It is alleged that the Adsul-controlled bank had arbitrarily distributed loans, thereby causing a fraud of Rs 900 crore. As a result, in April 2018, theReserve Bank of Inida restricted the nearly one lakh account-holders from withdrawing their money and banned the bank from granting loans, making investments, borrowing funds and accepting deposits. Sources said that the ED will soon question Adsul in alleged Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank fraud case too. Recenetly, City Cooperative Bank initiated the merger process with State Cooperative Bank, but in January, depositors put up banners in many parts of the city demanding action and inquiry against Adsul for “causing loss to the bank”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-questions-ex-mp-in-bank-fraud-case/articleshow/80777342.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Goa||Goa CM to act against bull fights, illegal pet shops||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday instructed the police to act against bullfights taking place in the state. Sawant also said that illegal pet shops should get themselves regularised or else face action. “Illegal pet shops will be given a time limit to register themselves or else they will he closed,” he said Sawant recently held a meeting with the Animal Welfare Board and animal NGOs. He told reporters that he has asked the board to modify the scheme for stray cattle. In future, he said, the scheme’s benefits will be passed on directly from the veterinary department to NGOs versus the current system where panchayats or municipalities are the intermediate bodies. One of the points raised at the meeting was about cruelty against animals. To this Sawant said, “I have given instruction to members of the animal welfare board to reduce cruelty against animals in the state.” Sawant also held meetings with various central government agencies including the navy, defence, NCC, NSS, scouts and guide, INS Mandovi and the national water sports department. He said that there are very few Goan takers for the MBA and PhD programmes offered by the national water sports department. He also said that there is a proposal to increase the intake for NCC. “We are trying to increase the reach of NCC, NSS and scouts and guide to maximum number of students,” he said, adding that this was aimed at getting more Goans youngsters to join the defence forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-to-act-against-bull-fights-illegal-pet-shops/articleshow/80776743.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Agra||Instead of Azad, Modi should have shed tears for dead farmers: Jayant Chaudhary||AGRA: Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for getting emotional in Parliament during his farewell speech for leader of opposition in the Upper House Ghulam Nabi Azad on Tuesday, RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary said that Modi should have shed some tears for the farmers who died at Delhi borders during their protest. “Had Modi shown some sensitivity, this situation would not have arisen,” said Jayant while addressing a farmers’ mahapanchayat in Aligarh’s Iglas area on Tuesday. He said the farmers' protest has now turned into a people’s movement. He asked farmers to show their strength in order to prove to the government that this movement is not restricted to them only. “If the PM had shed some tears on the death of a large number of farmers during the protests, the situation would not have come to such a pass,” said Chaudhary, alleging that he was making fun of farmers while talking about them. “Farmer will respond to this,” he added. On Tuesday, Modi broke down several times in the Rajya Sabha while reminiscing about his close association with Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, whose term is coming to an end next week. “Andolan (movement) is not bad for the country and this is the right of every citizen of the nation. Those who are against this movement today are in power through such movements only,” said Chaudhary, adding that they were not against modernisation of the farm sector and they (the government) had succeeded in it by efforts of farmers only. “Many sectors needed reforms but it can only be meaningful, if genuine interests and ground realities of the farming community are factored in before launching the measures,” the RLD leader said, adding that they just want to ruin it instead of reforming. Chaudhary said that the government drastically cut the budget of the mid-day meal programme, which is very much required for reducing malnutrition in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/instead-of-azad-modi-should-have-shed-tears-for-dead-farmers-jayant-chaudhary/articleshow/80774040.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 10, 2021||Madurai||CM to open 2 Madurai police stns on Feb 13||Madurai: The newly-formed Thirupalai and Mattuthavani police stations are going to be inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday through videoconferencing. Madurai city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha said that both the stations are now ready for inauguration. The police strength required for each station had been allotted long back and the delimitation work-- marking the boundaries for both the stations-- have been completed. Tallakulam police station has been bifurcated to form the Thirupalai police station, whereas Anna Nagar police station has been bifurcated to form the Mattuthavani police station. Police officials said that new police stations with additional strength will help them to concentrate better on crime prevention and maintenance of law and order. The move came as the police stations like Tallakulam, Anna Nagar and SS Colony shared huge burdens and the police had become short of hands, as a result they had to work under increased pressure. The police commissioner said that the areas, which come under each of the newly-formed police stations will be released well ahead of inauguration. Thirupalai station has been established in a rented building, whereas the Madurai Corporation has allotted a building for Mattuthavani police station inside the MGR integrated bus terminal. “There is a police outpost functioning in the terminal already. The station will function from a separate building inside the terminal. We need to keep our focus on the terminal,” he said. There are 22 police stations in city limits including High Court station and Meenakshi Amman Temple station. After the inaugurated the number will increase to 24, besides the four All Women Police Stations. He said there are proposals for new police stations in Kochadai and Anupanadi to reduce the burden on stations such as SS Colony and Avaniyapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-to-open-2-madurai-police-stns-on-feb-13/articleshow/80775415.cms||V Devanathan
February 10, 2021||Madurai||People waiting for change of power in TN: Kanimozhi||Madurai: DMK MP M Kanimozhi has said that people are clear that they want a change of government, and the AIADMK’s statement that it would make a hatrick of victories in the state would just remain a dream.Kanimozhi was campaigning in Madurai on Tuesday for the second consecutive day and toured many parts of the city. She also spoke to to weavers in Sellur in Madurai. “These people have brought to my notice the largescale job loss and other basic issues like non-availability of commodities in ration shops and the lack of support for the women self-help groups,” Kanimozhi said.She also said that there was no evidence of kudimaramathu work having taken place in the Sellur tank as claimed by the government. “There is no clean water and water hyacinths have invaded this tank. As requested by the people of the region, this tank would be rejuvenated when the DMK comes to power,” she said.There is also no visible infrastructure development including bridges and it is not known what is the status of the announcements made under Rule 110 of the TNLA rules. The AIIMS hospitals announced for various states along with Tamil Nadu have commenced activity and buildings have been constructed, but there is nothing in Madurai, and it has remained the same ever since the foundation stone was laid, Kanimozhi said.She denied claims by minister Sellur K Raju about the DMK seeking a place in Madurai for establishing a statue for late chief minister M Karunanidhi. “We did not even get the place to construct a memorial for him on the Marina easily,” she added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/people-waiting-for-change-of-power-in-tn-kanimozhi/articleshow/80775411.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Agra||SCPCR issues notice to Agra DM over death of juvenile observation home inmate||AGRA: The state commission for protection of child rights (SCPCR) has taken cognizance of death of a 16-year-old inmate lodged in the juvenile observation home in Agra. The commission has sought a detailed report from the district magistrate in the entire matter. Meanwhile, the secretary of the child welfare department has suspended the superintendent of the centre. On January 31, TOI had reported the death of 16-year-old inmate of the state juvenile observation home. He was admitted at the SN Medical College after he vomited blood. The deceased was suffering from tuberculosis and allegedly died following lack of proper treatment. District probation officer Luvkush Bhargava said, “There are 170 inmates lodged in the juvenile observation in Agra. All of them will be tested for tuberculosis. Chief medical officer (CMO) has been asked to organize a health checkup camp at the centre. The matter of the 16-year-old inmate’s death is being investigated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/scpcr-issues-notice-to-agra-dm-over-death-of-juvenile-observation-home-inmate/articleshow/80774070.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Kochi||Clarify stand on Sabarimala, NSS tells govt||Kottayam: The Nair Service Society (NSS), on Tuesday, asked the LDF government to clarify its stand on the Sabarimala issue. NSS, which had filed a review petition on the Supreme Court verdict, asked the LDF government whether they were keen enough to protect the faith of devotees by making a new law on Sabarimala or by changing the affidavit they had submitted in the Supreme Court. In a press note by NSS general secretary G Sukumaran Nair, he blamed the LDF government and Travancore Devaswom Board for taking steps to implement the court order in a hurry without listening to the concerns of the devotees. However, NSS has maintained equidistance from both UDF and BJP too on the Sabarimala issue. The NSS move will put CPM, which has softened its stand on the issue, under more pressure. Nair further said that if the judgment by the five-member bench of the Supreme Court is implemented it will affect the centuries-old customs and traditions followed in all Hindu temples in the state. Protection of faith and beliefs associated with temples is as essential as that of places of worship of other religions. He said that NSS’s stand is theism and the protection of customs and traditions associated with it. Nair slammed BJP and UDF too on the Sabarimala issue, saying it is strange that political parties raked up the Sabarimala topic eyeing the elections even as the case is under the consideration of SC’s nine-judge bench. Political parties entered the stage to influence devotees under the pretext of protecting their faith, he said. Nair said that BJP, which was in power at the Centre, could have resolved the issue by making a law. Nair blamed UDF for not presenting a bill in the assembly while in opposition for the protection of faith. He questioned UDF’s sincerity for promising a new law on Sabarimala to protect the faith of the devotees, if elected to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/clarify-stand-on-sabarimala-nss-tells-govt/articleshow/80774085.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Madurai||MP urges SR to resume train to Rameswaram||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has written to the Southern Railway (SR) to resume the Madurai - Rameswaram service immediately as devotees would be visiting Rameswaram for the Thai Ammavasai festival, which falls on February 11. In a letter to the SR general manager, Venkatesan said that next to Kasi, Rameswaram is considered the holy town for Hindus to visit on the occasion of Thai Ammavasai and pay homage to their ancestors. Before the Covid-19 lockdown, five trains were operated to Rameswaram from Madurai, including two express and three passenger services, which helped the pilgrims immensely. If the pilgrims were to take a bus from Matuthavani in Madurai to Rameswaram it would cost them Rs 120, while the ordinary train fare was only Rs 45 and the express fare at Rs 85. But, at present there is no direct train service to Rameswaram. However, in the latest relaxation of the lockdown measures, the Tamil Nadu government has allowed the bathing of devotees in the 22 sacred wells in the Sri Ramanathaswamy temple, and hence the railways should also resume the suspended services immediately, he said. Meanwhile, the Theerthavari bathing in the Agni threetham, the sea near the temple is being allowed for devotees from February 11. It is expected that thousands of people would come for the holy dip in the sea and wells on the occasion. Sources said that the people bathing on the occasion would be asked to ensure safety and conduct the rituals on that day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-urges-sr-to-resume-train-to-rameswaram/articleshow/80775413.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Tata Motors gets show-cause notice on EV ‘performance’||NEW DELHI: Delhi government, which launched an ambitious Electric Vehicle (EV) policy last year and is promoting the faster adoption of EVs, issued a show-cause notice to Tata Motors on Monday regarding the performance of its EV, based on the complaint of a Delhi-based customer. The notice issued by Delhi government’s transport department states that it has received a complaint from a Najafgarh resident, who bought a TATA Nexon EV XZ+ from a showroom in Safdarjung Enclave. He has complained that while the vehicle model is specified to provide 312 km range in a single charge, his EV has never provided more than 200 km despite following various advices of the dealer. The government has directed Tata Motors to depute a representative to appear before the deputy commissioner of the department on February 15, for failure to provide the promised optimal range, failing which further action including de-listing of this model from eligible e-vehicles might be reconsidered. Meanwhile, a Tata Motors spokesperson said, “We are in receipt of the mentioned notice and are taking all possible measures to address the concern. The range at single full charge (312 km) for the Nexon EV is based on the certification received from Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), which is the official body that independently tests all mass produced vehicles under standard/defined test conditions before they can be offered to customers.” “As with conventional vehicles (with IC engines), the actual range achieved in EV is dependent on AC usage, individual driving style and the actual conditions in which the vehicle is driven. The range achievement is also a function of familiarity with the new technology and customers report improvements upwards of 10% within four-six weeks of familiarity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tata-motors-gets-show-cause-notice-on-ev-performance/articleshow/80775414.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 10, 2021||Goa||This Ash Wednesday, no crosses on the forehead||PANAJI: This Ash Wednesday, the first during the Covid-19 pandemic in India, priests will sprinkle ashes on the heads of each faithful and avoid all contact. Traditionally, the priest, after blessing the ashes, makes the sign of the cross on the forehead of each individual, and recites ‘Dust thou art, and to dust thou shall return’ to each person. This year, however, the Archdiocese of Goa has instructed priests to say it just once for the congregation. “The priest then cleanses his hands, puts on a face mask and distributes the ashes to those who come to him, or, if appropriate, he goes to those who are standing in their places. The priest takes the ashes and sprinkles them on the head of each one without saying anything,” states the note from the Vatican that the Archdiocese of Goa has circulated to all parish priests in the state. Family members who cannot physically attend services on Ash Wednesday can collect the blessed ashes from their respective parishes and take them home for their family members, since churches are only permitted to accommodate a maximum of 200 persons at a time, said director of the diocesan centre for liturgy, Fr Afonso Mendonca. The centre has provided families with a short prayer service, where the head of the family can apply the ashes on the foreheads of family members who couldn’t attend Mass. “People have a lot of devotion to the Holy Ash, and this marks the start of the Lenten season in the Church,” he said. “Generally, the celebration of the Eucharist and other Lenten practices associated with this day are given very high importance by the faithful. However, in reality, very few faithful in each parish will be able to attend the celebration of the Eucharist on this day. Hence, the Ashes could be distributed at home….” Mendonca said in the communication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-ash-wednesday-no-crosses-on-the-forehead/articleshow/80776744.cms||Lisa Monteiro
February 10, 2021||Madurai||Woman sets kids on fire, kills herself||Madurai: A 25-year-old woman committed suicide after setting on fire her two children at her house in the district on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as V Karthigaiselvi and her children V Thageswaran, 2, and V Kavidarshini, 3, from West Veli Street in Paravai near Samayanallur. Police said that Karthigaiselvi’s husband is working in Paravai Vegetable market as a loadman. He often quarrelled with his wife. The couple had received an invitation for a relative’s function and Karthigaiselvi asked her husband for money so that she could hand it over as a gift at the function. Velmurugan did not give sufficient money and left for work early in the morning. Karthigaiselvi doused herself and the children with kerosene and set on fire. Relatives rushed there after hearing a screams, but the doors were locked from inside. On being alerted, a fire and rescue team reached the house. They broke into the house. But all the three had already died. The Samayanallur police are conducting an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-sets-kids-on-fire-kills-herself/articleshow/80775431.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Kin of home guards dying on duty to get government jobs||PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the home department’s proposal to provide job on compassionate grounds to the next of kin of the home guards in case of their death or permanent physical disability caused to them while performing duty. The cabinet at its meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar also cleared the proposal for amendments in the Bihar Probation Service Rules 2014. It was the first meeting of the cabinet after its expansion, in which 17 new ministers were inducted. Six proposals passed in cabinet meetingThe cabinet gave its nod to invest Rs30.05 crore on setting up 3-star type hotel on the Gaya-Dobhi road at Bodh Gaya under the industries department. The hotel will run under the name of Bodhi Hotels and Resorts Pvt Ltd, Bodh Gaya. The prohibition, excise and registration department’s proposal to release Rs5.79 crore as stamp duty and registration fee for preparing documents for handing over 30 acres of land on 99-year lease for setting up a global learning centre, Nalanda Institute of Lalai Lama, under Bodh Gaya circle. The land will be handed over under Khas Mahal Policy 2011. The Bihar Municipal Service Grade Rule 2021 was also passed at the meeting. The proposal was submitted by the urban development and housing department. Altogether six proposals were passed in the cabinet meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kin-of-home-guards-dying-on-duty-to-get-govt-jobs/articleshow/80774100.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Mentally challenged minor girl gangraped by two, crime comes to light two months after pregnancy||BAREILLY: A 13-year-old mentally challenged girl was allegedly gangraped by two youths for months in a village under the Isanagar police station jurisdiction in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district. The crime came to light on Monday after the family found her two-month pregnant, said police. Upon questioning the girl with the help of a counsellor, the family came to know that two local youths had raped her repeatedly after offering her sweets. On the complaint of the family, an FIR was registered against both the accused who were arrested on Tuesday while hiding in a crop field in a bid to flee the village, said police, adding that the accused were sent to jail after questioning. The girl often stays at home when her parents, marginal farmers, go to the field. Isanagar police station SHO Hari Om Srivastava told TOI, “The girl is a minor and mentally challenged as well. Taking advantage of her mental illness, the accused raped her for several months. We have registered an FIR under IPC sections 376d (gang-rape), 352 (punishment for assault) and 504 (intentional insult which intent to breach peace) and relevant sections of the Pocso Act.” “The girl was sent for a medico-legal examination on Tuesday. She would be counselled by experts to help her overcome the trauma. The accused are unemployed and often used to visit the girl’s house in the absence of her parents. We have recorded the statements of locals and will soon be filing a charge-sheet in this connection,” added the SHO. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mentally-challenged-minor-girl-gangraped-by-two-crime-comes-to-light-two-months-after-pregnancy/articleshow/80774098.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||Registration mandatory to take dip in Ganga during Kumbh||Haridwar: In an order issued on Tuesday, the Uttarakhand government made registration mandatory for all the pilgrims who wish to take a dip in the Ganga during the Kumbh Mela.  The RT-PCR Covid-19 negative report is also mandatory for devotees to visit the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. Mela officer Deepak Rawat told TOI, “To book a room in the hotels/ashrams in Haridwar, an individual must have both — the registration and the RT-PCR Covid-19 negative report. A registration portal is being set up for the devotees by the Kumbh Mela police.” The official added, “Also, social distancing will be strictly followed during bathing festivals and at halting points made for the pilgrims. These points will be set up at Haridwar and Rishikesh railway stations. We are fully prepared for the implementation of the SOPs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/registration-mandatory-to-take-dip-in-ganga-during-kumbh/articleshow/80774081.cms||MS Nawaz
February 10, 2021||Madurai||With a lot to catch up, board exams a bigger challenge for blind, deaf students||MADURAI: With schools having reopened for Class IX to XII, blind and deaf students face a bigger challenge of preparing for board exams as they struggle to make up for the time lost due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Special educators said though the students need to put in more effort this year it was still possible for them to score well. “Students are happy to be back to school. It was not easy to access smartphones for our hearing-impaired students, many of whom are from economically weaker sections. But we did what we could and parents were also co-operative. We also sent work books through post for students to complete and send it back as a form of assessment and activity,” said J Shamila Doris, correspondent, YMCA Kamak higher secondary school. There was however apprehension about the effectiveness of video lessons which were shared for students on YouTube. “They have the same syllabus as regular students. But, for these students, it is often more time consuming to complete even one chapter. We teach the lessons through lip reading and sign language and have to give individual attention to students depending on their level of understanding. We need additional hours of classes every day to help students learn better,” said Joyce, principal, YMCA Kamak higher secondary school for the hearing impaired, which has a strength of 47 students in Class X and XII. Special educators said parents also required counselling throughout the period. At Indian Association for Blind (IAB), Madurai, which has around 40 students in Class X and XII, lessons were being taught through telephonic classes during the lockdown. “We had set up conference calls to help students learn from home. We are positive as the students do have a few months left and we are focusing only on academics,” said Roshan Fathima, general secretary, IAB, Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/with-a-lot-to-catch-up-board-exams-a-bigger-challenge-for-blind-deaf-students/articleshow/80775436.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 10, 2021||Nashik||Tough measures help bring down positivity rate in Nandurbar||NASHIK: The Covid-19 positivity rate in Nandurbar district has dipped from 27% in January to about 10% at present due to some tough measures put in place last month. District collector Rajendra Bharud said that they had stopped home isolation even for asymptomatic patients and instead, all infected patients are being institutionally quarantined. The state government has identified nine districts, including Nandurbar, where the positivity rate is higher than the state average. In Nandurbar, Shahada taluka has emerged as the Covid-19 hotspot. “There was a rise in Covid-19 cases since several asymptomatic patients, who were advised home quarantine, were found visiting public places. Last month, we stopped the policy of home quarantine,” added Bharud. This rule, which is still in place, has helped in bringing down positive cases in the district. “At present, not more than 15 cases are being reported per day. This trend has emerged over last 15 days. If it continues, the positivity rate will further come down in the district,” said Bharud. District civil surgeon Raghunath Bhoye said they are concentrating on contact tracing. “If a villager test’s positive, medical teams are sent to the village to collect swab samples of all those who came in contact with the patient. This is helping us isolate patients and treat them,” added Bhoye. Nandurbar has presently around 283 active Covid-19 cases and a total of 213 in the district have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tough-measures-help-bring-down-positivity-rate-in-nandurbar/articleshow/80773222.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
February 10, 2021||Agra||Nine magazines, 180 bullets stolen from Delhi-bound Assam Rifles truck||AGRA: At least nine firearm magazines, 180 bullets, a tablet and two bags were stolen from an Assam Rifles truck in Firozabad on Monday evening when the jawans were heading to Delhi from Shillong. Police said that the theft happened when the truck was halted near Jalesar bypass after the vehicle developed a technical snag. According to sources, the truck carrying personnel, arms and ammunition was heading to Delhi when it was stopped near the bypass due to technical issues. While the jawans were busy repairing the vehicle, some unidentified persons made away with nine magazines, 180 bullets and two bags apart from the driver’s tablet. Superintendent of police (city) Mukesh Chandra Mishra said, “Based on a complaint lodged by Assam Rifles jawan Awadhesh Kumar, we have registered a case at Narkhi police station under IPC section 379 (punishment for theft). We have also formed three teams to trace the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/9-magazines-180-bullets-stolen-from-delhi-bound-assam-rifles-truck/articleshow/80774092.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Facebook summons: Our duty to take steps to stop online hate, Delhi assembly tells SC||NEW DELHI: Responding to Facebook’s plea questioning its jurisdiction for issuing summons, the Delhi Assembly on Tuesday told the Supreme court that being an elected representative, it is its duty to examine measures to prevent online mass hate and consequent violence in its geographical area and the company cannot take the excuse that peace and harmony come within the Centre's list of public order. Appearing before a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, Senior Advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the assembly “was giving value and stature”to Facebook by asking its official to appear before its panel but they were “insulting” themselves by refusing to appear and give inputs. He said it was essential to understand how Facebook, which has lakhs of users in Delhi, functions to explore ways to tackle hate speech and other similar challenges to social cohesion. “It is also essential to point out that subsequent to the violence that occurred in NCT of Delhi in February 2020, it was the Government of NCT and its various arms that were responsible for the work on the ground right from organising camps for those displaced by the violence, to ensure rehabilitation and compensation for victims of such violence. Further, the MLAs of Delhi were on ground facilitating all these actions,” he said. “It is absolutely essential for elected representatives of a state to be able to determine the bestmeasures through which online mass hate and consequent violence, if any, in their geographical jurisdiction can be prevented. And the cooperation and inputs of Facebook are necessary in this process,” he said. Singhvi said similar powers to summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses exist in common law jurisdictions such as the UK, Canada, Australia, South Africa, as well as the USA. The assembly panel on peace and harmony is looking into complaints on the “role or complicity of Facebook officials in the Delhi riots” that happened in February last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fb-summons-our-duty-to-take-stepsto-stop-online-hate-assembly-tells-sc/articleshow/80775485.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Five members of family killed as car, truck collide, one arrested||CHENNAI: Five members of a family died after the car they were travelling in rammed a truck at Padalam in Kancheepuram district in the early hours of Tuesday. According to police, the deceased were identified as P Subramani, 85, a retired PWD official from Karayanchavadi in Poonamallee, his wife S Indirani, 75, a retired head mistress, their daughter, S Mahalakshmi, 51, granddaughter S Shanthini, 18, and driver J Paul Dinakaran, 24, from Mangadu.  Police said that the family had gone to Samayapuram temple in Trichy on Monday and was returning when the accident happened. The family was travelling in their own car and Paul Dinakaran was hired to drive it. When the vehicle was going on Trichy-Chennai National Highway near Athimanam village at Madurantakam in Chengalpet district around 2.30am, the driver of a truck that was moving in front of the car applied sudden brake. Paul lost control and rammed the truck. All the occupants in the car died on the spot and the car was completely damaged. Soon after the accident, the truck driver escaped abandoning the vehicle. Passersby alerted the highways patrol police who with the help of the registration number of the sand-laden truck arrested its driver P Thangasami, 31, from Manapparai. Police said that the driver had to apply brake as another car moving ahead of him suddenly slowed down. Passersby rushed all the five to a nearby government hospital where they were declared dead. The bodies were sent to Chengalpattu Government Hospital for postmortem. Police are checking whether Thangasami dozed off and applied the brakes. He was also speeding on the stretch, police said. Following the accident, police are sticking flickering stickers on the back of vehicles to alert the ones trailing them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/five-members-of-family-killed-as-car-truck-collide-one-arrested/articleshow/80775421.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Aurangabad||Tough measures help bring down positivity rate in Nandurbar||NASHIK: The Covid-19 positivity rate in Nandurbar district has dipped from 27% in January to about 10% at present due to some tough measures put in place last month. District collector Rajendra Bharud said that they had stopped home isolation even for asymptomatic patients and instead, all infected patients are being institutionally quarantined. The state government has identified nine districts, including Nandurbar, where the positivity rate is higher than the state average. In Nandurbar, Shahada taluka has emerged as the Covid-19 hotspot. “There was a rise in Covid-19 cases since several asymptomatic patients, who were advised home quarantine, were found visiting public places. Last month, we stopped the policy of home quarantine,” added Bharud. This rule, which is still in place, has helped in bringing down positive cases in the district. “At present, not more than 15 cases are being reported per day. This trend has emerged over last 15 days. If it continues, the positivity rate will further come down in the district,” said Bharud. District civil surgeon Raghunath Bhoye said they are concentrating on contact tracing. “If a villager test’s positive, medical teams are sent to the village to collect swab samples of all those who came in contact with the patient. This is helping us isolate patients and treat them,” added Bhoye. Nandurbar has presently around 283 active Covid-19 cases and a total of 213 in the district have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tough-measures-help-bring-down-positivity-rate-in-nandurbar/articleshow/80773222.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Villages in green belts to be put on growth path||New Delhi: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday approved a ‘Green Development Area (GDA) Policy,’ which aims to regulate development in designated rural areas and green belts in the city. The draft policy will also incorporate the low density residential areas (LDRA) of the capital where most of the farmhouses are located. The draft policy, which will provide an integrated framework for ‘green-oriented’ development of lands falling in these areas, will pave the way for development of cold storage, green houses, convention and exhibition centres, concert spaces, stadiums, art galleries, etc. The development will be characterised by low floor area ratio (FAR) and large wooded or landscaped areas. At present, no new residential or commercial construction is allowed in villages located on the fringes of the capital. “There is a problem of unauthorised constructions taking place in rural areas and the green belt of the city. By bringing in regulation, we will be able to encourage more sustainable, green development with less FAR and development in wooded areas,” an official said. “It will facilitate land owners to utilise their lands for economic uses, thereby minimising misuse, unauthorised constructions and ensuring balanced development and retaining the green character of these areas,” he said. The draft policy was approved in the Authority’s meeting chaired by Delhi LG Anil Baijal on Wednesday and will be now put in public domain for inviting objections or suggestions, which would be placed before a Board of Enquiry and Hearing. As per the recommendations of the Board, the proposal will be again placed before the Authority for final approval and then sent to the ministry of housing and urban affairs for notification. The policy will also ensure seamless development of infrastructure and road network within and around GDA, DDA said in a statement. Under the draft policy, a three rung graded approach for development of lands falling under GDA has been adopted—Grade 1 where minimum plot area required is 600 square metres, Grade 2 with 4,000 square metres and minimum 10,000 square metres for Grade 3 development. The FAR allowed will be 5 in case of Grade 1, 20 for Grade 2 and 60 for Grade 3. The mandatory wooded area shall be increased as per the grade change, such as minimum 45% of the plot area in case of Grade 3 development. The policy allows for incentivised development on agglomerated land parcels of bigger size and enumerates permissible uses, activities, parking and other mandatory provisions. For instance, in Grade 3, a wide range of activities, such as higher education campuses (including vocational training), non-polluting work centres like cyber and knowledge industry, research and development, agro-processing and packaging, cold storage, green houses, convention and exhibition centres, concert spaces, stadiums, cultural performance spaces, museums, art galleries, etc, have been allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/villages-in-green-belts-to-be-put-on-growth-path/articleshow/80799356.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Goa||Tourists set to throng Goa as Carnival has a Valentine day date||PANAJI: After a fortnight, Goa is expected to witness yet another packed weekend. With Carnival kicking off on Saturday and Valentine’s Day on Sunday, hotel bookings have gone up. The tourism industry is set for a bustling weekend. Industry traders say that the state now receives good domestic tourist footfalls even on weekdays. This has meant that business in January was better than in December, they said. “With more airlines restarting Goa operations, the state will have more visitors. We are slowly returning to pre-Covid days,” president of Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) Nilesh Shah said. Of the 3,497 hotels listed with Goa Electronic Ltd (GEL), Shah said 1,270 have resumed operations. Though 63% have not reopened, they are mostly smaller hotels that relied on charters and other foreign tourists who stayed in Goa for a longer period. Shah said that the smaller hotels will probably reopen next season. “The charter season is as good as washed out this year,” he said. A hotelier in North Goa said that though the crowd goes up on weekends, the numbers during the week are also not as bad as they have been made out. “We have domestic tourists even on weekdays though they may not be big spenders,” he said. However, though some often complain that Goa mostly receives backpackers with limited or no spending capacity, the state has been seeing a mixed crowd. For a clear picture, an independent survey of the tourist flow since Covid would be required. Hotelier Savio Messias said that of late, and during Covid times, Goa received domestic tourists of all categories though there might be some plus or minus in their numbers. “They are coming by train, vehicles and air. We also see a lot of men in groups visiting the state,” Messias said. North Goa’s coastal belt of Calangute-Candolim and Baga continues to receive more footfalls. However, Messias said that a slight change has been observed in tourist movements. “Tourists divide their days between North and South Goa where earlier most would choose to be in North Goa,” he said. Besides, travellers looking for a quiet holiday are choosing to stay in villas at Assagao. “Assagao has been quite an attraction for those who want to spend holidays away from the usual hustle and bustle of the tourist destination,” Messias said. Another place that domestic tourists seem to have taken to is Arambol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourists-set-to-throng-state-as-carnival-has-a-v-day-date/articleshow/80776758.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Madurai||42 cases in south Tamil Nadu, 52 in central districts||MADURAI/ TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state reported 42 Covid-19 fresh cases taking the tally to 1,36,538, which including 417 active cases, and 1,33,991 recoveries. Meanwhile, the central region reported 52 fresh cases taking the tally to 76,375, which include 434 active cases. Both the regions recorded no deaths. Kanyakumari reported 11 new cases, the highest in the southern region. All other districts in south TN reported fresh cases in single digits, while Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga reported zero fresh cases. As the active cases in Madurai (85) remained below 100 on Tuesday, Kanyakumari (89) surpassed Madurai to have the highest number of active cases in the south. Except Tirunelveli (61) and Dindigul (52), all other southern districts have less than 50 active cases, while Ramanathapuram (9) continues to have less than 10 active cases. Tirunelveli (8) and Dindigul (6) also reported new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday while Madurai (5), Tenkasi (4), Tuticorin (4), Theni (3) and Virudhunagar (1), all reported five or less fresh cases. With no new Covid-19 deaths in south TN on Tuesday, the toll stood at 2,130 and the corresponding regional Covid-19 death rate is at 1.56%. Fresh cases have been rising and falling at minor margins in the central region for the past few weeks. On Tuesday, Thanjavur recorded 15 cases, taking its tally to 17,830, the highest in the central region. Trichy came second with 14 cases. All other districts registered fresh cases in single digits only. Nagapattinam reported nine fresh cases pushing the tally to 8,502. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/42-cases-in-south-tn-52-in-central-dists/articleshow/80775459.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Trichy||42 cases in south Tamil Nadu, 52 in central districts||MADURAI/ TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state reported 42 Covid-19 fresh cases taking the tally to 1,36,538, which including 417 active cases, and 1,33,991 recoveries. Meanwhile, the central region reported 52 fresh cases taking the tally to 76,375, which include 434 active cases. Both the regions recorded no deaths. Kanyakumari reported 11 new cases, the highest in the southern region. All other districts in south TN reported fresh cases in single digits, while Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga reported zero fresh cases. As the active cases in Madurai (85) remained below 100 on Tuesday, Kanyakumari (89) surpassed Madurai to have the highest number of active cases in the south. Except Tirunelveli (61) and Dindigul (52), all other southern districts have less than 50 active cases, while Ramanathapuram (9) continues to have less than 10 active cases. Tirunelveli (8) and Dindigul (6) also reported new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday while Madurai (5), Tenkasi (4), Tuticorin (4), Theni (3) and Virudhunagar (1), all reported five or less fresh cases. With no new Covid-19 deaths in south TN on Tuesday, the toll stood at 2,130 and the corresponding regional Covid-19 death rate is at 1.56%. Fresh cases have been rising and falling at minor margins in the central region for the past few weeks. On Tuesday, Thanjavur recorded 15 cases, taking its tally to 17,830, the highest in the central region. Trichy came second with 14 cases. All other districts registered fresh cases in single digits only. Nagapattinam reported nine fresh cases pushing the tally to 8,502. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/42-cases-in-south-tn-52-in-central-dists/articleshow/80781162.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Amritsar||BJP Punjab chief shifts venue in face of farm agitation||BATHINDA: In view of the presence of farmers outside the marriage palace where Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma was to address an election meeting on Tuesday evening, the party had to shift to a secluded place on Dabwali road. After cancellation of the meeting at the marriage palace, a brief meeting was held with a few party leaders and activists at an open plot. Not even police officials were informed. Sharma left after the meeting. Earlier, he had to face a massive protest in Ferozepur and Abohar town of Fazilka while campaigning for BJP candidates contesting the municipal elections. On Monday, former union minister Vijay Sampla had to face the wrath of farmers in Moga. “Police had barricaded all routes leading to Chhabra Palace where Sharma was to address the meeting. One way from Hanuman Chowk was left open for him to reach the venue. When one advance party reached Hanuman Chowk, we saw that it too was closed and farmers were stationed at this route as well as others. Therefore, we decided to cancel the meeting at the palace and went to a vacant plot near AIIMS on Dabwali road, where the party president met activists,” party’s media cell in-charge Sunil Singla said. Ashwani Sharma accused the state government of playing foul. “The state government is not creating an atmosphere where politicians can freely discharge the democratic duty of campaigning for elections. The government is pushing goondas to hold protests against us in the garb of farmers and the state election commission is turning out to be a mute spectator. We will see how the Congress does this in 2022 assembly elections,” he alleged. Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said security was elaborate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/bjp-pb-chief-shifts-venue-in-face-of-farm-agitation/articleshow/80776768.cms||Neel Kamal
February 10, 2021||Goa||Vagator locals agitate at PWD office over water shortage||SALIGAO: The residents of Vagator, along with some social activists and the Siolim block of the Aam Admi Party (AAP) protested at the office of the assistant engineer PWD, Mapusa, on Tuesday, and also submitted a memorandum over the inadequate water supply to Vagator. The residents informed the PWD assistant engineer K Chandran about the water supply problems in their village and demanded that the government should fix the problem immediately. Questioning the engineer on the quantity of water being supplied to Vagator on daily basis and its timings, the residents said that despite several complaints in the past, there was no action initiated and the problem of water shortage still continues. The engineer assured the locals that the PWD officials would come to Vagator for an inspection. “We think four MLD water is falling short but we will try our best to solve the problem,” Chandran said. He said that the natural sources of water could also be improved as a measure to find a solution to the water shortage problem. The production of water has to also be improved at the treatment plant at Assonora to find a solution to the water shortage problem. Co-ordinator of AAP’s Siolim block, Pujan Malvankar told the reporters that the residents could not afford to be dependant on tankers regularly to meet their requirements. The natural sources of water could also be improved as a measure to find a solution to the water shortage problem. The production of water has to also be improved at the treatment plant at Assonora||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vagator-locals-agitate-at-pwd-office-over-water-shortage/articleshow/80776770.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Ludhiana||Congress fighting over 90% wards on party symbol, BJP 50%, SAD 80%||JALANDHAR: Congress has fielded candidates on party symbol in around 92% of over 2,200 wards for municipal elections — ranging from municipal corporations to nagar panchayats. However, BJP has fielded candidates on its party symbol from around 52% of the total wards, its erstwhile partner Shiromani Akali Dal has fielded 80% candidates and AAP 72% candidates on their party symbols. The BJP has claimed that it had decided to contest on party symbol only in municipal corporations, ‘A’ and ‘B’ class municipal committees, from where it has fielded candidates in over 68% wards. SAD, in contrast, said that it had left it to local leaders to take a decision on using the party symbol. Sources revealed that at quite a few places Akali candidates considered their prospects better by opting for the independent route even when the party had strong presence in those areas. Punjab Congress general secretary and state office in-charge Captain Sandeep Sandhu said in all types of municipal bodies — from municipal corporations to nagar panchayats — the party had fielded 2,039 candidates out of a total 2,215 wards on the party symbol. “In nagar panchayats, candidates usually don’t take party symbol and that is a practice from the past but there are very few exceptions in municipal corporations or municipal committees,” he said. BJP Punjab general secretary Subhash Sharma said that out of total 1,687 wards of municipal corporations, ‘A’ and ‘B’ class municipal committees they have fielded 1,154 candidates with party symbols, which makes around 68% candidates. He said they had not allowed any candidate to contest without party symbol in these corporations and committees. The BJP had taken a decision that in nagar panchayats, candidates would not use party symbol and would contest as independents. He claimed that it was a major improvement for the party that they had fielded candidates from around 70% wards whereas earlier their political share in Punjab was just 20%. Sharma revealed that for nagar panchayats (which are also called ‘C’ class municipal committees), BJP had 265 candidates contesting as independents. According to his claim, BJP is contesting half of the wards of nagar panchayats across the state. It is learnt that though there were rumblings within BJP at local levels as several aspirants wanted to contest as independents, especially from wards where they have not been contesting in the past, but Punjab BJP leadership drew a line and decided that anybody contesting as an independent in polls to the municipal corporations or ‘A’ and ‘B’ class municipal committees would be expelled from the party. Sources said that Punjab BJP leadership took this decision to ensure that its election symbol reaches maximum people during these elections. SAD secretary and spokesperson Daljeet Singh Cheema said a total of 1,787 candidates were contesting with party symbol. The Akali Dal had left it to local party leaders to take a decision about contesting on the party symbol or as independents or remaining flexible with specific candidates, he added. Sources revealed that at several places, SAD candidates were not keen on contesting on party symbol as they had apprehensions that this could have an adverse impact on their prospects. For instance, in Jalandhar district, out of total 110 wards of eight MCs and NPs, Akali Dal has fielded only 25 candidates on party symbol, BJP has 17 on party symbol and Congress 65 candidates on party symbol. However, when asked, Jalandhar district rural SAD president and Nakodar MLA Gurpartap Singh Wadala denied that the candidates did not want to contest on party symbol and claimed that they had local understanding with BSP and others so a common symbol was decided. He claimed that in Nakodar their candidates had taken tractor as a symbol and in Nurmahal Congress candidates got this symbol. AAP’s Punjab media coordinator Digvijay Dhanju said his party had a total of 1,606 candidates across Punjab who were contesting on the party symbol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-fighting-over-90-wards-on-party-symbol-bjp-50-sad-80/articleshow/80776763.cms||IP Singh
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Man to serve 5 years for sexual assault on kid||MUMBAI: A special Pocso Act court recently convicted and sentenced a now 24-year-old man to five years rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting his family friend’s 11-year-old daughter in 2016. The child and mother deposed in court and identified the accused. The incident took place on April 9, 2016 and the accused was arrested a day later. The court directed the District Legal Aid Services Authority to enquire and if it finds that the child has not got compensation, the case be referred to ensure that she does. “The accused is a mature person. Despite this, he committed the offence. The incident has caused adverse impact on the mind and soul of the child victim. I am of the view that, no compensation can be adequate to give any respite to the victim. The humiliation or the reputation that is snuffed out cannot be recompensed, but then monetary compensation will at least provide some solace,” the court reasoned. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-to-serve-5-years-for-sex-assault-on-kid/articleshow/80777665.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Madurai||Over 1,000 take Covid-19 jab at private hospitals||MADURAI: More than 1,000 healthcare providers have been vaccinated at the session sites set up at private hospitals, which are motivating healthcare staff to get the shot, in Madurai district. Apollo Hospitals is among the first few private hospitals to be made a Covid-19 vaccination site. “There has been reasonably good acceptance among the staff and there have been no issues so far. Most of the senior employees at the hospital were positive about taking the vaccine, and later, other staff followed suit. There was little apprehension during the first few days, but it’s settled down and vaccination is progressing smoothly,” said Dr Rohini Sridhar, chief operating officer, Apollo Hospitals, Madurai division. He said that apart from those who were excluded based on medical reasons such as pregnancy or illnesses such as fever, there was a good response for the drive. Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC) was included as a Covid-19 vaccination session site a few days ago. “Awareness is good but we are not forcing anyone. Around 200 employees are getting Covid-19 vaccination a day and the vaccine doses have been scheduled for all departments. Since we have around 3,500 staff, we will get to know who were left out and who have apprehensions after covering around 80% of the staff. We will provide counselling and motivate them to take the vaccine,” said J Adel, general manager-operations, MMHRC. “Even among educated people, there is apprehension and many listen to what is being discussed at home by family members about taking the vaccine. The maximum side effects observed are fever or body pain, which is normal for a vaccine,” said Dr Vinoth Thangamani, consultant trauma and spine surgeon at Preethi Hospitals, which has been newly-included as a session site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-1k-take-covid-19-jab-at-pvt-hosps/articleshow/80775452.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 10, 2021||World||Violent crackdown against coup protests in Myanmar||Police and protesters clashed in Myanmar on Tuesday, with injuries on both sides on the most violent day so far of demonstrations against the military coup that overthrew Aung San Suu Kyi, and a doctor said one woman was unlikely to survive a gun wound in the head. Three other people were being treated for wounds from suspected rubber bullets after police fired guns, mostly into the air, and used water cannon to try to clear protesters in the capital Naypyidaw. State TV reported injuries to police during their attempts to disperse protesters — its first acknowledgement of the demonstrations taking place in the country. The incidents marked the first bloodshed since the military-led by army chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing overthrew Suu Kyi’s newly elected government on February 1 and detained her and other politicians from her National League for Democracy (NLD). The military claimed that the NLD won by fraud — an accusation dismissed by the election committee and Western governments. Late on Tuesday, police in Myanmar raided the NLD’s headquarters in Yangon, two elected NLD lawmakers said. The raid was carried out by about a dozen police personnel, who forced their way into the building after dark, they said. The UN expressed concern about the use of force against demonstrators. According to reports from Naypyitaw, Mandalay and other cities, numerous demonstrators have been injured, some of them seriously. The UNHRC is to hold a special session on Friday to consider “the human rights implications of the crisis in Myanmar”. The US said it is continuing to make Myanmar a priority and is conducting a review of assistance to the country. New Zealand on Tuesday suspended all military and high-level political contact with Myanmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/violent-crackdown-against-coup-protests-in-myanmar/articleshow/80778048.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Sunny Deol betrayed people of Punjab: AAP||PATHANKOT: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said BJP’s Gurdaspur MP, actor Sunny Deol, had betrayed the people of Punjab when they needed him the most. Raghav, also co-incharge of Punjab AAP affairs, was here in connection with local body elections. He said not only Sunny’s Lok Sabha constituency but also the entire state had high hopes that he’ll stand by farmers. “Nearly 200 farmers have died during the agitation that began in the biting cold of Delhi, but Sunny Deol didn’t utter a word in their support. If at all, he only hurled an insult at the farmers by praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Raghav. Raghav said people of Punjab had always supported the Deol family, but the latter had now turned its back on the voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sunny-betrayed-people-of-pb-aap/articleshow/80776771.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 10, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Rise in recovery leads to further drop in active cases by 27%||NASHIK: The number of active patients in Nashik city has further dropped by 27% in the last nine days owing to rise in recovery cases and lesser number of people testing positive for Covid-19. According to the health department of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), the number of active patients in the city has dropped from 694 on January 31 to 511 on Monday. “There has been a continuous drop in new cases in the city for the past two to three months. Moreover, the recovery of Covid patients has also increased to 98%. This has overall led to drop in number of active patients in the city,” Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintending officer of the NMC, said.  On December 13, the city had around 2,200 patients. With drop in number of new cases, the civic body has also shut down nine Covid Care Centres in the city and only two Covid hospitals — Bytco and Zakir Hussain — are treating Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rise-in-recovery-leads-to-further-drop-in-active-cases-by-27/articleshow/80773234.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy invites Japan to invest in state projects||VIJAYAWADA: Meeting with the Japanese consul general Taga Masayuki at his Tadepalli camp office on Tuesday, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy invited Japan to invest in and partner with the Andhra Pradesh government’s projects. The chief minister told the Japanese consul genereal the state was among the best in the country in terms of ease of doing business as a result of initiatives and incentives to promote investment in the state. The chief minister explained that the government has taken up promotion of IT and electronic sectors in the state. The government has proposed establishing an integrated technology park, high-end skills university, incubation centres, data centres and centres of excellence, he said. Jagan further said that a world-class electronic manufacturing cluster in Kadapa district has been proposed and that the government will provide infrastructure and connectivity to the project. During the meet, the Japan consul general observed that AP has the strength to attract big-ticket investments. He said they are backing their industrialists to invest in the state and added the Japanese Institute of Manufacturing in Sri City is a model which can be replicated in other regions. The consul general also participated in a conference organised by AP Economic Development Board (APEDB) where he lauded the government’s efforts to improve irrigation facilities and expressed the Japanese government’s keenness to back such projects. Present at the meet, industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy thanked the Japanese government for coming forward to extend its support in the development of concept cities in the state. “The focus of our government is to attract long-term investors and Japan is an important country for industrial partnerships. With its long coastline, infrastructure and logistics advantage, AP can be a conduit for Japanese companies to venture into South Asian markets,” the minister said. The industries minister also explained the features of the planned concept cities in Anantapur, Tirupati and Visakahapatnam, and invited Japanese companies to partner the state in their development. The minister said development of concept cities can integrate residential, manufacturing, services, leisure and social infrastructure to form a self-sustaining ecosystem. “The state is home to robust industrial ecosystem in both IT and electronics sectors. AP is home to some of the largest companies in the IT sector such as HCL, Conduent, Tech Mahindra, IBM with a total employment of over 45,000 persons,” Mekapati said, adding that the existing three electronics manufacturing clusters (EMCs) have enabled the state to attract marquee names such as Foxconn, TCL, Sunny Opotech, O-Film and Wingtech which have employed more than 25,000 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-invites-japan-to-invest-in-state-projects/articleshow/80774032.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Govt moves court over SEC colour-change order||Vijayawada: The state government on Tuesday moved the high court challenging the orders of the state election commission over door delivery of ration through mobile vans. The SEC has directed the government to change the colours on the mobile vans in view of the panchayat elections as they are akin to YSRC flag colours. The government sought relaxation of the SEC order as the scheme is intended to supply food grains to the poor. Arguing on behalf of the government, advocate general S Sriram told the court the scheme was announced in 2019 and implementation was started on pilot basis in Srikakulam district much before the announcement of elections. The vehicles were launched on January 21 and details of the scheme have been submitted as sought by the SEC, he said. However, the SEC raised objections and stopped ration supply in rural areas in view of the elections. Though the chief secretary clearly explained that it is an ongoing scheme, the SEC did not consider his representations and directed to change the colours of the vans, the advocate general told the court.The AG further said that the colour scheme on the vans is not akin to YSRC colours and there are other colours present which are identical to flags of other parties. As far as the picture of YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is concerned, he said the Supreme Court clearly said that the CM’s pictures can be used in government schemes. Sriram urged the court to set aside SEC’s order and sought its nod to allow door delivery of ration which has already been affected in rural areas. He said if the SEC orders have to be implemented, ration supply will take a hit for two months as municipal elections are likely to be notified anytime soon. The high court posted the matter for further hearing to Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-moves-court-over-sec-colour-change-order/articleshow/80774421.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 10, 2021||Vijayawada||HC reserves order on Peddireddy’s petition||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Tuesday reserved its orders on the appeal petition moved by panchayat raj and rural development minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy challenging the directive of the single-judge order which refrained him from speaking to the media till the panchayat polls are over. Senior counsel CV Mohan Reddy, arguing for the minister, told the bench comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C Praveen Kumar that restraining a cabinet minister from speaking to media will affect discharge of his duties apart from infringing on his right to expression. “Being a minister, he is required to share certain details with the public through the media from time to time,” Mohan Reddy said, adding that if there are any apprehensions on the part of the SEC, the minister is ready to give an undertaking to the court that he will not make any utterances about SEC and officials. The bench asked SEC’s counsel B Adinarayana Rao, if they have any objection if the minister is willing to give an undertaking. Rao replied that if the minister gives an undertaking stating he will not speak about the SEC and election process, the court may consider the same to give appropriate orders. After hearing arguments, the bench said it will pass orders on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-reserves-order-on-peddireddys-petition/articleshow/80775089.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cartridges found in Electrotherm MD’s office||Ahmedabad: In fresh trouble for Electrotherm MD Shailesh Bhandari just days after the firm was caught in a fake billing scam, eight live cartridges were found in his office at Palodia village in Gandhinagar. The police also found 898 bottles of imported liquor worth Rs 33 lakh packed inside boxes branded with the firm’s logo. The discovery was made during a search of the premises conducted by the state goods and service tax department on Saturday, said Santej police. “Bhandari’s office was thoroughly searched in the presence of two panch witnesses. We found eight live cartridges kept inside a plastic bag from his office desk,” states an FIR filed on Sunday. An LCB officer, probing the case, said, "These were revolver cartridges for which Bhandari’s staff could not produce either a licence or a permit.” Police officers said that they knew during inquiry that Bhandari did not have any licence registered in his name at present. The raid had been conducted in connection with the bogus billing scam which runs into crores. During the raids, details of unaccounted transactions worth Rs 46.69 crore, including fake bills used to evade taxes, were found on the premises. SGST officials recovered taxes worth Rs 10 crore on the spot during the raids. LCB officers said that Bhandari has gone underground following the raids and various teams have been formed to nab him. He has also filed an application in a local court to seek anticipatory bail in the liquor prohibition case. This is not the first time that Electrotherm has been in legal trouble. Earlier, on September 2019, CID (crime) began an investigation into a Rs 480-crore loan scam allegedly perpetrated by Shailesh Bhandari and others. Company founder Mukesh Bhandari accused Shailesh Bhandari, Chairman of Western India Specialty Hospitals Ltd Nagesh Bhandari and others of forging his signature to secure a loan under the pretext of establishing a steel plant in Tanzanai. However, the loan amount was reportedly used to repay debt of other banks and for other purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cartridges-found-in-electrotherm-mds-office/articleshow/80776769.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP to fight for mayor post||Hyderabad: The BJP state unit has decided to contest the mayor elections. GHMC BJP former president N Ramchander Rao told TOI that this would likely be announced on Wednesday after a meeting with newly-elected candidates. “People have good mandate for us, so we don’t want to remain passive,” he said. Among the contenders are Radha Dheeraj Reddy from RK Puram, Rajya Lakshmi from Vinayak Nagar, Deepika from Monda Market. The party will also contest the deputy mayor post. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-to-fight-for-mayor-post/articleshow/80775480.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara lad bags AIR 5, total 235 clear CA intermediate exam||VADODARA: City lad Ankush Chirimar improved his own standing as the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) declared results of chartered accountant (CA) inter and foundation programmes. Ankush, who had last year bagged All India Rank (AIR) 32 in CA foundation, bagged AIR 5 in CA intermediate. CA foundation is the first stage to become a CA after which a student also has to clear intermediate and final stage in order to become a CA. “As of now, I want to do article ship in a big firm which can provide me good exposure. I will take the decision of either joining a firm or practicing independently after I clear my CA finals,” said Ankush, whose father Sanjay Chirimar is a branch manager in a transport firm while mother Sunita is a homemaker. Like Ankush, Simran Maheshwari, too is a second year B Com student at M S University’s Faculty of Commerce. “I will first gain experience by working with a firm and later decide whether I should practice independently or not,” said Simran, whose father Vijaykumar is a businessman while mother Ramilais a homemaker. “I wish to make a career in audit and accounting,” said Vadodara centre third Jasika Jain, daughter of businessman father Sunil and homemaker mother Sangita. A total of 235 students passed CA inter exams in old and new course. While 33 out of 233 who had appeared in inter (old) cleared their exams, in inter (new), 202 out of 761 students cleared their exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-lad-bags-air-5-total-235-clear-ca-intermediate-exam/articleshow/80773872.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Vijayawada||HC bars SEC from using e-watch app till February 17||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Tuesday directed the state election commission not to use its e-watch app to receive complaints from public over election code violations till February 17. The court also directed the SEC to file a reply on the security concerns raised by AP Technology Services Limited (APTSL). The SEC told the court that it has no objection to use either cVigil app (developed by the Election Commission of India) or Nigha app (developed by the state government) for the same purpose. Arguing on behalf of the SEC, advocate N Ashwani Kumar said the SEC has, however, received complaints that Nigha app is not working properly. Three PILs were filed before the high court challenging the usage of e-watch app developed by the SEC. The court had earlier directed the SEC not to use the app till Feb 9 as it had not obtained the requisite security certificate from APTSL. The high court bench comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C Praveen Kumar heard the matter again on Tuesday. Advocate C Sumon, arguing on behalf of the government, told the bench that they do not have any objection if the SEC is willing to use either cVigil or Nigha. When it came to e-watch, he said the APTSL has raised some security concerns as it has found out that the source code of social welfare department was copied into e-watch app. As the SEC did not submit any document pertaining to approval from the social department over the usage of its source code, APTSL wrote to the SEC to clarify the same, Sumon said, adding that if the source code is used without permission and necessary security protocols, the social welfare department data would be at great cyber security risk.  The SEC was asked to withhold use of e-watch until it is cleared by the APTSL. The bench also asked the state government and the petitioners if they have any objection over using either cVigil or Nigha by the SEC, to which they said they do not have any objections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-bars-sec-from-using-e-watch-app-till-feb-17/articleshow/80775154.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 10, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Vaccine hesitancy still high, just 13% jabbed in BBMP limits||BENGALURU: An abysmal 13% of the registered frontline workers got inoculated against Covid-19 on Tuesday in the BBMP limits, raising questions over the authorities’ ability to address the issue of vaccine hesitancy. While 13,126 frontline workers were to get the jab at 191 session sites, only 1,718 turned up, confirming that vaccine fears still rule among the targeted beneficiaries. The turnout at Vaccine Mela, held at the BBMP headquarters where top civic administrators were to lead by example, was marginally better. Of the 600 to be vaccinated at the mela, 127 turned up. BBMP administrator Gaurav Gupta, commissioner Manjunath Prasad, special commissioner (health) P Rajendra Cholan sought to set an example by taking the vaccine, but its desired impact was missing. Commissioner Prasad said frontline workers’ hesitancy stems from the fears that they would not be able to consume alcohol. “There is no rule that one should not consume alcohol after vaccination. Every medicine has dos and don’ts,” Prasad told TOI. “There is no compulsion to get the vaccine. It is a matter of choice. We are happy to inoculate any frontline worker who comes forward to take the jab,” Cholan said. Several pourakarmikas have given wrong phone numbers to avoid being contacted for the drive, officials said. “When we call and ask them to come to the primary health centre, they say it’s a wrong number and disconnect the call. Nobody wants the jab, which is sad,” said a senior medical officer from a PHC near Fraser Town. Many gave wrong contact numbersSimilar incidents were reported from other PHCs across the city. Pourakarmikas make no bones about their suspicions over the vaccine. “Why should we take it when political leaders are hesitant to take it? We will trust the vaccine only after they take it,” Rangappa L, a pourakarmika, said in front of officials at the BBMP headquarters. When officials said only frontline workers are being vaccinated now on priority and others’ turn will come later, Rangappa stuck to his stance. Pourakarmika Nagaraju S said getting vaccinated is not compulsory. “When it’s made mandatory, then I’ll think about it,” he said. “We are motivating frontline workers to get inoculation. We will soon roll out a programme for others,” said P Rajendra Cholan | special commissioner (health). Poor response in Mangaluru The phase 2 of Covid-19 vaccination drive, that was launched on Monday for frontline workers from four government departments in Mangaluru, received poor response. The district administration identified 8,546 frontline workers from police, revenue, panchayat raj departments and urban local bodies for vaccination in three days. However, only 1,211 (14.17%) have received the shot in the first two days. On day two of the drive, 32.8% frontline workers from four government departments received the shot. While the health department had planned to vaccinate 1,954 workers on Tuesday, only 641 turned up. On the first day, 570 out 2,750 frontline workers (20.72%) had received the vaccine. In phase 1 of the drive, 25,182 of 52,381 beneficiaries had received the vaccine since January 16. The district has achieved 48.07% of the target in this drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vaccine-hesitancy-still-high-just-13-jabbed-in-bbmp-limits/articleshow/80774694.cms||Nithya Mandyam
February 10, 2021||Vadodara||Man stealing valuables in moving trains caught||VADODARA: The local crime branch (LCB) railways on Tuesday arrested a man who used to steal valuables of the passenger in moving trains. The accused identified as Govind Ram Servi (45) is a resident of Pali district in Rajasthan. LCB sleuths said that they arrested Servi from his home town. The police have cracked 11 cases of thefts allegedly committed by Servi and seized valuables worth lakhs of rupees. “Servi used to travel in different long distance trains between Rajasthan, Mumbai and Gujarat frequently. He used to befriend passengers on way and then offer them either cold drink or juice by claiming that he has become a father,” LCB officials said. “Servi used to mix a tablet in the cold drink or juice he offered. The gullible passengers used to fall unconscious after having the liquid. Servi would then take off with their bags containing valuables. He used to do recce of the train’s coach before zeroing in on his target,” the police added. During his interrogation, Servi admitted to having committed thefts on Chennai-Jodhpur Express, Jodhpur Express and in luxury buses travelling between different cities in Rajasthan. He stole gold jewellery, cash, mobile phones and debit cards. The cops have seized 18 jewellery items worth Rs 6.55 lakh including gold ring, chains and silver ornaments apart from a receipt of a private bank of deposits worth Rs 74,000 and t-shirts as well as bags. Servi was booked for theft twice by Rajasthan police in the past. The cops are now investigating if he has been involved in any other crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-stealing-valuables-in-moving-trains-caught/articleshow/80773682.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Six held for gold robberies in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram||VISAKHAPATNAM: City police have cracked the robbery incident which took place on February 2 at a gold workshop at Kurupam Market and arrested three persons, including a goldsmith, and recovered the stolen gold. Cops went through over 200 CCTV footage in the locality to identify the accused. The arrested have been identified as Pheer Zaelha Sayyed Navazis Hussain (28), Chalapaka Lakshman (30) and Sariki Sagar (30), all residents of One Town. DCP (Crimes) V Suresh Babu said the trio entered the workshop by breaking the locks using a hacksaw. Investigation revealed that the trio had involved in two more cases. Elsewhere, Vizianagaram police solved the theft of over 150 grams of gold and arrested three persons. Police said that one D Suryavathi(65) had come to Vizianagaram Town on February 6 for some work. Later, she boarded an auto-rickshaw to reach her hometown. After reaching home, she realised that ornaments and Rs 9,300 cash were missing. Based on her complaint, police formed a special team and nabbed the three persons — R Yellaramma, M Ravi and S Yerri Naidu. Investigation revealed the trio loots passengers who board their autorickshaw. The trio are involved in 10 cases in Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/6-held-for-gold-robberies-in-viz-vzm/articleshow/80775281.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC mayor post: MLAs turn generous, don’t want first citizen from their pocket boroughs||HYDERABAD: Though over half a dozen candidates are lobbying for Greater Hyderabad mayor post, legislators reportedly do not want a mayor candidate from their assembly constituency. Reason: Fear of another power centre emerging in their pocket borough and may pose threat to their seat in the next assembly elections. Three to four mayor aspirants had tried to get a ticket in the 2018 assembly elections and could not succeed as the party decided to give tickets to sitting MLAs unless there was any major problem. Party leaders recall the cases of Uppal and Khairatabad and other assembly constituencies, where corporators tried for the seat in the 2018 election. Similarly, some other corporators too tried for tickets from various assembly constituencies. Election to the mayor post would be held on February 11 after corporators-elect take oath. TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao, during the extended party meeting on Sunday, said the party would select the candidate and the name would be sent in a sealed cover, to be revealed just before the polls. TRS sources said names would be finalised by Wednesday. While dozen candidates are aspiring, half a dozen candidates are seriously lobbying. Sources said though the post is reserved for woman (general) candidate, the party might consider a candidate from reserved categories like Backward Classes. Those in the fray include Gadwal Vijaya Lakshmi (Banjara Hills), P Vijaya Reddy (Khairatabad), Adarsh Sindhu Reddy (Bharati Nagar), Bonthu Sridevi Yadav(Cherlapally), Manne Kavitha Reddy (Venkateshwara nagar) and Chintala Shanti (Alwal). Bonthu Sridevi Yadav, wife of incumbent mayor Bonthu Rammohan, has been trying to get the post. Rammohan even met the CM a couple of days ago. He reportedly said he does not want MLC ticket for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar Graduates constituency if his wife is given this post. He is also using the Yadav card. His opponents say, opportunity for the same post cannot be given twice from a family. TRS secretary general K Keshava Rao’s daughter Gadwal Vijaya Lakshmi is also in the race. Her opponents say her father is RS member, while brother Viplab Kumar is chairman of state corporation. Three posts cannot be given to a family. Khairatabad corporator Vijaya Reddy, daughter of former MLA late P Janardhan Reddy, is seeking a chance. MLC Bhoopal Reddy’s relative and Bharati Nagar corporator Sindhu Adharsh Reddy and Venkateshwara nagar corporator Manne Kavitha Reddy’s names are also doing rounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mayor-post-mlas-turn-generous-dont-want-first-citizen-from-their-pocket-boroughs/articleshow/80775473.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||Did fish in Alaknanda waters ‘know’ flood would hit?||DEHRADUN: An otherwise slow Sunday morning in the Lasu village was disrupted by a strange occurrence — the Alaknanda river, by which it lies, had turned silver with shoals of fishes close to the surface. It was around 9am. Within minutes, some hundred locals had gathered, ready with baskets, buckets, pots, pans to “pick up” the fish — they didn’t even have to drop a rod or net. What they could not have known was that about 70km upstream, in another hour or so, disaster was about to strike. And this was a precursor. In Raini village, the surging Dhauliganga would ravage everything in its path after a landslide-triggered avalanche flooded it. The Dhauliganga is the Alaknanda’s tributary. And those downstream from the river, in places far away from Raini — Nandprayag, Langasu, Karnprayag — saw what those at Lasu had seen. Innumerable mahseers, carps and snow trouts had filled the waters, were not swimming too deep inside and were sticking to the banks. “Fish always swim in the middle of the stream. It was abnormal. They were only swimming along the edges,” Ajay Purohit, one of the first to spot the fish, told TOI. At Girsa village, near Langasu, surprise gave way to pragmatism. “At least one person from each family in our village went to see what was happening. On any day, it would not be possible to catch fish with our hands. But they were so close, and so many. All of us brought back a lot of fish,” said Radha Krishna, a resident. Some of the fish caught weighed up to 2kg. Vinod Purohit, also from Langasu, added, “Most of us carried back around a dozen fish.” The one change they may have missed was that of the water. The clear green had turned grey, just like the slurry that had washed over Raini, Tapovan and other villages flooded in Chamoli. How are the two related? Scientists said the subsurface vibrations of whatever it is that caused the floods may have ‘broken the sensors’ of fishes upstream. “Fish have a lateral line organ (a biological system found in aquatic creatures that help them detect movement and pressure changes in water around them). It’s very sensitive. The slightest disturbance can set it off, sending the fish into a state of shock,” said K Sivakumar, senior scientist at the Wildlife Institute of India. “In this case, it’s possible that a sound preceding the flood may have been picked up by the fish. It is also possible that an electric wire or some source of power fell into the water and gave them electric shocks. There can be many reasons. This is why we keep saying that dynamite blasting should never be done on a river. It sends aquatic species into shock.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/did-fish-in-alaknanda-waters-know-flood-would-hit/articleshow/80774157.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||In this interior Agency village, residents still travel on horseback||Visakhapatnam: In the interior tribal hamlet of Dayarti in Anantagiri mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency, the generations-old tradition of using horses for travel and agriculture never went out of practice. Home to a population of 480, Dayarti has 109 families who have ration cards while another 15 families do not receive any welfare support from government. However, the village has 70 horses, with one horse for two to three families. Seedari Sudhakar, a local, said villagers travel on horseback to purchase food, medicines and even use the animals for agriculture as there is no road connectivity to their village from nearby areas, the mandal headquarters or the tourist spot Anantagiri. “We spend nearly Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 per month on food and other expenditures for each horse,” added Sudhakar. “We don’t have any veterinary doctors here. We give medical aid to the horses if anything happens to them. The horses are part of our lives. We treat them as our children,” Sudhakar said. Former ward member and Dayarti resident S Ramesh said theirs is the only hamlet in the state to completely depend on horses for travel. “The horses are helpful during occasions like marriages and festivals. We use them for carrying goods and for transporting our relatives and guests from the road eight kilometres away,” Ramesh said. CPI(M) Visakhapatnam district unit executive member K Govinda Rao said while the government made several proposals to lay a road to the village under MNREGS, no action was taken. When contracted, Visakhapatnam Tribal Welfare executive engineer S Srinivas said a road to Dayarti was recently sanctioned and will soon be laid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-this-interior-agency-village-residents-still-travel-on-horseback/articleshow/80775235.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||Rehab package for Chipko icon’s village hit by Sunday’s calamity: UK forest minister||Dehradun: Struck by Sunday’s natural calamity, Raini village in Chamoli, where Chipko movement leader Gaura Devi lived and worked, is set to get a special Van Panchayat Plan. The announcement was made by Uttarakhand forest minister Harak Singh Rawat on Tuesday evening. He added the village needs special attention to spread the message of the need to conserve forests. “The special fund and van panchayat plan for the people of Gaura Devi’s village, for they taught the world the necessity of saving trees to preserve our ecosystem,” said the minister. Speaking with TOI, Rawat added, “Rishi Ganga area is totally devastated. But with our special funds, we’ll try to rehabilitate Gaura Devi’s village and its people. We’ll make plans to generate employment through sustainable use of existing resources of that area.” The head of the forest force, Rajeev Bhartari, who was also present at the meeting, said, “We’ve already started mulling various options to engage locals in eco-tourism or related activities, so that the village retains its sanctity.” Gaura Devi’s grandson Sohan Rana expressed gratitude and said, “My grandmother did everything to save this village. I think if the forest department intervenes to save this area, we’d be paying her homage in the real sense.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rehab-package-for-chipko-icons-village-hit-by-sundays-calamity-uk-forest-minister/articleshow/80774111.cms||Shivani Azad
February 10, 2021||Vijayawada||CM writes to volunteers over nature of their work||Vijayawada: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday addressed an open letter to village and ward volunteers over the nature of their work. With many volunteers holding protests seeking a hike in salaries, the CM said the volunteers had been appointed to serve the people, that social service was nature of the work and payment made was honorarium. “The youth with service motto are engaged as volunteers. If they get a better job, they can quit and go anytime,” the chief minister said. He further said volunteer work was limited to few days in a month and there was no working hours limit. “Two to three hours of work for two to three days in a month and the work is limited to just 50 families,” the said and asked the volunteers to consider the work as service. The chief minister further said that the services of volunteers are appreciated by people across the country. He also recalled the services rendered by them during the crisis brought on by the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-writes-to-volunteers-over-nature-of-their-work/articleshow/80774368.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||65 grant-in-aid schools in Ahmedabad collected Rs 2 crore excess fees||AHMEDABAD: It is not only private schools that are found charging extra fees from students. Grant-in aid schools are also flouting government rules in the collection of fees from students. As many as 65 such schools in and around Ahmedabad have been involved in charging extra fees from students. These schools together collected about Rs 2 crore in excess from students over seven years. This matter came to light when a team of auditors from the education department scanned financial records of grant-in aid schools in Ahmedabad. The excess fees collected by schools will be refunded, but it will go to the government treasury and not to the students as they were collected by grant-in aid schools, said Ahmedabad city DEO RC Patel. The amount will be recovered soon, he added. The report by the audit team revealed that various grant-in aid schools in the city charged students excess fees from the academic year 2012-13 to 2018-19. Of the 65 schools found to be involved in these financial irregularities, 17 have already started the process of refunding the excess fees to the government. The remaining 48 schools will refund the excess fees in the next few days, said sources. In October 2019, the state government announced a recruitment drive to fill 12,344 vacant posts at government and grant-in-aid primary, secondary, and higher secondary schools. In secondary and higher secondary schools, 7,518 vacant posts were filled. Three thousand assistant teachers were to be recruited at primary schools. The last time such a large-scale recruitment process was carried out was in April 2016, for 6,316 vacancies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/65-grant-in-aid-schools-in-city-collected-rs-2cr-excess-fees/articleshow/80776776.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: More schoolkids take opioids than ganja; agents peddle for Rs 20 ‘fee’||CHENNAI: At a time when the city police are focusing on seizure of ganja in their drive against drugs, the real menace among school-going children is a bunch of prescription drugs, or painkillers which are known as opioids in the pharma industry. Data tabled in the current session of Parliament by the Union social justice and empowerment ministry shows that the estimated number of children in the age group of 10-17 who are users of opioids is 40lakh. This is much higher than the users of alcohol (30lakh) and cannabis (20 lakh). Ganja is a type of cannabis. In fact, the number of users of inhalants like thinners or synthetic adhesive among the particular age group is also higher (30 lakh) than that of cannabis. A senior Narcotics Control Bureau official from the Chennai zone as well as an expert who runs a children’s de-addiction centre at Chengalpet said this trend is common in the city and the rest of the state. Chezhian Ramu, chairman of the Lifeline Trust which runs the de-addiction centre for children, said he has interacted with children from a slum clearance board tenement in southern Chennai who pop opioids which are available for around Rs 60. “There are agents who take a fee of Rs 20 as they have to arrange the prescription. The trend is more prevalent among children in the low-income group settlements,” he said. Children in the 10-15-year age group prefer this as it is cheaper than ganja; they also don’t run the risk of being caught by parents as in the case of ganja or alcohol, Ramu said. These tablets give a buzz for about three hours, Ramu said. “Training has to be given in schools before the children succumb to peer pressure to take to drugs,” he said. NCB zonal director A Bruno said this is a dangerous trend as these opioids are very addictive. “Coming out of this addiction is very difficult,” he said. From policing perspective, Bruno said the drug controllers had a bigger role to play than the enforcement agencies as far as opioids are concerned. Tydol and Tramadol, two such pain-killers, had been flagged off at the national level; in 2019 NCB, Chennai had seized 68,900 Tramadol tablets as part of their policing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-schoolkids-take-opioids-than-ganja-agents-peddle-for-rs-20-fee/articleshow/80775478.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Banks to stay shut for 4 days in March||AHMEDABAD: If you have an account with a public sector bank, then avoid scheduling your banking activities between March 13 and March 16. Around 55,000 public sector bank employees from 18,000 branches from across Gujarat are planning to participate in the nationwide bank strike on March 15 and 16, according to the MahaGujarat Bank Employees’ Association. With March 13 being a second Saturday and March 14 being a Sunday, banks are expected to remain shut over the weekend. The United Forum of Bank Unions, an umbrella body of nine unions, has given a call for the two-day strike against the proposed privatization of two-state owned lenders. In an UFBU meeting held in Hyderabad on Tuesday, various announcements made in the union budget regarding reform measures like privatization of IDBI Bank and two public sector banks, setting up a bad bank, disinvestment in LIC, privatization of one general insurance company, allowing FDI in insurance sector up to 74%, aggressive disinvestment and sale of public sector undertakings. On February 19, a day-long dharna will be held by bank employees in all state capitals whereas relay demonstrations will be held from February 20 to March 10 across various towns and districts of Gujarat. According to bankers, the strike will bring transactions worth at least Rs 60,000 crore to a standstill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/banks-to-stay-shut-for-4-days-in-march/articleshow/80776779.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||Covid-19 cases see fresh spike in Wardha, Akola & Yavatmal||NAGPUR: Amravati district has been reporting nearly 200 new cases of Covid-19 since the last ten days. On Tuesday, Akola, Wardha and Yavatmal districts also reported surge in the number of new cases. Akola reported 67 new cases, followed by Wardha (60) and Yavatmal (58). Wardha reported 4 deaths due to Covid-19, while three elderly patients died in Akola on Tuesday. Overall, Vidarbha region reported 16 deaths — highest in the month of February till now. Six deaths were reported from Nagpur — 3 from Nagpur city, 1 from Nagpur rural and 2 of the patients referred from other states/divisions. Vidarbha’s Covid-19 toll has now reached 7,055. Case fatality rate of Vidarbha is 2.52%, which is almost equal to the state average but less than national average. In all, 656 cases were reported on Tuesday and 669 patients recovered. Cases came from Nagpur (230), Amravati (183), Akola (67), Wardha (60), Yavatmal (58), Buldhana (34), Gondia (8), Chandrapur (7), Washim (5), Bhandara (3) and Gadchiroli (1). Covid-19 caseload of Vidarbha reached 2,79,049. On the other hand, 669 recoveries of the day came from Nagpur (313), Amravati (103), Akola (95), Yavatmal (39), Buldhana (37), Wardha (35), Washim (22), Bhandara (10), Chandrapur (8) and Gadchiroli (7). Now, 2,65,773 out of 2,79,049 patients have recovered and Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 95.2%. Gadchiroli: The district seems to be marching towards becoming the first Covid-19 free district of Maharashtra. On Tuesday, only 1 new case was detected while 7 patients recovered. No death has been reported in the month of February so far. The district now has only 28 patients under treatment, which is the least in Maharashtra. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is more than 98%. Bhandara: The district reported only 3 new cases on Tuesday while 10 patients recovered. The death of an under-treatment patient took the toll of Bhandara to 325. Now, the district has 13,321 total cases, with 12,890 recoveries and 106 patients under treatment. Bhandara’s recovery rate is 96.7%. Gondia: The district reported 8 new cases and no recoveries on Tuesday. Till date, 14,268 cases and 13,998 recoveries have been reported in Gondia. No death was reported on Tuesday, so the death toll remained unchanged at 183. The district has 87 patients under treatment. Akola: Three deaths were reported, taking the district’s toll to 341. On Tuesday, 67 new cases and 95 recoveries were reported. Now, the district has 11,921 total cases, 10,809 recoveries and 771 patients under treatment. Buldhana: Thirty-four new cases and 37 recoveries marked Tuesday in Buldhana. No death was reported. Caseload reached 14,411, while recoveries touched 13,891 in the district. With 173 deaths reported till date, 347 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 5 new cases, while 22 recovered. No death was reported. Washim now has 7,247 cases, 6,985 recoveries and 155 deaths. Now, 106 patients are under treatment, which is the least in Amravati division. All other districts in Amravati division have more than 300 active cases. Amravati: 183 new cases and as many recoveries took the caseload and the total recoveries of the district to 23,476 and 22,364 respectively. Two deaths took the toll to 426. . Yavatmal: Out of 278 reports, 58 were found positive. Currently, there are 467 active positive patients. Wardha: There were four deaths, 60 positive and 35 discharged. The caseload increased to 10,413 and recoveries 9,707. Chandrapur: Seven new cases and 8 recoveries were recorded, leaving 92 active patients in the district. No deaths were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-cases-see-fresh-spike-in-wardha-akola-yavatmal/articleshow/80775491.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Amavasya shadow over oath, corporators dither||Hyderabad: Objections over seating arrangements in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) council and opposition to the decision to hold the oath taking ceremony on Amavasya overshadowed preparations being made for mayoral election. On Tuesday, in a first, metal barricades were being set up in the GHMC council as officials anticipated disruptions during the voting. However, inexplicably these barricades were later removed. Corporators across party lines also expressed reluctance to take oath on Amavasya day. On Tuesday, BJP corporators sought permission from commissioner Lokesh Kumar to attend council after 11:15am on February 11, citing astrological reasons. “BJP corporators said that they want to attend the meeting after 11:15am, however the civic chief said that they need to sort the issue with Hyderabad district collector Sweta Mohanty, who has been appointed presiding officer (PO),” said a political party representative. As per schedule, members of council were asked to report at 10:45am and the election for mayor’s post will be held at 12:30pm. Kumar met representatives from TRS, BJP, AIMIM and Congress and briefed them about the election process at the head office. “They should not have scheduled the ceremony on Amavasya day,” said Shankar Yadav, Begum Bazaar corporator. Even Congress members, including TPCC spokesperson G Niranjan, backed this. Yadav on Tuesday also opposed the seating arrangements for the event, stating: “Based on the number of wards we won, BJP corporators should not have been allotted seats in the corner, we should be allotted seats in the middle row.” A GHMC official responded saying: “As per norms, taking into consideration ex-officio members, seating arrangement has been made.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amavasya-shadow-over-oath-corporators-dither/articleshow/80775483.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Commercial tax officers caught taking Rs 40,000 bribe||HYDERABAD: The ACB sleuths arrested two commercial tax officers for taking Rs 40,000 bribe from a complainant at Abids on Tuesday. The accused, Mohammed Wasif Azam, assistant commercial tax officer and Mohammed Ashfaq, junior commercial tax officer of the commercial tax office, Abids division, were caught red-handed when they accepted Rs 40,000 bribe from the complainant, Ranjay Singh for not imposing fines on the unbilled assignments and to ignore if any irregularities were found during regular checks.  “On noticing the ACB team, the junior commercial tax inspector took out the bribe amount from his pocket and threw it out of his office window. The whole amount was recovered intact in the presence of witnesses. Both palms of junior commercial tax inspector, left pocket of his trousers and the handkerchief yielded positive results when subjected to chemical testing,” said an ACB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/commercial-tax-officers-caught-taking-rs-40k-bribe/articleshow/80775490.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chandigarh||At Singhu stir site, vigil & resolve get stronger||SINGHU-KUNDLI (SONIPAT): Post Republic Day tractor march, Singhu border is abuzz with an increased anguish against three farm laws and arrests of agitating farmers and an increased vigil by volunteers of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha as well as new strategies to mobilise head count. With farmers converging from across Haryana villages, the head count has started swelling here. In no mood to give up, farmers are using utmost cautions to ensure that law and order situation remains under control and the agitation grows momentum with each passing day. People dropping in for group discussions on farm laws and other issues, browsing through literature related to religions, newspapers and weekly and fortnightly magazines continue at the make-shift library. “We were down for a day following the propaganda by certain people and selective media channels as well. But, frankly speaking, what happened at Ghazipur strengthened our resolve. Many more will be joining us,” said Hardeep Singh, a native from a village in Qadian. And now the demand for the release of those arrested and the tractors too has been added. “How can we go back now when 200 farmers have already sacrificed their lives?” he added. Dara Singh, a young man from Jind in Haryana minced no words: “We have planned for really a long-term. We shall return only after the farm laws are repealed,” he said. As earlier, across a 10-km stretch, from Rai to Singhu, tractor trolleys were parked on the road. Only these days one comes across volunteers attired in special uniforms and wearing the badges of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on vigil as well as manning the traffic. “We had been doing a peaceful agitation and a little mistake of not identifying the miscreants led to the embarrassment for the entire community. Now, we are taking all cautions. Anybody suspicious seen at or around the venue is checked and matter is reported to control room,” said the head of one such team. Similarly, a big group of volunteers of all ages stand guard at the border fencing, dividing Singhu from Kundli. They are ensuring that except for senior office bearers, no agitators go near that border. Khaps, hookahs & agitation Khaps, the panchayat of various communities across Haryana, have made their presence felt at protest venues. Every khap panchayat has its camp at borders of Haryana. Where there is khap, can hookah be far behind? Modified hookahs with extended pipes and fumes emanating for dung cake fuel placed near tent entrance is becoming a common sight. “We had not come earlier. It is government and its leaders and spokespersons who have woken up the sleeping giants. No looking back or stepping back now, we shall return only after they take back the laws. More they tease us, stronger we will get,” said Harish Gehlawat, the president of Gehlawat Athgama khap from Panipat. Nihangs make presence felt too A huge group of Nihang Sikhs, led by Jathedaar Baba Maan Singh from a Budha Dal camp of Gulha Cheek of Haryana, is camping in Haryana, just adjacent of the borders. While a group led by Baba Waryam Singh is camping in the middle of Singhu border site. Both the groups have created special gurdwaras and ponds for their horses. Nihangs of all ages could be seen patrolling the area. Shopkeepers’ woes After a long spell of lockdown, just as things were catching up, the farmers’ stir happened, making it difficult for the shopkeepers around the area to eke a living. Although farmers, despite the free availability of groceries at camps, are trying their best to give them some business. They could be seen purchasing goods, especially cold drinks, from them. “Though locals have started coming too, it will take a long time to get back to our feet,’’ said Munish Mittal, who has a shop in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/at-singhu-stir-site-vigil-resolve-get-stronger/articleshow/80776778.cms||Manvir Saini
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Rajya Sabha okays bill extending protection to unauthorised colonies||NEW DELHI: Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed the NCT of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to extend protection to unauthorised colonies in Delhi till their regularisation. In his reply to the nearly hour-long debate on the bill, minister of state for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri said the bill will improve the living conditions of 1.35 crore people in Delhi. Citizens will benefit from three schemes — Pradhan Mantri Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana which is expected to benefit 50 lakh people; PM Awas Yojana (Urban) which will benefit about 10 lakh people; and the land pooling scheme where 75 lakh people are expected to be benefited. The schemes are under various stages of implementation. Replying to criticism by Congress member K T S Tulsi that the Rs 20,000 crore being spent on the Central Vista project should have been used to build colonies and create 1 crore houses, Puri said not only would Delhi benefit from improvement in living conditions of 1.35 crore people but the Central Vista project would make Delhi “one of the finest cities in the world”. “And we all will be proud of the fact that the next time in December, when we celebrate 75th anniversary as an independent nation, we will do it in the new Parliament building where some of us will get a little space. Not only us on the treasury benches but all members,” he said. On objections of Shaktisinh Gohil and Binoy Viswam to bringing the legislation through the ordinance route, Puri said had the winter session of Parliament not been cancelled due to Covid-19, there would have been no need for an ordinance. “We did not want a situation to arise in the intervening period,” he said. AAP MP Sanjay Singh said rather than giving repeated extensions, the nearly one crore people living in slums in Delhi should be given ownership rights over their dwellings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rajya-sabha-okays-bill-extending-protection-to-unauthorised-colonies/articleshow/80775506.cms||Bharti Jain
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS short of 9 members to hold poll||HYDERABAD: The ruling TRS is short of nine members to go ahead with the mayor election on February 11. While the minimum quorum for holding mayoral election is 97, including ex-officio members such as MLAs, MLCs, and MPs, the ruling party has 56 elected members and 32 ex-officio members. In this situation, other party members such as AIMIM and BJP have to attend the election. Election authorities of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) said if members of the two parties do not turn up for the election, the election has to be deferred for the next day. BJP has not decided whether to attend the election or not in view of the inauspicious (Amavasya) day on February 11, while AIMIM leadership has not taken any decision on this. If AIMIM decides to attend the election, the mayor election would be a smooth affair. GHMC officials said 44 ex-officio members would be eligible to vote in the mayor election. The pink party has 32 members, AIMIM 10 and BJP two. Congress does not have any ex-officio members as the party’s elected representatives utilised their vote in the 2020 municipal elections. “TRS just needs a simple majority for securing mayor post. The mayor candidate needs to get higher number of votes of those attendeing the meeting,” an additional commissioner of GHMC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-short-of-9-members-to-hold-poll/articleshow/80775501.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 10, 2021||Chandigarh||BJP-JJP suppressing victims’ voice: Haryana Congress||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana Congress on Tuesday accused the ruling BJP-JJP government in the state of posing a major threat to the institution of democracy by suppressing the voice of victims of all walks of society, Talking to media persons after launching the Join Congress Social Media Campaign here, AICC general secretary Vivek Bansal said, “The way Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi and his followers have been sarcastic about the agitators by coining new words, this clearly shows their arrogance, and the ignorance of the most serious issues of farmers as well as those who raise their voice in a democratic way.” HPCC chief Kumari Selja, who was accompanying him, accused the state Haryana government of laying off staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-bjp-jjp-suppressing-victims-voice/articleshow/80776780.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab: Farm stir not Sikh struggle, Jagir Kaur asks PM Modi||AMRITSAR: Stating that the farmers’ protest isn’t a Sikh struggle, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Jagir Kaur has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to show how much proud he is of the community. In a media interaction after the SGPC’s executive committee meeting, she quoted the parliamentary statement of Modi wherein he had hailed the Sikh sacrifices. She said: “If you realise the Sikh contribution to India’s freedom struggle, resolve their issues. And farmers’ issue is not a Sikh issue but of farmers of all India. Since Sikhs are born warriors and distinguishable by appearance, some people labelled it a Sikh cause, which is incorrect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farm-stir-not-sikh-struggle-jagir-kaur/articleshow/80776782.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Bareilly||NTCA okays Pilibhit tiger reserve’s first tiger conservation plan||PILIBHIT: National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has approved the first tiger conservation plan (TCP) of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) but is yet to allocate funds for creating a rewilding enclosure for lodging stray big cats and a rescue centre for treating them. The newly approved 10-year TCP was prepared under the technical guidance of Dr Rajesh Gopal, secretary general of Global Tiger Forum. It envisages better forest management and conservation programmes for wildlife. Giving details, deputy director of PTR, Naveen Khandelwal said, “The TCP primarily aims at protecting the core forest area, providing the site specific habitat inputs for the population of tigers, co- predators and the prey base without disturbing the natural prey-predator ecology in the reserve.” The plan also aims at addressing the livelihood concerns of the local communities, he said. Priority will be given to application of advanced techniques of grassland management for augmentation of the prey base and steps to mitigate the man-tiger conflict, he added. To mitigate man-animal conflict, Khandelwal said, “We have proposed a rewilding enclosure and a rescue centre for tigers in the TCP to address this situation. These are also essential for the translocation of around a dozen sugarcane tigers living amid the agricultural belt of Amaria block.” In reply to a question, he said at least 10% of the total PTR’s total tiger population of 65 is constantly straying out into the adjoining rural belt due to the shortage of space in the forest. As a result, since 2014, 30 villagers have been killed in tiger attacks and some 12 striped cats have fallen prey to several reasons, including the snaring and poisoning. Besides, infighting has led to loss of tiger lives. In addition, seven stray tigers have so far been trapped and either shifted to zoos or released in other forest regions. The rewilding enclosure will be utilized for making stray tigers re-adapt to a wild environment while the rescue centre will facilitate medical check-up and proper treatment of the big cat. Chief wildlife warden of UP Pawan Kumar Sharma said the forest administration will try to arrange for Rs 5 crore through Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) for the rescue centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ntca-okays-ptrs-first-tiger-conservation-plan/articleshow/80774171.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Rs 6.7 lakh in fake currency notes detected in banking system||AHMEDABAD: The Centre had imposed demonetization on the country in a bid to tackle black money and counterfeit notes. And yet, 11 banks in Ahmedabad reportedly seized Rs 6.71 lakh in fake currency, including those in Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 denominations introduced following the notebandi. The Detection of Crime Branch has filed a complaint against unknown people for introducing 1,526 fake currency notes in 10 private banks and one nationalised bank as well as in the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to “cause heavy loss to the Indian economy”. The FIR also states that the fake notes include a large chunk of the newly introduced Rs 2,000 (169 notes), Rs 500 (410 notes) and Rs 200 (174 notes) denominations. The seizures also included scrapped notes of Rs 1,000 (16) and Rs 500 (16). On November 8, 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced a ban on Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes to curb black money and weed out circulation of counterfeit currency into the Indian economy. Later, the Reserve Bank of India introduced new notes in the denominations of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500. According to the FIR, the RBI and other banks sent sealed letters to city police commissioner, joint commissioner of police and deputy commissioner of police (DCB) regarding the counterfeit currencies being introduced in their system. It states that many of the currency notes had 'Bhartiya Bacchon ki Bank' (Indian children bank) written on it whereas others were torn, mutilated, or joined with glue. Many of the notes were found to be introduced into the banking system in 2020. The FIR mentions, “These fake notes were inserted into the Indian banking system in a conspiracy to harm and cause loss to the country’s economy.” The police has booked unknown persons for circulating fake currency and criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-6-7l-in-fake-currency-notes-detected-in-banking-system/articleshow/80776783.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||Red flags many, compliance to green norms sparse||Nainital: The latest flash floods in Chamoli district has once again brought to fore the numerous public interest litigations, filed in the aftermath of the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy, highlighting rampant violation of norms in the sensitive Himalayan region. There has, however, been no solid steps by the government to ensure strict compliance of environmental norms by those involved in infrastructure and hydel projects in the region despite repeated red flags raised by locals and directions by courts. The most important judgment by the Uttarakhand high court against violation of green norms came in 2018 on a PIL filed by a citizens’ group Himadri Jan Kalyan Sansthan. The PIL claimed that tonnes of muck and debris were being dumped directly into the Alaknanda and Mandakini rivers thereby detrimentally affecting the course. Hence, the division bench stayed all road construction and infrastructure works in the state till muck disposal sites were identified and made operational. The order was subsequently stayed by the Supreme Court, which further directed the state government to present a report on deposition of debris near Gaumukh – from where Bhagirathi river originates – after a Delhi-based activist alleged that a lake had formed at the spot which could lead to a tragedy similar to the flash floods of 2013. Petitioner’s counsel Kartikey Hari Gupta said, “The government didn’t take any action in either case and dumping of road construction waste into the rivers go unabated in the state.” TOI had earlier reported that locals had staged protests against the Rishiganga hydroelectric project time and again but in vain. Kundan Singh, a resident of Raini village, had alleged that the firm involved in the construction was mining the riverbed and using explosives in the upper Himalayan region causing substantial damage to its fragile ecology. The court had then put a stay on the blasting but a joint inspection by the pollution control board and the district administration exonerated the firm citing lack of evidence. The case has been pending in the court since July 2019. Yet another hydroelectric project which has landed in controversy is the Singoli-Bhatwari hydel project in Rudraprayag district. Activists claim that the environmental clearance for the project has expired and that the tunnel has developed a leakage, adding that the government has not taken any corrective measures in this regard despite HC notices to the Centre, state as well as the private firm in the matter. Notably, the state government had in October last year said that it would set up an environmental committee in each district in compliance with the orders of the National Green Tribunal about states through which the Ganga flows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/red-flags-many-compliance-to-green-norms-sparse/articleshow/80774172.cms||Prashant Jha
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||IWST timber availability report in Mah flawed||Nagpur: Even as the state-level committee (SLC) has failed to follow the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC)’s order against the issue of 50 additional horizontal bandsaw (AHBS) licenses in toto, the MoEFCC and Maharashtra forest department’s own officials have found flaws in the timber report submitted recently by the Institute of Wood Science & Technology (IWST), Bengaluru. As per Supreme Court orders, additional sawmill licenses are issued by the SLC based on the timber availability report, which the latter had requested IWST on June 15, 2017 to prepare. Even before the report came in, SLC, led by former principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) UK Agrawal on July 23, 2018, issued 50 AHBS licences. This decision was rejected by the MoEFCC on October 30, 2020, and later by the state government. The IWST report was discussed in the 19th SLC meeting but minutes of the meeting revealed that the MoEFCC representative and even PCCF (production & management) Praveen Srivastava raised objections to the report, which allegedly has many flaws. Interestingly, Srivastava was not invited to the meeting. “The report speaks about consumption patterns and not about timber availability as told by the apex court. If you want to issue new sawmill licenses you need to assess timber availability in the entire state but no assessment was done,” said MoEFCC sources. “Only existing sawmills were chosen randomly and consumption was extrapolated. It was supposed to be examined by an internal committee of top officials, which was not done. The report is completely flawed. We are not happy,” they added. Srivastava had recommended not to accept the IWST report but his suggestion has been ignored. He had advised not to accept the information filled by the sawmill owners as the same has not been vetted by the field officers. The possibility of erroneous incorporation therein is not ruled out. Besides, data of timber depot malki (ownership) fellings apparently seems not to have been verified by the depot officers concerned or the respective range forest officers. Therefore, the same may not be accepted just on their face value. According to the PCCF (P & M), information from just 52% of the sawmills has been collected and extrapolated. It may not yield the correct result. The data collected from forest depots, sawmills, furniture shops, check posts, inter-state imports have the inherent possibility of duplication, his report said. From the interaction with the CCFs (Pune, Dhule & Kolhapur) regarding forest timber, during the PCCF (P&M)’s visit to Pune during November 23-27, 2020, it was learnt that neither deputy CFs nor CCFs were aware of the findings of the aforementioned report. Ideally, the data pertaining to divisions should have been confirmed by the respective officers. The IWST report is based on samples @2 sawmills per division and only 102 sawmills’ data have been analysed, which may not give the correct picture. MoEFCC PICKS HOLES * Methodology used to determine availability of timber for wood-based industries in future not discussed in detail * Since major source for timber is trees outside forests (TOF), what methodology was followed to ascertain timber from TOF is unknown. Survey of sawmills to ascertain the same not proper * Definition of TOF misunderstood while drafting report. Forest Survey of India not consulted * SLC meeting on January 21 failed to discuss issue of initiating departmental action and contempt proceedings against UK Agrawal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/iwst-timber-availability-report-in-mah-flawed/articleshow/80775514.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Sitting idle, so start physical classes for standard 1 to 8: Govt teachers||Hyderabad: After private budget school managements, the government school teachers are demanding that the state begin physical classes for upper primary and primary school students. They demanded that classes for standard 6 to 8 should start from February 15 and for classes 1 to 5 from February 22. They also submitted a representation to Chitra Ramachandran, special chief secretary, education, on the subject. “Since February 1, high schools have been running smoothly in the state. It’s high time that even we reopen schools for students of classes 1 to 8,” said K Jangaiah, president, Telangana State United Teachers Federation (TSUTF). TSUTF state committee members said that on one hand teachers are reporting to schools and are sitting idle as there are no students and on the other hand students are not understanding much through digital classes.  “No high school in the state currently has a sanitation worker. We can’t completely depend on local bodies or municipal corporations for sanitation as they are only cleaning school premises, but not washrooms,” said Chava Ravi, a government teacher and general secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sitting-idle-so-start-physical-classes-for-standard-1-to-8-govt-teachers/articleshow/80775515.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Go-ahead likely for brick kilns with zigzag tech||New Delhi: An expert committee constituted by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has recommended that the brick kilns, which have already adopted zigzag technology, may only be allowed to operate in National Capital Region (NCR). According to CPCB, out of total 4,635 brick kilns in the region, 2,697 brick kilns were running on zigzag technology till December 16, 2020. Studies carried out in India and other South Asian countries have indicated that a properly constructed zigzag brick kiln may result in 20-25% reduction in fuel compared with fixed chimney bull trench kiln (FCBTK) technology. Earlier, National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed CPCB to constitute a committee of five experts to suggest ways and means, if any, by which sustenance of brick kilns activities might be viable. The committee, in its report to NGT, said, “The brick kilns, which have already been converted to zigzag technology, may only be allowed to operate, subject to the compliance of all the applicable environmental notifications, sitting guidelines, conditions of the consent to operate granted by respective state pollution control boards with special reference to control of fugitive dust emissions.” “The long-term sustenance of the brick kilns in NCR depends on implementation of measures to further improve design and operation of existing zigzag kilns for pollution prevention at source and improve resource-use efficiency.The committee has given suggestions, based on which applied research and pilot demonstration can be taken up besides developing a roadmap for time-bound implementation.” The committee, however, suggested that the permission to operate the brick kilns in the winter months must be subjected to the restrictions, if any, on the operation of industries, to control the concentration of particulate matter in the ambient air environment of Delhi-NCR. In its report to NGT, the panel recommended installation of one night-vision CCTV camera, focusing on the exit of brick kilns stack with connectivity to SPCBs & CPCB, to ensure visual monitoring of smoke emissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/go-ahead-likely-for-brick-kilns-with-zigzag-tech/articleshow/80799654.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Probe into issue of illegal textbooks, says NCPCR||Hyderabad: After a complaint that schools in Telangana are using ‘illegal’ textbooks, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Tuesday asked Director of School Education (DSE), Telangana to conduct an inquiry and submit an action taken report in three weeks. Responding to the complaint filed by Vijay Gopal, an activist, alleging that CBSE and SSC schools in Hyderabad and Telangana are violating Section 29 of RTE Act, 2009 by using private textbooks, in turn causing a great financial burden to parents, the NCPCR said that it had issued recommendations to principal secretaries/secretaries, department of school education of all States/UTs on May 9, 2019 on implementation of the said Act. In the plaint, Gopal alleged that schools are not using prescribed books by NCERT and SCERT, but those books authored by graduates and MBA graduates, which is not enough qualification for individuals to author textbooks. He added that while these books are sold at Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 per kit, those prescribed by NCERT/SCERT cost less than Rs 1,200 for all subjects. Activist alleged that schools are not using prescribed books by NCERT and SCERT, but books by graduates and MBA graduates, which is not enough qualification to author textbooks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/probe-into-issue-of-illegal-textbooks-says-ncpcr/articleshow/80775522.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Nine commercial properties in Vastrapur to be sealed||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday ordered sealing of nine commercial establishments that have been illegally constructed in residential houses in Anand Vihar Apartments in Vastrapur area on the 132 Feet Ring Road. While stopping the demolition of nine commercial properties and instead ordering the authorities to seal them, a division bench has permitted the Gujarat Housing Board (GHB) to go ahead with the demolition of seven other commercial properties in the society as ordered by a single-judge bench on February 2. The single-judge bench had ordered demolition of 16 properties which have been constructed without obtaining any permission from the authorities and are being used for commercial purpose. The residents of the society, including owners of nine of these 16 properties, challenged the demolition order before the division bench, which has modified the order. The shops that are to be sealed include famous namkeen shop of Sonalben Khakhrawala. GHB had issued notices for demolition of these 16 encroachments since June 2019. Some residents of the society moved the HC for implementation of the GHB notices. Before this, the issue had reached to civil court. Those who questioned the demolition orders attributed the GHB motive for pushing the 35-year-old cooperative society to redevelopment. They argued that the GHB issued notices for removal of encroachment after one Siddhi Developers and Builders evinced interest for redevelopment of the society. Those who first moved the HC for implementation of GHB’s demolition notices contended that earlier the redevelopment norms required consent of 60% of total residents. Later, the rules changed and now consent of 75% of the residents is required to implement any redevelopment plans. In last two years, the numbers of consent givers have reduced, but out of 132 members some have already vacated their houses and are now eagerly waiting for the redevelopment process to start. But the resistance from the alleged illegal encroachers stalled the redevelopment plan. This prompted them to approach the HC for implementation of GHB’s demolition notices. The division bench has ordered the authorities to place compliance report to the single-judge bench on February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/9-commercial-properties-in-vastrapur-to-be-sealed/articleshow/80776787.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Bareilly||Man accused of killing priest in Budaun found hanging from tree in Sambhal dist||BAREILLY: A man accused of killing 75-year-old priest in UP’s Budaun three days ago was found hanging from a tree at a deserted location in Kail village under Gunnour police station in Sambhal district on Tuesday. The accused, Ramveer Yadav, had allegedly killed Sakhi Baba in Budaun on February 6 and was on the run since then. After villagers spotted the dead body, they informed police, who sent the body for an autopsy. Gunnaur police station SHO Rajiv Kumar said, “It appears that the accused took the extreme step out of fear of being arrested and sent to jail for the murder of the priest as a search operation to nab him was underway. But, the actual cause of his death will be ascertained by the post-mortem report.” Jai Singh Yadav, popularly known as Sakhi Baba, was found murdered on the premises of a temple in Dhaknagla village under the jurisdiction of Islamnagar police station in UP’s Budaun in the morning of February 6. Baba was killed in his hut on the temple premises when he was taking rest after morning prayers. Badaun police had said that the priest was killed over personal enmity. The accused was booked under section 302 (murder) of IPC and four police teams were formed to nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-accused-of-killing-priest-in-budaun-found-hanging-from-tree-in-sambhal-dist/articleshow/80774195.cms||Maria Khan
February 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Batala SDM’s report: Wards not changed||CHANDIGARH: Batala sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), in his report submitted to the state election commission (SEC) on Tuesday, said complaints of change of voters’ wards after allotment of election symbols to candidates for the Batala municipal corporation elections have been found to be factually incorrect. The SDM said there has been no change in voters’ wards after completion of the nomination process. The state election commission had sought a report form the Batala SDM in the wake of the complaint filed by a delegation of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) alleging that the ruling Congress party was trying to change wards of hundreds of voters even after allotment of election symbol to candidates. In his report, the SDM mentioned that according to the complainant, there were allegations that SAD candidate Inderjit Kaur’s vote was illegally transferred from booth number 31 of ward number 15 to booth number 36 of ward number 17. However, these allegations were found to be incorrect as Inderjit’s vote is still there in booth number 31 of ward number 15. Similarly, the allegation of illegal transfer of vote of candidate Sonia, after allotment of election symbol of broom to her, from booth number 36 to booth number 31 of ward number 15 is incorrect, said the SDM. He clarified that Sonia’s vote exists in booth number 36 of ward number 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/batala-sdms-report-wards-not-changed/articleshow/80776786.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||AAP MP gets SC protection from arrest in UP case||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted AAP Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh protection from arrest in a case lodged against him for allegedly making hate speech on caste lines during a press conference in Uttar Pradesh, but said the state can proceed to seek sanction from the Rajya Sabha Chairperson to prosecute him in the case. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy also agreed to hear Singh’s plea for clubbing of all cases lodged against him in connection with the press conference and sought response from the state government. "In the meantime, we direct that the petitioner be not arrested in Crime No...under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 153B (Imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 505(2) (Statements conducing to public mischief), IPC registered at Police Station Hazratganj, Lucknow," the bench said. A trial court in Lucknow had on February 2 issued a non-bailable warant (NBW) against Singh in the FIR lodged at Hazratganj police station. Senior advocate Vivek Tankha, appearing for the politician, contended that proper procedure was not followed by police in lodging the case and sanction was not taken. He said the sanction granted by the Governor refers to Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) whereas sanction ought to have been granted under Section 196 of CrPC. He also submitted that permission of the Chairman of Rajya Sabha must be obtained before prosecuting the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-mp-gets-sc-protection-from-arrest-in-up-case/articleshow/80775543.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Amritsar||PM Modi’s invite: Unions want concessions first||AMRITSAR: After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s invitation to the farmers for the 12th round of talks to end the stalemate on agri-marketing laws, the protest leaders ask the government to first make a “conducive atmosphere” by accepting a few demands. Camping on the Delhi border, Zamhauri Kisan Sabha state president of Satnam Singh Ajnala told TOI on Tuesday: “We expect the government to at least make a specific law on minimum support price (MSP) and announce the same before the next meeting. As another big step towards winning the hearts and the confidence of the farmers, consider ending their punishment for stubble burning and accept their objections on the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020.” Ajnala said the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha had not received any written invitation to the next round of talks, even though the SKM will meet on Wednesday. Reacting to the proposal of a few protest leaders to think over the 18-month suspension of the three laws and make a committee to discuss its aspects, he said: “A death sentence is a death sentence, whether delivered now or later.” Gurbachan Singh Chaba of the Kisan Mazdur Sangharsh Committee said: “We aren’t in favor of even contemplating the government's proposal of suspension of the agri-marketing laws. “The farmers are in ‘chardi kalan’ (high spirits), our morcha is gaining strength, and realising our power, the government is trying to lure us with offers. We’ll not settle for anything less than a repeal of these laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pms-invite-unions-want-concessions-first/articleshow/80776785.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 10, 2021||Delhi||FIRs filed in UP against Sanjay Singh baseless: AAP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday said that “attempts made by the Yogi Adityanath government to defame AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh” have failed with the Supreme Court granting protection to Singh from coercive action in the alleged hate speech cases lodged against him in Uttar Pradesh. With the apex court order, it has become clear that the cases registered against Singh by the state government at 13 different locations were entirely baseless, AAP said. The SC order came on a plea filed by Singh seeking quashing of the FIRs lodged against him under various IPC sections, including alleged hate speech 153A, 153B, 501, 505(2). Singh tweeted, “Satyamev Jayate! Supreme Court has issued a notice to the UP government, prohibiting my arrest, I am sure justice will prevail. My respect to Vivek Thanka, he presented my case with sheer honesty and justice.” The apex court directed UP government to file its counter affidavit within two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-firs-filed-in-up-against-singh-baseless/articleshow/80775556.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Facing financial crisis, suspended power dept employee attempts suicide at collectorate||BAREILLY: Faced with a financial crunch and mental stress, a contractual employee with the power department allegedly attempted to commit suicide by consuming poison at the collectorate in UP’s Moradabad on Tuesday after he failed to convince authorities to reinstate him. The employee, Surendra Singh (40), was posted as a patrolman with the power department in Moradabad. He was suspended last year after several charges of misconduct were lodged against him, said sources. Sources said Singh had been requesting officers to reinstate him, but nothing was done. On Tuesday, he consumed poison at the collectorate in Civil Lines, said Moradabad police, adding that he was rushed to the district hospital. Talking to mediapersons, Singh alleged, “I was removed from the post of patrolman in February 2020. Since then, I have been struggling to make both ends meet. I have repeatedly been requesting officers concerned to reinstate me.” Accusing power department superintending engineer of “inaction”, Singh alleged, "Te officers are resorting to dilly-dallying, saying the reinstatement decision will only be taken by the DM." SE Deepak Kumar, however, said, “Kumar is a repeated offender and he was removed after we received several complaints of misconduct against him. He had attempted suicide on the premises of the power department office, too.” Dr Pravin Kumar at Moradabad district hospital said, “The patient was unconsciousness when he was admitted her. Currently, he is under observation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/facing-financial-crisis-suspended-power-dept-employee-attempts-suicide-at-collectorate/articleshow/80774232.cms||Maria Khan
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat startups to solve problems of toy manufacturers||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat-based startups will now help solve the problems of globally renowned toy manufacturers. Gujarat Student Startup and Innovation Hub (i-Hub) recently inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a slew of toy companies to explore opportunities for engaging with innovators and startups. Companies with which such an MoU has been signed include Grasper Global Private Limited (which makes toys and games under the brand name Skill-matics) and Funskool (India) Ltd. “As part of the MoU, i-Hub and the toy companies will associate to co-create and foster innovations in the toy industry,” said Anju Sharma, principal secretary, higher and technical education, the Government of Gujarat. Sharma added: “While toy manufacturers will provide industry problem statements sourced from various units on a web platform, student innovators, startups, and researchers will provide solutions to those problems with their innovations.” Startups will be identified from the National Toy Innovation Challenge, which was launched a month ago. More than 130 proposals have been received from across the country for the challenge and designers of these leading toy manufacturing firms will select the ideas and work with them. “On the other hand, i-Hub will support incubation and virtual incubation and offer allied support to the shortlisted startups, innovators, and handhold them in their journey of ‘Mind to Market’,” said Hiranmay Mahanta, CEO, i-Hub. Funskool has not only agreed to offer a cash prize to the top three entries but will also commit to commercial manufacturing with a royalty on sales of 3% on net sales value, if the winning entries lend themselves to commercial manufacturing. Grasper Global will help support early stage startups in the toy industry and mentor the shortlisted innovators. According to experts, the initiative is aimed at forward integration of the toy industry in Gujarat. “Forward and backward integration is crucial to making India a toy manufacturing hub,” Mahanta said. “Often, toy designers do not have the scope to enter into manufacturing and therefore, through the National Toy Innovation Challenge, we’re selecting startups and helping them turn their creations into end-products and marketing them through their supply chain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-startups-to-solve-problems-of-toy-manufacturers/articleshow/80776807.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||HC fines revenue secy, others for inaction on filing counters||Hyderabad: Vexed with revenue officials for failing to file counters even after five years of the court asking them to do so, Telangana high court on Tuesday slapped costs of Rs 10,000 on the revenue department principal secretary, Rangareddy district collector and Uppal mandal revenue officials.  It directed them to pay the amount to the state legal services authority within four weeks for failure to file counters in alleged land grab case. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this direction while hearing a petition filed by Bikkimanlu Bhaskar of Kothapet New Maruti Nagar in Saroornagar in 2016, questioning the inaction of the officials in protecting the government land in an extent of two acres and 18 guntas in survey Nos. 143, 159 and 160. “It is five years and the authorities have not yet filed their counters,” the bench said and made it clear that the principal secretary will have to appear before the court if he fails to file the counter before the next date of hearing. The petitioner, in his plea, sought a survey of the government land and urged the court to direct the state to earmark the space for a children’s park and public utility works instead of allowing it to slip into the hands of land grabbers. “There were signboards showing the parcel as a government land till 2015. But later, the officials connived with land grabbers and got boards removed to facilitate encroachment,” he alleged. The bench expressed dismay over authorities’ delay in briefing court about realities and warned officials of severe consequences. The case was adjourned to June 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-fines-revenue-secy-others-for-inaction-on-filing-counters/articleshow/80775542.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Goa||Naneli locals protest water crisis, give 8-day ultimatum||VALPOI: Fed up with the acute water shortage issue that they have been facing for a year now, residents of Naneli in Sattari taluka held a protest march at Valpoi on Monday. Villagers threatened to organise a largescale protest if their problem was not solved within eight days. The locals who marched to the Valpoi PWD office said that in the past they have held several protests but the authorities have turned a deaf ear to their problem. “When we visit the water supply department, the officials assure us of visiting the village to study the problem. But they never turn up,” one Naneli villager Vithoba Gawade said. Gawde said that the pump operators were not carrying out their duties properly. “Many in our village lost jobs due to the pandemic despite which we continue to pay our water bills regularly even though we don’t receive supply,” he said. Another villager Sukanti Gaonkar said that the PWD sends a water tanker, but it is not sufficient to cater to their needs. Local, Leena Gaonkar said that they get one pot of water per family. Assistant engineer and junior engineers were not available at the water supply department for comment. The protesting villagers dispersed only when one PWD staffer assured them of visiting the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/naneli-locals-protest-water-crisis-give-8-day-ultimatum/articleshow/80776809.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Pandemic cloud over internship offers, core engg branches seek virtual options||HYDERABAD: The number of internship offers, especially in core branches, has seen a significant drop in the current academic year, thanks to the pandemic and work from home options. As a result, most students are taking up internships that can be completed virtually, said training and placement officers and faculty from some of the top institutes in the state. “When it comes to core branches, there is about a 50% decrease in number of internship offers compared to last year. So, even students from core branches are left with no choice but to opt for internships, either in IT companies or in other firms, where there is an option to complete it without physically going to the firms,” said K Kiran Kumar, head, Centre for Career Planning and Development (CCPD), National Institute of Technology, Warangal. Institute director, NV Ramana Rao said, students from civil, electrical and biotech streams are facing a tough time. Similarly, students of BITS, Pilani, Hyderabad have also seen an over 18% drop in internships in core areas. “The first phase of placements in the year 2020-21 witnessed a total of 259 internship offers received as compared to 211 for the year 2019-20, which is a growth of 22.75%. However, despite an increase in the overall number of internship offers received, there was a drop in the number of internship offers received in the core sector,” said Tabir Mishra, senior manager, placements. He said: “The slowdown in business owing to the lockdown resulted in fewer offers in these sectors – 31 for the year 2020-21 which is an 18.4% drop to last year as on date.” At IIT, Hyderabad, too students have been offered only online internships this year. “Irrespective of if a student is from core branch or IT related branches, the internship process is being carried out virtually,” said a faculty member from the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pandemic-cloud-over-internship-offers-core-engg-branches-seek-virtual-options/articleshow/80775551.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Touch-free: DTC passes via QR code||New Delhi: Commuters, who prefer to use daily bus passes for travel, will soon be able to buy these without any cash transaction or contact. Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has added a facility for issuing ‘contactless daily pass’ with mobile ticketing on a trial-basis in 128 buses till February 28. The passengers will be able to buy a daily pass by scanning QR codes that have been affixed in the buses. DTC said the trial had been started with 128 DTC buses of Ghazipur and Hasanpur depot, while enforcement and checking teams were deployed to carry out inspection of trial runs at different points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/touch-free-dtc-passes-via-qr-code/articleshow/80799789.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Business||Berger Paints numbers||Paints major Berger Paints India has witnessed 53.1% growth in net profit to Rs 253.6 crore in the third quarter of this fiscal from Rs 165.6 crore in the same period last fiscal. Revenue from operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2020, was at Rs 1,861.9 crore against Rs 1,501.8 crore in the year-ago period representing a growth of 24%. GRSE Q3 PAT up 95%: Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers (GRSE) has registered 95% growth in profit after tax in the third quarter to Rs 58 crore from Rs 38 crore in the same period the last fiscal. Revenues from operations for Q3 FY’21 stood at Rs 360 crore compared to Rs 370 crore in Q3 FY20. Dollat Inds make profit: Dollar Industries has witnessed Rs 28.3 crore net profit in the third quarter from Rs 19.5 crore. The total revenue for Q3FY21 was Rs 312 crore. Commenting on the results, Vinod Kumar Gupta, MD, Dollar Industries, said, “The company crossed the mark of Rs 300 crore of turnover this quarter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/berger-paints-numbers/articleshow/80775558.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||T records 150 new Covid-19 cases||Hyderabad: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 149 new cases of Covid-19 and one death. A total of 31,831 covid-19 tests were conducted in the state on Tuesday. The GHMC recorded 25 new cases on Tuesday, the highest among all districts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-150-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/80775557.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Bareilly||For ‘raping, trying to convert girl’, minor in UP booked under anti-conversion law||BAREILLY: Police in UP’s Bareilly district on Tuesday booked a minor under the state’s anti-conversion law, after a girl he had eloped with later alleged that she was "raped and forced to change her religion". In his complaint to the police, the father of the Class IX student alleged that she came in contact with the youth, who introduced himself with a different name—Sunil. And they fled from home on February 5. The girl, however, returned home on Monday. In her statement before police, the girl said that she had gone to Jaipur with the youth where she came to know about his religion and the real name. “He forced me to change my religion and marry him,” she alleged. Apart from abduction, the accused was also booked for rape and under appropriate sections of the POCSO Act and under the UP's anti-conversion law on Tuesday, said police. The accused is a resident of Bareilly and works as an embroiderer in Jaipur. He came in the girl’s contact through a messaging app and allegedly introduced himself as Sunil, police said. After chatting for nearly three months, he convinced the girl for marriage. On February 6, she left her home and went to Jaipur with the youth in a bus. Bareilly’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “The girl in her statement told us that she wasn’t aware about the real name and religion of the youth. And that she was confined for two days and even raped in Jaipur. We have invoked IPC sections 376 (rape) and 366 (abducting woman to compel her marriage) along with POCSO Act and relevant sections of UP anti conversion law.” “The accused is currently admitted at a hospital in Bareilly and the doctors have said that he is suffering from heart-related disease and not stable at the moment. He is also a minor as his Aadhaar card suggests he is 17-year-old. We will take action as per Juvenile Justice Act,” he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-in-ups-bareilly-booked-under-anti-conversion-law-for-raping-trying-to-convert-a-girl/articleshow/80774255.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||SC junks Gujarat plea on cooperative land parcels||AHMEDABAD: A Supreme Court order has opened up the path for regularization of land held by cooperative societies and last purchased by farmers. The apex court dismissed the Gujarat government’s appeal against a high court order junking a 2017 circular which restrained regularization of such land. Most of these tracts, which are on the outskirts of cities, are supposed to be held by builders in the name of farmers and co-operative societies. In 2015, the Anandiben Patel government had amended the Gujarat Tenancy and Agriculture Act by inserting Section 63AB which allowed an agricultural plot, even if sold to a non-agriculturist like a company or a cooperative, to be regularized for a premium If it was last purchased by a farmer. The last transaction should have been made before June 2015. In 2017, claiming it was in the interest of farmers, the state government issued a circular annulling the provisions of this amendment. The case before the courts pertains to land parcels in Ognaj village that were bought by cooperative societies in 1990s. The cooperative societies, mainly formed by builders, could not regularize the sales as they were not farmers. According to the state’s tenancy laws, agricultural land could not be sold to non-agriculturalists without the permission of the district collector. As the district collector repeatedly rejected their requests, NA (non-agricultural) permission could not be obtained over the past two decades. The 2015 amendment stated that if the last purchaser of the land was a farmer, the land status could be changed to non-agricultural by charging a premium amount. However, the 2017 circular prevented this. The landowners approached the HC against the 2017 circular. A single-judge bench in 2018 held that agricultural land, which was held by a cooperative society before the final sale to a farmer, can be regularized on the payment of a fixed premium. It was held that a cooperative-society can be termed a ‘person’ for the purpose of land holding. The HC ordered the district collector to take fresh decisions on applications filed by the farmers for NA permissions. The state government unsuccessfully challenged the decision before the division bench of the high court as well as before the Supreme Court. In the apex court, the bench of Justices Navin Sinha and Krishna Murari dismissed the state government’s appeal last week and said, “We are not inclined to interfere with the order passed by the high court.” Welcoming the judgment, real estate players stated that this will reduce the number of litigations, and NA permissions will be granted to such land parcels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-upholds-co-op-land-regularization/articleshow/80776810.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Hesitancy hits vax target on Tuesday||Hyderabad: A high level of hesitancy in taking covid vaccination is being seen among frontline workers in the state. On Tuesday, the Covid vaccination drive saw just 37% of the target being met. Insiders indicate in addition to concerns about side effects and myths around vaccination, frontline workers were hesitant to try out Covaxin. A total of 14,638 frontline workers were vaccinated on Tuesday, against a target of 39,756. Meanwhile, over the last two days 49,998 frontline workers including police personnel have been vaccinated. So far a total of 2.43 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated including healthcare workers and frontline workers. This accounts for 38% of the cumulative target of beneficiaries who were to be covered till date. Five minor cases of adverse effects following immunization were also reported on Tuesday. None were serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hesitancy-hits-vax-target-on-tuesday/articleshow/80775553.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||25 quintals PDS rice seized||Hyderabad: Nizamabad police intercepted a mini van in Varni and seized 25 quintals PDS rice illegally being sold in the black market. They arrested two persons, Syed Khasim and SK Jamal of Mosra village. The accused were handed over to Varni police. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-quintals-pds-rice-seized/articleshow/80775559.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Business||ITC goes for digital boost across verticals||Kolkata: With the objective of strengthening its competitive vitality, ITC is further scaling up its digital interventions across businesses and value chains. ITC chairman Sanjiv Puri is planning to shape a new digital paradigm for the company. In order to move to the next phase of transformation, the company recently announced the setting up of a ‘Young Digital Innovators Lab’ comprising digital natives drawn from across ITC’s businesses to crowdsource transformative digital strategies. In order to provide even greater trust to ITC’s digital agenda, Puri has also announced to ITC employees the formation of a dedicated Digital Council of senior ITC managers — the ‘DigiNext’, which will ideate and sponsor high-impact digital interventions and harness the synergies of cross-fertilisation of ideas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/itc-goes-for-digital-boost-across-verticals/articleshow/80775565.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Budget will revive the economy, says Manoj Tiwari||NEW DELHI: North East Delhi MP and former Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari on Tuesday said that no one takes Congress leader Rahul Gandhi seriously after the latter alleged that PM Narendra Modi’s development model would reduce the number of public sector undertakings and harm the country. In a press conference, Tiwari said, “Union Budget 2021-22 is a game changer. Not even a single budget presented in the ten years’ tenure of former PM Manmohan Singh can be compared with the present one.” “The country is debating whether it should take Rahul Gandhi seriously. His remarks are against the ideology of development and far away from ground reality,” Tiwari said, adding that the budget will not only give the economy a new direction but will also help revive the economy, which had slowed down due to the Covid pandemic. Tiwari said even experts were surprised at the kind of budget that was prepared despite adverse situation. “Everyone thought due to the Covid pandemic, the budget will propose a heavy tax burden, but this ‘aatm nirbhar’ budget is without any new taxes,” said the MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/budget-will-revive-the-economy-says-tiwari/articleshow/80775575.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Ludhiana||27 positive, case count at 26,119||Ludhiana: As many as 27 residents tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said with no death from Ludhiana on the day, the district toll tally stood at 1,007 and that of outsiders at 483.To date, 6,19,101 persons have been tested.Of the 27 new cases, 11 were from flu corner, four contacts of positive patients, five from OPD, six through tracing process and one healthcare worker. Besides, 13 patients from outside the district tested positive here.The local health department officials said the district case count was 26,119 and that of outsiders 3,989.So far, 24,789 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.90% of the total cases.There are 320 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 707.On Tuesday, 19 persons were quarantined and 2,266 samples collected.A patient from Ludhiana is on ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/27-positive-case-count-at-26119/articleshow/80774263.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||PWD to plant 100 trees for damaging one at Meera Marg||New Delhi: The forest department on Tuesday directed Public Works Department (PWD) to plant 100 trees for damaging one during construction of a drain at Meera Marg in Lodhi Colony. Deputy conservator of forest (South) Amit Anand said, “A hearing was conducted on Tuesday and PWD was directed to plant 100 saplings for damaging a tree under Delhi Preservation of Trees Act. It has been asked to maintain these trees for five years.” The department had conducted an inspection on Sunday evening on the complaint of an activist Verhaen Khanna. Khanna, founder, New Delhi Nature Society, had lodged a police complaint in the matter, following which forest staff inspected the site and served a notice. He had alleged that when he was passing by Meera Marg on Sunday morning, he witnessed that a number of trees being dug within one-metre of their trunks, which is in violation of Delhi High Court and National Green Tribunal orders. NGT had directed all public authorities in 2013 to deconcretise areas around trees and carry out no construction activity within a one-metre radius of the trunk. Last year, the forest department had imposed a fine of around Rs 4 lakh on PWD for damaging nearly 30 trees during construction of a drain at Meera Marg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pwd-to-plant-100-trees-for-damaging-one-at-meera-marg/articleshow/80799942.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||2 property offenders held||Hyderabad: Meerpet police arrested two property offenders, M Amar Raj Kumar Reddy, 21, a bike mechanic from Ramanthapur and T Sai Kiran, 21, an electrician from Chandrayangutta on Tuesday. Cops recovered Rs 8 lakh worth valuables including, 7 tola gold, 10 tola silver, two LED Tvs, four bikes from their possession. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-property-offenders-held/articleshow/80775573.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||One out of 4 in Telangana has had Covid, reveals NIN’s 3rd sero survey||HYDERABAD: The National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), which works under the aegis of Indian Council of Medical Research, said that one in every four persons in Telangana has had Covid-19 but probably was not aware due to being asymptomatic. The NIN, which conducted the third round of sero surveillance as part of the national sero survey, has come up with findings that one in four in the state has antibodies against Covid which effectively means one in four had been infected with the coronavirus. The sero surveillance was conducted in Jangaon, Nalgonda and Kamareddy districts in December 2020. “The sero surveillance has put the sero positivity rate — indicative of silent and prior exposure to SARS-CoV-2 — at 24%,” the NIN said in its survey. While the sero prevalence at the national level had gone up by 3.1 times between August and December last year, it scaled up by two times in the state. Telangana’s sero prevalence of 24.1% as on December 2020 was similar to that of the national average, which stood at 24%. “This only shows the effectiveness of robust containment measures in the state, including quarantine, contact tracing and testing strategies,” NIN director R Hemalatha said on Tuesday. ICMR nodal officer A Laxmaiah said good compliance and cooperation shown by the public in wearing masks and following Covid-19 protocols before the survey was undertaken ensured that infection transmission was slow in the state. “Since three-fourths of the rural population is still susceptible, all non-pharmacological Covid-19 measures like wearing masks, hand sanitisation and physical distancing should be continued,” Laxmaiah, scientist ‘G’ and head of public health division of NIN, said. In Jangaon district, in the first survey, the trends of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies positivity was 0.49% in May last year. In the second survey taken up in August, it was 18.2%. In the third survey in December, it went up to 24.8%. Similarly, in Nalgonda, it was 0.24%, 11.1% and 22.9%. In Kamareddy, it was 0.24%, 6.9% and 24.7%. Overall, the figures were 0.33%, 12.2% and 24.1%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-out-of-4-in-t-has-had-covid-reveals-nins-3rd-sero-survey/articleshow/80777381.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Ludhiana||Google search of phone numbers may expose you to cyber fraud||Ludhiana: Don’t look for and call numbers posted on Google search or you may lose money. Contact numbers available on Google may be used by cyber criminals to dupe people, say experts. According to cyber experts, when people use a website or an application, they give access to their information, mobile contacts and location. Cyber fraudsters manage to access this information and use it to dupe people. On Sunday, a similar incident occurred with the TOI reporter when she searched for the number of a food joint on Google. She called on the number available online but there was no answer. Minutes later, she received a call from an unknown number with the caller claiming to be from the same food joint. The caller asked for the order and insisted that she pay online through a link. He also refused to accept cash on delivery and was unable to pronounce names of food items properly, usually a dead giveaway in such cases. Similar cases have been reported in the city for the past some time. On January 4, Tibba Road resident Rahul Sharma lost Rs 1.89 lakh to online fraudsters who posed as customer care agents of an e-wallet company. Sharma, a labourer, stated that on November 14, 2020, he recharged his mobile phone for Rs 219 using mobile phone application, Phone Pe. The money was deducted twice from his account. He searched for the mobile number of Phone Pe customer care on Google. He called the number he found but no one answered. The next day, he received a call from an unidentified number. The caller introduced himself as an executive of the application and made him dial some code on the application. As he entered the numbers, Rs 1.89 lakh were debited from his bank account, which was linked with the application. The cyber cell of Ludhiana police managed to trace the accused, identified as Antar Singh of Madhya Pradesh, Ambarasu Nachimuthu, Ezhilarasi Vadizhagan, S Varadarajan, residents of Tamil Nadu, Akash Sonkar of Howrah, West Bengal, and Alijan S K of Murshidabad, West Bengal.Police investigation revealed that the money debited from Rahul Sharma’s account was further transferred to the accounts of these accused. However, police have not been able to nab them.Additional deputy commissioner of police (investigation), who is also heading the cyber cell of Ludhiana police, Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said, “People should always search for contacts at the websites of companies and not on Google. Besides, people should be alert if the caller is refusing cash payment and is forcing to make online payment. They are frauds as genuine companies would never force online payments.” The ADCP added, “We have traced a few people through the bank account they used to transfer the money. However, in several cases, it has been found that the accused got bank accounts opened with forged IDs or on the ID proofs of innocent people. Being alert is the only way to escape such frauds.”Alert cops ASAPPolice officials said in case of any cyber fraud, the victim must inform the police and the respective bank in which they have this account. People can also approach Ludhiana police on its official Twitter handle, Facebook account or on e-mail cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in for immediate response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/google-search-of-phone-numbers-may-expose-you-to-cyber-fraud/articleshow/80774309.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Cong names MLC candidates||Hyderabad: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday approved the names of former minister G Chinna Reddy as the party’s candidate for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar Graduates MLC seat, and ex-MLC Ramulu Naik for the Nalgonda-Khammam-Warangal constituency. The Election Commission is yet to issue poll notification for the two graduate MLC constituencies. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-names-mlc-candidates/articleshow/80775577.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||HC imposes fine on collector||Hyderabad: Stating that the officials in Telangana are implementing the orders of the court only after receiving contempt notices from the courts for non-implementation of the court orders, Justice Challa Kodanda Ram of the Telangana high court imposed a penalty of Rs 500 on Khammam district collector RV Karnan and directed the authorities to recover it from his salary. The judge pronounced this order after hearing a contempt case filed by Karri Venkatramaiah of Penuballi in Khammam district, who alleged irregularities in sanctioning crop loans to ineligible persons. “Though the authorities said that they found substance in the complaint, they never implemented the court order that asked them to go through the complaint and set things right. They could have done that when the farmer first represented to them or when the court asked them to do so. They did not do it. They did it only after a contempt case was moved,”the judge said. The judge also directed the chief secretary to ensure that the issues are resolved at the first instance so that the burden on courts is lessened to some extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-imposes-fine-on-collector/articleshow/80775574.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||For 2nd time this year, Mumbai Covid toll at 3 for consecutive days||MUMBAI: For the second consecutive day, the city reported three Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday. On January 3-4 too, the city had seen three deaths each. The toll now stands at 11,398. On Tuesday, 24 of the 36 districts in the state didn’t report a single death. The remaining dozen recorded 35 deaths, of which Pune accounted for the highest (7), followed by Nagpur and Satara (6 each). Maharashtra had recorded a 291-day low of 15 deaths on Monday before it jumped to 35 on Tuesday, taking the toll to 51,360. The state health bulletin said that of the 35 deaths, 25 occurred in the last 48 hours and 10 in previous weeks. The state’s cumulative death rate though continued to be 2.5%, much above the national average of 1.4%. The global average is 2.2%. There are still a few districts like Bhandara and Parbhani which have a higher fatality rate.  The state on Tuesday recorded a marginal rise in positive cases and deaths. A total of 2,515 new positive cases were detected, up from 2,216 on Monday, taking the state’s overall tally to 20,48,802. For the second day in a row though, Mumbai reported below 400 cases. There were 375 new cases reported on Tuesday, a dip from Monday’s 399 cases. The case tally has now reached 3,12,655 for the city.  State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said there has been no new case of the UK variant of coronavirus in the state, after 11 such cases reported last month. He said some weeks back, the state government had identified cases of the UK variant of Covid-19, but all the infected persons were tracked and treated properly. “They were kept under strict institutional quarantine. Since then, no new case (of the UK variant) has been found in the state,” the minister said.  He also said that a discussion on easing train travel timings for the general public will be taken at the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday.  Former KEM hospital dean Dr Avinash Supe had previously told TOI that several wards in the city had not recorded any death over a period of seven days which was a sign of the pandemic situation improving on ground. TOI had earlier reported how six city wards didn’t register any deaths in the last week of January, while eight wards saw one death each. As per the civic report, of the three deceased on Tuesday, all had comorbidities and were above the age of 60 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/for-2nd-time-this-yr-city-covid-toll-at-3-for-consecutive-days/articleshow/80777383.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 10, 2021||Ludhiana||Flags, posters all over, but Khanna voters want civic issues addressed||Khanna: Civic body electioneering has picked up pace with municipal councils of Khanna, Samrala, Doraha, Payal, Jagraon and Raikot going to polls on February 14. Flags of various parties and flex boards are doting this town. Besides, posters of various parties have been pasted on both public and private property walls. The candidates are going door to door to woo voters. “We will vote for the person who we think is capable of solving our problems of bad roads, poor garbage disposal and sewerage system,” said Dr Amarbir Singh, a doctor who lives in ward 21 here. Civic issues will remain the deciding factor this time. Another voter echoed similar issues. Vijay Kumar of Guru Nanak Nagar said, “In our area, major problem is water-logging as the sewerage system is yet to be laid. Even moderate rainfall brings water to our homes. The problem gets worse in monsoon, when there is also threat of mosquito- and water-borne diseases. Also, the roads are full of potholes. Garbage disposal is so poor that one can see small dumps around the town.” Meanwhile, candidates are campaigning round the clock and are confident. “We are getting a good response. The main issues are better roads, sewerage system and water supply,” said Sudhir Sonu, who was BJP councillor from ward 14 and is trying his luck again. Apart from door-to-door campaigning, candidates are also holding nukkad meetings. “We are regularly holding nukkad meetings. I start at 8am and continue campaigning till 8pm,” said Gurminder Singh Lalli, improvement trust chairman who is contesting as a Congress candidate from ward 2. He said his priorities include better roads, proper sewerage, drinking water and sanitation. The Congress candidate has opened two offices in the ward. Election activity has hit feverish pitch in Jagraon as well. Its MC has the third highest number of wards, that is, 23.  Your attention, pleaseParties are using all tricks in the book to grab maximum eyeballs. Posters have been pasted on government as well as private properties. Electricity poles and trees have also not been spared. Festoons of party flags have been lining streets and posters and flex boards have been installed in crowded market areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/flags-posters-all-over-but-khanna-voters-want-civic-issues-addressed/articleshow/80774275.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Bikaner House, NDMC seek waiver of fines for concretisation of trees||New Delhi: Bikaner House and New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) have written to the forest department asking it to waive fines imposed in 2019 for concretisation of trees inside the former palace and on the pavement outside, which falls under the jurisdiction of the civic body. While NDMC was fined Rs 90,000 for nine trees, Bikaner House was asked to shell out Rs 18.7 lakh for 187 concretised trees on its premises. In a letter to the deputy conservator of forests (South), Bikaner House said 171 of the 187 trees had been deconcretised, but 16 of them were left out as they were in front of the entry to the chief minister’s office. “The width of the driveway in front of the CM’s office is 3.5m, which will be reduced to 2.5m after deconcretisation. Owing to the VVIP entry, reducing the width will cause discomfort to the dignitaries,” said the resident commissioner at Bikaner House. NDMC wrote that it had been actively looking to deconcretise trees and, since 2015, had managed to unchoke 6,600 of them. “Some delay in work occurred due to the busy schedule of labour in charge of the adjoining Bikaner House,” added the letter. The civic body stated that 6,150 trees had been deconcretised in 2015, 44 in 2016 and 406 in 2019. “Best efforts are being done by NDMC to deconcretise trees, while due care for timely compliance will be carried out in the future,” the letter said, asking for a fresh inspection of the site so that the notice could be withdrawn. On April 23, 2013, NGT had directed that no concrete flooring should exist within a one-metre radius around tree trunks to ensure their good health and growth. The direction came on a plea filed by environmental activist Aditya N Prasad. Prasad had written to Bikaner House in November 2018 saying it had violated the NGT’s order. He had also forwarded the letter to forest officials. In February 2019, the petitioner sent a copy of his letter to NGT, which took up the issue on May 23 and ordered Delhi’s principal chief conservator of forests and wildlife to look into the matter and take appropriate action within a month. The officials inspected the Bikaner House premises on June 7, 2019 and found 187 trees were concretised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bikaner-house-ndmc-seek-waiver-of-fines-for-concretisation-of-trees/articleshow/80800139.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Pulses’ consumption in T very poor: Study||Hyderabad: While February 10 of each year is touted as World Pulses Day, consumption of pulses in Telangana has nothing much to gloat about. The average consumption of pulses in the state is low despite 99% of the households consuming it. Presently, pulses are grown only in 3.73 lakh acres in the state. This explains the low consumption of just 1.75 kg a month per capita in the state, a study said. People spend about Rs 150 to Rs 152 per month on pulses. Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agriculture University, in a study, said in the urban households the consumption per capita per month is 1.75 kg and in rural areas the consumption is 1.74 kg per month. Among the pulses, red gram is consumed more with nearly 0.70 gram per capita per month. Last year during the cultivation season around this time, pulses were cultivated in four lakh acres. “We are encouraging pulses cultivation on a big scale as it gives better viability for farmers as an inter-crop,” said an agriculture department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pulses-consumption-in-t-very-poor-study/articleshow/80775604.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||GO 194 must for kin ofdistressed farmers: RSV||Vikarabad: While lauding Rythu Bima as a good scheme for providing life insurance to ryots, farmer rights activists said implementation of GO 194 should not be stopped at any cost as it provides for rehabilitation of families of distressed farmers. Kondal Reddy, convenor of Rythu Swarajya Vedika (RSV), said ever since the government started implementing Rythu Bima scheme in August 2018, it stopped implementation of GO 194. “Under Rythu Bima, only compensation in the form of insurance is paid. While implementing the Rythu Bima, the government should also do one-time settlement with moneylenders and rehabilitate the families under GO 194. This will help the families to survive,” he said. While this is so, tenant farmers are facing problems as they are not eligible for farm input subsidy under Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima schemes. Ramisetty Naveen of RSV said tenant farmers are the worst hit and are bearing the brunt of the agrarian distress in Telangana. A study by Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) and RSV has shown that 75% of the farmer suicides are by tenant farmers. “They face higher cultivation costs due to additional burden of lease amount and do not get any government support. The problem of identifying the tenant farmers and the real cultivators needs to be addressed on a priority basis,” he said. Farmers associations demanded that the government implement the Licensed Cultivators Act 2011, issue LEC cards, and ensure that bank loans and government support go to them. If needed, improvements should be made in the 2011 Act or its rules, and issues related to earlier Acts dealing with tenancy should be addressed, the associations felt. “Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima should be made applicable to tenant farmers also. Collectors are not implementing the 2011 Licensed Cultivators Act,” said Kondal Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/go-194-must-for-kin-ofdistressed-farmers-rsv/articleshow/80775579.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi court sends Deep Sidhu to police custody for seven days||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Tuesday remanded actor Deep Sidhu to seven days in police custody in connection with the violence in the capital on Republic Day. Sidhu was remanded to a seven days of custody by metropolitan magistrate Prigya Gupta. Police earlier sought 10 days of Sidhu’s remand, alleging that he was main conspirator and instigated the protestors, who breached security barricades on January 26 at the Red Fort. Sidhu’s counsel argued that his client had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time. Police, urging for the remand, stated that they had to visit other states to ascertain his links. It was also argued that Sidhu congratulated the person who hoisted the flag at Red Fort besides doing a Facebook live. The court was informed that about 140 policemen were injured on the day of the incident, and the protestors breached security and deviated from the actual route assigned for the tractors’ rally. Sidhu’s counsel, however, pointed out that police already had the evidence and nothing more was required. He highlighted that Sidhu was not running away or evading law. The actor, it was argued, learnt from the media about the flag hoisting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-sends-sidhu-to-police-custody-for-seven-days/articleshow/80775615.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two IITs, Teri to locate sources of pollution||NEW DELHI: After getting unsatisfactory results from the real-time source apportionment study carried out by Washington University, Delhi government has now approached IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Delhi and The Energy and Resources Institute (Teri) to carry out the same. On Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal met researchers from the three institutes and asked them to not only carry out the study, but also set up an advanced monitoring system for each source of pollution. Delhi government is looking to receive real-time data to determine the most polluting sources at any given time of the year, thereby allowing it to take action on a priority basis. Kejriwal said he had directed senior officials to start work and submit a proposal to the state cabinet.“IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Delhi and Teri have developed technology for real-time source apportionment of pollution. Had a meeting with their experts. We will work with them to implement it in Delhi. If we know the source of pollution on a real-time basis, it will help us take immediate action,” Kejriwal tweeted. Kejriwal said with the implementation of the electric vehicle policy, they were looking at actively bringing down different sources of pollution. “Delhi government is focusing on the sources of pollution and working to curb them. This technique will give a clear idea about the real-time sources of air pollution at hotspots. It will also help us take immediate action against these sources,” he added. With the help of technology, officials said real-time sources and the intensity of pollution could be detected. The technology would also give clarity on the factors responsible for the spike in air pollution at a particular spot. “This technology will help in studying the real-time effects of vehicular emission, dust and smoke from factories. Based on the results, Delhi government will take the necessary action to curb the sources of pollution,” said an official. The government aims to establish a super site and a mobile site to find the sources of pollution in real-time at any given hotspot. Work for this would first be done on a pilot basis. The entire project would be carried out under the guidance of professor Mukesh Sharma from IIT-Kanpur. A senior DPCC official said the proposal from IIT-Kanpur would be assessed by an expert committee and the project would commence after receiving clearances. “The results from the Washington University study were not satisfactory. It did not meet the objectives and the methodology was also slightly different. Therefore, we did not proceed with them,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-iits-teri-to-locate-sources-of-pollution/articleshow/80775613.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 10, 2021||Goa||After multiple delays, Mapusa bus stand project finally makes headway||PANAJI: The long-pending Mapusa bus stand project may finally see the light of day. The foundation stone for the first phase of the project, estimated at Rs 3.5 crore, is being laid on Wednesday. In the initial phase, the upkeep of the bus stand is being taken up to rid of various rain-related maladies. “We are expecting to complete the work in two to three months. Currently, the space is shabby especially during monsoon, so we are going to give it a facelift. It will be an organised in-and-out system with proper shade, toilet facilities, etc,” Mapusa MLA,Joshua De Souza said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant ehad arlier said that the proposed bus stand project at Mapusa as well as the refurbishing of the market will be taken up on priority. TOI had reported the same in November 2020. The project was delayed due to the zilla panchayat elections. The area where the bus stand is to come up was earlier leveled for the construction of the bus stand, however, delays led to the open space turning into a garbage dumping site at the hands of irresponsible citizens. Chief architect Rahul Deshpande said that the first phase will ensure that there is parking facility for all buses. “Now, trash is being cleared to pave the area and make way for interstate bus parking of both Kadamba as well as private buses,” Deshpande said, adding that the work will be completed before the monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-multiple-delays-mapusa-bus-stand-project-finally-makes-headway/articleshow/80776853.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Ludhiana||Nihang held for assaulting 2 cops||Ludhiana: The Division 7 police arrested a Nihang for allegedly assaulting two cops at Tajpur Road on Tuesday. According to the cops, accused Gurwinder Singh, 26, who lives in Gurdwara Baba Jeevan Singh, Tajpur Road, was creating nuisance and when they stopped him, he attacked them. ASI Karnail Singh said in his police complaint, “Senior constable Balveer Singh and I were on patrolling duty on Tuesday afternoon. A Nihang armed with a hammer was creating hooliganism and a crowd had gathered around him. When we objected to it, he started arguing with us. He then hit the hammer on my hand. When Balveer came to my rescue, he attacked him on his back. After assaulting us, he escaped from the spot.”Thereafter, the cops called for help and reached a hospital.Investigating officer ASI Tajinder Singh said a case has been registered against Gurwinder under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and he has been arrested. The x-ray reports of both cops are pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/nihang-held-for-assaulting-2-cops/articleshow/80774320.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Ludhiana||HC asks police to ensure safety of women couple||Ludhiana: The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Ludhiana commissioner of police to ensure safety of a women couple, whose parents are against their relationship.The high court directions came on a writ petition filed by a social activist of Delhi. The court has also asked the Ludhiana Police to submit the action-taken report. Petitioner Sahitya Gupta said, “Two women of Ludhiana, aged 21 and 22, are in a relationship and belong to LGBTQ community. Since their parents were against their relationship, they escaped from their houses and reached Delhi. They got in touch with me and apprised me of their problems. They also said that their families were threatening them.” Thereafter, Gupta, with the help of an NGO, contacted their families.“The families reached Delhi and consented to their daughters’ relationship. They agreed to allow them to live together in a separate accommodation. Following the assurance, they took their daughters back home. However, later, they detained the women and did not allow them to meet each other. I got it checked from my sources who confirmed it and said their phones had also been taken away,” Gupta added. Gupta then approached the high court. In view of the petition, the HC directed the police commissioner to depute a senior official to look into the matter immediately and visit the residences of both the women to ensure their safety. The court also asked the police to produce the two before the illaqua magistrate for recording their statements. The police were also directed to file the status report before the court. Additional deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said, “The Ludhiana Police has received the high court directions. We will comply by it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hc-asks-police-to-ensure-safety-of-women-couple/articleshow/80774315.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||Institutes hail court order, parents to file review plea||Jaipur: The Supreme Court (SC) order on fees has brought joy for schools, but left parents disappointed. Welcoming the order, Edward Oliver, member of Gyandeep Education Society (Society for Catholic Schools of Jaipur Diocese), said, “It is a thoughtful decision by the highest court. I never understood the reason of not paying fees to the school despite taking all the facilities. When the government was paying full salaries to its employees including teachers, then why the private school teachers were made to go through that hell.” Other schools have also expressed similar views. Ashok Vaid, secretary of Sahodaya, a private school association, said that this is a good decision giving relief to the schools. “We will start the process of fees collection as per the order, but we will also provide relief to parents on case basis who cannot pay fees due to financial losses triggered by the pandemic.” Reacting to the decision of the court, parents expressed their disbelief and disappointment. While talking to TOI, many parents said that they have no objection of paying fees but that should be paid for classes just online. Sunil Yadav, president of All Rajasthan Parents Forum, said this is a one-sided judgement and now parents will be forced to pay the fees for services they were never provided in pandemic. “A child is sent to school for six hours but due to pandemic online mode of education was given for three hours. Now, I have to pay fees for full time which is not in favour of any parent. This is such a disappointment from the court of justice. We will file a review petition against the judgement,” said Yadav. Parents associations further said that if they have to teach their children online, they would have kept them for home tuition which is much cheaper. Abhishek Jain, president of Parents Association said, “When I send my child to a school paying more than Rs 1 lakh per year, it is not just for the education, but also about the infrastructure provided, sports activity and other extra-curricular activities. Nothing was given in pandemic so why should we pay 100% fees. This judgement is one sided and we will take up all the alternates available to us. We will hire a senior counsel and challenge it further.” Meanwhile, Maharaja Sawai Man Singh Vidyalay School has decided to continue with 25% concession in fees of 2020-2021 session claiming to maintain a healthier relationship with parents. Damodar Goyal, board member of SMS School said, “Parents and school cannot survive without each other and their relationship is like body and soul. We have decided not to take back the fee reduction that we announced last year even before the order of the government. We understand the situation of parent and will always be considerate for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/institutes-hail-court-order-parents-to-file-review-plea/articleshow/80776838.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Dense fog expected today too in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Several parts of Delhi were enveloped in a dense cover of fog on Tuesday morning. The visibility dropped to zero at Safdarjung and Palam stations. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted dense fog for Wednesday as well. Track the pollution level in your cityMet officials said the minimum temperature was likely to remain around 9-10 degrees Celsius for the next five days. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “After the passage of a western disturbance recently, the wind direction changed to westerly. As there was calm wind during the morning hours, it led to accumulation of pollutants and fog.” The minimum temperature on Tuesday dipped to 7.8 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal, while the maximum temperature was recorded at 26.5 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal. No major variation in temperature is predicted for the next few days. Meanwhile, the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Tuesday was 305 in the ‘very poor’ category. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research, “the overall air quality of Delhi is in the lower end of ‘very poor’ category as predicted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dense-fog-expected-today-too/articleshow/80775648.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||Schools can collect fees for 2020-21 same as last year: SC||Jaipur: The Supreme Court in its interim order said the private schools could collect fees for the academic year 2020-21 equivalent to fees amount notified for 2019- 2020 in six monthly installments between March 5 and August 5 this year. The court of Justice A M Khanwilkar and Justice Dinesh Maheshwari while staying the high court order on school fees on December 18 last year said the court is issuing the interim order since the hearing is likely to take some more time. The next date of hearing is February 15. The court is also examining the Rajasthan School Fees Act 2016. But the court added where the parents have difficulty in remitting the fees as per the interim order, it could approach the school concerned by an individual representation and the management of the school would consider such representation on a case-to-case basis sympathetically. The school management should not debar any student from attending either online classes or physical classes because of non-payment of fees, arrears/outstanding fees including the installments, and should not withhold the results of the examinations of any student, said the court. The court added that the arrangement will not affect collection of fees for the academic year 2021-2022 which would be payable by the students as and when it becomes due and payable and as notified by the management/school. About the board examinations for Classes X and XII (to be conducted in 2021), the court order said, “The school management shall not withhold the name of any student/candidate on the ground of non-payment of the fee/arrears, if any, on obtaining undertaking of the concerned parent/student.” The above arrangements would be subject to the outcome of these matters including the final directions to be given to the parties and without prejudice to the rights and contentions of the parties in these proceedings. It further directed the state government to ensure that all government outstanding dues towards unit cost payable to respective unaided schools (RTE reimbursements) are settled within one month from today and, in any case, before March 31, this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-can-collect-fees-for-20-21-same-as-last-year-sc/articleshow/80776843.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Y S Sharmila’s Telangana plans her own, Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy not party to it: YSRCP||VIJAYAWADA: Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy’s close aides on Tuesday chose to distance the Andhra Pradesh chief minister from his sister Sharmila’s political ambitions. In the process they also confirmed Sharmila’s plans of launching a new party in Telangana by getting together those who had admired her father and the late former CM united AP, Y S Rajasekhara Reddy. Even as Sharmila met supporters in Hyderabad on Tuesday, AP government advisor and key leader of YSR Congress, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, told reporters in Vijayawada about the difference of opinion between Jagan and Sharmila. He also said that there was a political vacuum in Telangana, which Sharmila wanted to fill. Sajjala added that there were discussions in the family about Sharmila’s proposed party for the past three months. According to him, Jagan had advised her against the move or even expanding YSRCP in Telangana. He said wanting to launch a new party was Sharmila’s own decision. TOI had reported on Tuesday that she planned to call the new party YSR Telangana Party (YSRTP). “Jagan’s interests are with the people of AP and he does not have any links with Telangana politics,” Sajjala insisted. “In fact, Jagan had advised Sharmila not to enter politics in Telangana.” Immediately after coming to power in 2019, Jagan had become close to Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. But on the face of it, the bonhomie did not last long as the governments of AP and Telangana differed on water sharing and irrigation projects. Sharmila, meanwhile, met close aides from Nalgonda. She had announced she would meet supporters of her father from all the districts in the state. Many of YSR’s followers and supporters are rallying behind Sharmila. There is also pressure from Congress leaders of Telangana who want an alternative in the state. Sajjala also said Sharmila and Jagan did not have any personal differences but disagree on politics in Telangana. Sajjala, who is close to the YSR family, admitted that the issue of reviving the YSR Congress in Telangana or launching a new political party was being discussed in the family for the past three months, especially after the BJP performed extremely well in the recent Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. “Jagan wants to have party-to-party and government-to-government relations with Telangana. He did not want to revive and expand the party there,” he said. He added that Jagan will not have any links with Sharmila’s party or Telangana’s politics. “Sharmila is planning for a padayatra before or after the launch of the party,” he said adding that she is planning to bring back her late father’s welfare regime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sharmilas-t-plans-her-own-jagan-not-party-to-it-ysrcp/articleshow/80777400.cms||Gopi Dara
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||TRP case: Bombay HC adjourns bail plea hearing of BARC ex-CEO||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Tuesday adjourned to February 15 the hearing in a plea of bail filed by former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), Partho Dasgupta, accused in the alleged Television Rating Point (TRP) rigging case. Dasgupta’s lawyers said that they would first seek withdrawal of his petition filed earlier before the Supreme Court. That petition was filed only on health grounds, and “not on merit of the case”, Shardul Singh, counsel for Dasgupta, informed the court. Special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray submitted before Justice P D Naik that though informed at the last hearing —on February 2—that Dasgupta was withdrawing the plea before the SC, it was still alive and pending. He read from an SC order dated February 4 passed by a bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose. Hiray said Dasgupta was ‘forum shopping’, which the his counsel, Aabad Ponda and Singh, denied. Dasputa is accused of misusing his official position and and conniving with ARG Outlier Media and Arnab Goswami to manipulate Republic TV’s TRPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/trp-case-hc-adjourns-bail-plea-hearing-of-barc-ex-ceo/articleshow/80777429.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 10, 2021||Bareilly||Scores missing, UP dist sends SDM to bring home the dead||BAREILLY: The administration of UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, the district which arguably lost the maximum number of people in Uttarakhand’s flash flood, has sent its SDM to Chamoli district to coordinate with the local authorities there in identifying the missing people. “We are with the grieving families and will ensure that they don’t face any problem. We have also sent food grain to the affected families to ensure they have sufficient food at home. We have also advised locals to provide information of the missing people,” Nighasan SDM Om Prakash Gupta said. He added, “We are still collecting the information of missing people. So far one person was found dead but his body is yet to arrive. Palia’s SDM has been sent to Chamoli for better coordination and he would have reached there by Tuesday evening.” Meanwhile, with no information on the missing people, family members continued to dial the mobile phones of their loved ones working in Chamoli district. Nashrat Ali, a resident of Ichchanagar village, whose son Jalal, 20, is still missing, told TOI, “My son had gone with his cousins. He got washed away in the flood. He wanted to buy a smart television for us. We are preparing ourselves for the news.” Kiran, 20, a resident of Babupurva village, got married to Vimlesh, 23, in 2019. And a month after the birth of their first child, a boy, Vimlesh went for work to earn money for a better future for his son. He is also missing. The body of his neighbour, Suraj (19), has been found nearly 60-km from the spot in Karnprayag. Suraj’s uncle Sohan had identified the body and it is expected to arrive in Kheri on Wednesday. At least 50 people missing in the Chamoli flash flood are said to be from Lakhimpur Kheri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/with-dozens-missing-from-the-district-lakhimpur-kheri-sends-its-sdm-to-identify-bring-home-the-dead/articleshow/80774345.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 10, 2021||Ludhiana||Side-effect rumours keep health, frontline workers away from jab||Ludhiana: A person taking the vaccine may become impotent, may have a heart attack, or die. These are some of the rumours doing the rounds, and as a result a sizeable number of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) didn’t get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19. Health department and private hospital staff said there were also rumours that a person may develop cancer in future, DNA may get mutated, may suffer Bell’s palsy (sudden weakness of facial muscles), face allergic reactions, high-grade fever and acute body pain. Claiming that a sizeable number of HCWs didn’t get vaccinated because of these rumours, which had a ripple effect, they suggested that the health department and private hospitals need to run an aggressive campaign to dispel the fears. District immunisation officer (DIO) Dr Kiran said every Wednesday, the deputy commissioner goes live on Facebook to motivate people and the civil surgeon also gives comments on safety of the process. She said all rumours were unfounded. “If these rumours were true, why would senior officials and doctors get vaccinated? A few doctors avoiding the jab was due to chronic problems.”“There was news of a person dying of a heart attack a week after vaccination, which heightened apprehensions. There was rumour of Bell’s palsy too. Some symptoms, including mild fever and myalgia, appear with any vaccine and that too not in all. Rumours pop up every time there is a new vaccine,” said Dr Sunil Katyal, former president of Ludhiana Indian Medical Association (IMA), who has got a shot. FALLING SHOTTill February 6, after the start of the second phase of the vaccination drive on February 3 for frontline workers—including police and revenue officials and MC workers—1,479 were vaccinated against the target of 6,710, which came to 22.04%On February 1, the DC, while announcing the start of phase II of the drive, had said that till the date, 20,000 frontline workers had got themselves registered on the government portalHealth department officials said against the target of 29,827 for Ludhiana district till February 1, as many as 16,322 healthcare workers were jabbed, which came to 54.7%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/side-effect-rumours-keep-health-frontline-workers-away-from-jab/articleshow/80774331.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||International human trafficking racket busted||HYDERABAD: Four alleged inter-state human traffickers, who were sending workers including women to Gulf countries illegally to work there, have been arrested. Police said most of the victims work for long hours and get paid less than the promised amount. The accused were identified as Sk Mohammed Imtiyaz, 35, N Subbamma, 27, both travel agents, G Subba Rayudu, 38, a driver from Kadapa, and their associate, Mohammed Haroon, 52, an office assistant of Al Hayath Tours & Travels in Malakpet. Al Hayath Tours & Travels managing director Md Naseer, his daughter Sumaiya Fathima, owner of the travels company, and their associate, Sayed, were absconding. The accused were illegally trying to send the victim, Shaik Khadar Bi, 26, of Medipally, to Muscat on a visit visa instead of work visa, Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said. The fraud came to light when Khadar Bi, who was supposed to board a flight to Muscat from Hyderabad on February 7, returned home from the airport and approached police. “About a month ago, Khadar Bi’s aunt, Masthanamma, 55, of Nellore, was sent to Muscat by the same gang to work as a domestic help on a visit visa. When the accused approached Khadar Bi, offering her employment in Muscat with a package of Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000 monthly salary, she contacted Masthanamma and got a negative feedback,” SOT inspector T Ravi Kumar said. Mastanamma said her employer makes her work for 18 hours and pays only Rs 18,000 salary instead of Rs 25,000. Apart from her aunt’s negative feedback, Khadar Bi also developed apprehensions about the accused when Imtiyaz asked her to meet alone in a lodge at Shamshabad before going to the airport. “The arrested accused met her at the airport to give her necessary documents. When they told Khadar Bi that her salary of Rs 30,000 will be deposited in the family member’s account after she sends a photo boarding the flight, she became suspicious and left the airport,” the inspector said. Based on the complaint of the victim, police raided the travel agency at Malakpet and seized 40 passports, belonging to 28 men and 12 women from two Telugu states. Police said that Naseer collects Rs 4 lakh to Rs 5 lakh from employers to send a domestic help and pays Rs 60,000 to Rs 1 lakh to his associates from Kadapa for sending him a suitable candidate. A manhunt has been launched to nab the absconding accused and police were verifying details of the documents seized from the travel agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/intl-human-trafficking-racket-busted/articleshow/80775632.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||Covid helps to strengthen critical care infrastructure in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Critical care facilities have been strengthened across Rajasthan, thanks to Covid-19, which brought along with it reforms in the healthcare system. The critical care infrastructure developed to save lives from Covid now remains to benefit patients requiring intensive care for other diseases too. Before the pandemic, the number of functional ventilators in government set-up was just 800. During the pandemic, 1,700 more ventilators were added in government hospitals and healthcare centres. There was a time when a 38-year-old patient, who had tested positive for Covid, had to be shifted to MDM Hospital, Jodhpur from Pali district due to improper critical care facilities available for Covid patients. Now, the same hospital has 36 ventilators. The health department had to face major embarrassment when former MLA of Makrana of Nagaur had written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot complaining that the government hospital in Makrana had no ventilator and in case a Covid patient requires ventilator support, he would not get it. However, over a period of just few months, the healthcare system in the state has witnessed a complete reform. “In very few months, the healthcare system in the state has been strengthened significantly. Be it availability of ventilators, ICUs, oxygen supply for medical use, testing facilities and labs, all have witnessed a major change. Even the staff of the government hospitals are more trained and can handle patients needing critical care more efficiently while working for Covid patients,” said Dr KK Sharma, director (health), health department. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and health minister Raghu Sharma had also stressed that while intensifying fight against Covid, the healthcare system will undergo a reform. Earlier, a lot many government hospitals did not even have availability of oxygen at beds through centralised pipelines. Also, they did not have the oxygen generation plants for medical use in the hospital. Oxygen generation capacity creation is under process at district hospitals in Dholpur, Karauli, Sirohi, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Hanumangarh and hospitals attached to medical colleges in Dungarpur, Ajmer, Jaipur and Bikaner. Earlier before Covid, the availability of daily oxygen cylinders were around 5,000, which is now more than 28,000 cylinders. With the increase in availability of oxygen, more and more ICU beds and beds with oxygen supply were created. The coronavirus looks under control but the infrastructure developed to fight it now remains for the benefit of other patients. Earlier, the shortage of ventilators was such that the relatives of patients used to contact influential people to get these. RUHS Hospital, which is a dedicated Covid hospital, has also benefited immensely. “Before Covid, we had 30 ventilators, 50 ICU beds and 200 beds with oxygen supply, but now we have 150 ventilators, 200 ICU beds and 800 beds with oxygen supply,” said Dr Ajit Singh, superintendent, RUHS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-helps-to-strengthen-critical-care-infrastructure-in-rajasthan/articleshow/80776851.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
February 10, 2021||Meerut||Girl, 24, an MBA student & employee at Noida firm, found murdered in Amroha||Bijnor: A 24-year-old MBA student, who was also employed at a Noida-based firm, was found brutally murdered in Amroha late Monday night with her face being battered with bricks to conceal her identity. Police said there were injury marks inflicted by sharp-edged weapon around her neck. The body was identified on Tuesday morning, said police, adding that the victim who originally hailed from UP’s Amroha was pursuing an MBA course at a private college in Meerut and had been employed at a firm in Noida.Amroha superintendent of police Suniti said, “The body was found in a plot near ARTO bypass on Monday. A blood-stained brick, a bag containing two mobile phones and a voter ID card were also found lying close to the body. It seems that the accused repeatedly attacked her on the head and then strangled her. The victim is a resident of Amroha city. She was pursuing MBA from a Meerut-based college and was also working with a private company. She was living in a rented accommodation in Delhi’s Lakshmi Nagar area.” “We have spoken with her family members and they told police that they had spoken to her over the mobile phone on Sunday. The girl had told them that she would come to Amroha on Sunday evening, but she did reach home. The family tried to contact her on the mobile phone, but she did not pick their calls,” said the SP. The SP added that an FIR was registered against unidentified accused and the body was sent for postmortem to ascertain the cause of death.“Police are probing the matter thoroughly from several angles and interrogating suspects in this connection. It appears that she had come to Amroha with a person known to her. We will crack the case soon,” added the SP.The girl is survived by her mother and brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/girl-24-an-mba-student-employee-at-noida-firm-found-murdered-in-amroha/articleshow/80774349.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Need for ‘Rajanna Rajyam’ in Telangana: Y S Sharmila||HYDERABAD: Making clear her political intentions in Telangana, the late former chief minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy’s daughter, Y S Sharmila, on Tuesday said that she was keen to bring Rajanna Rajyam (referencing her father’s rule in united Andhra Pradesh) in the state. Interacting with the media briefly after meeting with YSR loyalists, she said, “There is no Rajanna Rajayam here, we want to bring it here. The consultations are meant for this.” Keeping her plans of launching a new party vague for the time being, Sharmila, sister of AP chief minister and YSR Congress president Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, said, “Elections are far, what can we say now?” On Tuesday, after arriving from Bengaluru, she met YSRCP leaders and followers of her family from Nalgonda and Chevella districts at Lotus Pond in Hyderabad. She said she held the meeting with her father’s loyalists to know ground realities and understand the political situation. Replying to the question if she has her brother’s support, she said, “We are siblings, he is elder to me, I hope and think that I have his blessings.” She said farmers in the state used to live like kings and many promises are not fulfilled. She added there was a need to bring back the golden rule of her father and did not deny the possibility of launching a padayatra. Earlier, addressing the meeting with YSR loyalists, she said, “YSR’s rule was golden rule. He built pucca houses for the poor. He wanted every poor student to get good education and a great job. Since ill-health pushes poor into debs, he brought Aarogyasri. I want Rajanna Rajyam back. I believe only we can bring it.” Lotus Pond was abuzz with activity since Tuesday morning as a large number of her supporters arrived from various parts of the state. All along the stretch of Lotus Pond, there were posters of YSR and herself. Rajasekhara Reddy served as Congress CM of united AP from 2004 to 2009. After he died in a helicopter crash in 2009, YSRCP was floated. After her padayatra in 2012, Sharmila actively campaigned for YRSCP in the 2014 elections. Ever since the party came to power in 2019 elections in AP, she has remained in the shadows, away from party activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sharmila-need-for-rajanna-rajyam-in-t/articleshow/80777418.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 10, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan gets 2.4 lakh more Covishield doses||JAIPUR: The state received 2.44 lakh doses of Covishield on Tuesday morning. The doses will be used for giving the second shot of vaccine to healthcare workers from February 13 besides being used for mop-up rounds of frontline workers and healthcare workers scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday. On Tuesday, only seven districts organised vaccination sessions including Bundi, Chittorgarh, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand and Tonk. The achievement percentage of target remained at 98% as 3,695 frontline workers got the jab against the target of the day of 3,789. Among those, three cases of adverse events following immunisation were reported. The cumulative figures of healthcare workers and frontline workers who got the jab rose to 4,91,543. A health department official said they had started preparations for giving the second dose of vaccine to healthcare workers from February 13. Those who are completing 28 days of getting the first dose will get the second dose on February 13 and it will go on till all the healthcare workers get the second dose. The third phase of vaccination drive is beginning in March when people above 50 years will get the vaccine. While Covid vaccination drive is progressing, 90 persons tested positive the state on Tuesday taking its overall tally to 3,18,384. No death was reported due to the virus in the last 24 hours and currently the state’s toll stands at 2774. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (19), Kota (16), Ajmer(13), Jodhpur (12), Banswara (5), Nagaur (5), Udaipur (5), Dungarpur (3), Jhlawar(3), Bhilwara (2), Chittorgarh (2), Pratapgarh (2), Bundi (1), Sriganganagar (1)and Jhunjhunu (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-gets-2-4l-more-covishield-doses/articleshow/80778695.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan gets 2.4 lakh more Covishield doses||JAIPUR: The state received 2.44 lakh doses of Covishield on Tuesday morning. The doses will be used for giving the second shot of vaccine to healthcare workers from February 13 besides being used for mop-up rounds of frontline workers and healthcare workers scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday. On Tuesday, only seven districts organised vaccination sessions including Bundi, Chittorgarh, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand and Tonk. The achievement percentage of target remained at 98% as 3,695 frontline workers got the jab against the target of the day of 3,789. Among those, three cases of adverse events following immunisation were reported. The cumulative figures of healthcare workers and frontline workers who got the jab rose to 4,91,543. A health department official said they had started preparations for giving the second dose of vaccine to healthcare workers from February 13. Those who are completing 28 days of getting the first dose will get the second dose on February 13 and it will go on till all the healthcare workers get the second dose. The third phase of vaccination drive is beginning in March when people above 50 years will get the vaccine. While Covid vaccination drive is progressing, 90 persons tested positive the state on Tuesday taking its overall tally to 3,18,384. No death was reported due to the virus in the last 24 hours and currently the state’s toll stands at 2774. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (19), Kota (16), Ajmer(13), Jodhpur (12), Banswara (5), Nagaur (5), Udaipur (5), Dungarpur (3), Jhlawar(3), Bhilwara (2), Chittorgarh (2), Pratapgarh (2), Bundi (1), Sriganganagar (1)and Jhunjhunu (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-gets-2-4l-more-covishield-doses/articleshow/80776861.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Meerut||Most mantris mum, send netas like Advani, Rajnath, Manmohan for talks: Rakesh Tikait||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Naresh Tikait said ministers sent by the Centre for talks to end the deadlock over farm laws "did not talk much as they were under pressure”. He suggested that leaders like LK Advani, Rajnath Singh, Yogi Adityanath or former prime minister Manmohan Singh should come to the table for talks on the issue. The farmers’ union and the government, mostly represented by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, have so far held 11 rounds of talks to end the impasse over the three laws. All the meetings have remained inconclusive. “All mantris are under pressure to talk less. Bring Advani, Yogi (Adityanath) or Rajnath Singh to resolve the issue. Bring former PM Manmohan Singh to resolve the matter,” Tikait said in Muzaffarnagar’s Sisauli, his hometown, on Monday night. He had earlier said that if the government doesn’t want to repeal the laws, it should put them on hold till 2024. “We are ready for a compromise. They have already suggested putting the laws on hold for 18 months; they can extend it till 2024. They should also take back the FIRs registered against the protesters,” Tikait has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/most-mantris-mum-send-netas-like-advani-rajnath-manmohan-for-talks-tikait/articleshow/80774352.cms||Mohd Dilshad
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Two held for woman’s murder||Hyderabad: Chikkadpally police arrested two auto drivers for smothering a 60-year -old fish seller to death and stealing her cash and gold ornaments. On January 24, the accused, M Santosh, 40 and Mohammed Sami, 24, auto drivers from New Bhoiguda met the victim, B Parvathamma, 60, a fish seller from Khairatabad at the toddy compound and took her with them offering her liquor. When she was intoxicated, the accused tried to steal her purse containing Rs 15,000 cash. When Parvathamma resisted, the duo smothered her, stole her cash and gold earrings. “They dumped the body on the footpath in Gagan Mahal”, inspector P Shiva Shankar Rao said. The accused were arrested from their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-held-for-womans-murder/articleshow/80775654.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan gets 2.4 lakh more Covishield doses||JAIPUR: The state received 2.44 lakh doses of Covishield on Tuesday morning. The doses will be used for giving the second shot of vaccine to healthcare workers from February 13 besides being used for mop-up rounds of frontline workers and healthcare workers scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday. On Tuesday, only seven districts organised vaccination sessions including Bundi, Chittorgarh, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand and Tonk. The achievement percentage of target remained at 98% as 3,695 frontline workers got the jab against the target of the day of 3,789. Among those, three cases of adverse events following immunisation were reported. The cumulative figures of healthcare workers and frontline workers who got the jab rose to 4,91,543. A health department official said they had started preparations for giving the second dose of vaccine to healthcare workers from February 13. Those who are completing 28 days of getting the first dose will get the second dose on February 13 and it will go on till all the healthcare workers get the second dose. The third phase of vaccination drive is beginning in March when people above 50 years will get the vaccine. While Covid vaccination drive is progressing, 90 persons tested positive the state on Tuesday taking its overall tally to 3,18,384. No death was reported due to the virus in the last 24 hours and currently the state’s toll stands at 2774. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (19), Kota (16), Ajmer(13), Jodhpur (12), Banswara (5), Nagaur (5), Udaipur (5), Dungarpur (3), Jhlawar(3), Bhilwara (2), Chittorgarh (2), Pratapgarh (2), Bundi (1), Sriganganagar (1)and Jhunjhunu (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-gets-2-4l-more-covishield-doses/articleshow/80778697.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan gets 2.4 lakh more Covishield doses||JAIPUR: The state received 2.44 lakh doses of Covishield on Tuesday morning. The doses will be used for giving the second shot of vaccine to healthcare workers from February 13 besides being used for mop-up rounds of frontline workers and healthcare workers scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday. On Tuesday, only seven districts organised vaccination sessions including Bundi, Chittorgarh, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand and Tonk. The achievement percentage of target remained at 98% as 3,695 frontline workers got the jab against the target of the day of 3,789. Among those, three cases of adverse events following immunisation were reported. The cumulative figures of healthcare workers and frontline workers who got the jab rose to 4,91,543. A health department official said they had started preparations for giving the second dose of vaccine to healthcare workers from February 13. Those who are completing 28 days of getting the first dose will get the second dose on February 13 and it will go on till all the healthcare workers get the second dose. The third phase of vaccination drive is beginning in March when people above 50 years will get the vaccine. While Covid vaccination drive is progressing, 90 persons tested positive the state on Tuesday taking its overall tally to 3,18,384. No death was reported due to the virus in the last 24 hours and currently the state’s toll stands at 2774. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (19), Kota (16), Ajmer(13), Jodhpur (12), Banswara (5), Nagaur (5), Udaipur (5), Dungarpur (3), Jhlawar(3), Bhilwara (2), Chittorgarh (2), Pratapgarh (2), Bundi (1), Sriganganagar (1)and Jhunjhunu (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-gets-2-4l-more-covishield-doses/articleshow/80778696.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro adds 10 escalators at its stations||NEW DELHI: The Kashmere Gate Metro station, Delhi Metro’s only interchange station connecting three corridors, will very soon boast of 52 escalators, the highest for any Metro station in the country. On Tuesday, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation added 10 new escalators at nine of its stations and two escalators at Kashmere Gate, taking the total number of escalators in the interchange station to 47. DMRC said that the addition of these escalators is part of its endeavour to enhance commuting experience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-metro-adds-10-escalators-at-its-stns/articleshow/80775665.cms||---
February 10, 2021||India||Canine soldiers to sniff out Covid-19 in armed forces||NEW DELHI: Canine soldiers are normally trained to detect explosives, track terrorists and rescue disaster victims. But now, two Army dogs have also been trained to sniff out another kind of trouble — the Covid-19 virus. Casper, a two-year-old Cocker Spaniel, and Jaya, a one-year-old ‘sight hound’ who belongs to the indigenous breed Chippiparai, can detect Covid positive cases from urine or sweat samples. Mani, another Chippiparai, though currently under training too appears to be well on its way towards mastering the task. It’s as swift in responding to its trainer’s commands as Casper and Jaya are. The samples are placed inside cardboard boxes or containers and all three pooches are trained to sit beside the one where they can detect the presence of the virus. How do they do so? For this, the Army has relied on their acute sense of smell to sniff out specific biomarkers emanating from the urine and sweat samples of those with Covid-19. Casper and Jaya, who began their training in September last year, have detected till now 22 Covid positive cases from among the 3,800 samples they have sniffed thus far, said an officer on Tuesday. The need to train the canines was felt as there were as many as 20,000 Covid-19 positive cases in the armed forces already by September 2020, of whom 16,000 were from the Army alone. With the dogs being pressed into service, it has enabled the swift detection of Covid-19 positive patients who are then isolated before waiting for the regular RT-PCTR test results. The Covid sniffing capabilities of the canines are currently being used at a transit camp in Chandigarh for troops headed for deployment in forward areas in Kashmir and Ladakh. “Various countries like Britain, Finland, Russia, France, UAE, Germany, Lebanon had started training dogs for Covid-19 detection by screening passengers at airports and railway stations. There was also the global trend of using medical detection dogs for various diseases like cancer, malaria, diabetes, Parkinson’s disease etc. So, we also started training the dogs for Covid detection. Eight more dogs are now undergoing training,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/canine-soldiers-to-sniff-out-covid-19-in-armed-forces/articleshow/80778044.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Give sick driver post in 1 month: HRC||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) directed the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation to consider the application of a driver, who underwent open-heart surgery, and give him another role in a month. Hearing a complaint filed by D Uppallaiah, who used to work as a driver in Sathupally depot, TSRTC, saying that he is capable of performing duties in any other post after undergoing bypass surgery, the commission said that it can take judicial notice that there are an ample number of posts which will be available and can be performed by a person who underwent bypass surgery. While his doctors said he was unfit for driver’s post, he was declared as unfit for all other categories as per medical standards of TSRTC by Medical Board of Tarnaka Hospital. While his doctors said he was unfit for driver’s post, he was declared as unfit for all other categories as per medical standards of TSRTC by the Medical Board of Tarnaka Hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-sick-driver-post-in-1-month-hrc/articleshow/80775667.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Kangana case plea to be heard on March 9||The Bombay high court, on Tuesday, said that it would hear a petition filed by advocate Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh, seeking suspension of a social media account of actor Kangana Ranaut, on March 9. The advocate had filed his petition last year and was listed on January 7. He sought an early date for hearing, citing "urgency in view of the posts regarding farmers’ protests" made by Ranaut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kangana-case-plea-to-be-heard-on-march-9/articleshow/80777715.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||Tussle between BJP, Congress at first board meet of Heritage||JAIPUR: The first board meeting of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Heritage, was full of tussles between the two political parties which created ruckus in the meeting hall. BJP councillors alleged that all the agendas put forward in the meeting were not for development of the public and democratic method was not followed. BJP councillor from ward 58 Manish Pareek raised objection to the ways in which new building bylaws of JDA were passed by the board. "Mayor Munesh Gurjar should have mentioned the implications of the bylaws which are nowhere written in the documents presented before the board," said Pareek. Pointing a finger at JMC, Heritage, mayor Munesh Gurjar, Pareek said that he is not working on the directions of MLA Pratap Singh Khachairyawas and BJP councillors will not be quiet. The meeting hall echoed with slogans from both sides. Pareek started shouting slogans due to which mayor Munesh Gurjar ordered him to leave the hall. BJP councillors came in his support and sat on the hall floor demanding answers to their questions. Munesh Gurjar continued with the proceedings despite objections by the opposition for not being given opportunity to speak. One by one, all the agendas were passed albeit opposition claiming it to be a death of democracy and torn papers were flung in the air. Finally, BJP councillors decided to walk out of the hall. Ironically, after the walk-out by opposition, Congress councillors were seen questioning the agendas proposed by their own party mayor. From the beginning of the meeting, Umar Daraj was seen opposing the mayor. He said that money allotted for road construction and sewerage wasn’t enough and demanded to increase the budget. On the working of private company hired for door-to-door garbage collection, mayor Munesh Gurjar said that deputy commissioner, health, will review the company’s work. If found unsatisfactory, a new company will be hired. Congress councillor Manoj Mudgal and Ayesha Siddique said, "We don’t support the company and it should be removed right now. The sanitation condition is really bad in the city and it will become better after cancelling the contract of the present company". Discussing the work of revenue collection firm, Congress councillors demanded the contract to be cancelled as JMC, Heritage, was facing severe revenue loss. Munesh Gurjar said that a PIL against the firm was pending in Rajasthan High Court. Munesh Gurjar had to repeatedly calm down her own councillors and explain that the matter is sub-judice in high court. There were several altercations between deputy mayor Aslam Faruqqi and mayor Munesh Gurjar. Congress councillor Sunita Mahawar who was once a probable mayor candidate spoke against the mayor many times. The meeting concluded after passing all the agendas but it was difficult to say who were in support and opposition of mayor Gurjar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tussle-between-bjp-cong-at-first-board-meet-of-heritage/articleshow/80776866.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Soon, locate an electric vehicle charging point on your ‘One Delhi’ app||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s common mobility mobile application— ‘One Delhi’—will soon double up as an electric vehicle (EV) charging point locator, apart from boasting of some other new features. Launched two years ago, the mobile application was part of the same initiative that saw the state government launch the common mobility card ‘One’ in 2018, which can be used to pay fare while travelling in Delhi Metro or buses operated by Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Cluster Scheme. The application integrates all information related to public transport in the city in one place, which would soon include information regarding EV charging points. Last week, the government kicked off the process of creating 500 charging points for EVs at 100 locations. In around two months, the application will don a new, upgraded avatar with new features, including guiding users to the nearest EV charging point location and providing information about availability of charging points. In its present form, the application works as a multi-modal journey planner with navigation feature, route visualizer for all bus and metro routes on map, auto detection of nearest bus stops and real-time expected time of arrival of the Cluster Scheme buses. Although all the 500 charging points will take around a year to come up, the One Delhi application is also likely to have a new feature soon, which will allow bus commuters to buy e-tickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/soon-locate-an-ev-charging-point-on-your-one-delhi-app/articleshow/80775674.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||Cop among 5 held for looting trader in Alwar||ALWAR: Alwar’s Narayanpur police on Tuesday arrested five persons including a police constable in connection with looting a local businessman. The accused include constable Anil Kumar, who was posted at Jaipur Police Commissionerate, Satveer, Vickram Gujjar, Pradeep Jat, Jaisingh Jat and Satyaveer Jat. SHO Suresh Singh said that victim Dharmendra, a local businessman, was going home on his bike after closing his shop. He was intercepted by Satveer and Vickram. "The duo beat Dharmendra mercilessly and looted Rs 4,500 from him on February 7. During the investigation, it was found that constable Kumar was equally involved in the crime," said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-among-5-held-for-looting-trader-in-alwar/articleshow/80776877.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Rs 10 lakh bond order against ex-Republic TV staffer quashed||MUMBAI: A sessions court recently set aside a special excutive magistrate’s order directing television reporter Pradeep Bhandari, who till recently was with Republic TV, to execute an interim bond of Rs 10 lakh in the chapter proceedings initiated against him. The court held that the specific condition imposed on him to furnish a surety by a journalist of another news channel was “totally incorrect and unwarranted”. “This specific bond condition is really questionable in the intention of the special executive magistrate,” the sessions court said. Bhandari (29) was booked for allegedly disturbing policemen from discharging their duty outside actor Kangana Ranaut’s Bandra office in September last year when the BMC initiated action for demolishing po-rtions of it for being allegedly ‘illegal’. On September 29, a complaint was registered against him at Colaba police station. On October 9, a notice was issued to Bhandari to appear before the special executive magistrate, Bandra division, three days later. Under Section 110 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the executive magistrate can seek security for good behaviour from habitual offenders. On December 30, an order was passed directing Bhandari to furnish the interim bond along with the surety. It also said if he failed to comply, he would remain in custody until further orders. Bhandari then moved the sessions court against the order. The sessions court said that Bhandari had no convictions and that prima facie, the record nowhere disclosed that he was a habitual offender. It added that the magistrate had not recorded reasons for taking immediate measures against him. “When liberty of the person is involved, it is not open to the special executive magistrate to depart from the procedure to any substantial extent. Nothing is mentioned with reasons that the applicant (Bhandari) is prone to extremely unruly conduct and shows inclination to commit acts of violence,” the court said. The magistrate had observed that Bhandari’s behaviour was not as per Press Trust of India rules. But the sessions court pointed out that these guidelines are not covered under CrPC. “Thus, this reason is not legal and the correct reason for passing impugned order,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-10-lakh-bond-order-against-ex-republic-tv-staffer-quashed/articleshow/80777450.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||BMC to develop two plots for Bandra Bandstand extension||MUMBAI: To further extend the Bandra Bandstand promenade, BMC has taken up development of two plots along the seafront. Though these plots have have been reserved as ‘recreation grounds’, they have been lying unutilised for several years. The plots are being turned into gardens which will have arched pathways, sea-side seating arrangement and a jogging track so that citizens get access to more open space on the seafront. The promenade at Bandra Bandstand is used extensively by people of all age groups and is also visited by tourists to Mumbai. Corporator from the area, Asif Zakeria who is from the Congress, said that while the promenade is around 1.5 km starting from the Hill Road junction up to B J Road and Kane Road, it can be further extended in a way that citizens get more accessible open space if the two open spaces are developed well. “For many years I had been pushing for development of these two garden plots that measure 900 sqmt and 1,500 sqmtrespectively. Many years ago, in one of these gardens where the historic band stand umbrella stands, the navy used to play its band on Sundays. Over the years, the plot remained unused and so I suggested a plan to connect the promenade to the same. Once it is developed, citizens themselves would keep an eye on it to ensure that the same is not misused,” Zakeria said. While there is a shed that currently separates the garden from the promenade, he said that if it is removed, there could be continuity for the walkway. Zakeria said that they have also included the views of local citizens in development of the open space. Rinka D’Monte, a Bandra resident who is also an architect, said that while these were small plots, they could still be developed in a way that they could be added to the larger public open space (Bandstand promenade). “I have a 3-year-old kid, and I know well how parents enjoy taking their little ones to these open spaces. So, I was more than happy to volunteer and help in the development of the plot,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-develop-two-plots-for-bandra-bandstand-extension/articleshow/80773315.cms||Richa Pinto
February 10, 2021||Goa||Goa: Covid positivity rate stays at 4%, two deaths reported||PANAJI: Two Covid deaths were reported on Tuesday taking the state’s death toll to 775. Meanwhile, with recoveries being more than new cases detected, the number of active cases reduced to 691. The day saw 59 people testing positive and 98 recoveries. Two women – a 52-year-old from Raia, Salcete and a 71-year-old from Panaji - died at Goa Medical College. The woman from Raia, who was suffering from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) went into septic shock when brought to GMC and died within less than 12 hours of admission. The day saw 32 hospital admissions while 43 patients opted to isolate themselves at home. The state’s case positivity rate stayed constant at 4%. The caseloads at the urban health center, Panaji and the primary health centre at Ponda saw a further drop. The Margao urban health centre and Ponda primary health centre too reported a decline in new cases. In North Goa, the Mayem primary health centre has the least number of cases while in South Goa, caseloads at the primary health centres at Marcaim and Shiroda have dropped to four cases each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-positivity-rate-stays-at-4-two-deaths-reported/articleshow/80776911.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Migrant worker gets death for rape, murder of 5-year-old in 2017||HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old construction worker from Madhya Pradesh has been sentenced to death by a local court in a rape and murder case of a five-year-old girl at Narsingi in 2017. The victim was the daughter of migrant workers from Odisha. On Tuesday, the metropolitan sessions judge (MSJ) court, LB Nagar, convicted the accused, Dinesh Kumar Dharne, in the rape and murder case of a five-year-old girl and sentenced him to capital punishment and 1000 fine, Cyberabad commissioner V C Sajjanar said. It is the first capital punishment case in the Cyberabad police commissionerate’s history In 2017, Dinesh a native of Kalimati village in Madhya Pradesh, was working at a construction project at Alkapuri Township in Narsingi and used to stay at the labour camp for the construction workers at the site. The girl was his neighbour and her parents were construction workers from Odisha. On December 12, 2017, afternoon, Dinesh, who was playing with the victim near her house, took her away on the pretext of buying her chocolates. When the victim did not return even after an hour, her family members started searching for her and even Dinesh joined the search. When confronted by the victim’s mother, Dinesh claimed he brought the girl back after buying her chocolate and offered to search for her in the locality, Sajjanar said. As the girl was not spotted even by evening, family members lodged a police complaint. Cops examined Dinesh and he confessed to have raped and bludgeoned the victim to death in the bushes near a hospital in Narsingi. Police recovered the body in the early hours of December 13 and arrested the accused. During the trial, 16 witnesses were examined, 12 material objects and 13 relevant documents were furnished before the court. “The DNA of the accused matched with the DNA extracted from the vaginal swabs of the victim. A owner of a tea stall from whom the accused purchased chocolate for the victim was a key witness,” additional public prosecutor K Raji Reddy said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrant-worker-gets-death-for-rape-murder-of-5-yr-old-in-2017/articleshow/80777436.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||Resorts near Pushkar part of new Ajmer master plan||Ajmer: The Ajmer Development Authority (ADA) on Tuesday passed the new master plan of Ajmer with new bylaws and rules. Plans for developing farm houses and resorts in Hokra village near Pushkar as well as new commercial and residential plans in the city were passed. The meeting was presided by ADA chairman and district collector Prakash Rajpurohit. Twelve points were discussed and passed in the meeting held on Tuesday including acquiring land for alternative four lanes from Topdara to Shrinagar road. This plan was passed previously but now ADA has decided to acquire land and identified the region. Looking to the traffic on main Kachari and station road, ADA brought the alternative four lanes project three years ago to ease traffic. Now, it will implement the project. Similarly, on Jaipur road and in front of RPSC building, ADA removed encroachment in Bunabai and Kakarnda villages and has decided to bring commercial and residential plans here. ADA will auction land on reserve rates to develop the place. The new master plan will allow development according to commercial, residential or public utility purpose. ADA has also decided to develop lakefront around Foy Sagar Lake. Around 812.44 hectares land will be developed and Rs 20 crore will be spent in the first phase.  Proposals like developing parks and providing land to PHED for drinking water supply were also passed. Recently, ADA commissioner Renu Jaipal took initiative to remove encroachment from costly land of the authority in which Phoos ki Koti behind central bus stand, is the most important. The authority is preparing to auction the land which will bring revenue of Rs 40 crores. Similarly, land at private bus stand was also freed from encroachment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/resorts-near-pushkar-part-of-new-ajmer-master-plan/articleshow/80776901.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||Five of a gang held by Jaipur police||Jaipur: Crime branch on Tuesday arrested five members of Manish Saini gang wanted in several cases. Police said Saini was wanted in an attempt to murder case under Amber Police station area. “He was involved in running an extortion racket and has been harassing several persons for money,” said police commissioner Anand Srivastava. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/five-of-a-gang-held-by-jaipur-police/articleshow/80776884.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Fee dues: College chucks out kids, govt to probe||HYDERABAD: A government probe was ordered on Tuesday after dozens of students were thrown out of classes at Sri Chaitanya Junior College in Chaitanyapuri for failing to pay fee dues. After an 11-month hiatus, the college had reopened a week ago, but with many students failing to pay fees, college authorities asked them to leave the premises, triggering protests by students. While students claimed that 100 students were told to clear at least 50% of fee to allow them into physical classrooms, the Chaitanya management put the number at 50 and said that they were forced to ask students to leave as they did not pay a single rupee towards fee for the academic year. Syed Omer Jaleel, commissioner, Telangana State Board of Intermediate, said he had received a complaint on the issue. “I have directed the district Intermediate education officer, Hyderabad, to visit the college and submit a report to me by Wednesday,” he added. Many protesting students narrated how they had come to the college multiple times, but were thrown out. “I have already paid Rs 10, 000 out of total Rs 25,000. Still I was asked to leave the classroom today,” said a teary-eyed Intermediate second-year student. “I came several times for attending class, but was sent back every time,” the student added. College authorities however said that the institute has always supported students who come from genuinely poor economic backgrounds. “Students are welcome to continue attending online classes if the parents can’t afford the small fee we charge. But we can’t encourage the practice of not paying the fee that’s due if they can afford but are avoiding it. This will impact other students, teachers and administrators as well,” said a senior member of the management, adding that they had stopped about 50 students from attending classes on Tuesday. “We have been offering online classes and assessments all year even when the fee is not paid. How do we sustain without fees? Several educational institutions are going under due to lack of fee while the expenses keep building. It’s time for all of us to focus on the quality of education and bring our kids back to the classroom for effective academic performance. And we can’t do that without being able to meet the expenses,” the member, who is not authorised to speak to the media, said. Students and lecturers protested in front of the Chaitanyapuri campus, saying students were being forced either to clear the fee or not enter physical classrooms. “Already 70% of students are attending classes, but management is not asking us to rejoin,” said K Bhagavantha Reddy, who has over 20 years’ experience as a physics lecturer and is on no work, no pay mode for the past 10 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fee-dues-college-chucks-out-kids-govt-to-probe/articleshow/80777451.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||More elderly people dying of Covid-19 in Vidarbha||Nagpur: The central committee that reviewed deaths in Vidarbha due to Covid-19 has observed that the number of elderly people is higher in the Covid-19 victims’ list, especially in the last five weeks (January 1 to February 6). As the principal reason of this could be the late presentation of the elderly people to the hospitals, the experts have advised local health authorities to focus on early detection, tracing, testing and treatment of elderly adults. A rise in Covid-19 case fatality rate is evident in Bhandara, Wardha, Yavatmal, Amravati, and Chandrapur districts in Vidarbha region. In the last five weeks, Wardha reported 40 deaths, followed by Bhandara (33), Yavatmal (32), Amravati (28) and Chandrapur (26). In its first phase and during the peak of Covid-19 in Vidarbha, the deceased were from different age groups. Many patients died in their thirties and forties too. But in the last 5-6 weeks, average age of the deceased has increased significantly. As per the observations of central panel, 8 out of 10 Covid-19 deaths in the last five weeks are of people aged above 65. In rural areas, delay in hospitalization and testing could be the reasons while in urban areas, pre-existing comorbidities of the elderly may be the critical factor at play. “It’s a proven fact that older adults are at greater risk of requiring hospitalization or dying if they are diagnosed with Covid-19,” said infectious diseases specialist Dr Ashwini Tayade. But as far as Nagpur city is concerned, she added, “We have saved many elderly people with existing comorbidities. Timely hospitalization played an important role in their cases. It’s not always possible in the peripheries.”Doctors working at Covid-19 hospitals in rural areas said many senior citizens were reluctant to get hospitalized. “For the first 5-6 days, elderly people don’t take medicines thinking it could be a common cold or fever. In later stages too, they are least interested in getting hospitalized,” said Dr Amol Pinge, who works in the Waghapur primary health centre of Yavatmal.Doctors have advised senior citizens not to ignore any symptom and get tested without wasting any time. “As lockdown is over now, senior citizens have resumed their usual routines. Being with grandchildren and attending social functions can be risky for these people,” said Dr Anand Thatte, epidemiologist. “In particular, those having diabetes and blood pressure must not ignore any small symptom and get medical help without delay,” he added.Death audit: Jan 1 to Feb 6- Vidarbha region reported 479 Covid deaths - 8 out of 10 deaths of people aged above 65 - Nearly 50% of elderly who died were above 75 years of age - More than 20% deceased were aged over 80 - Elderly people having comorbidities were at greater risk||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-elderly-people-dying-of-covid-19-in-vidarbha/articleshow/80775677.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||US soldier in war exercise tests positive for Covid-19||JAISALMER: A US soldier who has come to take part in the Indo-US war exercise at Mahajan field firing range in Bikaner has tested Covid positive. At present, he under isolation. He was confirmed positive in the test done at the Sardar Patel Medical College. Army spokesperson Lt Col Amitabh Sharma said the soldier while coming from America was a Covid suspect. On reaching India, he tested and reported positive on Tuesday. Sharma said wing in-charges concerned are alert. All protocols were completed regarding health of soldiers prior to starting of the exercise. In all, 240 US soldiers are taking part in the joint exercise. Male and female soldiers are in three wings of the US army. All were tested after which they were permitted to come to India. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/us-soldier-in-war-exercise-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/80776928.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||Open theatre ready in Ajmer under smart city||Ajmer: An open theatre with a capacity of 450 people has been completed under the Ajmer smart city project. It will provide artists a platform to display their art. The open theatre is situated in Suchna Kendra premises on 1,073sq metre area. It has been constructed at a cost of Rs 1.03 crore. "The paint work is done and patchwork of outer area is underway," said an official. Two green rooms have been made for performers. There is parking space for people coming to watch the performances. At the open theatre, there is also underground parking space to ease traffic. It can park 60 four-wheelers and 80 two-wheelers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/open-theatre-ready-in-ajmer-under-smart-city/articleshow/80776914.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||500 students of IIM-Kashipur isolated after 5 students test positive for Covid-19||RUDRAPUR: On Tuesday, 500 students of IIM Kashipur were quarantined after five students of the institute tested positive for Covid-19. Swinging into action, the Uttarakhand health department sent nasal swab samples of 250 students for Covid-19 test. “Soon after the IIM officials informed us of the contraction, we decided to isolate students as a precautionary measure. The samples of the remaining 250 students will be taken for Covid-19 test on Wednesday,” Dr Amarjeet Singh, nodal officer for Covid-19 monitoring, Kashipur. Meanwhile, the media and public relation committee of IIMK issued an statement which said that the institute has implemented strict measures to contain the spread of the virus. The release said that the students found positive are under quarantine. As a precautionary measure, the institute has also put other students under quarantine. However, the committee told that there were 320 students present on the campus and 300 students were tested on Tuesday. Rest of the students, staff, and faculty members will be tested on Wednesday. It further stated that the institute is not conducting any physical classes and only online classes are running now. The institute will take further action deepending on the situation, the statement finally read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/500-students-of-iim-k-isolated-after-5-students-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/80774436.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||Man dies due to stray cattle, wife seeks Rs10L from NMC||Nagpur: Despite several accidents on roads due to stray cattle since last many years, nothing has been done to stop the menace.Now, a homemaker has knocked the judiciary’s doors demanding Rs10 lakh compensation from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for her husband’s death due to collision of his motorcycle with the stray cow on July 24, 2018. The mother of two, through her counsel Shilpa Giratkar (Giripunje), contended her husband was sole breadwinner of family and after his death, they are in dire straits.A division bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Anil Kilor directed her case be placed before collector Ravindra Thakare and NMC commissioner Radhakrishnan B. Both top officials were told to consider her petition as a representation within the ambit of a policy or any government scheme for granting compensation. Additional government pleader Deepak Thakare then assured the bench that petition copy would be forwarded to both officials.“Considering the facts that the accident took place in 2018, the collector and civic chief are requested to consider petitioner’s representation at the earliest as per law and communicate the outcome to her within eight weeks,” the judges said before disposing of the plea.According to petitioner Simran Ram Khilani, her husband collided with the stray cow and sustained grievous injuries after he fell on the road. He was rushed to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) where he succumbed to his injuries. He used to run a grocery shop and was earning member in the family. The couple had minor son and daughter. The petitioner wife earlier made same representation to NMC and traffic department for compensation stating she had no other means to survive after her husband’s death. When they did not respond, she moved the HC.The petition came up for hearing last week after a gap of over ten months. It was first heard on April 17, 2020, by then division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar, which issued notices to State Home Department’s additional secretary, NMC and city’s traffic department.Petitioner’s counsel cited decisions of Punjab and Haryana and Delhi HCs that held that compensation can be granted for death that took place because of the accident caused due to the stray animals under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The first case was filed by Shakuntala versus Delhi government in 2006 whose verdict came out in 2009, while second one of Savitri Yadav versus State of Haryana was filed in 2016 and its judgment was declared in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-dies-due-to-stray-cattle-wife-seeks-rs10l-from-nmc/articleshow/80775698.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||‘Aadhaar link will ease RTO rush’||MUMBAI: The decision by the Union government to link Aadhaar cards with driving licence and registration certificates (RC) of vehicles will bring down the number of visitors to various RTOs and also free them of agents/touts. A senior transport official said that there was a draft notification from Centre on linking the driving licence and RC with Aadhar card. “If the Aadhaar number of an applicant is linked with the licence, the details will be uploaded on our Sarathi portal. Similarly, for a new vehicle registration, the Aadhaar details will be saved on the Vahan portal. If the Aadhaar linkage is done, it will eliminate the need for visiting RTOs and for submitting documents. You can renew your licence or make any other application from home,” the officer said. Currently, people have to come to RTO offices and many end up paying a lot of money to agents/touts to get the work done. “The new system will not only keep touts at bay, but will eliminate cases of forgery/making duplicate driving licences ,” the officer said. Sources said that the RTOs expect a drop in visitors by 75% once the Aadhaar is linked to driving licences and RC of vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/aadhar-linkage-can-bring-down-visitors-to-rtos-by-75-say-officials/articleshow/80777726.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||Wardha school shut all physical classes after parents protested over fees||NAGPUR: A CBSE school in Wardha district shut down physical classes completely after protesting parents entered the campus last week, leading to an ugly verbal altercation. Parents of Std V-VIII were irked by the management’s decision to allow physical classes only for those who had paid fees, while others were asked to continue join online. Some parents came to school with their kids and soon a ‘shouting match’ between parents and teachers started. Education officials too landed up at the school and asked the management to reverse their decision and start physical classes for all. This step by the education department did not go down well with the staff, who submitted token mass resignation to the officials. Ashish Sarkar, principal of the school, said there was no question of starting physical classes till safety of his staff is guaranteed. “When parents barged into our campus it was a mob like situation. Our teachers were scared and the ongoing classes too were disturbed. As per rules, due to Covid-19 situation, we cannot allow anyone inside campus but there was a huge crowd here. Also the language being used by the crowd was downright abusive,” said Sarkar. He added that without fees, the financial burden on school has increased. “There are fixed expenses which need to be taken care of, and unless parents pay fees, how will that be done,” said Sarkar. He reiterated that online classes are continuing. Education officials then met the school’s trustee, following which reports of permanent school closure started doing the rounds. Sarkar denied the permanent closure charges. “In the meeting with education department, our management never said they want to close the school. It could have been construed from a statement where the secretary commented that it will become difficult to operate a school,” said Sarkar. This is not the first time that the education department has locked horns with the school over the fee issue. Bhavan’s Hinganghat was the first school in Vidarbha to receive a notice saying it must return Rs4 crore “excess fee” to parents. The school approached the high court saying the education department did not provide any details on how they reached this amount and neither were they responding. The matter is currently sub-judice but school got interim relief in which education department can’t take coercive action against them. After the fracas last week, physical classes have been closed even for high school students, whose parents had no connection to the ruckus. Sarkar said, “Unfortunately they are deprived of physical classes. But I need a guarantee on safety of both teachers and students, before physical classes resume.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-school-shut-all-physical-classes-after-parents-protested-over-fees/articleshow/80775711.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 10, 2021||Rajkot||Probe ordered into cop torture video||RAJKOT: The Mandvi police in Kutch district on Tuesday initiated probe into a viral video of a man alleging torture by police. “I have seen the video and ordered an inquiry. We will take action if we will find relevant evidence of allegation,” Kutch (west) superintendent of police Saurabh Singh told TOI. In the video that went viral on social media, a man is seen making allegation of torture by Mandvi police in Kutch. It appears that the man who identified himself as Himanshu Goaswami had made the video viral on social media. Goswami says that he is a resident of Mandvi town. He alleged that when he went to get his friend released on bail in Mandvi police station, a constable named Chaudhary demanded money from him. Chaudhary had demanded for Rs 25,000 from Goswami’s friend, who was in custody. The same constable on second day demanded Rs 15,000 more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/probe-ordered-into-cop-torture-video/articleshow/80773949.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Bengaluru||East Bengaluru violence was deliberate: NIA chargesheet||BENGALURU: The National Investigation Agency probing the August 11 east Bengaluru violence filed a chargesheet at the special NIA court last week. The 667-page chargesheet explains how the “deliberate and planned” violence began. Beginning with the controversial photo posted by Pulikeshinagar Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy’s nephew Naveen on Facebook, the chargesheet says how protesting mobs gathered near the MLA’s house and later attacked police stations of KG Halli and DJ Halli. “Miscreants took advantage of the situation that was already on the boil due to Naveen’s post. Seeking an explanation, some people had gathered outside Srinivasamurthy’s house and others went to KG Halli police station to lodge a complaint. However, miscreants instigated both the groups and provoked them to carry out arson on a large scale,” the chargesheet said. As many as 247 accused have been identified. Out of 667 pages, the first 257 are on DJ Halli violence and the remaining explain l how angry crowds turned rioters and miscreants were mobilised to attack the two police stations and set vehicles on fire. Four men were killed in police action. “We have provided strong digital evidence in the form of pictures, videos and some messages exchanged between the miscreants,” an investigating officer said. The CCB filed its chargesheet in October 2020 in the case of arson at the MLA’s house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/east-bluru-violence-was-deliberate-nia-chargesheet/articleshow/80774679.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Surat||Two more Cong candidates withdraw||Surat: In a big blow to the Congress’s poll prospects, two of its candidates in the Patidar-dominated municipal ward number 3 in Varachha withdrew their candidature on Tuesday. As many as 13 other candidates belonging to various small parties and independents also withdrew their candidatures on the last date of withdrawals on Tuesday. Sources in the Congress party said Kanji Algotar and Jyoti Sojitara, both Congress candidates from ward number 3 of Varachha-Sarthana, withdrew their candidatures. It must be noted that PAAS leader Alpesh Kathiriya had earlier stated that the Congress candidates will withdraw their candidatures in support of the Patidar samaj. Kathiriya had claimed two days ago that about 12 Congress candidates may withdraw nomination papers on the last day. Earlier, Dharmik Malaviya, who was given ticket by the Congress from ward number 3 was the first to withdraw his candidature, after the PAAS leaders were unhappy with the ticket distribution strategy of the party. Sources in the district collector’s office said that on the last day of the withdrawal of candidature, 484 candidates are left to contest the upcoming municipal elections. The nominations of all the 120 BJP candidates are valid, said officials. However, Congress is left with 117 candidates now, while Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will be contesting on the 114 seats in the 30 ward municipal election. Sources said that a total of 15 candidates withdrew their nominations, which included three candidates from Congress and the other 13 also include independents. A total of 55 independents and 78 candidates from other regional parties are in the fray from various municipal wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-more-cong-candidates-withdraw/articleshow/80773375.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Debt kills Vikarabad farmer, son kills himself waiting for govt compensation||VIKARABAD: Twenty-three-year-old Shabad Naresh from Pedda Madharam village in Vikarabad made multiple visits to the tahsildar’s office in Parigi pleading for release of compensation after his farmer father’s suicide, but in vain. Fed up, Naresh also took his own life about three months ago unable to bear pressure from moneylenders. The suicides of father and son tell the tale of distress in Telangana’s agricultural families, hit by suicides on one hand and waiting for compensation on the other. A visit by TOI to Parigi and Kodangal areas of Vikarabad revealed how families of suicide victims are often left without aid, while revenue officials express helplessness citing lack of funds to pay ex-gratia to the families of the deceased. According to Rythu Swarajya Vedika, an umbrella organisation for farmer unions, there are around 400 families in Telangana from before Rythu Bima – a farmer’s group life insurance scheme – was launched, who are waiting for compensation since 2018. In Vikarabad, there are 12 such families. The TRS government introduced the Rythu Bima group life insurance scheme for farmers in 2018-19. Under the scheme Rs 5 lakh is deposited in the nominee’s account within days of an enrolled farmer’s death. Naresh’s father Shabad Bandaiah, a cotton farmer, ended his life on August 6, 2018. He took loans of Rs 1 lakh from a nationalised bank and another Rs 3.5 lakh from private moneylenders. Bandaiah, belonging to the Scheduled Caste community, owned three acres. Padmamma, wife of Bandaiah, said apart from Rs 2 lakh debt due to their daughter’s marriage, they had another Rs 4 lakh debt owing to cultivation. “We purchased oxen for Rs 1.3 lakh and sold them for Rs 40,000 because of lack of fodder. We cultivated cotton but the yield fell drastically. My husband killed himself because of mounting financial problems,” she said. Since the death of Bandaiah, she and Naresh have been making rounds to the tahsildar’s office. “As the land was transferred in my name in 2019, I took Rs 1 lakh loan to cultivate the crop. My son called the helpline and the matter was escalated to district officials, but no compensation was released. Vexed with the situation, Naresh consumed pesticide on Diwali day in November 2020,” she rued. An FIR issued by Parigi police listed Bandaiah’s debts. “Due to rains, he suffered crop loss and unable to pay the debts, he hanged himself,” the FIR said. Making matters worse, the family had suffered successive crop losses on leased land as well as own land of three acres where they cultivated maize and cotton. “They also had a borewell which failed and cost them Rs 50,000. The family ran debts of Rs 4 lakh at 3% interest and a bank loan in SBI, Parigi, at Rs 95,000. With pressure mounting to clear the debts, Bandaiah took the extreme step,” Naveen Ramisetti of RSV said. After his father’s death, Naresh took the responsibility of the family and tried to get the compensation amount. Eventually, the family was sanctioned compensation under GO No. 194, but due to the state government’s lack of funds, the file was kept pending. “They continued to cultivate in their three acres. With moneylenders insisting on repayment of loans and with no help coming from anywhere, Naresh consumed poison,” Naveen said. The family is distraught as both earning members took their own lives. Krishna (19), younger brother of Naresh, is specially abled and is not in a position to shoulder any responsibility. “All the load of taking care of the family is now on Padmamma,” said Naveen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/debt-kills-vikarabad-farmer-son-kills-himself-waiting-for-govt-compensation/articleshow/80777453.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 10, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Covid treatment subsidy: Maharashtra tops in cases, but low on claims||MUMBAI: Although Maharashtra recorded the country's highest tally and toll of Covid-19 cases, it got merely Rs 108 crore from the Central government's health insurance scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY). Neighbouring Karnataka, which had less than half of Maharashtra's 20.48 lakh Covid-19 cases, got six times the assistance at Rs 620 crore, according to statistics gathered under the RTI Act. The figures indicate fewer claims being processed in the state under the subsidised scheme for Covid treatment. Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu got Rs 294 crore and Rs 141 crore respectively. Their Covid toll is less than a fifth of Maharashtra's 51,360 deaths so far. “These figure correlate to the worst phase of the Covid-19 pandemic, between March and December, in India,” said Jeetendra Ghadge of the NGO Young Whistleblowers who sought the information from the Central ministry of health. As per the RTI reply, 13.18 lakh Covid-19 testing and treatment cases were approved across the country at an expenditure of Rs 1,190 crore. “This is a fraction of the total positive cases of 10 million cases as on January 1, 2021,” added Ghadge. However, a senior government official said the Centre has made testing and treatment of Covid-19 cases free since April 2020 but updating of claims and payments would take time given the crisis at hand. “The point is the common man isn't spending on testing or treatment at public hospitals or empanelled hospitals,'' the official said. A state-level official who did not want to be named said Maharashtra has treated five lakh patients free under the state government's Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Arogya Yojana (MPJAY) since the pandemic started. “Another two lakh patients were treated with insurance in the private sector,'' he said. The MPJAY covers 2.5 crore people, while the PMJAY covers 82 lakh people. “It is a mathematical equation that is worked out on a pro rata basis. Once the state's allocation of Rs 1.5 lakh (for a patient) is over, the Central scheme's Rs 5 lakh cover kicks in. Care should also be taken to ensure that the state pays 60% of the patient's expenses while the central scheme covers the remaining 40%,'' said the official. However, social activist Abhijit More said government insurance schemes have not been able to effectively help people. “At a recent meeting of the Jan Swasthaya Abhiyan, we had representations from people stating that they had to spend sums between Rs 1.5 lakh and Rs 14 lakhs for treatment in private hospitals,'' he said. Some private hospitals did not allow people to avail of the state insurance scheme. “PMJAY's budgetary allocation last year, when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak, was revised and cut down to half to around Rs 3,000 crore,'' said More. A Maharashtra government official said Maharashtra didn’t need more central assistance as the MPJAY cover has been adequate. “Moreover, southern states have made claims based on `packages’ that includes both the tests and treatment. Maharashtra, on the other hand, created the country’s largest network of 150 RT-PCR labs in the public sector to offer tests for free. We used central tests kits and funds for this. Also, we capped treatment costs in the private sector, leading to lower expenditure,’’ said a senior state government official. However, RTI activist Ghadge said government schemes have a very limited reach mainly due to the limited number of empanelled hospitals and the reluctance of hospital administrations to enroll in the scheme. “Even empanelled hospitals avoid the scheme and do not assist people with the pre-authorisation processes,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-treatment-subsidy-maha-tops-in-cases-but-low-on-claims/articleshow/80778163.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Active Covid cases in Kolkata police drop to 1; no fresh infection in 6 days||KOLKATA: There is some more good news for the force within hours of the vaccination drive rolling out for Kolkata Police personnel on Monday. The total number of active Covid cases in Kolkata Police dropped to just one on Tuesday. An officer of the anti-bank fraud wing at Lalbazar is the only person who is yet to recover. More importantly, the force has not reported a fresh case in the past six days. “With the vaccination beginning on Monday, this might just be the correct time to drive away Covid from the force. So far, 4,147 cops of Kolkata Police have been affected by Covid. Twenty three of them have died. At a time when hundreds of fresh cases got reported in July-September, two decisions changed the outlook and functioning of the force. “We launched an app that helped us track individual cops and their families — several of whom too got affected. That move helped us stay as a close-knit unit. We also took the unusual decision to break up the barracks and we hired houses to shift the staff to maintain social distancing. We found those on Seresta duty (front office) getting affected. A number of measures there — including protective barriers — reversed the trend,” said an officer from the welfare cell. In between all this, in more than 110 instances, cops who recovered from Covid donated their plasma and several hundreds donated blood. “Between July and August, we had reported 30-50 fresh cases daily. It fell to 25 after Durga Puja. A comparative analysis shows that there were above 3,200 active cases even before the festival season could begin. Since then, in a span of four months — and amidst a series of festivities — we have pulled down the number of active cases on a weekly basis,” said an officer at Lalbazar. There were 56 active cases daily even till the end of December . This fell to 20 by mid-January first week. Divisional cops, who have been on duty non-stop since the outbreak of Covid, believe that various state measures, coupled with court rulings during the festive season to ensure physical distancing, have helped bring down the numbers. While the loss of colleagues has been painful, police said there has been several instances when cops have pulled through even after weeks of hospitalization. “From the beginning, we had believed in taking proper care of our personnel and each officer, whenever in proximity to a Covid infected colleague, had got himself or herself tested,” the officer said. The cops, however, iterated that the dangers were far from over. “Until the two rounds of vaccination is over and even beyond it, the SOP will remain in place. All must wear masks and face shields. If possible, they have to wear gloves too. Those on duty at the gates are advised to use sanitizers and surface disinfectants,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/active-cov-cases-in-kol-pol-drop-to-1-no-fresh-infection-in-6-days/articleshow/80774439.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 10, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit: Tutor arrested for molesting nine-year-old student||PILIBHIT: A 35-year-old tutor was arrested for allegedly molesting a nine-year-old class II student who attended his coaching class following a complaint lodged with police by the minor’s mother. In her complaint, the girl’s mother alleged that tutor Kapil Dewal, a resident of Khakra locality in Pilibhit city, repeatedly molested her daughter. He stripped her several times and victimized her, she claimed. She said she came to know about the molestation after her daughter broke down on Monday and told her about her ordeal. She said the tutor threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed anything to anyone. Atar Singh, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said that the accused was booked under IPC section 354 A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures), 354 B (assaults or use of force to any woman with the intention of disrobing or compelling her to be naked), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and provisions of the POCSO Act. He had been arrested, he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tutor-arrested-for-molesting-9-year-old-student/articleshow/80774437.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 10, 2021||Pune||Covid treatment subsidy: Maharashtra tops in cases, but low on claims||MUMBAI: Although Maharashtra recorded the country's highest tally and toll of Covid-19 cases, it got merely Rs 108 crore from the Central government's health insurance scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY). Neighbouring Karnataka, which had less than half of Maharashtra's 20.48 lakh Covid-19 cases, got six times the assistance at Rs 620 crore, according to statistics gathered under the RTI Act. The figures indicate fewer claims being processed in the state under the subsidised scheme for Covid treatment. Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu got Rs 294 crore and Rs 141 crore respectively. Their Covid toll is less than a fifth of Maharashtra's 51,360 deaths so far. “These figure correlate to the worst phase of the Covid-19 pandemic, between March and December, in India,” said Jeetendra Ghadge of the NGO Young Whistleblowers who sought the information from the Central ministry of health. As per the RTI reply, 13.18 lakh Covid-19 testing and treatment cases were approved across the country at an expenditure of Rs 1,190 crore. “This is a fraction of the total positive cases of 10 million cases as on January 1, 2021,” added Ghadge. However, a senior government official said the Centre has made testing and treatment of Covid-19 cases free since April 2020 but updating of claims and payments would take time given the crisis at hand. “The point is the common man isn't spending on testing or treatment at public hospitals or empanelled hospitals,'' the official said. A state-level official who did not want to be named said Maharashtra has treated five lakh patients free under the state government's Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Arogya Yojana (MPJAY) since the pandemic started. “Another two lakh patients were treated with insurance in the private sector,'' he said. The MPJAY covers 2.5 crore people, while the PMJAY covers 82 lakh people. “It is a mathematical equation that is worked out on a pro rata basis. Once the state's allocation of Rs 1.5 lakh (for a patient) is over, the Central scheme's Rs 5 lakh cover kicks in. Care should also be taken to ensure that the state pays 60% of the patient's expenses while the central scheme covers the remaining 40%,'' said the official. However, social activist Abhijit More said government insurance schemes have not been able to effectively help people. “At a recent meeting of the Jan Swasthaya Abhiyan, we had representations from people stating that they had to spend sums between Rs 1.5 lakh and Rs 14 lakhs for treatment in private hospitals,'' he said. Some private hospitals did not allow people to avail of the state insurance scheme. “PMJAY's budgetary allocation last year, when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak, was revised and cut down to half to around Rs 3,000 crore,'' said More. A Maharashtra government official said Maharashtra didn’t need more central assistance as the MPJAY cover has been adequate. “Moreover, southern states have made claims based on `packages’ that includes both the tests and treatment. Maharashtra, on the other hand, created the country’s largest network of 150 RT-PCR labs in the public sector to offer tests for free. We used central tests kits and funds for this. Also, we capped treatment costs in the private sector, leading to lower expenditure,’’ said a senior state government official. However, RTI activist Ghadge said government schemes have a very limited reach mainly due to the limited number of empanelled hospitals and the reluctance of hospital administrations to enroll in the scheme. “Even empanelled hospitals avoid the scheme and do not assist people with the pre-authorisation processes,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-treatment-subsidy-maha-tops-in-cases-but-low-on-claims/articleshow/80778394.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Covid treatment subsidy: Maharashtra tops in cases, but low on claims||MUMBAI: Although Maharashtra recorded the country's highest tally and toll of Covid-19 cases, it got merely Rs 108 crore from the Central government's health insurance scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY). Neighbouring Karnataka, which had less than half of Maharashtra's 20.48 lakh Covid-19 cases, got six times the assistance at Rs 620 crore, according to statistics gathered under the RTI Act. The figures indicate fewer claims being processed in the state under the subsidised scheme for Covid treatment. Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu got Rs 294 crore and Rs 141 crore respectively. Their Covid toll is less than a fifth of Maharashtra's 51,360 deaths so far. “These figure correlate to the worst phase of the Covid-19 pandemic, between March and December, in India,” said Jeetendra Ghadge of the NGO Young Whistleblowers who sought the information from the Central ministry of health. As per the RTI reply, 13.18 lakh Covid-19 testing and treatment cases were approved across the country at an expenditure of Rs 1,190 crore. “This is a fraction of the total positive cases of 10 million cases as on January 1, 2021,” added Ghadge. However, a senior government official said the Centre has made testing and treatment of Covid-19 cases free since April 2020 but updating of claims and payments would take time given the crisis at hand. “The point is the common man isn't spending on testing or treatment at public hospitals or empanelled hospitals,'' the official said. A state-level official who did not want to be named said Maharashtra has treated five lakh patients free under the state government's Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Arogya Yojana (MPJAY) since the pandemic started. “Another two lakh patients were treated with insurance in the private sector,'' he said. The MPJAY covers 2.5 crore people, while the PMJAY covers 82 lakh people. “It is a mathematical equation that is worked out on a pro rata basis. Once the state's allocation of Rs 1.5 lakh (for a patient) is over, the Central scheme's Rs 5 lakh cover kicks in. Care should also be taken to ensure that the state pays 60% of the patient's expenses while the central scheme covers the remaining 40%,'' said the official. However, social activist Abhijit More said government insurance schemes have not been able to effectively help people. “At a recent meeting of the Jan Swasthaya Abhiyan, we had representations from people stating that they had to spend sums between Rs 1.5 lakh and Rs 14 lakhs for treatment in private hospitals,'' he said. Some private hospitals did not allow people to avail of the state insurance scheme. “PMJAY's budgetary allocation last year, when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak, was revised and cut down to half to around Rs 3,000 crore,'' said More. A Maharashtra government official said Maharashtra didn’t need more central assistance as the MPJAY cover has been adequate. “Moreover, southern states have made claims based on `packages’ that includes both the tests and treatment. Maharashtra, on the other hand, created the country’s largest network of 150 RT-PCR labs in the public sector to offer tests for free. We used central tests kits and funds for this. Also, we capped treatment costs in the private sector, leading to lower expenditure,’’ said a senior state government official. However, RTI activist Ghadge said government schemes have a very limited reach mainly due to the limited number of empanelled hospitals and the reluctance of hospital administrations to enroll in the scheme. “Even empanelled hospitals avoid the scheme and do not assist people with the pre-authorisation processes,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-treatment-subsidy-maha-tops-in-cases-but-low-on-claims/articleshow/80775785.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: No breakthrough in IITian’s murder||JAIPUR: Police haven’t been able to get any vital clue in the murder of a 32-year-old IIT-Kanpur graduate. They have grabbed some CCTV camera footage on his arrival at Narayan Singh Circle and have questioned a few people so far. Manu Rastogi, had landed in Jaipur from Chennai on February 5. He did not reach at his friend’s house following which his friend Dr Sankalp lodged a missing complaint. Manu's body was found by Bassi police during early hours on February 6. His family members alleged murder and police started investigation into the case. "We have got some CCTV footages which show that he took a cab from the airport and came upto Narayan Singh Circle. From Narayan Singh Circle, the CCTV footages are not very clear due to darkness. We are working on the case," said Sohan Lal, SHO, Bassi police station. Officers at the Bassi police station have been questioning various people and have detained a few people. "We have not got any concrete clues yet. Our team is working on various clues and we are hopeful of solving the murder mystery," said Abhijeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (East). Senior police officers stated that many people including taxi drivers at the airport, at Narayan Singh Circle and shop owners at both these places have been questioned so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-breakthrough-in-iitians-murder/articleshow/80776933.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||Social media pages of gangsters lure youths to become criminals||Jaipur: Social media pages of gangsters including Lawrence Bishnoi, Papla Gujjar and previously of Anand Pal Singh have oftenly lured youth to enter into the world of crime especially in the districts bordering Haryana. Be it the daylight shooting case of Hameerwas in Churu last week or other cases of loot, attempt to murder, robbery and murder in districts such as Churu, Bikaner, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh, investigation brought to the fore the role of teenagers and youth. Senior police officers of Bikaner range in their recent meetings have also discussed taking action against social media pages of notorious gangsters. “In recent cases of loot, we have even found the role of minors aged 14 to 16 years for whom criminals like Lawrence Bishnoi and Papla Gujjar are role models. It is certainly worrying for society as many of those arrested in recent cases of loot, attempt to murder, murder and carrying weapon illegally have admitted that they want to become a gangster,” said Bikaner SP Preeti Chandra. Bikaner Range IG Prafful Kumar said, “Even in the case of firing, we have arrested two persons who have had very minimal criminal record of assault. But this time, they tried their hands in firing. They too have admitted that they want to earn their name. This is a very bad trend. Likewise, in past cases of liquor peddling, attempt to murder and others, involvement of first timers can’t be denied.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/social-media-pages-of-gangsters-lure-youths-to-become-criminals/articleshow/80776932.cms||Ashish Mehta
February 10, 2021||Pune||Co-op dept gets 200 deemed conveyance pleas in drive||PUNE: Nearly 200 applications for deemed conveyance have been submitted by registered cooperative housing societies in Pune city in January when the month-long awareness drive was on, commissioner of cooperation and registrar of cooperative societies Anil Kawade said. The commissioner reiterated that more societies should continue reaching out to the department with their applications. Last year, in the entire 12 months, only 187 applications were received. “The one-month drive has elicited a positive response and we would encourage housing societies to approach and carry out the process for seeking deemed conveyance,” Kawade said. There are 18,000 registered cooperative housing societies in the city and 1.10 lakh in the state. There are a total of 574 applications that came about in the last month in the state. While only 14,376 cooperative housing societies had deemed conveyance over 70,000 societies were yet to get the deemed conveyance. Housing society members from various societies in Pune told TOI that it is mandatory for the builder to transfer the land and the building to the society within four months on the completion of the project. “Ideally, the builder should be taken to task for failure to do so, but here, we have the flat owners who are put in the dock. There are provisions in MOFA (Maharashtra Ownership Flats Act) to imprison the builder and that should ideally be applied,” activist Vijay Sagar said, adding that there should be a hearing. Meanwhile, members from housing societies said the process should be further simplified to ensure more societies get conveyance or deemed conveyance. President of Pune district cooperative federation Suhas Patwardhan said with such a large number of societies not coming forwrad to get the deemed conveyance, the cooperation department should continue calling for applications and ensure that maximum societies get their deemed conveyance. “They have just started the process and they should encourage it by keeping the drive on for the entire year till all societies get their conveyance deeds. They should simplify the process,” he added. Patwardhan said they are planning to hold a webinar to educate members about housing society elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/co-op-dept-gets-200-deemed-conveyance-pleas-in-drive/articleshow/80775749.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: E-bikes for New Town frontline Covid workers||KOLKATA: Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), the British deputy high commission and British performance electric bicycle maker GoZero Mobility felicitated Covid warriors with e-bikes at a ceremony organized at Eco Park on Tuesday. Hidco is slated to introduce 400 battery-run e-bikes in New Town by the end of this month. Three frontline Covid workers — a NKDA blood collection assistant, a senior official of a private hospital and a Hidco official involved with the welfare and sanitation in Eco Park — were felicitated with e-bikes. The e-bikes will help the Covid warriors to commute faster with zero emission. Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen, British deputy high commissioner in Kolkata Nick Low and GoZero Mobility founder and CEO Ankit Kumar were present on the occasion. Hidco has already set up 17km of cycle tracks in New Town and 400 e-bikes are to be introduced in the township by the end of February, said Sen. At present, 100 app-based public bicycles have already been introduced in New Town and the authorities are supporting cycles as a mode of transportation in the township. Mobile help desks for repairing cycles have also been set up. “E-cycles are the greener solution for New Town residents for last-mile connectivity,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of New Town Forum and News (NTFN), an NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-bikes-for-new-town-frontline-covid-workers/articleshow/80774449.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 10, 2021||Vadodara||‘Nritya Parva’ held virtually first time in four decades||Vadodara: ‘Nritya Parva2021’, an annual three-day international dance festival, kicked off virtually from Monday. It is organised every year in memory of Anjali Merch, the former head of Department of Dance at M S University’s Faculty of Performing Arts, for the last 40 years.‘Nritya Parva’ is being organised by the Anjali Memorial Committee (AMC) with the support of MSU’s Office of Alumni Affairs and Donor’s Relations and the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), Gujarat. “This year, we will also share, discuss, watch and pay our humble tribute to four brilliant, internationally acclaimed artists, critic and aesthete, who passed away during the pandemic,” professor Parul Shah, former dean of MSU’s Faculty of Performing Arts. These include Padma Vibhushan awardee Dr Kapila Vatsyayan and Padma Shri recipients prof Phillip Zarilli, Astad Deboo and Dr Sunil Kothari. “We will personally share experiences with talks, performances and video clips from more than 35 luminaries from the field of dance and art including the likes of Dr Sachchidanand Joshi, Leela Venkataraman, Manjari Sinha, Dr Anita Ratnam, Dr Ananda Shankar Jayant, Geeta Chandran and Hema Rajagopalan to name a few,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nritya-parva-held-virtually-first-time-in-four-decades/articleshow/80773694.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Thane||Covid treatment subsidy: Maharashtra tops in cases, but low on claims||MUMBAI: Although Maharashtra recorded the country's highest tally and toll of Covid-19 cases, it got merely Rs 108 crore from the Central government's health insurance scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY). Neighbouring Karnataka, which had less than half of Maharashtra's 20.48 lakh Covid-19 cases, got six times the assistance at Rs 620 crore, according to statistics gathered under the RTI Act. The figures indicate fewer claims being processed in the state under the subsidised scheme for Covid treatment. Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu got Rs 294 crore and Rs 141 crore respectively. Their Covid toll is less than a fifth of Maharashtra's 51,360 deaths so far. “These figure correlate to the worst phase of the Covid-19 pandemic, between March and December, in India,” said Jeetendra Ghadge of the NGO Young Whistleblowers who sought the information from the Central ministry of health. As per the RTI reply, 13.18 lakh Covid-19 testing and treatment cases were approved across the country at an expenditure of Rs 1,190 crore. “This is a fraction of the total positive cases of 10 million cases as on January 1, 2021,” added Ghadge. However, a senior government official said the Centre has made testing and treatment of Covid-19 cases free since April 2020 but updating of claims and payments would take time given the crisis at hand. “The point is the common man isn't spending on testing or treatment at public hospitals or empanelled hospitals,'' the official said. A state-level official who did not want to be named said Maharashtra has treated five lakh patients free under the state government's Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Arogya Yojana (MPJAY) since the pandemic started. “Another two lakh patients were treated with insurance in the private sector,'' he said. The MPJAY covers 2.5 crore people, while the PMJAY covers 82 lakh people. “It is a mathematical equation that is worked out on a pro rata basis. Once the state's allocation of Rs 1.5 lakh (for a patient) is over, the Central scheme's Rs 5 lakh cover kicks in. Care should also be taken to ensure that the state pays 60% of the patient's expenses while the central scheme covers the remaining 40%,'' said the official. However, social activist Abhijit More said government insurance schemes have not been able to effectively help people. “At a recent meeting of the Jan Swasthaya Abhiyan, we had representations from people stating that they had to spend sums between Rs 1.5 lakh and Rs 14 lakhs for treatment in private hospitals,'' he said. Some private hospitals did not allow people to avail of the state insurance scheme. “PMJAY's budgetary allocation last year, when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak, was revised and cut down to half to around Rs 3,000 crore,'' said More. A Maharashtra government official said Maharashtra didn’t need more central assistance as the MPJAY cover has been adequate. “Moreover, southern states have made claims based on `packages’ that includes both the tests and treatment. Maharashtra, on the other hand, created the country’s largest network of 150 RT-PCR labs in the public sector to offer tests for free. We used central tests kits and funds for this. Also, we capped treatment costs in the private sector, leading to lower expenditure,’’ said a senior state government official. However, RTI activist Ghadge said government schemes have a very limited reach mainly due to the limited number of empanelled hospitals and the reluctance of hospital administrations to enroll in the scheme. “Even empanelled hospitals avoid the scheme and do not assist people with the pre-authorisation processes,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-treatment-subsidy-maha-tops-in-cases-but-low-on-claims/articleshow/80778162.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||Birthmark is no ground to reject candidate: HC to BSF||JODHPUR: Terming the rejection of a candidate for the post of head constable (radio mechanic) by the BSF on the ground of birthmark as illegal and arbitrary, the high court on Tuesday ruled that existence of congenital melanocytic nevus (birthmark) cannot be ground for rejection until it impedes in the performance of duty. While allowing the petition by the candidate Ashok Daukia, Justice Dinesh Mehta stated that the BSF failed to furnish any evidence or reasoning as to how a mere birthmark can be a hurdle in efficient performance of duties by the said candidate. Petitioner’s counsel Ramit Mehta said that a writ petition was filed before the high court, Jodhpur challenging the rejection of a candidate by the BSF from the recruitment for the post of head constable. “He had cleared all the written and physical tests but was pronounced medically unfit for having birthmark on his right arm,” Mehta said. He argued that the birthmark of the petitioner could never be any impediment in performing duty with BSF and the petitioner was absolutely fit. He also argued that the guidelines of the BSF clearly required that there has to be an explanation by the medical board as well as the review medical board of BSF as to how the existence of birth mark should be an impediment in the performance of the duties by the candidate. “But no such reasoning was provided by the BSF wherein the medical examination declared the candidate unfit on account of the birth mark,” he argued. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/birthmark-is-no-ground-to-reject-candidate-hc-to-bsf/articleshow/80775734.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Don’t impose terms on fin panel spending: Cong||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Tuesday said the state government should not impose its own conditions on spending of the 15th Finance Commission funds by sarpanches. “The Finance Commission should ensure adequate funds are allocated to mandals and zilla parishads. The indiscriminate borrowing by the state has pushed it into a debt trap,” Uttam said after attending an interactive session with the chairman and members of the 15th Finance Commission in Delhi on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-impose-terms-on-fin-panel-spending-cong/articleshow/80775767.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Jaipur||24-yr-old man found hanging from a tree||Jaipur: A 24-year-old man was found hanging from a tree at an isolated place under Manhourpur police station area near Shahpura on Jaipur-Delhi highway on Tuesday morning. Though police have termed it to be a case of suicide, his relatives suspecting it to be a murder case have lodged an FIR. According to police, some passersby who were walking towards their hamlet near Manhourpura intimated the police on spotting of a body hanging from the tree. A team of senior police officers including Ramkumar Kaswan, Kothputli ASP, and Manoharpur SHO Ashok Kumar rushed to the spot along with the FSL team. “There are no injury marks except the broken neck which we see in such suicides. However, the family has alleged that it was murder thus we are also investigating the murder angle,” said a senior officer of Manoharpur police station area. The deceased was identified as Vikram Yogi who worked at RTO office in Jaipur as an agent facilitating public in getting driving licenses and registration of vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/24-yr-old-man-found-hanging-from-a-tree/articleshow/80776946.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Youngest of Kapoor brothers, Rajiv, 58, dies of heart attack||Actor Rajiv Kapoor, best remembered as the hero of the blockbuster Ram Teri Ganga Maili (1985), directed by his father, the great Raj Kapoor, passed away following a heart attack in Mumbai on Tuesday. He was 58. The 1980s saw a profusion of star sons launched into filmdom: Kumar Gaurav, Sanjay Dutt, Sunny Deol, Suneil Anand, to name a few. Rajiv belonged to the same bunch. Unlike his older brothers, Randhir and Rishi, he wasn’t introduced in a home production. Randhir Kapoor had started out with Kal Aaj Aur Kal (1971) and Rishi Kapoor, who passed away last year, with Bobby (1973). Rajiv made his debut with Ek Jaan Hain Hum (1983) under FC Mehra’s reputed banner, Eagle Films. He oozed a natural flamboyance. Old-timers also spotted shades of uncle Shammi Kapoor’s brio in the exultant dance track, ‘Dil chahe aasman pe,’ and an amiable effervescence in ‘Bolo kuchh to bolo’, which Rajiv lip-synced with gusto on a bicycle. Journalist Madhu Jain wrote in a biography of Hindi cinema’s first family, The Kapoors, that director Lekh Tandon once said that Raj Kapoor had told him: “This boy will make it big. From Prithviraj on he will be the best Kapoor.” But Rajiv’s career floundered. Post Ek Jaan Hain Hum, he acted in a clutch of duds: Ravindra Peepat’s Lava, Nasir Hussain’s Zabardast and Shomu Mukherjee’s Lover Boy. Even a double role in director Toni’s Aasman (1984), where he played the bad guy with relish, tanked at the box-office. He seemed unable to carve out a distinct personality that creates a steady fan base. It was left to Papa Kapoor to provide his youngest son’s most memorable moment on celluloid. After the success of Ram Teri Ganga Maili, Rajiv said in an interview, “Ram Teri Ganga Maili (RTGM) has removed a big blot from my name. It has shown that given a good director and the right kind of note, I too, can deliver the goods and be accepted by the public in a very big way.” Critics too found his performance “poised and consistently credible.” But Rajiv didn’t benefit much from RTGM’s triumph as the credit was given to Raj Kapoor. Even Mandakini, who played the title role, gained more. The film, however, kept Rajiv in circulation. He worked in a few more films—Shukriya, Zalzala, to name two. Both flopped. The actor took to direction with the ambitious Prem Granth (1996), a desi adaptation of Thomas Hardy’s Tess of the D’Ubervilles, hoping for a change in fortune. Following his death, Madhuri Dixit, who played the lead in Prem Granth tweeted, “…It was a difficult subject which he handled with great maturity though it was his first film. Remembering the wonderful moments we shared.” But again, the film was a commercial failure. Rajiv Kapoor remained a promise unfulfilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/youngest-of-kapoor-brothers-rajiv-58-dies-of-heart-attack/articleshow/80777473.cms||Avijit Ghosh
February 10, 2021||Pune||Dehu Road Cantonment Board unable to clear private contractors’ bills||PUNE: The Dehu Road cantonment board has not been able to clear bills of private contractors for the last three months owing to funds crunch. R Harital, chief executive officer of the cantonment, claimed that the revenue generation from the vehicle entry tax (VET) has been affected due to the Covid situation. “The cantonment has not generated adequate revenue from property tax and advertisement hoardings in the last few months. As a result, our financial condition is precarious now,” he said. The cantonment board requires at least Rs3.5crore every month for paying salaries and pension to the employees. “We have somehow managed to pay the staff salaries till date. But we are not sure about the next month’s salary,” he added. The board has sought financial assistance worth Rs10crore from the Ministry of Defence (MoD) a few months ago. “However, we have not got any response so far on the demand from the ministry till date,” said Harital. The CEO claimed that the contractors were still providing services in all wards. “As per the conditions of the contract, the agencies are not supposed to stop providing services in case their bills are not paid on time. We are in touch with them and they have agreed to continue their service. So, residents will not have to worry about the issue,” said Harital. Meanwhile, Raghuvir Shelar, vice-president, Dehu road cantonment board, said that they failed to bring any major development project in the cantonment limits due to poor financial condition and lack of support from the Ministry of Defence. “We had pursued the matter of GST with the state and central governments, but in vain,” he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dehu-road-cantonment-board-unable-to-clear-private-contractors-bills/articleshow/80775761.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Evicted once, plastic mafia takes over wetland plots||KOLKATA: The East Kolkata Wetland Management Authority (EKWMA) has asked police to look into attempts by the used plastic mafia to grab farmland in the Ramsar site. According to the complaint forwarded to Anandapur police, the land behind Dakshin Gorumara bheri has been occupied by men who illegally trade in used plastic and polybags. They have set up sheds behind the water body. A drive was undertaken a few months ago to remove encroachment by used plastic traders from the southern flank of Basanti Highway. Scores of sheds had cropped up along the highway over the past several years with the authorities turning a blind eye till a National Green Tribunal order finally forced the issue. Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police launched the drive in August-end, evicting the squatters. Following this, the plastic mafia had made a brazen attempt to take over Kari Ghosh bheri in Dakshin Dhapa Manpur mouza in the heart of EKW, far from the public eye, and attempted to convert it into a waste collection centre. But complaint from EKWMA to police forced the mafia to abandon the encroachment bid. Now, a fresh attempt is under way to take over a farmland behind a bheri. Officials of the Society for Creative Opportunities and Participatory Ecosystems (SCOPE), an NGO that works in the wetlands, have provided photographic evidence of the encroachment attempt to EKWMA, following which the latter has filed a complaint with police. "Since January 13, 2021, some outsiders have been erecting ramshackle tents to do what appears to be plastic sorting work close to Dakshin Gorumara bheri. Last October, just before Durga Puja, land use change was attempted close to Dakshin Gorumara bheri," SCOPE president Sandeepan Biswas said. “We had sent a complaint earlier in January and have followed it up with another complaint this month to stop the encroachment,” EKWMA chief technical officer Neeraj Singhal told TOI. Locals said the police had not acted on the complaints yet and the sheds continued to operate brazenly. “The henchmen of the traders have also issued threats if someone dares to complain against them,” a villager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/evicted-once-plastic-mafia-takes-over-wetland-plots/articleshow/80774454.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Aurangabad||Over 2 lakh farmers in Aurangabad have power arrears worth Rs 2,669 crore||AURANGABAD: While the MSEDCL is going after residential consumers for not paying power bills, it has come to the fore that over two lakh farmers owe the state power utility dues to the tune of Rs 2,669.3 crore for the use of agricultural pumps in Aurangabad district. Bhujang Khandare, chief engineer for Aurangabad zone, MSEDCL, on Tuesday said defaulter farmers should pay bills at the earliest without interest and delayed payment charges. “Over 2.25 lakh farmers in Aurangabad district have pending dues worth crores of rupees. As against the total recovery of Rs 2,669.3 crore, defaulter farmers collectively need to pay Rs 1,626 crore. The rest of the amount will be adjusted towards partial write-offs and waiver in interest and delayed payment charges as a part of the Maha Krishi Urja Abhiyan of the state government,” said Khandare. The Maha Krishi Urja Abhiyan has been offering a 50% waiver in pending dues towards agricultural pumps if the defaulter farmers pay half of their dues over the period of next one year. Dnyaneshwar Ardad, MSEDCL’s public relations officer for Aurangabad zone, said the money recovered from the collection of pending dues under the Maha Krishi Urja Abhiyan would be utilised in strengthening the electricity network and infrastructure. “Around 33% of the recovered amount will be utilised at the level of the gram panchayats. A similar share will be spent at the district level for raising sub-stations and wideningthe distribution network. The dues paid by the farmers will be utilised for their benefit only,” said Ardad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-2-lakh-farmers-in-aurangabad-have-power-arrears-worth-rs-2669cr/articleshow/80775760.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ridership on Metro touches 1L after locals open up for all||MUMBAI: Ridership on the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar Metro corridor has increased to Rs 1 lakh since the services were reopened after the pandemic-related lockdown imposed in March 2020. The increase in ridership coincides with the opening up of suburban trains for the general public from February 1. Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL) restarted its services from October 2020 after a gap of almost seven months and by December, daily ridership had touched 50,000. MMOPL official said, “On February 8, we recorded a ridership of more than 1 lakh. The average per weekday ridership was around 22,000 for the first one month after the services were started.” An MMOPL official said, “Right now, the general public can travel before 7am and between 12pm and 4pm and thereafter after 9pm. As and when the government relaxes the timings for the general public, the ridership will increase further.” Before the lockdown was imposed, the per weekday ridership was around 4.5 lakh. Currently, Metro services are available with the first train from Versova at 06:50am and the last from Ghatkopar at 10:15pm. Mumbai Metro One also opened the gates at both ends of Saki Naka, Marol Naka, Chakala/JB Nagar and Western Express Highway stations. All stations open 15 minutes before the first train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ridership-on-metro-touches-1l-after-locals-open-up-for-all/articleshow/80774465.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Y S Sharmila’s party likely to take shape in 2-3 months||HYDERABAD: Though YS Sharmila was evasive on floating a new party, sources privy to the fast-paced developments in her camp said it could at least take two to three months before she announces the new party. “The Election Commission has been approached for registration of the party which will be named as YSR Telangana Party,” they said. Before announcing the party, Sharmila will complete consultations with leaders from all common districts of Telangana. “In the coming week, we are planning to hold discussions with Hyderabad and Rangareddy districts’ leaders,” P Ram Reddy, who attended Tuesday’s meeting at the Lotus Pond residence of Sharmila, said. Though speculation is rife that she may draft Prashant Kishor as a strategist for her party, leaders denied any such possibility. Sources in Sharmila’s camp said that she will undertake a padayatra (walkathon) but will do so onlyafter the floating her new party. “This yatra will begin at Chevella in Rangareddy district, which has a lot of sentimental value for YSR family,” a leader said. Former CM YS Rajasekhara Reddy and Sharmila had embarked upon their padayatras from Chevella in the past . Party sources said discussions will be held with each district unit leaders. Sharmila, who stays with her family in Bengaluru, is shifting to Hyderabad as she would get busy with her political activities. Sources said that she is likely to shift from her Lotus Pond residence to Gachibowli soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sharmilas-party-likely-to-take-shape-in-2-3-months/articleshow/80776962.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 10, 2021||Pune||No shows & no-shows force 7 multiplexes to pause ops||Pune: Few footfalls and fewer movie releases have caused temporary closure of seven multiplexes in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad — one run by E-Square and six operated by City Pride.These multiplexes had opened last year after the state government allowed the screening of movies at 50% seating capacity. However, a lack of new content, coupled with a general wariness because of the pandemic, caused them to bleed money.“Until Maharashtra opens its theatres at 100% capacity, there won’t be many big Hindi releases. No new content has been coming in, resulting in very low footfalls,” Prakash Chaphalkar, president of the Multiplex Association of India and a partner in the city-based ‘Citypride Multiplexes’ told TOI on Tuesday. Chaphalkar said they closed all six branches last week and don’t see them reopening before mid-March. He said new content was available but was not being released due to a multitude of issues related to distributors, revenue sharing and rental problems, among others. “Producers do not want losses and so, may release major movies only after all multiplexes open at full capacities,” Chaphalkar added.Neerav Panchamia, chief operating officer of E-Square Leisure Private Limited said they had opened only one multiplex — the University Road facility remained shut. “We opened E-Square Carnival’s Xion Hinjewadi property last December. Despite being the only multiplex property in Hinjewadi, the footfalls were insufficient and it had become difficult to cover our overheads. So we had to temporarily close it,” Panchamia said as it was difficult to cover the overheads.”Panchamia said multiplexes do not expect top movie releases till the last week or March or first week of April. “Some Bollywood films have been released on OTT platforms, taking away multiplexes’ audience,” he said.Meanwhile, single-screen theatres, which had earlier decided to start operations after the vaccine roll-out, have changed their stance. Nitin Datar, president of Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India, said the owners of at least 17 single-screen cinemas in Pune want to shut down. He said single-screen theatres were on ventilator support. “We are not interested in re-opening and want to shut down as soon as possible. Maharashtra has a policy wherein single-screen cinema halls in municipal corporation limits cannot be shut — they must continue screening movies in one-third of the space. We have asked the government to do away with this rule so that we can use our properties for some other business,” Datar said.Sources in INOX Leisure Ltd said all four of their multiplexes located in the city were operational. “At least 50 Hindi movies, as many south Indian films and 15 Hollywood movies are expected to release sometime in 2021. So we have high hopes from this year,” a source said.Another multiplex in Pimpri is shut, but TOI was unable to reach its management for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-shows-no-shows-force-7-multiplexes-to-pause-ops/articleshow/80775762.cms||Neha Madaan
February 10, 2021||Dehradun||CM meets people of affected villages, assures support||Dehradun: After reviewing the ongoing rescue operations, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday visited Raini and Laata villages, which were among the 13 villages that have been cut off from the rest of the state after five bridges got damaged due to the flash flood on Sunday. The CM assured the locals of best possible help and that essential supplies would be made. The CM also directed the district magistrate of Chamoli to ensure that there was no shortage of food and essential commodities in these villages. “We are using choppers to supply food and essential commodities to the area and distribute these to the locals. District officials are in touch with the locals to ensure that they do not face shortage of any essential commodities,” CM Rawat said. The CM had camped in the area on Monday night and interacted with personnel of the ITBP, Army and SDRF to get updates on the ongoing rescue operations. “It is a difficult task as the tunnel is blocked. Our teams are making the required efforts, and no stone is being left unturned to save the trapped people,” said Rawat. Earlier, the chief minister visited the hospital and met the rescued people. The CM said teams of police and district administration were searching for missing people along the river banks. Meanwhile, the state authorities have started distributing 1,000 food and essential commodities kit. Such a kit comprises 5 kg flour, 1 kg dal (pulses), 1 kg sugar, 200 gm tea, 1 kg salt, 1 packet candle, 5 kg rice, 1 kg cooking oil, spices, bathing soap and washing detergent, one pack of match stick and 200 gm milk powder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-meets-people-of-affected-villages-assures-support/articleshow/80774463.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 10, 2021||Pune||Health workers in Maharashtra likely to get second chance to register for jabs||PUNE: Health workers in Maharashtra who were unable to register for the first round of Covid inoculation are likely to get another shot at a vaccine. State officials said they have sent the Centre a letter requesting permission to hold a second registration drive for people who couldn’t submit their details during the first drive, held between October 24 and January 12. There’s also the problem of “missing names”. Many health workers, who had turned up for spot vaccination at session sites, said their names were not on the CoWIN beneficiaries’ list, despite submitting details. Officials said the second sign-up drive — planned for February-end — will ensure such individuals are able to re-register. State immunization officer, Dileep Patil, said, “We will start the second registration drive as soon as we get the Centre’s nod. Those who couldn’t register earlier will get another chance. Prior registration is mandatory before vaccination.” The state has an 15 lakh healthcare workers — medical and non-medical staff — across its government and private hospitals. Nearly 10.54 lakh have signed up for Covid vaccination. Experts said scores were unable to — or did not — sign up because of shifting registration deadlines and hesitancy. “The deadline for submitting names kept changing before the first registration drive. At one point, the state government said there would be no deadlines for registration but then abruptly stopped the process on January 12,” said Sanjay Patil, the former vice-president of the Indian Medical Association’s state chapter. As for hesitancy, experts said reports of only minor side-effects — among the thousands who have received Covid vaccines in the region — have encouraged many fence-sitters to come forward. “A key concern for many before the Covid vaccine rollout was side-effects. Many delayed registrations and chose to wait and watch,” said Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of the state health department. He added, “But those concerns eased after a minuscule number reported minor but transient side-effects from the jabs. Vaccine eagerness is fast replacing vaccine hesitancy. A second chance to register will benefit many.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-workers-in-state-likely-to-get-second-chance-to-register-for-jabs/articleshow/80775780.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: PCMC starts vaccination of police; PMR turnout at 52%||PUNE: The turnout for Covid vaccines on Tuesday was a low 52% in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). A total of 2,653 people — 2,054 health and 599 frontline workers — out of the day’s target of 5,100 turned up for their jabs across the region’s 44 vaccination sites. There are now 51,073 people vaccinated against Covid-19 in the region: 48,768 healthcare workers and 2,306 frontline workers. On Tuesday, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) became the first civic body to start vaccinating police personnel. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash and additional commissioner Ramnath Pokale both turned up for their jabs. “Many of us contracted the coronavirus. Every day, 100 members of the police will get their shots,” Pokale told TOI. Out of Pimpri Chinchwad’s police force of 3,000 cops, 600 have tested positive for Covid-19. Three have lost their lives. In Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, frontline workers could not be vaccinated on Tuesday as the two designated sites — the civic body-run Kamala Nehru hospital and Rajiv Gandhi hospital — were involved with routine immunisation work of young children and infants. Officials said there were many factors causing low turnout for Covid vaccination. Ashish Bharati, chief of the PMC’s health department, said, “In the PMC areas, quite a few beneficiaries have complained that they did not receive the auto-generated SMS from the centralised CoWIN app that specifies time and place of vaccination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-starts-vaccination-of-police-pmr-turnout-at-52/articleshow/80775782.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 10, 2021||Thane||Two held for stealing from Thane temple||Police have arrested two persons in connection with the theft of cash and ornaments worth around Rs 50,000 from a temple in Pimpri village last week, an official said. The incident took placeon February 5.The police examined footage of CCTVs installed in the village and neigbouring areas and nabbed two persons from Kharghar in Navi Mumbai on Sunday. The stolen cash and gold have been recovered from them. An auto used for the crime was also seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/temple-theft-in-thane-2-held/articleshow/80777728.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Proposal to appoint cantonment VPs as nominated members||Secunderabad: While aspirants having political parties’ support are doing the rounds of central BJP office and Ministry of Defence (MoD) to get the civilian nominated post in Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), a proposal of appointing the vice presidents of all 56 cantonment boards in the country as nominated members has come to light. The move has come from the All India Cantonment Citizen Welfare Association. The association has cited valid evidence stating the vice presidents of the varied cantonment boards were nominated as civilian members during 2003-08 tenure. Accordingly, the association has urged the Prime Minister, Union defence minister, Directorate General Defence Estates and defence secretary to implement the same in all 56 cantonment boards, which are varied on Wednesday. “During interregnum from 2003-08, vice presidents of the dissolved cantonment boards were nominated as ‘third member’ as they were elected by majority of the elected members to avoid favouritism,” it said. J Loknatham, one of the elected members (ward no.VIII) represented to appoint VP J Maheshwar Reddy as civilian nominated member on Tuesday, along with the elected members’ signatures. On Tuesday, the SCB elected members honoured the PCB, Brigadier Chandra and SCB CEO, B Ajith Reddy. In view of all 56 cantonment boards varying on Wednesday, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) has issued a gazette notification regarding the constitution of three-member cantonment boards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/proposal-to-appoint-cantonment-vps-as-nominated-members/articleshow/80776958.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Belur Math, Tarakeswar to reopen today||KOLKATA: Belur Math and Tarakeswar temple will reopen on Wednesday after a long gap. While there will be restricted timings at Belur Math, Tarakeswar temple will allow devotees to enter the garbha griha and pour water on the Shiva linga. Devotees were not allowed inside the garbha griha for fear of Covid spread. The restricted entry timings at Belur are from 8.30am to 11am and from 3.30pm to 5.15pm. Devotees will have to use masks, sanitse hands, undergo thermal scanning and follow distancing norms while moving in a single file along a fixed route on the premises. “We will observe how things progress and then bring in some relaxations around mid-April,” said RKM general secretary Swami Suvirananda. “We have decided to allow devotees to enter the garbha griha and pour water once again after a long gap since the situation has improved,” said Dandiswami Surteshwar Ashram, the Mathadhish or head of Tarakeswar temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/belur-math-tarakeswar-to-reopen-today/articleshow/80774498.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Sharmila’s political foray into Telangana gets mixed response||Hyderabad: After YS Sharmila dropped enough hints of her political foray into Telangana and bringing in Rajanna Rajyam in the state, political analysts and supporters of the former united AP CM YS Rajasekhar Reddy are now trying to assess the impact of the new political outfit in Telangana. Sharmila is solely banking on YSR’s supporters, but the former CM’s loyalists have either joined TRS or BJP. Though YSRCP has disassociated from Sharmila’s plan to launch a political party, people drew parallels with YSRCP, which could not survive post bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh. YSRCP had contested about 80 seats in the 2014 elections in Telangana, but bagged just three seats that too in Khammam district. Thati Venkateshwarlu (Ashwaraopet), Payam Venkateshwarlu (Pinapaka) and Banoth Madan Lal (Wyra) won the assembly elections, while P Srinivas Reddy won from Khammam Lok Sabha then. The party had contested in the 2015 GHMC elections, but drew a blank. Later, YSRCP vanished from the political space in Telangana. Also, YSRCP did not contest the subsequent elections held in 2018 (assembly), 2019 Lok Sabha elections and 2020 GHMC elections. Political analyst S Nagesh said as of now Sharmila did not give any clarity on her agenda. “She said she will work for Rajanna Rajyam, which are mainly welfare of farmers, Aarogyasri and 2-BHK houses, which were given top priority by YSR during his rule. Farmer welfare, Aarogyasri and 2-BHK are being implemented by TRS government in Telangana. She does not have much to offer,” Nagesh said. Some YSR supporters, who joined other parties, said if she comes back and launches a party, they were ready to work. “We are supporters of YSR, who brought Congress to power twice. We welcome her decision as there is a scope for a strong opposition party,” Chepuri Venkateshwara Rao from the Secunderabad assembly constituency, who worked with YSRCP earlier, said. Some leaders, however expressed doubts. They said even if Sharmila floats a party, whether it would make inroads into Telangana or be confined to Hyderabad and some districts such as Khammam, Nalgonda and bordering districts of Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sharmilas-political-foray-into-telangana-gets-mixed-response/articleshow/80776999.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 10, 2021||Kolhapur||Statue installed in Solapur village without permission||KOLHAPUR: A group of people installed a 10ft statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj without permission at Shivaji Chowk in Vairag village of Barshi taluka in Solapur district around Sunday midnight. Tension prevailed in the village on Monday as people blocked roads when the local police registered a case against unidentified people and summoned, for questioning, the office-bearers of a committee that had sought permission for installing the statue. The police action followed a complaint by village development officer Sachin Shinde. Deputy superintendent of police, Solapur, Abhijit Dharashivkar, told TOI that a case under section 4 of Prachin Smarake Sanrakshan Adhiniyam (Ancient Memorial Rules), 1904, has been registered against unidentified people. He added that the situation in Vairag was under control. Police said a committee had sought permission for the installation of the statue, which is pending with the district collector. It was installed in the chowk after an encroachment was removed from the site. Police officers said preliminary inquiry has revealed that unidentified people brought the statue in a truck around midnight and installed it on a platform in the chowk. The statue has not yet been removed from the platform, said police, adding that further action would be taken after getting directives from the district collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/statue-installed-in-solapurvillage-without-permission/articleshow/80775790.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Noida||Noida: Sector 71 underpass may take 3 more months to open||NOIDA: More delay is in the offing for commuters looking for a seamless ride between Wave City Centre metro station and Noida Extension, as the six-lane Sector 52-71 underpass will take some more time to be thrown open for vehicles. Having been unable to meet the December 2020 deadline, the contractor executing the project has sought an extension from the Noida Authority to finish the project. Sources told TOI that it might take up to three months more for the underpass to be thrown open for vehicular movement. “A new payment schedule for the contractor has to be cleared by senior officials of the Noida Authority since the deadline will have to be revised. The contractor has cited lockdown-related restrictions while making a case for the deadline extension,” sources said. While commuters are able to access Vishwakarma Marg, the road that connects Barola to Sector 61, the ones heading towards Greater Noida from Noida City Centre have to take a detour since the underpass is not yet ready and diversions remain enforced. Meanwhile, the Noida Authority is waiting for an approval from the metro railways safety commissioner. A pillar of the metro line which goes towards Sector 62 from the intersection is situated next to the underpass. However, to carry out civil work in the affected portion, the Authority will have to obtain the permission of the safety commissioner. Officials said that the design of the underpass has been sent to the commissioner’s office. “We have written and explained to them that when the metro line was being constructed, the Noida Authority had taken into account the design of the underpass and ensured that construction work does not create any conflict with safety or daily operations of the metro services. But we have been told it is a procedural matter and some more time will be needed to give clearance,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/sector-71-underpass-may-take-3-more-months-to-open/articleshow/80777468.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: 612 recoveries in Pune; nine dead||PUNE: As many as 493 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Pune Metropolitan Region on Tuesday, pushing the overall case tally to just 3.9 lakh. In the 24 hours till 8pm on Tuesday, 612 people were discharged. This took the overall number of recoveries in PMR to 3.76 lakh, as per a report issued by the district health office. PMC recorded 216 new patients, while there were 102 fresh cases in Pimpri Chinchwad. The rural areas, municipal council limits and cantonments together accounted for 175 new cases. Nine people succumbed to the contagion in the region on Sunday — four in Pune Municipal Corporation limits, three in Pimpri Chinchwad and two in the rural parts. With this, PMR’s death toll stood at 9,113. PMC had the highest number of deaths with 4,954 deaths, while the rural areas, municipal councils and cantonments together reported 2,334 fatalities. Pimpri Chinchwad’s toll, meanwhile, stood at 1,825. As many as 4,921 samples were tested in PMR on Tuesday, pushing the total number of tests conducted to 21.57 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/612-recoveries-in-region-nine-dead/articleshow/80775796.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 10, 2021||Pune||Hindustani classical music to come alive on stage, thanks to Vasantotsav||PUNE: The classical music festival circuit in Pune will start buzzing again with Vasantotsav becoming the first music event to return as Covid-19-induced restrictions ease and vaccinations take off. While one-off musical programmes have been organized, the annual fixtures had not been held since March last year. Many popular cultural events in the city had either been postponed or called off due to the pandemic. However, music lovers have now been given the opportunity to savour different genre of classical music by Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Pratishthan. Vasantotsav will be held from February19 to 21 at Ganesh Kala Krida Rangmanch from 4pm to 10pm. Vocalist Rahul Deshpande, grandson of late Vasantrao, said, “This will be the 14th edition of Vasantotsav and it shall mark the conclusion of the year-long celebrations of Vasantrao Deshpande’s birth centenary. As always, music lovers can look forward to a mix of different genres of music at Vasantotsav 2021, including dhrupad, classical, percussion along with the combination of Carnatic and Hindustani classical music.” The festival will begin with a performance by Pt Jasraj’s disciple vocalist Ankita Joshi of Mewati Gharana followed by senior Dhrupad vocalist Pt Uday Bhavalkar’s performance. The last session will see a performance by Ustad Shujaat Husain Khan (sitar), Mukesh Jadhav (tabla), Ranjit Barot (percussion) with co-artists. On February 20, the programme will start with a performance by noted sitar player Shakir Khan. He will be followed by vocalist Vijay Koparkar and a joint performance by flautist Rakesh Chaurasia and Venu flute maestro Shashank Subramaniam. The day will conclude with a performance by classical vocalist Anand Bhate. The last day of the festival will feature senior tabla player Pt. Yogesh Samsi’s disciple Yashwant Vaishnav and Pt Nayan Ghosh’s son and disciple Ishaan Ghosh. This will be followed by a programme of ghazals by Pankaj Udhas. The festival will conclude with a performance by vocalist Rahul Deshpande, accompanied by Murad Ali on sarangi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hindustani-classical-music-to-come-alive-on-stage-thanks-to-vasantotsav/articleshow/80775812.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Kolkata||Panel meets to develop Bantala into Sector VI||Kolkata: The reconstituted committee of Sector VI (Bantala) Industrial Township Authority that was formed in 2015 held its first meeting on Tuesday with state urban development minister Firhad Hakim as its chairman. The committee discussed ways to develop roads in the area, provide improved water supply, install streetlights and initiate solid waste management for Bantala leather complex and its surrounding area spread over 2,700 acres. Officials said that Bantala, which will be known as Sector VI from now, will function under this township authority’s purview falling under the state urban development, something similar to the IT hub of Sector V that functions under the purview of Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA). Officials said that apart from discussing on ways to chalk up overall civic improvement plans for the area, it was also discussed as to how to start sanctioning new building plans and trade licence. The authorities will also need to recruit staff for functioning for which a proposal will be placed before the state government for approval. As of now, the authority’s head office has been set up on one floor of Nabadiganta Bhavan in Sector V and a site office is coming at the Bantala leather complex area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/panel-meets-to-develop-bantala-into-sector-vi/articleshow/80774481.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Gas m-cap crosses Rs 30,000 crore||AHMEDABAD: With its stock price rallying on strong financial performance, the market capitalization of the state-run Gujarat Gas Limited (GGL) crossed Rs 30,000 crore mark on Tuesday. The city gas distribution major now has m-cap more than the combined market capitalization of all other Gujarat government-owned listed companies. The company’s market cap surged to Rs 31,769 crore with its share price moving up 6% to Rs 461.5 on Tuesday. GGL’s stock has jumped 29% since February 1, when its price closed at Rs 359 per share.  As against GGL’s total m-cap, the combined market cap of other seven state public sector undertakings (PSUs) is Rs 24,801 crore. The nearest PSU to GGL in terms of m-cap is Gujarat State Petronet Ltd, which has market capitalization of Rs12,523 crore. Stock analysts said that growth in volume and margins coupled with better than expected earnings for the third quarter of the current fiscal and upbeat business outlook have fuelled the company’s share price on the bourses. According to the stock broking firm Motilal Oswal, GGL’s volume growth over the last couple of quarters has been robust, which is led by strong export orders at ceramic units in Morbi. “The company’s gas sales volume and CNG sales have shown a robust recovery after the lockdown,” said Rakesh Lahoti, a city-based stock expert. “Its consolidated profit has doubled. The company’s sales volume in industrial and CNG categories rose by 29% and 2% respectively, when compared with the same quarter last fiscal.” The company’s average gas sales in terms of volume stood at 11.4 mmscmd in Q3FY 21, which was 23% higher than the volumes recorded in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. The company’s stock has surged on the back of its strong performance in Q3FY21. “While its net profit almost doubled, the revenues from operations increased 13% during the quarter. Also, its finance cost reduced by almost 48% year-on-year,” added Vanesh Panchal, a stock analyst from Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-gas-m-cap-crosses-rs-30k-cr/articleshow/80777040.cms||Kalpesh Damor
February 10, 2021||Pune||Shravan Hardikar halts payment to 2 care hubs over complaints||PUNE: Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar has held back a Rs 2 crore payment to two Covid-19 care centres following allegations of irregularities. Shiv Sena leader Rahul Kalate has alleged that the bills submitted by the private hospitals, which were managing the Covid centres, were inflated. “At these centres, no patients were admitted at all. Why should they be paid if no patient was admitted?” Kalate said. The PCMC standing committee on Monday cleared the consolidated bills of Rs6.91 crore for 22 Covid centres, including the two in question. Hardikar told TOI that since he was on leave on Tuesday, he asked for the payment to be held back till Wednesday. “If anyone has proof of irregularities in the payment or the agreement, they can submit it and the civic body will verify such claims,” Hardikar said. Meanwhile, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has instructed the accounts department to check the bills of Covid centres before actual disbursement. PMC standing committee chairperson Hemant Rasane said PMC would publish a white paper on the actual expenses of Covid 19 mitigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hardikar-halts-payment-to-2-care-hubs-over-complaints/articleshow/80775847.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Man behind mega show, TTV proves his worth||CHENNAI: When V K Sasikala completed her 24-hour roadshow from Bengaluru to Chennai on Tuesday morning, TTV had just proved his utility, if not might, to his aunt. The marathon was reminiscent of the MGR days of the 1970s when people used to wait through the night for the arrival of their idol. An AMMK functionary said TTV ensured that the communication for Sasikala’s reception went out to every cadre. “He made sure that everyone understood the importance of the occasion,” said the functionary. “He gave a gentle nudge to party functionaries to ensure Sasikala loyalists be present all along the route. Had he pushed further, the crowds would have been much more.” Era Deivendran, a Sasikala aide, said the government action of closing the Jayalalithaa memorial and cordoning off Veda Nilayam helped mobilise AMMK cadres. “Banning the use of the AIADMK flag added to the sympathy factor,” said Deivendran, who was part of the convoy from Krishnagiri. “Scores of villagers waited patiently. There was no one to even buy them a tea. It was spontaneous crowd,” he said. TTV had cautioned the party workers against going unruly, for he knew the government and the police would be waiting for such an opportunity to play spoilsport. “The appeal and the occasion worked, as people including those from the AIADMK volunteered to join us,” says T A Ezhumalai, one of the 18 AIADMK legislators to be disqualified by the speaker on September 18, 2017 for defection. Some recollected that it was such organisational skills that endeared TTV to Jayalalithaa and ensured him a Lok Sabha seat in 1999. He remained a Rajya Sabha member till 2010, but soon he was out of Jayalalithaa’s good books. Soon after Jayalalithaa died on December 5, 2016, TTV was back at Poes Garden as Sasikala’s shadow. After the split in early 2017 that led to the formation of the AMMK, TTV defeated the AIADMK and the DMK in the RK Nagar constituency later that year. “TTV has kept the cadres together,” said an AMMK functionary. “If not for the AMMK, many erstwhile Jayalalithaa supporters would have joined other parties a long time ago.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-behind-mega-show-ttv-proves-his-worth/articleshow/80774499.cms||D Govardan
February 10, 2021||Aurangabad||RTE registration evokes poor response from schools||AURANGABAD: Only 33 schools in Aurangabad district have registered for admissions under the Right To Education (RTE) Act, 2009, even as the stipulated deadline ends on Wednesday. Notably, considering that a total of 584 schools had registered for admissions concerned during the last academic year, a large number of educational institutions are yet to do the needful. The education department of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has already warned schools that they would face de-recognition if they did not comply with the admission rules of the RTE Act, 2009. AMC education officer Ramnath Thore said schools should not delay the completion of necessary formalities and not anticipate that extension would be given for registration deadline. “Even if such extensions were given in the past, it does not mean that schools deliberately delay the registration on their part. We appeal to the schools to complete the formalities at their end as early as possible,” he said. Thore reiterated that barring the minority schools, all other schools come within the ambit of the RTE admissions and they must enrol for the admission process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rte-registration-evokes-poor-response-from-schools/articleshow/80775846.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Jagan’s sister forming party to help KCR: BJP||Hyderabad: BJP Telangana unit on Tuesday said that YS Sharmila’s new party that is likely to be announced soon is to help chief minister and TRS party president K Chandrasekhar Rao. Addressing the media, state BJP vice-president NVSS Prabhakar said that the chief minister is formulating new political equations in the state in order to regain grip on his falling popularity and to ensure that he returns to power. “Senior Congress leader KVP Ramchandra Rao has come to the chief minister’s rescue and is behind Sharmila’s decision to form a party,” Prabhakar said. He dared the TRS-run state government to hold mid-term elections to test its policies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagans-sister-forming-party-to-help-kcr-bjp/articleshow/80777037.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Bhopal||Ankita breaks 24-year-old junior national record||BHOPAL: A day after Madhya Pradesh’s Sunil Dawar smashed 24-year-old national record to win the 5000m gold, Ankita Dhyani of SAI Bhopal has set a new national record on Tuesday. Dhyani broke the national record of Sunita Rani in the 5000m race at the 36th National Junior Athletics Championship at Guwahati on Tuesday. MP has won 11 medals including 5 gold and 3 silver and 3 bronze medals so far in the championship. The 18-year-old athlete from SAI's National Center of Excellence, Bhopal, Ankita completed the 5000 m race in the U-20 competition in 16:21.19. Sunita Rani's timing was 16:21.59 set in Catania, Italy in 1997. Ankita is an athlete under National Sports of Excellence, Bhopal, under the Khelo India Scheme, who has been practicing for the past two years under the guidance of athletics coach Pratibha Toppo in SAI. Her coach Pratibha Toppo told TOI that Ankita has been practising in SAI for past 2 years. "This is a big day as she broke the national record of a known athlete Sunita Rani. The importance of Ankot's record could be gauged from the fact that it took 24 years to break. We all are proud on her. She is a great prospect for Indian athletics," said Ankita. Manjushree Dayanand is the Regional Director in-charge of the National Center of Excellence, Bhopal, SAI. MP athletes continued shining in other events also. They won a gold medal in 800 m and a silver in javelin throw. In the 800 m race of the boys section U-16 organised on the fourth day under the competition, Adarsh Kumar Maurya of Army Boys Company, Jabalpur, completed the race in 1:58.72 to give a gold medal to Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ankita-breaks-24-year-old-jr-national-record/articleshow/80775851.cms||Ramendra Singh
February 10, 2021||Surat||61-year-old Vapi man gives life to five in death||SURAT: Organs from a 61-year-old brain dead man has provided new life to five people after his family members decided to donate it on Tuesday. Ramesh Mithiya, a grocery shop owner residing at Karambeli village in Vapi, was shifted to the Haria LG hospital in Vapi town after he complained of dizziness and severe vomiting on February 5. The CT scan report revealed that Mithiya had suffered brain haemorrhage due to rupture in veins in his brain. On February 7, the doctors declared him brain dead and informed the family members about his condition. Mithiya’s elder son, Dipak Mithiya revealed that his father’s last wish was to donate his vital organs after his death. Doctors informed member of State Advisory Committee for Organ and Tissue Transplantation (SOTTO), Nilesh Mandelwala who is also the founder of Surat-based organisation Donate Life that promotes cadaver donation. Talking with TOI, Mandlewala said, “This was the first cadaver donation from Vapi town. The family members were willing to donate the vital organs of Ramesh Mithiya.” “My father’s vital organs will save the life of five people. It was his last wish that his organs be donated after his death. It has been fulfilled,” said Dipak. According to Mandlewala, Dr Pranjal Modi, convenor of SOTTO was immediately contacted for collecting the kidneys and liver. The CIMS hospital in Ahmedabad was given the liver donation, while the kidneys were donated to the Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC), also in Ahmedabad. The two eyes were donated to the Navsari-based Shroff Eye Hospital for needy patients. For ensuring that the kidneys and liver reach Ahmedabad on time, a 125 km stretch of NH-8 from Vapi to Surat airport was turned into the green corridor under the guidance of Surat Range IG Dr SP Ramkumar. The kidneys and liver were airlifted in the air ambulance from Surat to Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/61-year-old-vapi-man-gives-life-to-five-in-death/articleshow/80773385.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Goa||Dipesh hopes to see better days with kho kho league||Panaji: Kho kho provided plenty of joy to Dipesh Velip and his brother. The Velips would play the game for hours, making them well-known in school, college and the state. Life, though, changed when Dipesh’s brother, Deepak, died in an accident three years ago. He was just recovering when the Covid-19 pandemic made it worse. “My father is a farmer. His income is not enough to make ends meet. Though I made a name for myself in kho kho, the reality is that I had to do odd jobs to support my family,” said Dipesh, who donned Goa colours at six senior national championships. With jobs hard to come by, Dipesh was forced to take up a security guard’s job for the last six months. “I don’t get much from it but in current circumstances, whatever I get, I have to make do with it,” said the 24-year-old who hails from Morpilla in Quepem. With so much of darkness all around him, Dipesh finally saw hope, that too from unexpected quarters. He was selected to be part of Kho Kho Federation of India and Ultimate Kho Kho’s first scientific training camp in Faridabad from January 19. Around 125 players are selected from across the country to attend the high-performance camp. Should Dipesh continue to impress, he will be part of the league where the promoters have promised to invest Rs 200 crore over five years. For starters, his focus is on the 30-day camp in Faridabad, the culmination of which will see players participating in a five-day trial tournament. “I am in the C group and I am happy to be here. I have been an allrounder all my life. For the first time, I was among the probables for the India camp for Asian Championship as well. “The training here is different. For the first time, I came to know about proper weight training, diet, endurance, fitness. I feel a lot of changes in my game now,” said Dipesh. The players for the league – likely in September -- will be allotted through a draft system. That explains why the organisers are getting the players in shape early in the season and Dipesh doesn’t want to let the opportunity slip out of his hands. The Goan was already a known name in the kabaddi circles and is now attracting attention from the federation too. “Players like Dipesh have struggled to keep themselves fit during the pandemic and don’t have enough resources. This camp will help them get back on their feet,” said KKFI president Sudhanshu Mittal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dipesh-hopes-to-see-better-days-with-kho-kho-league/articleshow/80774715.cms||Paresh Mokani
February 10, 2021||India||Shah refutes Adhir’s claim, says didn’t sit on Tagore’s chair at Visva-Bharati||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday rejected Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury’s claim that he sat on Rabindranath Tagore’s chair when his visited Visva-Bharati in January. While rebutting Chowdhry’s charge, made while participating in the motion of thanks to the President’s address, Shah sought to turn the tables on the Congress leader by circulating photographs which showed that former PMs Jawaharlal Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi had sat on the Nobel laureate’s chair when they visited Santiniketan. Shah said parliamentary records should be set right, and backed up his assertion with a letter from the Visva-Bharati vice chancellor addressed to Chowdhury and accompanying photographs from Santiniketan. “I have a letter from Visva-Bharati’s vice chancellor where I have sought clarification from him... tell me after analysing the photos and videos whether I sat (on Tagore’s chair) there or not. He has very clearly stated that nothing of this sort has happened. The reference to the place I sat is a window and anyone can sit there,” Shah said. He added that former President Pranab Mukherjee, former PM Rajiv Gandhi and even Bangladeshi PM Sheikh Hasina, when she paid a visit, had all sat on the same spot — a seat at the window — that he had occupied. “Senior members of the House should ascertain facts before speaking. It hurts the dignity of the House if something lifted from social media is stated here,” Shah said. Santiniketan VC Bidyut Chakrabarty, in his letter to Chowdhury, said, “You have unfortunately been misinformed, as this is patently untrue. In the past, during their official visits for Uttarayan, a number of dignitaries, including former Chancellors Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Madam Sheikh Hasina, among leaders, have sat in that makeshift seat, which is actually just the edge of a window on which cushions are placed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shah-refutes-adhirs-claim-says-didnt-sit-on-tagores-chair-at-visva-bharati/articleshow/80778097.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram lawyer says ‘held by collar, threatened’ in road rage||GURUGRAM: An advocate practising at Gurugram court was allegedly verbally abused, manhandled and threatened by two youths in Sector 29 in a road rage incident. Reena Sharma, the lawyer, told police that around 11.30am on Monday, she was going to Sector 29 for some official work in her WagonR. While she was at the wheel, her cousin and her aunt were in the back seat. When they were approaching the overbridge CNG pump near Huda City Centre, Reena had to reverse her car to take a U-turn due to a diversion for ongoing construction work. However, a white Skoda, with two men sitting inside it, was parked right in the middle of the road, obstructing movement of other vehicles. When the lawyer asked the youths to remove their vehicle, they refused. She tried to squeeze through the space she had but her car scraped that of the youths. “Their car was wrongly parked. They ignored my request to give me passage. I tried to reverse my car and, in the process, my car slightly hit the Skoda’s backside bumper and light, causing a minor scratch,” said Reena. What followed was an ugly argument and scuffle. The two youths stepped out of the car and began to abuse Reena and her family members with “filthy language”, the lawyer told TOI. They stopped her car, forced her to roll down the windows, held the doors open and blocked the way. “I came out of the car and said it was not my mistake. Even so, I assured them I would compensate for the damage and handed over my visiting card,” said Reena. The pleas did not help. The youths, she alleged, became even more aggressive. Insisting that she make instant payment, which she wasn’t able to do, the men tried to snatch her purse and car keys, she said. One of them allegedly shoved her and held her by the collar of her blazer (the lawyer was in her black and white robes as she had been coming from the court). “I was not carrying cash and suggested to them that they could get the repairs done and then collect the compensation from the court where I practise,” Reena said, adding that her aunt also requested them but the two men abused her as well. In the meantime, a big crowd gathered at the spot, leading to snarls. Some traffic cops arrived and it was only after their intervention that the lawyer and her family members were able to move. The incident, Reena told TOI, left her shaken. “The minute after I left the spot, I received a call from one of the men (they had her visiting card) abusing me. They continued calling up and threatening me,” she said, adding that one of the men claimed to be related to a politician in Nuh. The Gurugram District Bar Association has also taken cognisance of the matter. “If this can happen with a lawyer, we can only imagine what other people would be going through. We hope police will take appropriate action,” advocate Manish Shandilya, a member of the bar association, said. Police spokesperson Subhash Boken said a complaint has been filed at the Sector 29 police station and they were looking into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/held-by-collar-threatened-in-sec-29-road-rage-says-lawyer/articleshow/80777045.cms||Bagish Jha
February 10, 2021||Aurangabad||Students to face hurdle as Bamu hostels to stay shut||AURANGABAD: Though Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (BAMU) is slated to reopen from February 15, outstation students will have to search for accommodation facility on their own as the university hostels will not be available immediately. Mustajeeb Khan, director of department of students welfare at Bamu, on Tuesday said hostel facilities would not be allotted to students during the current pandemic as per instructions from the government. “Even if classroom teaching is slated to resume with 50% attendance from February 15, the state government has issued a blanket ban on the use of hostels till further notice. We have to abide the by the instructions from the top,” said Khan. The university has a total of 14 students hostels, of which 12 were acquired by the district administration and civic authorities for Covid-19 management. “The government authorities have released the hostels. We will sanitize the hostels in a phased manner and keep it ready for allotment to students once the government issues orders,” he said. ABVP functionary Swapnil Begde said a majority of students studying at Bamu were outstation students who would face a huge inconvenience due to non-availability of hostels. “The recent government resolution declaring reopening of institutions of higher learning states that the hostels will be started in “later stage”. We believe it is ill-planning on the part of the government,” he said. SFI functionary Lokesh Kamble said every hostel room accommodates maximum two students and therefore, there was no question of crowding. “While the reopening of institutes of higher learning is considerably delayed, the non-availability of hostels will further take a toll on the studies of students. The government must undertake corrective measures before February 15,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/students-to-face-hurdle-as-bamu-hostels-to-stay-shut/articleshow/80775877.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Fill up vacant posts in GPCB: NGT||GANDHINAGAR: The National Green Tribunal (NGT), in a stinging order, has directed Gujarat, chief secretary, Anil Mukim to ensure administrative changes are made in statutory bodies and vacant posts are filled in the GPCB (Gujarat pollution control board) to mitigate industrial pollution in the state. All states, including Gujarat, have been directed to procure requisite equipment and commission or upgrade all laboratories. The state government has been given six months to strengthen the mechanism to control pollution. Swinging into action, CS, Anil Mukim directed the GPCB and concerned authorities to prepare an action plan as per the directions of the NGT. The NGT directions to states came while hearing issues related to rampant pollution in Vapi region of South Gujarat. The NGT directed the chief secretaries of states to prepare and execute their respective action plan which will include filling up all vacant posts by competent persons and procuring the requisite equipment,including commissioning and up-gradation of all laboratories and recognition under the EP Act, 1986. The NGT has directed the CPCB (central pollution control board) to monitor adherence to the directions. When contacted, Anil Mukim said, “I have directed officials to prepare an action plan as per NGT directions. We have already addressed many of the recommendations like recruitment etc., Once the action plans is ready, we will submit it to the CPCB, and take necessary action. The state government is sensitive regarding addressing industrial pollution in state.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ngt-fill-up-vacant-posts-in-gpcb/articleshow/80777043.cms||Kapil Dave
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Active Covid cases drop to 435 in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: First time since April last year, active Covid-19 cases in the city dropped to less than 500, at 435 on Tuesday. The city reported 43 fresh cases on Tuesday. In all, 76 persons were discharged from hospitals and one death was reported in the city. The active cases are likely to go below 400 on Wednesday. On Tuesday morning, all the zones in the city had cases below 100. The western part of the city, including west zone, north west and south west zone, have 53% of the total active cases. Of the 435 active cases, the share of western part was 233.  After Diwali, the western part had reported more cases. The Walled City areas have been witnessing a sharp decline in cases. Between February 1 and February 9, the central zone alone reported a drop of 72 cases, while 98 cases declined in the north west zone areas of Bodakdev, Thaltej, Ghatlodia and Gota. A senior official said that of the 435 active cases, most of the patients are in home quarantine. “Hardly 40% of the patients are currently in hospitals,” he said. The city has so far reported 57,457 cases, of which 2,245 died because of Covid infection. On February 1 the city had 955 cases, the first time the number of cases had come down to three digits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-covid-cases-drop-to-435/articleshow/80775913.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||Businessman held in Rs 10 crore ITC fraud||The Central Goods and Service Tax department on Tuesday arrested a businessman, Vishal Mulchand Munver, for availing Rs 10 crore Input Tax Credit (ITC) by submitting bogus invoices without supply of any physical goods or services. The fictitious firms were identified as Vasumuni General Merchant, Chaitya Trading co, Sumti Global Supplier, Hazel World India and Vishal International.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bizman-held-in-rs-10cr-itc-fraud/articleshow/80777730.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Missing farmer: FIR filed, Delhi cops tell court||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Tuesday told the high court that a missing person FIR has been registered about a Haryana-based farmer who remains untraced since January 26, after he participated in a tractor rally in the capital that turned violent. The submission by Delhi Police was made before a bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice A J Bhambhani during the hearing of a habeas corpus plea moved by the brother of the missing farmer. The court asked police to file a status report before the next date of hearing on February 17. It was hearing the plea of Baljeet, represented by advocates Benipal Naginder and Aditi Pundhir, seeking to know the status of his brother Bajinder, who has been missing since Republic Day. Despite several requests to the police station concerned, no formal complaint or FIR was registered, the petitioner has claimed. During the hearing, the court asked Haryana Police to render all possible assistance to Delhi Police to locate the petitioner’s brother. Police told the court it has not arrested any such person in connection with the violence that occurred on January 26. The tractor parade on Republic that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agri-laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag at the iconic Red Fort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/missing-farmer-fir-filed-cops-tell-court/articleshow/80775904.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Thane||Thane cops take custody of gangster||The Thane anti-extortion cell took custody of gangster Ejaz Lakdawala on Tuesday in connection with an extortion case registered in 2019 in Kalyan. Lakdawala is known to have worked with gangster Dawood Ibrahim after which he formed his own gang. Over 20 cases are registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-cops-take-custody-of-gangster/articleshow/80777572.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
February 10, 2021||Surat||16 mineral water plants not having BIS certification sealed||Surat: As many as 16 mineral packaged drinking water plants in four different municipal zones in the city were sealed on Tuesday by the health department teams of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) after these were found operating without the mandatory Bureau of Indian Standard (BIS) and ISI certification. The food and health department officials raided plants in Katargam, Rander,Udhana and Limbayat. Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital) told TOI, “We had received information on the illegal operation of several mineral water plants in four different municipal zones who were delivering compromised quality water on daily basis sans adherence to BIS and ISI criteria.”Dr Naik further said that BIS certification is must for all those manufacturers selling mineral water. “We will punish those who don’t follow the prescribed norms and standards for water quality,” he added.A food and health officer said, “These plants had many irregularities. The owners were not taking care to maintain hygienic condition inside the plant and were drawing water from the SMC’s water network. The water jars too were not washed properly at the time of refilling. We will be taking action under the BPMC Act for violating the prescribed safety norms against the owners.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/16-mineral-water-plants-not-having-bis-certification-sealed/articleshow/80773400.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Aurangabad||Representatives of instant mobile loan apps booked for harassment||AURANGABAD: The city police registered a case against two dozen representatives of an instant mobile loan app after they started harassing a 37-year-old man for recovering ‘exorbitant’ interest. A case has been registered at Osmanpura police station under sections 384 (extortion), 504 (intentional insult aimed at provoking breach of peace) and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Police said this was the first offence registered against these instant loan apps in the region. Already, law enforcement agencies at the state as well as central level have launched a probe against these apps and have found Chinese links to some of them. Dilip Tare, inspector at Osmanpura police station said, “The coercive methods used by representatives of these instant loan apps have forced people to commit suicide in different parts of the country.” Sandeep Kulkarni, who is an office bearer of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, told TOI, “I took a loan of Rs 3.4 lakh from 62 different instant loan applications in October and November 2020. I repaid Rs 1.7 lakh that I took from 32 of these instant loan applications.” Despite paying back the loan amount, the representatives of the 32 loan applications started calling him with false claims that there was an outstanding amount, which was triple the principal amount. When he refused to succumb to their pressure of paying the hefty interest, along with the fine running in to several thousands, the suspects, who had obtained access to the contact list in the user’s cellphone at the time the application was downloaded, started creating WhatsApp groups and defaming him. The suspects even started calling Kulkarni’s contacts and falsely claimed that they have been named as guarantors at the time of disbursing the loan. “They would even send forged legal notices to the people in my contact list claiming that if I fail to repay the money, they will sue them,” said Kulkarni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/reps-of-instant-mobile-loan-apps-booked-for-harassment/articleshow/80775906.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Govt made false promises on jobs: Yashki||Warangal: AICC secretary Madhu Yashki Goud on Tuesday flayed the state government over the alleged false promises made by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on providing employment, reports Shiva Kumar Pinna. He alleged that the government filled only 27,000 posts in seven years through TSPSC. Launching ‘Naukari do- ya degree vapas lo’ programme against the Centre and state governments, he said, “The government is betraying parents by colluding with private schools and colleges to start educational institutions for collection of tuition fee,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-made-false-promises-on-jobs-yashki/articleshow/80775934.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
February 10, 2021||Surat||‘Surti Segregathon’ to address waste segregation problem in societies||SURAT: In an innovative challenge, Surtis will learn how to separate wet, dry and hazardous wastes from their own homes itself. Despite repeated attempts by the civic body, segregation of waste at the source in the residential societies is still dismal. In the fresh initiative, residential societies will have to find scalable, sustainable and innovative solution to achieve 100% waste separation methods at their own ends. Residents will be told how to keep various wastes including diapers etc separately while disposing in the door-to-door garbage vehicles. A cash incentive has also been announced for rewards between Rs 25,000 and Rs 2.5 lakh, depending on the number of households in an individual society. Pushing Surat towards ending the segregation problems at source in the residential societies, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has initiated a ‘Surti segregathon’ together with city-based non-profit organisation (NPO) Innovate4India and a couple of other NGOs to find a sustainable solution for addressing the waste. In the fifth edition of Swachh Survekshan 2020, Surat managed to scale itself up to be ranked as India’s second cleanest city after Madhya Pradesh’s Indore. In 2018, the city was at the dismal 14th position, which it bettered by four places in 2019. Official sources claim that one of the major reasons that helped the city clean up its image so swiftly was SMC’s quick reprocessing of city’s daily collection of solid waste. Of 2,000 metric tonne waste, the civic body reprocesses almost 95% everyday. Only about 200 tonne, which is being dumped at the waste disposal site, gets accumulated. Additional city engineer (solid waste department), EH Pathan told TOI, “The Surti segregation challenge will inculcate the practice of waste segregation among the residents. We are getting mixed solid waste at our processing facilities. About 800 metric tonnes of dry waste, 800 metric tonne wet waste and about 200 metric tonne hazardous waste is collected on a daily basis. This initiative will go a long way in saving a huge amount of money in recycling the solid waste.” Divya Karla, director of Innovate4India told TOI, “If the residents implement waste segregation at source, SMC would save Rs 300 crore for processing waste in a year. We have started the registration of residential societies for the challenge where residents will qualify for property tax benefits, subsidised wet waste composting machines etc. We will also provide seed money reward if any residential society identifies a business opportunity from the generated waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surti-segregathon-to-address-waste-segregation-problem-in-societies/articleshow/80773480.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||No proof, man held for mom’s murder let off||MUMBAI: An autorickshaw driver accused of murdering his 70-year-old mother at their Vasai home in 2017 was acquitted after the prosecution failed to produce the weapon used for the crime, and clothes worn by the victim. Additional sessions judge Mahesh Lone acquitted Naresh Mahali (40) of the murder charge of his mother Sita. Naresh was out on bail since April due to the pandemic. After Sita was found murdered, Naresh was arrested and lodged in Thane jail. The chargesheet stated that Mahali, an alcoholic, had had a fight with Sita, and stabbed her with a sickle, killing her on the spot. Defence lawyer Naresh Gaur told the court that the prosecution produced photos of a kitchen knife, not a sickle as the weapon used for the murder. The prosecution had failed to question the photographer regarding the weapon used in the crime. The forensic report had failed to establish if blood found on the knife was the victim’s. Further, the prosecution produced a saree as the garment which had been worn by the victim when she was found murdered, while the chargesheet mentioned that Sita was wearing traditional tribal attire when she had been found dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-proof-man-held-for-moms-murder-let-off/articleshow/80777732.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||CHOKED UP||Commuters have to brave long traffic jams every day after Delhi Police has blocked the Delhi-UP carraigeway on Meerut expressway||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/choked-up/articleshow/80775944.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||HC orders bride be brought to Ahmedabad in govt vehicle||AHMEDABAD: On the Gujarat high court’s orders, a police vehicle on Tuesday morning left the Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) training centre in Junagadh for Ahmedabad, with a woman trainee accompanied by a PSI and a member of the district legal service authority. The trainee was brought to Ahmedabad so she could sign for her marriage registration. Her boyfriend was waiting for her to get the marriage registered. Tuesday was the last day for their registration after the sub-registrar issued one-month’s notice under the Special Marriage Act provisions. The couple opted for special laws because they belong to different religions, the man is a Muslim and the woman, a Hindu. The couple applied for marriage registration and this led to the woman’s family objecting to the relationship. Karanj police summoned the woman last month, at night, and she was made to sit in the police station till 3am. Weary of the objections of the family and her community as well as the intervention of the police, the woman, who was undergoing Lok Rakshak Dal training at the Gomtipur training centre, sought a transfer to the Junagadh training centre. However, she was cut off completely from her boyfriend because she was not allowed to keep a mobile phone there. On the other hand, the man moved the high court for her custody. On Monday, he pointed out that Wednesday was the last day for their marriage registration. On the orders of Gujarat high court, the Lok Rakshak Dal trainee was presented through video conferencing from a Junagadh court. She told the court that she wanted to marry the Muslim man. The man assured the court that he and his family would not discourage her from pursuing her career. After hearing the woman, the high court bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Sangeeta Vishen inquired with the sub-registrar if the couple could remain present through video conferencing for marriage registration. The official said that their physical presence is required because their signature is necessary on the document. The registrar also expressed willingness to travel the 300km to Junagadh to get her signature. But the court felt it proper to bring her to Ahmedabad. The high court ordered the training centre to grant her leave so she could come to Ahmedabad for the marriage registration. It ordered to provide her an official vehicle and directed that a woman PSI and a member of the legal service authority accompany her for assistance.  The high court also ordered the DCP of Zone 2 to provide protection to the couple during the marriage registration process and thereafter. The high court also sought an explanation from Karanj police inspector D V Tadvi as to why the woman was called to the police station after sunset, which is against the rules. The judges also ordered the Junagadh training centre authorities to explain why the trainee was not allowed to keep a mobile phone when all other trainees could use mobile phones after training hours. The court has sought these reports on February 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-bride-be-brought-to-city-in-govt-vehicle/articleshow/80777050.cms||Saeed Khan
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Cong: Probe fin panel findings on projects||Hyderabad: Former Congress minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir on Tuesday demanded a high-level probe into the observations made by the 15th Finance Commission on Telangana government in its report submitted to Parliament last week. Shabbir Ali said the Finance Commission has talked about financial irregularities and made serious comments on various projects, including Kaleshwaram. “It vindicated the stand of Congress that Kaleshwaram is not a financially viable project and it would not benefit the farmers,” he said. Shabbir Ali said the commission has also observed that the “huge investments made in irrigation have not yet resulted in commensurate returns in terms of crop yield improvements.” The central government should order a probe into irrigation projects and also irregular accounting, he demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-probe-fin-panel-findings-on-projects/articleshow/80775958.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Aurangabad||Back from Pakistan jail, woman dies at Aurangabad home||AURANGABAD: Haseena Begam had returned home to Aurangabad on January 26 after spending 18 long years in a Pakistani prison. Just after getting down from the train at the Aurangabad railway station, the 65-year-old had said it felt like she was “entering paradise.” That happiness did not last long. Early on Tuesday morning, just a fortnight after her return home, Haseena Begam died of a heart attack. Her relatives said that around 1.30 am on Tuesday, Begam started experiencing chest pain. She woke up her nephew Zainuddin Chishti. Soon, her health deteriorated and she was struggling even to breathe. Chishti immediately called for a doctor and an ambulance. However, before she could be taken to hospital, Begam had collapsed. The doctor who came to check her declared her dead. Since her return, Begam had been staying with Chishti in a rented accommodation in the Rashidpura area of the city. Within days of her return, Begam had come to know that a plot of land she had purchased in 2000 had been grabbed. “She was very happy to be back home. However, she was shocked to find that her plot, which was the only property she owned, had been encroached upon,” Chishti said. Incidentally, the registration documents for this same property had helped her gain freedom from the Pakistani jail. Begam spent nearly two decades in a Pakistani prison after being arrested on suspicion of being a spy. She had gone to Pakistan to meet some relatives but had lost her passport and other belongings. She could not tell the Pakistani police where her relatives lived as she had lost their address details too. Back home in India, her name got deleted from the voters’ list over the years after she was not found to be residing at her husband’s home in Saharanpur (UP) or even in her native Aurangabad. In the absence of any identity proof, the Aurangabad police finally traced the registration documents of a 600 sq ft plot in her name that she had purchased in 2000 to establish her identity and facilitate her return to India. “I could not recall the exact location of the plot that she had purchased. The police dug out copies of the registration. Later, when we went to the plot, we found that a suspected land shark had demolished the old structure and built his house there,” said Chishti. On learning about her demise, Aurangabad police commissioner Nikhil Gupta said, “It is unfortunate that she breathed her last before getting justice. On receiving her complaint last week, we had tasked the economic offences wing (EOW) to investigate the case on priority so that she gets justice at the earliest.” An officer in the EOW had even visited Begam on Monday and initiated the investigation. He left her house saying that he would return on Tuesday to record her statement. But before it could be done, she breathed her last. Begam was handed over to the Indian authorities in December 2020, but she could not travel back to Aurangabad due to the Covid-19 restrictions and the ongoing farmers’ protest. She was accommodated at the hostel of the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital in Amritsar before being sent to Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/back-from-pak-jail-woman-dies-at-aurangabad-home/articleshow/80775980.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Protesters seek visitors’ opinion for a better stir||NEW DELHI: A group of farmers from Punjab is receiving suggestions from protestors and visitors to the farmers’ protest site at Singhu border on how to make the movement more efficient or what they think about the issue that the tillers have been agitating about since last November. Started a week ago, the small desk with a notice saying ‘Please write your opinion about the farmers protest’ has received over 130 reactions from people from 13 states. On Tuesday, some visitors from Jharkhand wrote: “The demand for law on MSP should emphasise on punishment to those who purchase crops at lower prices.” The same day, some farmers from Punjab noted, “The fuel stations at Singhu border have helped us a lot and all farmers should purchase fuel for their tractor-trolley from them.” A common complaint jotted on the notebooks at the desk relates to lack of water in the government-provided mobile toilets. A few respondents suggested that the protest orators should be careful when expressing their views, though most have written encouraging words for the farmers. A group of people from Kerala who visited Singhu border for a few days to express solidarity with the agitators wrote that they were “proud to be part of this historical protest”. The organisers said when the campaign to have three agri laws repealed ends, they will publish a compilation of these opinions. Manjot Singh, a farmer from Fatehgarh Sahib in Punjab, said, “After coming to the border last week, I see people from many states joining the protest but returning home without getting an opportunity to give a speech. That is why I thought of requesting people to give us suggestions or express their opinions would be of help to us.” In a similar step, Delhi-based Prabot Singh, seeing many people not getting a chance to share their views from the main protest stage, came up with the ‘Meri Awaaz Suno’ platform on social media. He uploads recorded videos of farmers and visitors speaking their mind about the three farm laws and the campaign against them on the platform. Prabot Singh, who started the desk near the main stage on January 30, said, “We ask people to express their opinions on the protest and we make a video of it. We share the recorded videos on our page on social media platforms. It helps in creating awareness about what the farmers are demanding.” He revealed that 70 videos had been recorded so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/protesters-seek-visitors-opinion-for-a-better-stir/articleshow/80775997.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 10, 2021||Chennai||Sasikala reaches Chennai after nearly 24 hours of roadshow||CHENNAI: Close to 24 hours after she set off from Bengaluru on Monday morning, V K Sasikala, confidante of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, arrived in Chennai to a rousing reception in the early hours of Tuesday. Accompanied by her nephew and AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran, Sasikala reached her new address in Chennai at T Nagar after paying homage to AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran at his Ramavaram Garden residence. Her convoy reached Poonamalle, in the outskirts of the city, around 3.30am, stopping at more than 50 locations to receive the cheering, boisterous AMMK cadres. At every halt, Sasikala was greeted with fireworks, flowers and slogans that hailed her as ‘Thyagathalaivi Chinnamma’ (Embodiment of sacrifice). Scores of partymen had eagerly awaited Sasikala’s return along Mount-Poonamalee Road, and at the T Nagar residence since Monday morning. Close to 4am, as scores of partymen shouted slogans, Sasikala's convoy entered Ramavaram Gardens, MGR's residence and now a memorial that houses a School for the visually and hearing impaired. Sasikala garlanded the statue of MGR, unveiled by her in 2017. A huge garland of fruits and flowers was held by a crane to welcome Sasikaka. Sasikala paid floral tributes to MGR even as the hit song ‘Neenga Nalla Irukkonum Naadu Munnera' (you should be in good health for the state to prosper) from his film 'Idhayakkani' blared. Sasikala was accompanied by her nephew S Venkatesh, who had been reinducted into the AIADMK along with Dhinakaran, hours before she left for Bengaluru prison. Both her appointments were nullified by the AIADMK led by O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami later. Earlier, the vehicles ahead and part of the convoy faced trouble after Sriperumbudur when police began diverting them, citing the movement of an empty but lengthy multi axle loader. At 3.45am, Sasikala's convoy crossed Iyappanthangal. Folk artistes welcomed them as supporters showered flower petals on the vehicle. A large crowd welcomed her at Guindy in Chennai with drum beats. It was an enthusiastic reception for Sasikala again at Kathipara Junction. At Little Mount, a large crowd greeted her with traditional lamps. At Saidapet, as supporters gathered around her vehicle, it was a tired police force that tried to control the crowds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sasikala-reaches-chennai-after-nearly-24-hours-of-road-show/articleshow/80774577.cms||D Govardan
February 10, 2021||Nagpur||New cases cross 1k-mark in Vidarbha for first time in 66 days||Nagpur: For the first time since December 4, new cases in a day crossed the 1,000-mark in Vidarbha on Wednesday. Amravati district recorded its highest tally thus far this year, and contributed majorly in adding the region’s cases by 1,014. Nagpur and Amravati districts together contributed a 73.96% cases on Wednesday. Cases remained under 10 in four districts in Nagpur division while all other districts in Amravati division reported less than 70 cases. Number of recoveries was second highest for the month at 779 across the 11 districts. Fatalities remained low as 11 in all were reported in the region. Covid deaths were from Nagpur (7), Bhandara (1), Amravati (1), Yavatmal (2), taking the toll to 7,066. Akola, Wardha, Gondia, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Buldhana and Washim didn’t report any Covid death on Wednesday. The 1,014 new cases came from Nagpur (391), Bhandara (6), Wardha (59), Gondia (3), Chandrapur (7), Gadchiroli (3), Akola (63), Amravati (359), Yavatmal (54), Buldhana (59) and Washim (10), taking the caseload to 2,80,513. The 779 recoveries came from Nagpur (258), Bhandara (8), Wardha (44), Chandrapur (12), Gadchiroli (4), Akola (122), Amravati (266), Yavatmal (33), Buldhana (22) and Washim (10). The total stands at 2,66,552 while 6,445 patients are under treatment. Wardha: The district’s caseload increased to 10,472 with addition of 59 new patients on Wednesday, while 44 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the recoveries to 9,751. Now, 404 patients are under treatment while the toll remained 317. New cases came from Wardha (34), Karanja (15), Ashti (4), Hinganghat (3), Arvi, Selu and Samudrapur (one each). Amravati: The Covid-19 situation in the district seems to be going from bad to worse as a spike of 359 cases on Wednesday took the caseload to 23,835. One patient succumbed to the disease, taking the toll to 427. The day also saw 266 patients getting discharge, taking the recoveries to 2,2630, leaving 778 patients under treatment. Yavatmal: A 75-year-old man from Kalamb and a 67-year-old woman from Darwha died on Wednesday, due to which the toll mounted to 439. In the last 24 hours, the administration has received 527 test reports of which 54 tested positive. Currently, there are 486 patients undergoing treatment. Out of the 14,896 positive patients treated in the district so far, 13,974 including 33 on Wednesday have recovered. Chandrapur: There were seven new cases while 12 patients were discharged on Wednesday. There was no death during the day and toll remained at 392. The caseload stands at 23,160, including 22,681 recoveries and 87 active cases. Gadchiroli: The district’s new cases count increased by three, the lowest in Vidarbha on Wednesday. After four new recoveries, the district now has just 27 active cases. The caseload so far is 9,393, 105 have succumbed to the disease while 9,261 have recovered so far. Washim: The district reported 10 cases and as many recoveries. The new cases took the tally to 7,257, including 6,995 recoveries and 155 deaths. Now, there are 106 patients under treatment. Buldhana: The caseload of district increased to 14,470 with addition of 59 new cases on Wednesday. Recoveries touched after discharge to 22 more patients. The toll remained 173 while there are 384 active cases. Bhandara: The district reported one death, six new cases and eight recoveries. Now, there are 103 active cases. Total caseload is 13327, including 12,898 recoveries and 326 deaths. Gondia: The district didn’t saw any recoveries but added three new cases. Number of patients under treatment are 90. The caseload has reached 14,271, including 183 deaths and 13,998 recoveries. Akola: The district reported 63 new cases and 122 recoveries. The cases tally climbed to 11,984, including 341 deaths and 10,931 recoveries. Now, there are 712 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-cases-cross-1k-mark-in-vidarbha-for-first-time-in-66-days/articleshow/80798098.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 10, 2021||Surat||Tejas Express to run between Ahmedabad-Mumbai Central from Feb 14||SURAT: The much-awaited Ahmedabad-Mumbai Central Tejas Express will start operating from February 14 onwards. Official sources said that the western railways (WR) decided to restore the Express train between Ahmedabad and Mumbai Central to meet passenger demand and will run on four days a week on Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday. According to a press release issued by Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer of WR, IRCTC had cancelled all trips of this train from November 24 last year due to poor occupancy levels owing to coronavirus pandemic. The train number 82901 Mumbai Central – Ahmedabad TejasExpress will depart from Mumbai Central at 3.05 pm and reach Ahmedabad at 10.05 pm the same day. Similarly, train number 82902 Ahmedabad – Mumbai Central Tejas Express will leave Ahmedabad at 6.40 am to arrive Mumbai Central at 1.05 pm on the same day. En route this train will halt at Borivali, Vapi, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara and Nadiad stations in both directions. This train comprises AC chair car and executive AC Chair car coaches. The booking of Tejas Express is available only on the IRCTC website, said the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tejas-express-to-run-between-abad-mumbai-central-from-feb-14/articleshow/80773525.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Fee to use public toilets: AAP, BJP spar over SDMC scheme||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party functionary Durgesh Pathak on Tuesday said the BJP-led South Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to impose Rs 5 per use for the toilets under their jurisdiction and stated that the decision will devastate the lives of slum dwellers. Slamming BJP over it, AAP called it an anti-poor political party. Pathak said that the corporations have miserably failed to maintain the toilets under their jurisdiction and now this decision will force the poor to opt open defecation. “This will be an extra burden on the slum dwellers. This situation will force these poor people to leave Delhi or to stay away from using the toilets. It will worsen the sanitation condition in the capital,” said Pathak. “After looting the corporations, BJP now wants to loot the poor. This decision is shameful, inhuman and also dictatorial,” Pathak said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that the SDMC proposal in this context is very clear that charges will be levied only on use of toilet blocks in upscale colonies. “The charges will be levied only if the toilet block has no advertisement above it,” Kapoor said, accusing Pathak of creating confusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fee-to-use-public-toilets-aap-bjp-spar-over-sdmc-scheme/articleshow/80776005.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||UK trade secretary, Aaditya Thackeray discuss environment||MUMBAI: UK Secretary for International Trade Elizabeth Truss on Tuesday discussed environment, tourism and cultural ties between UK and Maharashtra at BMC headquarters. She was welcomed by tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray and mayor Kishori Pednekar. In the wake of Brexit, Truss is on a four-day visit to India for talks on enhanced trade partnerships with India. In Mumbai she was accompanied by UK’s South Asia Trade Commissioner and British Deputy High Commissioner to West India, Alan Gimel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uk-trade-secy-aaditya-discuss-environment/articleshow/80777077.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Mumbai||BMC files police complaint against telco over digging||MUMBAI: The BMC on Tuesday filed a police complaint against a private telecom company for allegedly carrying out illegal trenching and digging up a recently laid road at Byculla. The BMC asked the police to register a case and also book the agency for damaging public property. The BMC has imposed Rs 2 lakh penalty on the agency for damaging a part of the road and pavement. In its complaint, the BMC asked Nagpada police to register an FIR against Reliance Jio Infocomm for allegedly carrying out unauthorised trenching on Sankhli Street (Shaikh Hafizuddin Marg) in Byculla. “On inspection on 08.02.2021 of Sankhli Street near Fanuswala Building, we found that Ms Reliance Jio was carrying out trenching work without any permission from the BMC and was laying cables. After the site inspection, the work of unauthorised trenching was stopped. This trenching work has caused a revenue loss of Rs 202690 to the BMC. This is a violation of the MMC Act and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984. So an offence must be registered against the officials of Ms Reliance Jio Infocomm,” the BMC complaint stated. SP MLA and corporator Rais Shaikh said the BMC must blacklist agencies that carry out illegal trenching. When contacted, Reliance Jio declined to comment on the issue. A source close to the company, though, said, “The company has proper permissions for the pit which was dug as there was a fault in the underground optical fibre cable which was needed to be restored urgently. Only the paver blocks were lifted out to detect the fault, which was found and rectified. There was no damage done to the road surface and thereby no damage to public property.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/corpn-files-police-complaint-against-telco-over-digging/articleshow/80774590.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Was Bhagat Singh a parasite?: Tikait’s counter to PM Modi||GUMTHALA GARHU (KURUKSHETRA): Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait invoked freedom fighter Bhagat Singh on Tuesday to counter Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement that people protesting against the farm laws were “andolanjivi” (people who feed off protests) and “parjivi” (parasites). Tikait asked Modi, who had made the statement while addressing Parliament on Monday, whether Bhagat Singh was also a ‘parjivi’. Tikait’s counter to the PM came in a speech during a mahapanchayat organised by farmers at the grain market of Gumthala Garhu village in Pehowa area of Kurukshetra. The mahapanchayat’s turnout was in thousands. Jastej Sandhu, son of former Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Jaswinder Singh Sandhu from Pehowa, organised the event with support from khap panchayats. Tikait ran about two hours behind schedule and reached the event venue sitting on the roof of an SUV, along with a cavalcade of hundreds of cars and his followers. Thousands of farmers waited eagerly to listen to Tikait for long and he summed up his address in about 20 minutes before leaving the place. Addressing the gathering, Tikait said, “The land of Kurukshetra is revolutionary and of justice. Justice in this farmer revolution will begin from here only. The government’s intelligence became corrupt. In the speech, they (PM) said these (protesting farmers) are parjivi. Whether Bhagat Singh was parjivi, who led an andolan (movement) for the nation? Were those who got martyred in freedom andolan parjivi? Were the 150 farmers who were martyred on the borders of Delhi parjivi? Our fight is for our lands and we will continue this andolan.” “It has been over 77 days, but the government is not listening. Efforts were made to demoralise farmers and some kids were taken to the Red Fort. In 1988, 5-6 lakh people had also gone there under the leadership of Chaudhary Mahender Singh Tikait. Parliament was just one kilometre away, but nobody moved that way. It was a conspiracy and we will have to beware of these. Efforts will be made to break Punjab and Haryana, Sikh and non-Sikh, Hindu and Muslim, but we will have to stay united and fight together,” said Tikait. Talking about resuming talks with the government, Tikait said, “Our panch (representative) and manch (stage) will remain the same. If the government wants to talk, line where it was doing earlier. The government should not stay in misunderstanding that the farmers will return home. The farmer’s one foot will remain in his house, second in his field and the third in andolan. The farmers will remain 10 days at the field and five-eight days at their andolan.” Tikait cautioned farmers not to give donations to any outsider and keep the money with them and hand it over to their own organisations associated with Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). “Efforts were made to defame the farmers and hands were put on the pagri (turban) of the farmer and we will not tolerate this. We will not let roti become a commodity of the market, will not let prices decide on hunger in the country and will not let the grain be confined to tijori (vault). They want to end the public distribution system (PDS),” said Tikait. ‘Salaries of MPs, MLAs rose 500%’ BKU leader Rakesh Tikait described the Centre’s actions as a “big conspiracy being hatched against farmers”. “Farmers are distressed due to wrong policies of the government. The salaries of MPs and MLAs have increased manifolds, up to 500%, while the prices of crops of farmers have increased marginal. This andolan will continue and we have given a deadline of October 2 for repealing the laws up. We will strengthen the movement and intensify the agitation in coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-on-tikaits-counter-to-pm-was-bhagat-singh-a-parjivi/articleshow/80776004.cms||JK Singh
February 10, 2021||Rajkot||Fearing arrest, farmer consumes poison||Rajkot: Under the fear of getting booked in the Mundra custodial deaths, a 25-year-old farmer living in Samaghogha village in Kutch consumed poison on Monday. Vipulsinh Jadeja, whose car was used by the key accused Jaiveersinh Jadeja, was questioned by the local crime branch on February 7 and was called again on Monday. As Mundra town observed bandh on Monday and community members of the two victims demanded immediate arrest of the accused, Vipulsinh assumed that the police will book him in the case and arrest him. On Monday, Vipulsinh left from his home and consumed poison on the outskirts of Samaghogha village. When found unconscious, Vipulsinh was rushed to the government hospital in Mundra. Police said that his health was stable and he was only called for questioning. Investigation revealed that Jaiveersinh, who is a former sarpanch of the village, had borrowed the car from Vipulsinh to escape when his name had cropped up in the case. Vipulsinh told police during interrogation that Jaiveersinh had come to him asking for the car as he wanted to go to Bagdana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fearing-arrest-farmer-consumes-poison/articleshow/80773585.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress MPs to move bill in Lok Sabha against farm laws||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Congress MPs on Tuesday announced their decision to move a private members bill in the Lok Sabha in order to pressurise the Centre to repeal the contentious farm laws. The bill will be moved jointly and individually against the farm laws, the Congress MPs said even as they appealed to the members of other parties to “listen to their conscience” and join them in moving similar bills. “We have intimated the Lok Sabha secretariat. The eight Congress MPs will also meet the Speaker of Lok Sabha to give the bill priority in introduction and discussion in view of the sensitivity of the matter. We have been forced to move a Repealing and Amending Act, 2021, before the Lok Sabha, on the lines of the bills passed by the Punjab assembly against the farm laws,” said Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari. “Talks with farmers’ groups have not yielded any results. The BJP, including the Prime Minister, has maintained that the bills are in favour of farmers. The farmers, however, do not agree. But we believe that the BJP government’s policies and intent are doubtful. Despite the minimum support price, a common farmer earns around Rs 15,000 per month,” he added. Patiala MP Preneet Kaur said, “We are bringing this bill to ensure that our Constitution is not trampled upon and also to extend our support to the protesting farmers who have been forced to sit on roads... We have tried everything to support our farmers and to raise their concerns. Our MPs and MLAs have even been sitting on dharna for over an month, but this government has turned a blind eye towards the elected members, as it had done with farmers.” The MPs also demanded an ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh for the kin of farmers who lost their lives during the course of the agitation. “Lakhs of farmers and their family members are participating in the agitation against the farm laws. Over 100 farmers have died during the protests, 120 are behind the bars and 200-odd farmers are missing. Despite this, the Centre has responded to the concerns of the farmers with a mix of arrogance and ignorance,” Tewari added. Congress leader Ranveet Bittu, who was also present along with other Punjab MPs J S Gill, Amar Singh, Mohd Sadique and Santokh Choudhry, said 203 MPs in the Lok Sabha and 64 in the Rajya Sabha have listed agriculture as their profession. “These MPs should join hands with us on this issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-mps-to-move-bill-in-ls-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80776007.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Teen in net for blackmailing several women in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 19-year-old man was arrested from southwest Delhi’s RK Puram for allegedly morphing pictures of women into sexually explicit content. According to police, the teen was a digital stalker who took pictures available on social media like Instagram. He used to blackmail the women by threatening to upload those pictures on social media to defame them. The accused has been identified as Rahim Khan (19). He ran his Instagram handle by the name of ch_rahim_khan786 and had been allegedly stalking, morphing pictures and blackmailing women for the last six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teen-in-net-for-blackmailing-several-women/articleshow/80776013.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Were freedom fighters ‘andolanjeevis’, ask farmer leaders||HISAR: The dharna and toll free campaign on four toll plazas in Hisar continued on Tuesday in response to the call of All India Kisan Morcha. The strike at the Chaudharywas toll plaza was jointly chaired by Anu Sura and Manisha, a student. Addressing the dharna, farmer leaders Subhash Kaushik, Somvir Pilania, Shamsher Singh Numberdar and Sube Singh Boora condemned Prime Minister Narender Modi’s statement in which he called farmer agitators as “andolanjeevi” in Parliament on Monday. The speakers asked Modi if freedom fighters who liberated the country from the British rule were also “andolanjeevi” for the government. They asked if the movement of Vinoba Bhave or the JP movement of 1974 was also by “andolanjeevis.” “In a democratic country, the Constitution gives people the right to agitate and get problems resolved. Is there any preparation to impose restrictions on this right given in the Constitution in the Modi government?” They questioned. Alleging that democratic institutions were at risk, they accused the government of imposing undeclared emergency in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/were-freedom-fighters-andolanjeevis-ask-farmer-leaders/articleshow/80776012.cms||Kumar Mukesh
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||It’s an arrow from KCR’s armoury: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress termed the setting up of a political party by Sharmila as an “arrow from the armoury” of TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy said Sharmila’s new political party in the name of YSR is aimed at damaging the prospects of Congress. “The strategy is to divide ‘anti-KCR’ votebank,” he said. Revanth demanded that Sharmila first come clean on Pulichintala, Pothireddypadu and Sangameshwar irrigation projects taken up by AP government, against which Telangana had lodged complaints with the Union jal shakti Ministry. Revanth said YSR has many followers in Telangana but YSR is remembered as a Congress leader. “But, I don’t think they would support a political party in the name of YSR. If there are any differences between brother and sister (Jagan and Sharmila), they should settle it in AP only,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/its-an-arrow-from-kcrs-armoury-cong/articleshow/80777061.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Kamalakar: People in state happy with TRS||Hyderabad: Hours after YS Sharmila revealed her plans to launch a new political party in Telangana to bring Rajanna Rajyam, BC welfare minister Gangula Kamalakar said there is not alternative party in Telangana as long as TRS is there and TRS chief K Chandrasekhar Rao is alive. No other party can survive here, he said “People in the state are happy with the TRS ruling and KCR’s leadership. When people are happy, they won’t agree to do factionism,” the minister said in Karimnagar on Tuesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kamalakar-people-in-state-happy-with-trs/articleshow/80777063.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Seven Delhi University students suspended for misbehaving with girls||NEW DELHI: Seven students of Delhi University’s Aryabhatta College have been suspended for indiscipline during online classes. The action was taken after women students complained of the misbehaviour. The college principal, Manoj Sinha, confirmed that the university’s disciplinary committee had initiated the action. The notice to the students, who are all in the first year, was also uploaded on the college website. “The norms dictate that the notice of suspension has to be uploaded on the website. These students were also counselled so that they did not repeat the misbehaviour. The students have already appeared before the disciplinary committee,” he added. These students had never attended college since they got admission during the pandemic. They had sent messages to many women students, after which the complaint was filed with a teacher. The parents of the students were also called to the college. “However, the seven students remained defiant. As a result, the disciplinary committee had to intervene. Some of the complaints were also referred to the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC),” said Sinha. All matters of sexual harassment are referred to the ICC in all colleges of the university. A similar incident had been reported in another DU college last year during online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/7-du-students-suspended-for-misbehaving-with-girls/articleshow/80776059.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Not enough water, Delhi banks on treated wastewater for UP supply||NEW DELHI: Under a project worth Rs 6,932 crore, Delhi is planning to exchange 140 million gallons per day of treated wastewater for fresh water from its neighbour. A feasibility report commissioned by the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department noted that 270 cusecs of water from the Ganga can be shared with the capital from the Murad Nagar regulator while the treated water can be released from Okhla, a Delhi Jal Board official confirmed on Tuesday. “We are urgently following this up with UP officials so that a memorandum of understanding between the two states can be finalised,” the DJB official said. “Numerous meetings and field inspections have already been undertaken.” The treated water can be used for irrigation. Earlier, DJB had secured the nod of Upper Yamuna River Board (URYB) to implement the Singapore NeWater model for Delhi. In this, highly treated wastewater from the Coronation Park water treatment plant will be released in Palla and blended with raw water in the expectation that it will then flow with the river and become filtered naturally downstream. Delhi is water-deficient, with a daily water production of 930 MGD against a peak demand of 1,250 MGD. The exchange of 140 MGD water with UP will increase the water production of the city by 15%. DJB estimates that the project and development of associated infrastructure are likely to cost Rs 6,932 crore, with Rs 3,000 crore being the cost for infrastructure to carry the treated effluent to UP, Rs2261 crore for creating 31-km of pipeline network from Murad Nagar to Sonia Vihar and Rs 1,161crore for setting up a second 140 MGD water treatment plant in Sonia Vihar, which currently has one 140 MGD treatment plant. Another exchange of 20 MGD wastewater with Haryana is also being pursued. DJB has submitted a proposal for providing irrigation water at the Auchandi and Jaunti regulators in Haryana and in lieu getting the same amount of raw water via the Carrier Lined Canal and Delhi Sub Branch CLC/DSB canals. If UYRB approves the project, it can be implemented in a mere 18 months, say DJB officials. Despite being a water stressed city, Delhi reuses less than 20% of its treated wastewater resources. Of the 500 million gallons of treated wastewater produced by the city’s 20 sewage treatment plants every day, the capital is able to utilise only 90-95 MGD of this treated water in areas like Sanjay Van, Bhalswa golf course and as coolant in thermal power plants. DJB is obligated to release 267 MGD of this treated waste water in Yamuna to maintain the return e-flow. Besides planning to use 230 MGD water for these three projects, the water utility also plans to divert another 46 MGD for reviving waterbodies with the ultimate aim being to improve groundwater levels. “In areas where groundwater extraction is feasible, the drawn water can be used for augmenting the normal water supply,” an official of DJB said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-enough-water-delhi-banks-on-treated-wastewater-for-up-supply/articleshow/80776028.cms||Paras Singh
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi’s right can’t override that of Haryana, SC told||NEW DELHI: The Haryana government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that right to drinking water of its people could not be overridden by that of Delhi residents and accused Delhi Jal Board (DJB) of chronically making false claims about high ammonia level in Yamuna water to seek a much larger quantity than its allocated share. Appearing for Haryana, senior advocate Shyam Divan told a bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that DJB wasted around 35-50% of water and its claims about high ammonia level, examined promptly by the Central Pollution Control Board and the Upper Yamuna River Board, were found to be false. The Haryana government said, “Since years, DJB has claimed that its water treatment plants have capacity to treat water with ammonia levels of a maximum of 0.9 ppm only, whereas in Agra and various other places, water treatment plants have capacity to treat water containing ammonia levels of 25-30 ppm. Instead of increasing the capacity of treating water, DJB, under the garb of increased ammonia level, wants additional water from Haryana, specifically when the state is already supplying unpolluted water of 1,049 cusecs against Delhi's allocated share of 719 cusecs.” The state faulted the Delhi government for moving a writ petition and said it pitted the rights of people in Delhi against that of the residents of Haryana. At the request of additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, the bench made the Jal Shakti ministry a party in DJB's petition. Haryana said, "DJB has alleged that it is filing the writ petition for the protection of right to life of residents of Delhi, which is against the federal structure of the Constitution of India. If a statutory body of a particular state is permitted to maintain the petition under Article 32 of the Constitution against another state, which in turn also represents its own citizens, that will result in demolishing the established principles of law, as the right to life of residents of a state cannot supersede the right to life of residents of another state. “If a state has grievances against another state, the same can be resolved by maintaining a suit under Article 131 of the Constitution of India and if the dispute is in the nature of a water dispute, that can be resolved in terms of Article 262 of the Constitution of India read with the Inter State River Water Disputes Act, 1956, and the mechanism set up under the different inter-state agreements.” Haryana said it had always maintained the quantum of supply of drinking water to Delhi. “Contrary to the impression being created by DJB, raw water supply from Haryana to Delhi never gets affected or reduced even in the lean season. The inflows of river Yamuna may go down to even drastically low levels, yet Haryana keeps releasing the same quantity that is nearly 1,050 cusecs from Munak for Delhi, which is completely insulated from vagaries of nature as far as supplies of raw water from Haryana is concerned.” The Haryana government also accused DJB of massive mismanagement of water, leading to wastage of over 30% of the water supplied to it. “It is the duty of the DJB to manage its affairs in proper manner and to protect leakages and distribution losses of treated water in their supply system, which are admittedly about 30% as per the Economic Survey of Delhi for the year 2017-2018,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-right-cant-override-that-of-haryana-sc-told/articleshow/80776053.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab will be your nemesis, farm laws death knell: Amarinder Singh to BJP||CHANDIGARH: Claiming that the BJP had failed to muster candidates even on 50% civic body seats in the state and tried pathetically to shift blame for the farmers’ protest on the Congress, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said Punjab would prove to be the party’s “nemesis”. The BJP should start preparing itself for political oblivion, said the CM, adding that the party’s fate was now sealed, not just in Punjab but also at the Centre, where its run was set to end. “The laws will spell the death-knell for this repressive, despotic and autocratic party. For nearly seven years, they have trampled over human rights, as well as dignity and aspirations of Indians in every possible way, and now it is the people’s turn,” said Amarinder. He said the BJP was an urban party, but could not find candidates to field in more than half of the state’s civic body seats. “What you see on the roads, and which you allege to be the Congress handiwork, is the spontaneous anger triggered among farmers by your arrogant anti-farmer attitude?” he said, rejecting Punjab BJP’s claims that the protesters it is facing on its campaign trail for the upcoming municipal polls are not farmers but Congress workers. Rejecting BJP’s charge of police being mute spectators while they are being stopped from entering constituencies for electioneering, the CM said this was ridiculous in the extreme, considering that the protesters themselves were complaining of being subjected to lathi-charge by the police. In any case, had that been the case, BJP’s Manohar Lal Khattar, who controls the government and police in Haryana, would not have faced similar protests at his meeting venue, he pointed out. “The fact is that not only Punjab Police, but the Election Commission (EC), to whom you keep running with your fabricated and frivolous complaints, are doing their job sincerely,” he said, adding that the BJP’s panic and frustration was showing in their lies and unfounded allegations. To the party leadership’s assertion that it will spring a surprise in Punjab in the assembly polls, he remarked with sarcasm: “Yes, there will be a big surprise in 2022, with BJP’s existence being wiped out from our soil.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-will-be-your-nemesis-farm-laws-death-knell-capt-to-bjp/articleshow/80776017.cms||---
February 10, 2021||India||Norms for OTT platforms soon, says Javadekar||NEW DELHI: The central government will soon issue guidelines for regulation of over-the-top (OTT) platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime to address issues of sensitive and vulgar content. Replying to a zero hour mention in the Rajya Sabha, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said, “We are getting a lot of suggestions and complaints (about OTT platforms). Guidelines and directions are almost ready. They will soon be implemented.” Earlier while raising the issue, Mahesh Poddar of BJP said some content and language on OTT platforms was highly objectionable and sexually discriminatory in nature. “Crude language against women is shown. The government should, without delay, control them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/norms-for-ott-platforms-soon-says-javadekar/articleshow/80778112.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police chief takes the jab, 86,000 cops have registered||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Tuesday got vaccinated against Covid-19 at Primus Super Specialty Hospital in Chanakyapuri. The vaccination drive of frontline workers in the capital began from the first week of February. So far, over a lakh have been vaccinated, including healthcare workers who were the first to be given the jab. In fact, Delhi Police had started the process of enrolling its personnel for the vaccination drive from December last year. Around 86,000 police officials have enrolled for the drive so far, and as soon as the vaccination for frontline workers began in the city, turn by turn over hundred police officials came forward and got inoculated. So far, police personnel who have been vaccinated are doing fine and have not shown any adverse symptoms. After the arrival of the vaccine, initial doses were administered to healthcare workers on priority basis. The number of scheduled days, from initially being four — Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday — has now been extended to six days a week — Monday to Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-chief-takes-the-jab-86k-cops-have-registered/articleshow/80776061.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Amritsar||How BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) outdid many other farm outfits in Punjab||BATHINDA: Coming out of Bhartaiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) in 2002, farmer organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) has turned out to be a force to reckon with. Having started from scratch, the farm organisation in the last 18 years has made rapid strides to emerge as the leading farm organisation of Punjab. There are even claims that it has as many members as all other big farm organisations of Punjab combined together. BKU Ugrahan has mobilised almost equal numbers at Bahadurgarh as done by other organisations together at Singhu border. Before the birth of Ekta Ugrahan, BKU Sidhupur led by Pishora Singh (now deceased), BKU Lakhowal, BKU Rajewal and BKU Bhupinder Singh Mann were the biggest such entities in the state. Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ajmer Singh Lakhowal, Bhupinder Singh Mann were considered the biggest farm leaders. Later BKU Ekta Dakonda, Punjab Kisan Union, BKU Krantikari, BKU Mansa too came out of BKU Ekta Sidhupur. Due to such splits, there are nearly three dozen farm organisation in Punjab. Ekta Ugrahan at present has network in over 1,600 villages spanning over 16 districts of Punjab and as per rough estimates it has nearly 5 lakh activists though last compilation of membership was done in 2017 and over 2 lakh members counted. It has grown with every major big protest in past two decades. It all started after Sukhdev Singh Kokri, then state treasurer of BKU Sidhupur, was expelled from the organisation. He was accused of running a protest against some commission agents of Maur town in Bathinda over the suicide by a farmer from Sandoha village. Even before that some fissures had started in the body as debate was on whether to take part in the elections or not. After coming out of BKU Sidhupur, Kokri joined hands with ex-serviceman turned farm activist Joginder Singh Ugrahan. Though the farm organisation started with opposing the restarting the power bills for farm sector in 2004-05 and auction of lands but made it big by opposing acquisition of 376 acres at three villages of Dhaula, Fatehgarh Chhanna and Sanghera in Barnala for for Trident Group. Having started in late 2005, the protests continued till 2007, when Parkash Singh Badal-led government agreed for enhancing the compensation by 70%. Then in 2010-11, the organisation opposed the land acquisition for India Bulls for setting up power plant at Gobindpura village in Mansa and ended the protest by making government considerably enhancing the compensation, along with displacement allowance to land owners. In 2013, it fought for families of farmers, who had committed suicides. In 2015 when the cotton crop was extensively damaged due to white fly, BKU Ekta Ugrahan held protest for over a month by blocking one side of the road outside Bathinda district administrative complex in October 2015. The government later disbursed Rs 640 crore to farmers at Rs 8,000 per acre. “When the opposition to three farm laws started, BKU Ekta Ugrahan has come as a bigger force to take on the central government. We will stop only when our demand of repeal of laws is met,” say Joginder Singh Ugrahan and Sukhdev Singh Kokri, who are together in lead role in the organisation for the last 18 years. “The last democratic process of electing our various bodies from village to state level was done three years ago when Ekta Ugrahan had over 2 lakh members in about 500 villages, which now has reached over 1,600 villages. Fresh internal elections will be held after this struggle. Apart from collecting Rs 10 as membership fee, the organisation collects funds twice a year at every kharif and rabi crops from every village where it has units and funds are duly audited in transparent manner,” they said. The body has also faced criticism for waving pictures of those facing UAPA and Delhi Riot cases at at Tikri border. Earlier, they had gone to Delhi to support Shaheen Bagh protest in early 2020. The women wing of Ekta Ugrahan is led by Harinder Kaur Bindu. During any demonstrations for the compensation to suicide-hit farm families, the women in large numbers participate and play proactive role, says Kaur, who is at the Delhi border protest since November 27, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/how-bku-ekta-ugrahan-outdid-dozens-of-other-farm-bodies/articleshow/80776058.cms||Neel Kamal
February 10, 2021||Goa||Verla Canca gets new sarpanch||Saligao: Amita Vasudev Korgaonkar was elected unopposed as the new sarpanch of Verla Canca panchayat on Tuesday. The post had fallen vacant after former sarpanch Milton Marques died in office which resulted in the BDO calling for fresh elections to of sarpanch in the in the nine member panchayat. Korgaonkar’s name was proposed by Laxmikant Bicholkar and seconded by Digambar Kalangutkar. The newly-elected sarpanch said that her priority will be to solve the water shortage problem and to also undertake the pending development works initiated during the tenure of the former sarpanch. “There is a problem of acute water shortage in one of the wards and my priority now will be to solve the issue,” Korgaonkar further said. Earlier, the panch members observed a minute silence as a tribute to former sarpanch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/verla-canca-gets-new-sarpanch/articleshow/80776114.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Jamshedpur||Two held for Seraikela gang rape||JAMSHEDPUR: Seraikela-Kharsawan police have arrested two persons for the raping a 21-year-old woman in Pinderabera forest under Kandra police station on January 11. Earlier, police had released 100 sketches of the accused to trace the culprits. The woman was attacked while she was driving home from a Pragya Kendra in Gamharia on a two-wheeler. Addressing a press conference on Monday, SP Mohamed Arshi said Budhey Kalindi (35) and Dinesh Behera (26), residents of Sopodera on the outskirts of Jamshedpur, were caught while they were crossing Chirugora area in Kandra on a bike on Sunday night. “The survivor has identified the two accused,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/2-held-for-seraikela-gang-rape/articleshow/80756228.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Vadodara||Probe ordered into BJP MLA Madhu Srivastava threatening scribe||VADODARA: A day after Waghodia BJP MLA Madhu Srivastava threatened a local journalist, city police commissioner Shamsher Singh has ordered an inquiry into the incident. Singh on Tuesday asked the detection of crime branch (DCB) to investigate the matter and submit a report. “I have asked the crime branch to collect all the evidence and the video of the incident from the journalist. Further action will be decided on the basis of the evidence,” Singh told TOI. A group of local journalists met Singh on Tuesday and urged him to act against Srivastava who had allegedly threatened Amit Thakor on Monday. Thakor, who works for a local news channel, said that he was covering the candidates who were filing nominations for the upcoming civic polls in the city on Monday. “When I asked Srivastava a couple of questions about his son’s candidature for the polls, he got angry. He threatened to kill me and there is video evidence of it,” Thakor said. He added that Srivastava holds influence and hence there is threat to his life. The journalists, who met Singh, urged him to file a complaint against Srivastava. Srivastava has been accused of threatening journalists in the past too. His son Dipak Srivastava had planned to contest as an independent candidate in the civic polls after the BJP didn’t give him a ticket. But Dipak’s candidature wasn’t accepted as he is father of three children and rules disqualify candidates who have more than two children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/probe-ordered-into-bjp-mla-srivastava-threatening-scribe/articleshow/80773734.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Rajkot||Disturbed Areas Act makes contest exciting||Rajkot: An interesting electoral battle is on the cards in the Rajkot Municipal Corporation’s (RMC) ward number two, which falls under chief minister Vijay Rupani’s assembly constituency.The imposition of Disturbed Areas Act a few days before the announcement of election date is expected to be one of the major factors in this ward, which is a mix of Rajkot city’s posh areas and has a significant population of minority community too.Last year, BJP had chosen Muslim candidate Sofia Dal to contest from this ward, but this time the party has give tickets to the panel led by former deputy mayor Dr Darshita Shah. Dal had won in the 2015 polls. Congress has picked former leader of opposition in RMC Atul Rajani’s panel while Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has taken its maiden plunge in civic polls by fielding its city president Rajbha Zala.This ward covers Kisanpara Chowk, Raiya Road, Airport Road, Race Course Road, Circuit House Road, Kasturba Marg and other posh areas. A significant minority population resides in societies of Raiya Road like Subhashnagar, Razanagar, Nehrunagar, Ekjan Nagar for the past few years. There are nearly 10,000 Muslim voters in this ward and BJP, sources said, has discounted their votes. Congrss and AAP have chosen one Muslim candidate each in this ward. BJP had won all four seats of this ward in the 2015 election. One of the biggest poll planks has been solving the problem of Amrapali railway crossing where an underpass was constructed four months ago, thus ending years of frustrating traffic jams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/disturbed-areas-act-makes-contest-exciting/articleshow/80774027.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 10, 2021||Ranchi||Koderma DC enrols 2 kids of mine mishap victim in school||KODERMA: Deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap on Monday admitted two children, who lost their father in a mine mishap last month, to a local residential school. A total of four persons, including a woman, died in the mishap in an illegal mica mine on January 21 in Fulwariya. The DC visited Purnanagar hamlet and met the bereaved family members on Monday. While Mamta Kumari was admitted to Class IX of Kasturba Balika Vidyalaya, Rahul Murmu was put in Class V of Samarth Residential School for boys. The DC registered himself as the guardian of the two kids. Gholap also directed the officials of the woman and child development department to ensure a monthly payment of Rs 2,000 to the kids. The DC said, “Whenever I see any child in such conditions, it reminds me of my childhood. I don’t want others to suffer the adversities that I had faced. The bereaved family will get Rs 20,000 under the national family benefit scheme. Widow pension has also been approved for three woman.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/koderma-dc-enrols-2-kids-of-mine-mishap-victim-in-school/articleshow/80756124.cms||---
February 10, 2021||India||Foreign funding licences of 20k NGOs cancelled since 2011: Govt||NEW DELHI: The foreign funding licences of more than 20,600 NGOs and associations have been cancelled from 2011 till date over violation of different provisions of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), 2010, and rules made thereunder, the home ministry told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. Most cancellations were on account of failure to file annual returns. Junior home minister Nityanand Rai, in reply to a question, said FCRA registration of 1,810 NGOs were cancelled in the last three years from 2018 to 2020. Also, FCRA certificates were not renewed for 8,353 NGOs since 2016, including 463 in 2020 alone. The licences of 25 NGOs were suspended last year under Section 13 of FCRA, up from five in 2019 but much less than 233 in 2018, the home ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/foreign-funding-licences-of-20k-ngos-cancelled-since-2011-govt/articleshow/80778113.cms||Bharti Jain
February 10, 2021||Goa||Five shops, two bikes gutted in Zuarinagar||VASCO: A fire broke out at Zuarinagar and engulfed five shops and two two-wheelers early Monday morning. Verna station fire officer Damodar Zambaulikar said the incident occurred at 1.40am on Monday. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. As the shops ahead of Birla petrol pump were divided by just one wall, the fire spread immediately. The five shops included a general store, a newspaper shop, a tyre repair shop, a bar and restaurant and a wine store. Two bikes were also gutted. A fire tender from Verna, along with one each from Vasco and Zuari Industries, fought the fire for two hours. Officials said that property worth Rs 18.5 lakh was saved. The fire tenders returned at 3.45am after bringing the situation under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/five-shops-two-bikes-gutted-in-zuarinagar/articleshow/80776123.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Goa||Khotode’s flora fossil site scientifically validated for biodiversity register||KERI: Goa’s petrified wood site in the village of Khotode in Sattari has fossils that are 65 million-year-old and finds mention in the local People’s Biodiversity Register. On Monday, noted geomorphologist Shrikant Karlekar visited the site along with member secretary of Goa State Biodiversity Board (GSBB) to scientifically validate the fossil. Karlekar, a Konkan and Sahyadrian crest geomorphology scholar, told TOI that the fossil specimens here appear to be “65 million-year-old”. “There is an urgent need to protect them as they showcase the bio-geological heritage of the Western Ghat,” he said. The petrified or fossilized wood site came into the limelight after it was discovered in 1875 by English explorer Isabel Burton. The following year, on April 8, 1876, C Marchesetti reading his research paper on the petrified wood of Khotode at a conference organized by the Bombay Asiatic Society said, “There exists a petrified forest extending over a surface of several miles. The trees of this forest are scattered partly over the side of a hill adjoining captain major's plantation, and partly in the valley along the borders of the river which runs along its base.” The site is located about 6km from Valpoi town, on the way to Ponda, and sits on the left bank of the Mhadei in the midst of a horticultural field. During the site visit, Karlekar inspected the fossil specimens “of petrified wood scattered inside the Patwal nalla and stems of petrified trees lying within a horticulture field”. Local Arvind Sawaikar, who owns the horticultural field that is the site of the petrified forest, said, “My grandfather had purchased this property. Discovery of a large number of specimens of petrified woods has made us proud and we will make the best effort to protect this heritage.” Member secretary GSBB Pradip Sarmokadam said they have decided to protect the bio-geological natural museum by involving the owners of the property. “A petrified forest takes us back to prehistoric periods and we will take necessary steps on priority basis to protect the high degree of antiquity of the geological heritage of the area,” he said. In her account, Lady Burton wrote that “at the bottom of the hill was a little rivulet and pieces of petrified wood were sticking to the bank. As we ascended the hill again we found the petrification scattered all over the ground. They were composed chiefly of palms and pines”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khotodes-flora-fossil-site-scientifically-validated-for-biodiversity-register/articleshow/80776163.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
February 10, 2021||Goa||Laxmi Tari is new sarpanch of Madkai Panchayat||Ponda: Panch member of Adanwada ward Laxmi Tari elected unopposed as the sarpanch of Madkai Village Panchayat in Ponda taluka on Tuesday.  The ruling group members including sarpanch Tari, Yogesh Gaude, Shailendra Panjikar, Deepa Naik and Vishant Naik were later called on by the local MLA Ramkrishna "Sudin" Dhavalikar at his Bandora residence. The post was felt vacant after then sarpanch Asmita Madkaikar resigned from the office during last month. Tari is the third sarpanch in a row after Madkaikar and Deepa Naik since the formation of new panchayat body. Total eight of the nine-member -panchayat body, including sarpanch Tari, Yogesh Gaude, Shailendra Panjikar, Deepa Naik and Vishant Naik, Rohan Kuncolienkar, Vasu Naik and Raju Naik attended the special meeting convened at the Panchayat Hall on Tuesday to elect new sarpanch. An extension officer for village panchayats (EOVP) at the Ponda block development office, Ravindra Naik was present as an observer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/laxmi-tari-is-new-sarpanch-of-madkai-panchayat/articleshow/80776183.cms||---
February 10, 2021||India||Rahul wants action against VK Singh for LAC remark||NEW DELHI: Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowhdury on Tuesday alleged that the minister of state and former Army chief Gen (retd) V K Singh’s statements on the India-China border issues had “facilitated the Chinese attack” and demanded that the government should either issue a strong rebuttal against Singh’s remarks or explain what the minister said and how it affects India’s position. Chowdhury was joined in his protest by party MP Rahul Gandhi, who tweeted on Tuesday that not sacking Singh would be an “insult” to every jawan. “Why is a BJP minister helping China make a case against India? He should’ve been sacked. Not sacking him means insulting every Indian Jawan”, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Tuesday, attaching a link of a news report that said Singh’s remarks on LAC “counters India position”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-wants-action-against-vk-singh-for-lac-remark/articleshow/80778118.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Goa||In Panaji, new wards draw ire from politicos||Panaji: The battle for power at the Corporation of the City of Panaji municipal elections began no sooner the delimitation and reservation of wards was notified. It has raised the hackles of several corporators, who find their traditional wards bifurcated or changed, effectively hampering their chances at the polls. Sixteen of the 30 wards have been reserved and 14 are general wards, mayor Uday Madkaikar stated. Ten have been reserved for women, including OBC women, while the rest are reserved for ST and OBC candidates. The numbers of several wards have been shuffled and areas redrawn. Some corporators, who found themselves out of the race within their ward, said their ground workers were upset to find the wards reserved. Other corporators were surprised to find their ward redrawn and said things would be clear once they were given a list of voters in the area. Some said they were waiting for the party and Monserrate to announce the list of candidates and said they could contest in any constituency despite theirs being reserved. A political observer said the wards were shuffled cleverly. For example, present mayor’s ward 18 has been reserved for women, but his ward has been changed from ward number 18 to 14, which is general, giving him or his family member an opportunity to contest again. Former mayor Surendra Furtado was the most vocal about the delimitation and stated that his ward was bifurcated into four different parts. Stating that he was corporator for six terms and mayor for four he appealed to BJP’s Dattaprasad Naik, ex-Panaji BJP MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker, former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s son, Utpal, city doctor Dr Oscar Rebelo and AAP’s Valmiki Naik to come together on a single platform to defeat Monserrate’s panel. “I appeal to Congress and AAP to come forward on one platform and let’s have a clean CCP,” he said. He alleged Monserrate drew up the delimitation himself and is looking at controlling Tiswadi. When asked whether he would be contesting, Furtado said, “I am an all Goa leader. I can contest from any ward — 1 to 30. He hit out at Monserrate for going back on his promise to move offshore casinos out of the Mandovi within 100 days of his coming to power. When asked whether he would set up his own panel, he said, “People will know at the right time. I also contested assembly elections. Everybody knows my face.” Madkaikar challenged Furtado to contest from any ward, even his own ward. “If he has the capacity…he had dreams of becoming MLA…let him contest from any ward. If he has guts, let him stand in any ward,” Madkaikar said. Panaji MLA Babush Monserrate, who switched to BJP in 2019, told reporters that he is confident of continuing to retain his hold on the corporation by winning all 30 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-panaji-new-wards-draw-ire-from-politicos/articleshow/80776248.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Goa||Will try to win all 30 CCP seats in upcoming polls: Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate||PANAJI: A day after the declaration of reservation of wards for the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) polls, Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate on Tuesday said that he will try to win all 30 seats of CCP in the upcoming municipal polls since he is yet to face any challenge after joining BJP. Monserrate told reporters that he will field candidates for all the 30 wards of Panaji. “It is a question of a challenge to win all 30 seats. I must get these 30 seats. Earlier I used to get a majority although BJP was my opponent that time. Now that I am in BJP and part of the government, I am yet to see a challenge. I am on both the sides of the panel. I will get all 30 seats of CCP,” Monserrate said. He added that joining BJP and being a part of the government will always have an advantage to win elections. For the past several years BJP and Monserrate fielded candidates against each other but Monserrate’s panel would emerge victorious. On the issue of favouring 80 percent new corporators, Monserrate said that his opinion hasn’t changed but it needs consultations with BJP. “Let’s see how it works out,” he said. When asked if the location of offshore casinos would be an issue in the polls, Monserrate said that after studying the issue he realized that some people were concerned as the casinos were leading to traffic jams in the city. He added, “I had said that I will remove the offshore casinos from the Mandovi river within 100 days of getting elected, but I understood that casinos are here to stay. It is not the case that I have any inclination towards the casinos. My commitment is towards the people of Panaji. I feel people are concerned because they face difficulties while parking or to even enter their houses,” Monserrate said. The Panaji MLA also said that support from the Traffic cell of Goa Police is needed, “I feel that there is not much cooperation from the traffic police to clear up the parking at Fontainhas. I will request the CCP commissioner to hold a meeting with representatives of casino operators to avoid congestion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-try-to-win-all-30-ccp-seats-in-upcoming-polls-monserrate/articleshow/80776267.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Goa||No logic in what govt has done, delimitation must be done based on population not voters, amendment to municipalities act ultravirus- Diggu||Panaji: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat said the government’s amendment of the municipalities act by changing the word ‘population’ with voters is “ultra-virus”. “Delimitation is always based on population according to the Census and not on voters,” he told presspersons. Reservation of wards for ST, SC and OBC should also be based on the population in those wards and not on voters he said. “The municipality act states that there should be a sizeable concentration of a population of that caste or class for it to be reserved. This again has to be based on population and not on voters,” he said. Citing the example of a ward in Sanguem where 99 percent of its population is Muslim, he said the ward has been reserved for OBC. “In Mormugao council there is not a single ward in wards 1-9. In Margao they three wards in housing board – wards 23, 24 and 25 are all reserved for ladies. There has to be a criteria for reservation. I have been CM and never remember this happening. Whatever criteria is applied should be applicable across the state to all municipal councils,” he said. Ramakant Khalap said powers of delimitation and declaration of reserved constituencies should not be in the hands of the government. “These powers should be taken away and should be the prerogative of the state election commission,” he said. “There is no logic in what they have done. Some wards were general in 2010, 2015 and this time. Perhaps they have purposely done it to accommodate some people,” Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-logic-in-what-govt-has-done-delimitation-must-be-done-based-on-population-not-voters-amendment-to-municipalities-act-ultravirus-diggu/articleshow/80776270.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Goa||History being manipulated by BJP: Congress||PANAJI: Congress on Tuesday launched a campaign entitled ‘Save Democracy, save India – Join Congress social media’ saying the ongoing slanderous campaign by saffron groups against the party’s tall leaders would be countered and urged citizens to join their effort to bring out the truth. “Today the factual and real history of India is manipulated by the troll army of the BJP. There are repeated attempts to tarnish the image of great leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Pandit Nehru, Sardar Patel and others for cheap political gains of the ruling BJP government,” Margao MLA Digambar Kamat stated as part of the Congress’ all India campaign ‘Join Congress Social Media’. “The sacrifices made by the tallest leaders of the Congress party have always been the strong footing in progress and development of India and they will always remain on the golden pages of glorious history of India,” he added. Congress he said started the IIMs, IITs, Baba Atomic Research Centre and appealed to people to study the history of the country. Advocate Ramakhant Khalap said that BJP has nothing to show with regard to its leaders participation in the freedom movement and are now trying to glorify the current leadership by creating false narratives. “Cosmetic makeovers done by engaging event management and PR agencies are short term and once the makeup fades away the real face gets revealed. BJP has grabbed power with jumlas and fakery and all its policies have put India in bad light globally,” Khalap said. GPCC general secretary Amarnath Panjikar stated that those who wish put out the truth and see justice done can join the social media team need not join the party to be part of the team. The party stated that anyone who has pride in history can join the social media team. He said BJP was bringing in destructive projects but projecting them as good and doing injustice to the people. When asked whether the party has suffered as a result of its poor social media presence, Khalap said this was not true. “There was nothing lacking. We want to strengthen it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/history-being-manipulated-by-bjp-congress/articleshow/80776324.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Goa||Returning officers appointed for polls||Panaji: Gearing up for the forthcoming municipal polls, the state election commission has appointed returning officers for the 11 municipalities and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP). The election date, however, is yet to be finalised. As per court order, delimitation and reservation should be announced at least three weeks before the date is announced. The reservation of wards was notified last week. The exercise has attracted a lot of criticism as there is no consistency or no fixed criteria followed while reserving seats for women, scheduled tribes, scheduled castes and other backward classes. Some affected parties have threatened to move court against the reservation. In a notification published on Tuesday, state election commissioner Choka Ram Garg, IAS, appointed 11 deputy collectors as returning officers and mamlatdars as assistant returning officers for the municipalities. The municipalities whose term expired some months ago and will be going to polls include Mapusa, Margao, Mormugao, Cuncolim, Canacona, Quepem, Curchorem, Sanguem, Bicholim, Valpoi and Pernem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/returning-officers-appointed-for-polls/articleshow/80776367.cms||---
February 10, 2021||Goa||Centre’s Rs 400 crore generous, but will it reach us: Local fishermen||PANAJI: Members of the fishing community in Goa have reacted to the whopping Rs 400 crore earmarked for the state. While some have welcomed the generous fund, others are doubtful of benefiting from it. Union fisheries minister Giriraj Singh, during his visit to Goa on Sunday, had announced the investment of Rs 400 crore to make the coastal state a fisheries hub. “In the past, hundreds of crores have been promised under the Blue Revolution and we are still waiting for it. Even the new jetty, which was promised seven years ago, not even 20% has not been completed,” president of the All Goa Purse Seine Boat Owners’ Association, Harshad Dhond said. He said that the need of the hour is infrastructure development at the existing jetties. “At Malim jetty, we lack proper infrastructure. The land may belong to the fisheries department, but all the maintenance work is done by the Mandovi Fisheries Cooperative Society,” Dhond said, adding that they still hope to benefit from the new investment. Chairperson of the Cutbona Fisheries Cooperative Society, Vinay Tari said that they were not even informed about the Union minister’s interaction with fishermen. “We still don’t know which fishermen met with him and what issues were presented that day. We would have also wanted a representation with the minister to demand intervention at the mouth at the Sal,” he said. Currently, the navigation of the river mouth is hindered, which, Tari said, can lead to a lot of lives and livelihoods being lost in case of a casualty. “The idea of converting mining pits for cage culture is good, but there are existing problems in Goa that require to be resolved,” he added. Traditional fishermen, whose livelihoods are dependent on localised fishing, pointed out that the investment appears to be more in favour of exporters and large fishing vessel operators. Ronnie Fernandes, a traditional fisherman, said that cage culture fisheries will lead to the slow death of small boat operators. “The bull trawlers will only engage in catching fish for exports, but as traditional fishermen, we catch what locals consume. Shouldn’t safeguarding our trade be prioritised? The state government must ensure that the existing schemes’ subsidy reaches us before promising to make Goa a fisheries hub,” said Ozer Mendes, a member of the Goenchea Ramponkaranchem Ekvott.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centres-rs-400cr-generous-but-will-it-reach-us-local-fishermen/articleshow/80776377.cms||Nida Sayed
