February 11, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: To check dropouts, BBMP will roll out Schools on Wheels by February-end||BENGALURU: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is gearing up to start by this month-end ‘Schools on Wheels’ to address the problem of dropouts. The objective is to identify such students and to provide them with basic education. The civic administration has taken 10 old buses from BMTC and customised them to provide education to children. The buses have been purchased at Rs 4 lakh each. Their seats have been removed and cushioned seats installed on the floor to accommodate many. “A blackboard will be placed behind the driver’s seat such that a teacher can easily write and teach, while kids sit on the cushioned seats and attend classes,” said Manjunath J, special commissioner administration. The focus is on providing free education to children, who have taken to begging and hawking on streets. “There has been a massive dip in the number of admissions in schools as many families are unable to make ends meet and sending children to schools is of least priority,” said another Palike official. Currently, 48 non-governmental organisations have been roped in to conduct a survey to identify school dropouts. Those who attended school and dropped out and those who have never been to school before will be covered. “The buses will have a cupboard for books, a water dispenser and grilled windows to protect children from accidents,” added the officer. The vehicles will be deployed in eight zones of BBMP and two in Bengaluru Urban areas to ensure everybody has access to education. The biggest concern for BBMP is educating parents to send their children to these schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/to-check-dropouts-bbmp-will-roll-out-schools-on-wheels-by-feb-end/articleshow/80797923.cms||Nithya Mandyam
February 11, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Video of girls cleaning school toilets goes viral; probe ordered||KOLAR: A video clip of two girls cleaning toilets in the presence of their teacher at Government Higher Primary School in Sugatur of Kolar taluk has gone viral, prompting authorities to seek clarification from the teacher and the headmaster concerned. The clip shows the girls in school uniform cleaning the toilets and pouring water. Krishnamurthy, deputy director of public instruction (DDPI), Kolar said as soon as he learnt about the incident on Wednesday morning, he issued notices to the headmaster and the teacher concerned, seeking clarification on the matter. KS Nagaraja Gowda, block educational officer, Kolar taluk said that the incident took place on Tuesday and the students were pouring water after attending to nature’s call, but the issue has been blown out of proportion. Gowda told TOI the school building had been used to conduct elections for gram panchayat president and vice-president on Tuesday and that there were many people, including elected representatives, on the school premises, but no one had made any complaint in this regard. Gowda, however, said that he rushed to the school at the directions of the DDPI and the teacher concerned denied asking any student to clean toilets. The teacher reportedly asked the girls if they had poured water after attending to nature’s call. When the girls said they hadn’t, the teacher asked them to pour water, during which time someone made a video and circulated it, said Gowda. Gowda said the teacher had asked the girls to pour water to inculcate hygiene habits in them. He, however, said a detailed inquiry would be conducted and the views of students will also be sought to ascertain facts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/video-of-girls-cleaning-school-toilets-goes-viral-probe-ordered/articleshow/80797937.cms||Ranganath Krishnaswamy
February 11, 2021||Bengaluru||US-returned techie heads gram panchayat in Davanagere||DAVANAGERE: From coding in tech labs to decoding democracy at its elementary level, a woman software engineer who had a five-year stint in the US now heads a gram panchayat in Davanagere’s Jagalur taluk, about 250km from Bengaluru. Swathi Thippeswamy studied BE in information science and engineering from PESIT, Bengaluru. During frequent visits to her ancestral village Sokke in Davanagere district over the years, she came face to face with development gaps in rural areas. That’s when she decided to contest gram panchayat elections. She is the fourth-generation Sokke panchayat president from her paternal side. On Monday, she was elected president of panchayat for a two-and-a-half-year term. The panchayat has four villages in its jurisdiction and gets funds and grants directly from the rural development and panchayat raj department of Karnataka government. The panchayat has 18 members. A big push – and encouragement -- to contest the panchayat elections came from her family members and elders in the village. Soon after she was elected president, 32-year-old Swathi converted part of the family property in the village into an office to facilitate meetings with villagers and officers. The newly minted president said basic amenities — drinking water, sanitation, transportation, and education for all — were still a luxury in the hinterland. “I’d like to streamline delivery of basic services to all my constituents, besides introducing villagers to the concept of library and information science,” she told TOI. She lives in Bengaluru with husband Sujay SM and their two children. Her father Thippeswamy was an officer in Vidhana Soudha and took VRS last year. Thippeswamy said his grandfather Thippaiah headed Sokke village from 1920 to 1931 and was a revenue inspector during the British regime. Later, Thippeswamy's father G Maddanaiah was chairman of Sokke panchayat from 1965 to 1970. Recently, Thippeswamy’s nephew HM Kotraiah was president of the panchayat for a two-year term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/us-returned-techie-heads-gp-in-dgere/articleshow/80797939.cms||SA Gangaraju
February 11, 2021||Goa||Goan cyclists see red over Maharashtra participation in trials||Panaji: The Cycling Association of Goa (CAG) has come under fire for mismanaging the cycling trials, besides inviting cyclists from Maharashtra to take part. The trials were conducted on the same day as the Margao-based Xaxti Riders organised their 100-km ride. While the trials saw a mere 20 cyclists featuring in a 28-km time-based format, the Margao event saw around 400 participants take part. What left the Goan cyclists fuming were the presence of four cyclists from neighbouring Maharashtra. "How can Maharashtra cyclists take part in our trials? It is meant for Goans. Once we put our foot down, CAG stopped them," said Sylvano Dsouza, manager-cum-coach of Team Equipe Goa. The organisers informed Sylvano and Kadesh D'Souza, a Goan cyclist, that the cyclists were taken under a quota system. "It is not acceptable that outsiders take part in our trials. Even if they have a quota, have those cyclists followed legal formalities such as being registered for Goa and a domicile certificate for more than six months? Have they taken NOC from the Maharashtra body," asked Nisha Madgavkar, former national swimming champion and now an accomplished triathlete. A day in advance, the organisers also changed the route, from Porvorim to Kadamba Plateau. "The riders must be informed at least a week in advance. How can a cyclist adapt to a new route in just one day? What was the need for the route to be changed when it was the same for the last three years," asked Kadesh. The Goan cyclists were also puzzled over a decision to switch to a time-trial format from a mass start. Besides, the mismanagement during the trials, there are also allegations that the association charges Rs 10,000 as membership fee. "Initially, I was told of an unreasonable fee. When I said I want to pick up the form, I was told at present they are not giving new membership. They will take a meeting and decide," said Madgavkar. CAG secretary NG Akhargekar confirmed the presence of cyclists from Maharashtra and admitted that the route was changed. “As per GOA (Goa Olympic Association) rules, we can take 20% outsiders after they fulfil formalities. We had told Maharashtra cyclists they will get a chance only if we didn’t have enough entries. The route was changed after consulting a NIS coach and it was a better choice. The decisions on format and route were taken keeping in mind safety of the riders,” said Akhargekar. Asked about membership, Akhargekar said it was on hold due to the Covid situation. “We can’t take members as of now without our meeting. The event in Margao is different from ours. Theirs is endurance, ours is time trials. It is a coincidence that the events clashed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-cyclists-see-red-over-maharashtra-participation-in-trials/articleshow/80798947.cms||Paresh Mokani
February 11, 2021||India||Trudeau dials India for vaccine; will do best to help, says Modi||NEW DELHI: Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau, who has been critical of the Indian government on the farmers’ protests, called Prime Minister Modi to request for Covid vaccines. In a late evening tweet, Modi said, “Was happy to receive a call from my friend @JustinTrudeau. Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of Covid vaccines sought by Canada. We also agreed to continue collaborating on other important issues like Climate Change and the global economic recovery.” Was happy to receive a call from my friend @JustinTrudeau. Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate… https://t.co/5TSXmJhLHx— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1612976223000Canada has asked for 1 million doses of Covid vaccines from Serum Institute. While this would be a commercial purchase, the government would have to grant export clearance, which India has said it would do keeping domestic considerations in mind. Trudeau has been in the news in India recently after he supported the farmers’ protests in December drawing a sharp response from the Indian government. Foreign minister Jaishankar darkly warned of bilateral ties being affected. Trudeau government has also refused to heed Indian requests to act against Khalistani elements present in that country. But at this moment Trudeau is facing internal pressure both for a slow rollout of Covid vaccines within Canada. Canada is also facing serious criticism for being the only G-7 country to take vaccines from the COVAX pool, which is mainly for low and middle-income countries. By late 2020, Canada had sourced enough vaccines to give each of its citizens over four doses each. However, the slow rollout of both the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines have adversely affected the vaccination programs in Canada. Pfizer is struggling to supply both in the EU countries and North America. Consequently, Canada now has among the lowest rates of vaccination — at 2.38 per cent. Canada is scheduled to get 26 million doses from Moderna and Pfizer by April-May. But Trudeau now wants to get the Astra Zeneca ones from India. Canada has no domestic vaccine production capability. An official press statement said, “Expressing his appreciation, Prime Minister Trudeau said that if the world managed to conquer Covid-19, it would be significant because of India's tremendous pharmaceutical capacity, and Prime Minister Modi's leadership in sharing this capacity with the world. Prime Minister thanked PM Trudeau for his sentiments.” Watch India would do its best to facilitate supplies of COVID vaccines sought by Canada: PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trudeau-dials-india-for-vaccine-will-do-best-to-help-says-modi/articleshow/80798528.cms||Indrani Bagchi
February 11, 2021||India||Gupkar Alliance bags top post in 2 DDCs, BJP one||SRINAGAR: In a significant development, six-party amalgam People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (GAPD) bagged the top two posts of two District Development Councils (DDCs), while BJP and an Independent won the posts in one DDC, elections for which were held on Wednesday through voice vote. While GAPD won the chairperson and vice-chairperson posts of Ganderbal in central Kashmir and Pulwama in South Kashmir, BJP and the Independent emerged victorious in Jammu division’s Reasi DDC. GAPD comprises National Conference, People’s Democratic Party, Awami National Conference, CPI-M, CPI and J&K People’s Movement. NC’s Nuzhat Ishfaq was elected chairperson and PDP’s Bilal Ahmad Sheikh vice-chairperson of Ganderbal DDC. According an NC official, Nuzhat and Sheikh secured nine votes each to bag their respective posts. Nuzhat is the wife of former NC MLA from Ganderbal Ishfaq Ahmed. In the DDC polls held in J&K last year, NC had won six seats, PDP three, Independents three and JKAP one in Ganderbal. Therefore, it was a foregone conclusion that NC would form the council here. Interestingly, Independent members did not vote for GAPD in this DDC on Wednesday. Similarly, given the number of seats won in DDC elections, PDP’s Syed Bari Andrabi was elected chairperson and NC’s Mukhtar Ahmad Bhand vice-chairperson of the Pulwama DDC. According to officials, Andrabi and Bhand both secured nine votes each to get their respective posts. Interestingly, four votes each went in favour of Independent member Javid Rahim Bhat for the post of chairperson and Minha Lateef of BJP for vice-chairperson. One member, Waheed Parra of PDP, could not vote as he is currently in jail for alleged terror links. In the DDC polls in Pulwama, Independents had won five seats, PDP six, BJP one and NC two. In Reasi DDC, BJP’s Saraf Singh Nag won chairperson’s post, while Independent member Sajra Qadri became vice-chairperson. Nag won the post with nine out of 14 votes. Sajra, however, was elected through toss as she and her BJP rival Abdul Rashid both got seven votes each. With these three, elections for the posts of chairperson and vice-chairperson have been completed in eight out of 20 DDCs. Elections to these posts for Srinagar, Shopian, Kulgam, Kathua and Jammu DDCs were held earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gupkar-alliance-bags-top-post-in-2-ddcs-bjp-one/articleshow/80800277.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 11, 2021||Delhi||#WeekendPlan: NCR couples opt for Valentine’s Day getaways||Planning a getaway together or gifting a holiday to one’s partner has been a Valentine’s Day ritual for many couples, but this year the number of couples planning a getaway on Valentine’s weekend has definitely gone up. With lesser people choosing to go out for dinner or movie dates due to the pandemic, travelling on Valentine’s Day is a popular trend. “Either my friends are planning an intimate evening at home or are going for a short trip this weekend,” says Sakshi Khurana*, who has planned a weekend stay at a heritage property in Jaipur on V-Day. “I was inspired by my friends’ travel plans. Also, we used to spend our time at a cinema hall watching back-to-back movies on V-Day, but I haven’t started going to cinema halls yet, so a weekend getaway looked like an ideal plan,” she says. ‘Easier to plan vacays while working from home’Some say the availability of attractive packages in destinations like Jaipur, Bikaner, Ranthambore is the reason they plan to travel on V-Day. “If you reserve a table at a decent restaurant in NCR, you still end up spending around `6,000 for two people. I have always avoided going out for dinner on V-Day for this reason. I don’t see any point in spending this much money for a couple of hours. But this year, a holiday seemed like a good idea as there are interesting offers on destinations, where you can easily drive down to. Also, while we are still working from home, it is easier to plan travel now as compared to other years,” says Vedika Mathur, a bank employee, who is planning to travel to Ranthambore this weekend. Vipul Prakash, Chief Operating Officer, MakeMyTrip, shares, “After spending close to a year confined to homes, any opportunity to be able to step out is being lapped up by travellers and V-Day is the perfect occasion to do that. We are also seeing great traction for in-city staycation and daycation packages.” 20% hike in demand for staycation options this year: Tour companiesTravel sites and tour operators say that they have seen a surge in enquiries for homestays and cottages this year on V-Day. “Over the years, we have seen travellers move away from traditional travel options and choose adventure tourism, eco-tourism, and staycations among others. In 2021, for accommodation, we have seen a surge in enquiries for options such as homestays, cottages, and premium and luxury hotel properties. This year, we have witnessed around 20% hike in demand for staycation options and driveaway destinations as customer confidence is building up. The significant metro cities that have witnessed a rise in enquiries/bookings for staycations are Bengaluru followed by NCR, Mumbai and Kolkata. Additionally, destinations like Goa, Jaipur, Darjeeling and Coorg have seen adequate occupancy rise as well. Travellers are well aware of the health and safety measures and due importance is being given to hygiene norms while choosing any particular destination,” informs Sabina Chopra, the co-founder and COO, Corporate Travel & Head Industry Relations, Yatra.com. As per a study by Goibibo, more than 78% of the properties (in popular destinations) are already booked for a day – with many opting for three-star or budget category hotels. Leisure destinations including Goa, Jaipur, Digha and Manali have emerged as some of the popular travel destinations. Sunil Suresh, Chief Marketing Officer, Goibibo, says in a statement, “With V-Day around the corner, and that too on a weekend, there is a significant surge in bookings for weekend getaways. We are noticing strong momentum within the couple-friendly hotels category for the Valentine Day weekend. Currently, more than 40% of the weekend getaway bookings in February have been secured for the Valentine’s Day weekend – and that number is steadily climbing leading up to Valentine’s Day.” (*Name changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/weekendplan-ncr-couples-opt-for-valentines-day-getaways/articleshow/80787900.cms||Divya Kaushik
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||A fitting tribute Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose in Lucknow||The 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose was celebrated at the Bengali Club recently. A dance ballet Jai Subhash was staged on the occasion. A few Bengali songs were also sung in the Netaji’s memory by Harshita, Diya, Antara, Anu Rawat, Anamika Yadav and Sanjeev Roy. — Vishnu JaiswalA still from the dance ballet (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)A still from the dance ballet (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Sanjeev Roy (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Sanjeev Roy (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Enakshi Sinha (R) Arun Kumar Banerjee (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Enakshi Sinha (R) Arun Kumar Banerjee (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Niladri and Tirtho (R) Arpita Chatterjee (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Niladri and Tirtho (R) Arpita Chatterjee (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Nita and Rajoshree Banerjee (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Nita and Rajoshree Banerjee (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Babita Ghoshal and Saswati Basu (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Babita Ghoshal and Saswati Basu (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-fitting-tribute-netaji-subhash-chandra-bose-in-lucknow/articleshow/80788372.cms||---
February 11, 2021||India||Isro plans new propulsion for deep space missions||MUMBAI: Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) is exploring the possibility of developing a new propulsion technology to fuel spacecraft for its future deep space missions. On January 28, Isro’s UR Rao Satellite Centre in Bengaluru issued an invitation for ‘expression of interest’ for “design and modelling; simulation and analysis; testing and qualification of 100W Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator (RTEG) without radio isotope.’’ Isro calls it alpha source thermoelectric propulsion technology. RTEG will have less mass than solar cells of equivalent power and allow more compact spacecraft that can navigate easier in space. Many missions of Nasa and Russia, Besides China’s 2013 Chang’e 3 mission to the moon and its rover Yutu had used RTG. Former Isro chairman AS Kiran Kumar said RTEG is futuristic. “It will be useful for long duration missions where alternative energy is not available,” he said. After another Mars mission, Isro could be eyeing Jupiter, Saturn, Neptune and Uranus. According to the Isro document, “the development of RTEG is taken up as it is envisaged that it will be a part of Isro’s deep space missions for power generation and thermal management.” According to the document, the system should be capable of operating in vaccum conditions of deep space, dusty, carbon dioxide-rich and corrosive environments. Isro says the RTG’s weight should be 20 kgs or less, with a life span of 20 years or more and survive indefinitely without damage when stored in the atmosphere at temperatures as high as 50 degrees Celsius. Emphasising on safety standards, the document says, “It should be safe for human handling in close vicinity under all conditions even with nuclear fuel concealed inside … the unit should be resilient to any pre-launch or post-launch explosion so as to not cause any nuclear contamination in the environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/isro-plans-new-propulsion-for-deep-space-missions/articleshow/80801653.cms||Srinivas Laxman
February 11, 2021||Business||‘Can babus do everything?’ PM makes strong privatisation pitch||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday made a strong pitch for a bigger role for the private sector in the economy, saying that slandering private enterprise was tantamount to distrusting the potential of youth and suspecting their intent. "Wealth creators are also important for the country, only then wealth can be distributed. How can wealth reach the poor, how can jobs be created," the PM asked. Read AlsoPublic to private: Selling 2 banks, 1 insurerNearly two decades after an NDA government’s unsuccessful bid to reduce government holding in public sector banks, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has bit the bullet and announced a fresh plan to privatise two public sector banks."If the public sector is important, so is the participation of private enterprise. Should members of the IAS alone be tasked with everything? Have we entrusted the IAS with running fertiliser factories and chemical enterprises? Then they are supposed to fly planes as well. What type of capability have we acquired by handing over the country to babus. Babus belong to us and so do the youth. The more opportunity we give to our youth, the more he will benefit," Modi said. The remark came against the backdrop of the bold push for privatisation of PSUs in the Budget and the allegations that the government planned to hand over PSUs to private players of its choice. If the Budget marked the jettisoning of the timidity the political class has historically displayed about the widely acknowledged need to dispose of resource-guzzling and perennially loss-making public sector units, the PM's remarks during the debate on the motion of thanks to the President’s address marked a full-scale embrace and unabashed celebration of private enterprise. Read AlsoOnly a few PSUs to remain in strategic sectors: Niti Aayog CEONiti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant says there will be a few PSUs in strategic sectors once the public sector policy is rolled out and the Budget for 2021-22 has sent out a strong message about government's reformist zeal.Modi took the accusations and suspicions head on. "How can we exclude the private sector? There may have been a time when governments slandered the private sector. The world has changed now, society and the country today have got the capability. How can we declare all of them dishonest? Doing so would have fetched votes in the past, but the world has changed now. Everybody has got potential and they all should get the opportunity. We should not declare them dishonest. This culture is not going to work now," he said. Modi argued the case for the private sector by citing its accomplishments. "The government encouraged manufacturing of mobile phones by private players and, as a result, today even the poor have smartphones. The government encouraged private competition in the telecom sector and today tariff for calls on mobile phones is almost nil, while we can boast of the cheapest data rates. Take the case of the pharma sector. Are all the players there public enterprises? If India today has been able to serve the interest of humanity, then it is all due to the role of private pharma players," he said. "India is proud of the role of the private sector in national progress and in enhancing India’s prestige globally. Look at vaccines, if today India is proving useful to the cause of humanity, it is because of the role of private enterprise and we should trust the youth of our country," he added. Significantly, Modi framed his advocacy for the private sector, arguably the boldest ever by a politician on the floor of Parliament, as a recognition of the capabilities and potential of the youth and the middle class. His contention that babus could not be allowed to be the sole custodians of the economy should please entrepreneurs who have complained about the bureaucracy's suspicions about private business. To those who concluded that political compulsions may have dimmed Modi's pro-private enterprise inclinations, leading him, instead, to repose trust in welfare politics, the speech completed the switching of gears evident first in the Budget. The assertive tone was also a strong indication that the government was going to press ahead with privatisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/can-babus-do-everything-pm-makes-strong-privatisation-pitch/articleshow/80805120.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
February 11, 2021||India||Elgar accused cites US lab’s forensic report in HC, says evidence planted||MUMBAI: Rona Wilson, one of the accused in the Elgar Parishad case, on Wednesday urged the Bombay high court to quash his criminal prosecution by citing a US-based forensic lab’s report that indicated planting of evidence on his laptop. The evidence, he said, was subsequently relied by the National Investigation Agency to book him in the case. Wilson, 42, a human rights activist lodged in Taloja jail since his arrest in June 2018, cited a February 8 digital forensics report from Arsenal Consulting which said his computer had been "compromised’’ for 22 months. He also urged the court to form an SIT to probe the alleged planting of evidence. Mark Stevens, president of Arsenal Consulting, in a 16-page report, said Wilson’s was "one of the most serious cases involving evidence tampering’’ that the firm had encountered, "based on various metrics that include the vast time span between the delivery of the first and last incriminating documents". The report said, "The hidden documents… and the top 10 incriminating documents… were delivered to Wilson’s computer by NetWire (a malware) and not by any other means.’’ It said Wilson’s computer was first compromised on June 13, 2016 after a series of suspicious emails with someone using co-accused Varavara Rao’s email account. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who appeared for NIA against the bail pleas of several accused, told TOI on Wednesday that he has not seen the forensic report but questioned its value at this juncture, saying "if at all, it can be tested or gone into during trial". Wilson’s petition described the report as "independent and unimpeachable expert analysis’’ and sought orders for an SIT to "probe to ascertain person/s behind such planting of fabricated documents in his electronic devices, to implicate him’’ and then prosecute those person/s. He also sought "monetary compensation’’ for "mental agony and harassment, violation of fundamental rights, loss to reputation" and a stay on all proceedings in the case and release on bail as interim relief till his petition is decided. Wilson said he was all set to pursue his PhD at the University of Leicester or Surrey in 2018 after an MPhil from JNU. The NIA has submitted a chargesheet against Wilson alleging Maoist links, a conspiracy to disrupt communal peace, waging war against the nation and several terror offences under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). His petition said he has been accused of hatching a conspiracy to "eliminate Prime Minister Narendra Modi in another Rajiv Gandhi-type incident." Wilson had sent cloned copies of the digital evidence "recovered’’ by police against him and others alleged to be Maoists for forensic analysis to the US firm last July. Police had cited "letters’’ found embedded in computers of some of the accused, including Wilson, as evidence to prosecute them under UAPA, meant to tackle terror. His petition said the 22,000-page chargesheet showed the prosecution case against all 16 accused was "based entirely on electronic evidence". The Centre had last January handed over the probe to the NIA. Originally, Pune police had probed the case. Arsenal said it received "a hard drive on July 31, 2020 which contained forensic images and police work product related to… Wilson and other defendants accused of instigating violence". Its report said, "The attacker responsible for compromising Mr Wilson’s computer had extensive resources (including time) and it is obvious that their primary goals were surveillance and incriminating document delivery’.’ The forensic consultant said it "has connected the same attacker to a significant malware infrastructure which has been deployed over the course of approximately four years to not only attack and compromise Wilson’s computer for 22 months but also to attack his co-defendants… and other defendants in other high-profile Indian cases as well." The report said, "During the course of the email conversation, the person using Varavara Rao’s email account made multiple attempts to get Mr Wilson to open a particular document — ‘another victory.rar'," which he did. It "was a part of a chain of events that led to installation of NetWire remote access trojan (RAT) on Wilson’s computer’’, the report said, detailing steps taken to conduct the forensics and what the "attacker used’’ as a "staging area’’ "for file synchronisation’’. Under a subheading called "Document delivery", the report said it found no evidence, despite "searching aggressively", to suggest MS Word 2010 or later versions existed on Wilson’s computer. "Nor are we aware’’ of him having another computer. The version installed on his computer was 2007. "This is relevant because some of the most incriminating documents on Mr Wilson’s computer, which he allegedly authored, were saved to PDFs by Word 2010 or Word 2013," it noted. The Washington Post in a report said it had asked "three experts on malware and digital forensics in North America to review Arsenal’s report and they said its findings were sound". The newspaper said Arsenal "has performed digital forensics analysis in other high-profile cases, including the Boston Marathon bombing". While Arsenal has not identified the source of the alleged cyberattack, Spencer has called it "very organised" and "extremely dark" in intent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/elgar-accused-cites-forensic-report-says-evidence-nia-relied-on-was-planted/articleshow/80806446.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 11, 2021||India||No evidence in chargesheet: Arnab||MUMBAI: Arnab Goswami of Republic TV, in a rejoinder to the Mumbai Police affidavit on his plea to quash the case against him in the alleged TRP manipulation scam, said the chargesheet disclosed “no incriminating evidence or establishment of criminality”. The “owner/operator of Republic TV channel” are “bizzarely shown as suspects”, it said. The nomenclature as a suspect in the chargesheet is unprecedented and illegal and shows investigation agencies functioning with preconceived notions, the rejoinder filed before the Bombay high court said. Goswami also said that the purported WhatsApp chats seized during the probe do not disclose any offence or are required to be investigated as alleged. He also denied conducting a media trial. The rejoinder said there was an all out tactic of false implication of key officials of ARG Outlier (that operates Republic TV) to implicate Goswami and the firm in the TRP scam. It alleged that a “political vendetta and witch hunt continues unabated by the state”. Police, in its reply, had said that the probe was at a “crucial stage” and if nexus is found between ARG Outlier Media and other accused, the criminal culpability may be attributed to them. So far, the probe “indicates collusion of BARC officials with others to manipulate TRP”, police had said. Police has sought dismissal of Goswami’s petition for quashing the FIR or a CBI probe, saying neither have been named an accused in the chargesheet and hence have no locus to be heard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-evidence-in-chargesheet-arnab/articleshow/80807497.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 11, 2021||India||SC warns of arrest over marriage vow||NEW DELHI: Heavens may have decided the marriage between an upper caste Jat Sikh man and a scheduled caste woman, but it was the fear of arrest under rape charges, driven home earlier by the Punjab and Haryana High Court and now by the Supreme Court, that made the man reverse his u-turn on the promise citing the girl's caste. Kanwarbir Singh, a Jat Sikh, fell in love with a scheduled caste woman and took her to a gurdwara where he promised to marry her. After the promise, the man and the woman stayed in hotels and had a sexual relationship. But, later the man spurned the woman saying his parents were objecting to the marriage as she belonged to the scheduled case community. Crestfallen, the girl, who worked in Australia, filed an FIR at NRI Police Station in Amritsar, accusing Singh of raping her on the promise of marriage. Fearing arrest, the man moved the HC seeking anticipatory bail. The HC refused to grant relief. Singh moved the SC seeking anticipatory bail. Finding the chances of getting relief bleak, the man entered into a compromise with the girl agreeing to marry her within six months and filed the same before the SC bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. When Singh's counsel Shakti Paul Sharma informed the bench about the compromise and willingness of the man to marry the woman he had spurned, the bench asked, "how come suddenly the caste problem has disappeared? Is the settlement a sham and to stall prosecution? Will the issue crop up again once the prosecution is stayed?" Sharma said that even the man's parents have filed affidavit stating that the marriage would definitely take place within six months and that after marriage, their son would migrate to Australia to be with his wife who works there. The bench agreed to entertain the anticipatory bail plea of the man and said, "We will issue notice on the petition but will grant relief only after you get married." When the advocate sought a stay of arrest, the bench said it will consider the same after Singh gets married to the woman. Sharma then said that the woman's arrival in India for the marriage from Australia is getting delayed because of strict Covid protocol in that country. This persuaded the bench to stay Singh's arrest. "Since you have agreed to marry, we will stay your arrest. If you don't marry her, we will send you back to jail." The HC had rejected Singh's anticipatory bail plea on November 25 last year saying there were allegations that he had taken objectionable photographs of the woman and was blackmailing her for money. Within a month of the HC order, the man on December 22 last year entered into a compromise with the woman, agreed to marry her and migrate to Australia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-warns-of-arrest-over-marriage-vow/articleshow/80807894.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 11, 2021||India||No journo informed about move on Art 370 before House: Govt||NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday denied that any civilian, who is not an employee of the central government or a journalist, was privy to knowledge about the nullification of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir before the information was shared with Parliament on August 5, 2019. This was shared by MoS (Home) G Kishan Reddy in reply to a query by Rajya Sabha MP Syed Nasir Hussain. The question comes in the wake of leaked chats of Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami, where he is in a conversation with BARC chief Partho Dasgupta after the Pulwama terror attack, allegedly hinted that the government would make a big strike in Pakistan in response to the attack and also take a significant decision on Jammu & Kashmir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-journo-informed-about-move-on-art-370-before-house-govt/articleshow/80808627.cms||---
February 11, 2021||India||Decriminalising begging? SC to vet||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to examine a plea for decriminalising begging which has been made an offence in various states under the Prevention of Begging Act. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy issued notice to Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana, Bihar and Maharashtra where begging is an offence. The court granted the states six weeks to file their response. Advocate H K Chaturvedi argued that Delhi HC had quashed the legal provisions that criminalised begging in 2018 and urged the court to decide it once and for all so that begging was decriminalised. “The provisions of the statutes criminalising the act of begging put people in a situation to make an unreasonable choice between committing a crime or not committing one and starving, which goes against the very spirit of the Constitution and violates Article 21, right to life,” the petitioner said. “Furthermore, by enforcing such legislations, the state is simply failing in its duty to provide a decent life to its citizens and adds insult to injury by arresting such persons, who beg in search of essentials of bare survival, which is even below sustenance. A person who is compelled to beg cannot be faulted for his actions in such compelling circumstances,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/decriminalising-begging-sc-to-vet/articleshow/80809373.cms||---
February 11, 2021||India||1cr workers returned home during pandemic: Govt||NEW DELHI: Around one crore migrant workers are estimated to have gone back to their native states during the Covid-19 pandemic and most of them have now returned and are getting employment, labour and employment minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said on Wednesday in Rajya Sabha. “As per the information gathered, around one crore labourers returned to their home states from their workplace states. But, now most of them have gone back to work and are getting placement,” he said during Question Hour. Gangwar highlighted that there are 10 crore labourers in the organised sector and 40 crore in the unorganised sector. He added that the government is now making efforts and running programmes to move more of the workforce employed in the unorganised sector to the organised sector. He said under the new labour codes the employment survey methodology has also been changed. “Till now the survey report used to come once a year but now we are working on how this report can be brought out every quarter. We are working on these aspects,” Gangwar added. The government has taken various steps for generating employment in the country, the minister said. He went on to cite the many schemes of the govenrment like Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP), Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY), Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM) and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1cr-workers-returned-home-during-pandemic-govt/articleshow/80808997.cms||---
February 11, 2021||India||Now, govt ports get greater autonomy||New Delhi: The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed the Major Port Authorities Bill, which seeks to provide greater autonomy and flexibility to ports under the central government by creating a Board of Major Port Authority for each such entity and replacing the existing port trusts. The bill had already been passed by the Lok Sabha last year. This is for the first time a bill was put to a division during the pandemic when restrictions are in place for the seating arrange ment of members. But before the bill was passed with 84 members supporting the bill and 44 voting against it, most of the opposition parties targetted the government and alleged the move was aimed at preparing the ground to benefit big corporates. RJD leader Manoj Jha said, “This is a very transparent government. Just by looking at the bill you can make out who is behind this. It’s an amazing art of its own to find out who will be the beneficiary when you go through a bill.” Port and shipping minister Mansukh Mandaviya rejected such charges saying “PM Narendra Modi is friend of all Indians”. Mandaviya said his two predecessors, late Arun Jaitley and Nitin Gadkari have made it clear that no major port will be privatised and he was the third one to make this commitment to Parliament. The minister said there was need to give autonomy to the government-run ports to give full freedom to take commercial decisions so that they can compete with private ports. Other opposition parties including Congress, TMC, SP, DMK, AIADMK and Left parties raised strong objections alleging that the bill was aimed at privatising the ports and diluting the powers of states on land use. Earlier, Congress’s Shaktisinh Gohil asked whether the government was planning to give all the major ports to one entity and also raised questions why boards in each port will have seven members from the private sector out of 12 and going for disproportionate representation. TMC’s Sukhendu Sekhar Roy alleged that the government has “essentially become a seller’s government” as it has adopted a policy of selling all PSUs and public properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-govt-ports-get-greater-autonomy/articleshow/80808392.cms||---
February 11, 2021||India||Congress slams ‘tepid’ Budget, says govt ignored farmers||NEW DELHI: The opposition targeted the government in Parliament on Wednesday for decline in budgetary provisions of certain ministries and ignoring farmers and the middle class. Speaking in Lok Sabha, Congress member Shashi Tharoor said the Budget for 2021-22 was a “tepid Budget” which ignored the middle class in its hour of need and deceived people through poor allocations in health, defence and agriculture sectors. In Rajya Sabha, Congress’s Kapil Sibal said the government only wanted to speak its “mann ki baat” and not listen to “kisan ki baat”. He accused the government of promoting “crony capitalism” as he cited how only a few “big boys” owned almost all assets in the country. The Congress leader said “4-5 big boys” owned almost all assets in the country and “one very big boy is everywhere”. “After all, you have to give airports to the person in whose airplanes you flew,” he added. Invoking former PM Lal Bahadur Shastri’s words ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’, Tharoor, while referring to allocations in defence and agriculture sectors, said the contribution of this Budget was “Na Jawan Na Kisan”. “The Budget is a betrayal of our healthcare workers who worked tirelessly through the pandemic. The allocation for defence this year is only 0.4% over last year. It is a matter of shame that we have a government that has proven consistently that it is unwilling to support our armed forces,” Tharoor said while initiating the discussion on the Budget. In his speech, dotted with remarks and couplets in Hindi and Urdu, he said, “This tepid Budget ignored the middle class in their hour of need. No relief has been given in tax rates for the middle class. You have given an increase in fuel prices. Soon, banks will have to provide fuel loans.” Commenting on FM Nirmala Sitharaman invoking India’s historic win at the Gabba, Tharoor said the Budget did not espouse the heroics witnessed in Brisbane. “Instead of the Brisbane heroics, we got a Chennai collapse,” he said. Initiating the discussion in Rajya Sabha, Sibal referred to PM Narendra Modi’s claim in the House on Monday that MSP would remain untouched and asked, “Why don’t you make a law guaranteeing MSP when your government and all ministers say that private players will pay more than MSP?” BJP’s Sushil Modi termed the Budget historic and cited how the stock market celebrated the Budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-slams-tepid-budget-says-govt-ignored-farmers/articleshow/80810106.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Patna||One shot in Begusarai over land dispute, passerby hurt in firing||BEGUSARAI: One person was shot dead, and a passing cyclist was injured in a firing incident on Tuesday evening, which took place at Fateha village under Bachhwara police station in Begusarai district. Police said Niraj Chaudhary, a resident of the same village, was taking a walk near his house when he was shot. Hearing the sound of gunfire, villagers rushed to the spot only to find Niraj lying in a pool of blood. He succumbed to his injuries on the way to a hospital. Sanjiv, another resident of the village, who was passing by on his bicycle was also injured and has been admitted to a private hospital. Bachhwara SHO Ajit Kumar said as per preliminary investigation the murder seems to be a fall out of old enmity between Niraj and one Gopal from the same village. “Gopal is the son of Prem Kumar, a former sarpanch of Fateha panchayat. Niraj and Gopal had a dispute over a plot of land in the village. During the measurement of the disputed plot Niraj had a scuffle with Gopal’s father and from then on Gopal nursed a grudge against him,” the SHO said. He added, “Though an FIR by the family members of the victim is yet to be filed, some other persons may also be made accused in the case.” Sources said Gopal had also allegedly made a bid on Niraj’s life about six months ago but managed to avoid any police action. Niraj was youngest of his three brothers and used to live in nearby Teghra, a sub-divisional town where he was engaged in farming. Niraj’s father is a retired schoolteacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-shot-in-begusarai-over-land-dispute-passerby-hurt-in-firing/articleshow/80794842.cms||Rajiv Kumar
February 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Jagan lauds officials’ efforts in implementing welfare regime||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday met senior bureaucrats and reviewed the implementation of various schemes in the state. The chief minister thanked the officials for their cooperation with him in the last 20 months of his dispensation. “You are all experts in various fields. I must thank God for giving all of you to me as a team. We were able to bring revolution in implementation of various welfare schemes, besides introducing administrative reforms,” the chief minister told the senior officials. “We have followed a new system in power purchase, which is now being adopted by the central government and several other state governments,” the chief minister said. He also cited the reverse tendering system and the corruption-free transparent procedure as mile stones in the administration. The chief minister referred to the Nadu-Nedu programme in schools and hospitals, which he termed as innovative. He also referred to the Rythu Bharsoa Kendras, village secretariats, village clinics and other initiatives of the government that have created assets in villages. The chief minister drew their attention to the distribution of 30 lakh house sites to the poor and the plans to construct the houses for all the beneficiaries. He said that the state government was ready for the full utilisation of the Prime Minister Awas Yojana and asked the officials to ensure that every beneficiary gets a permanent house under the scheme. The chief minister appreciated the good work being done by volunteers at the village level and advised the officials to honour the best volunteers. He also told the officials to honour the best volunteers at the assembly constituency level on Ugadi this year to encourage them and reward their services. The chief minister thanked chief secretary Adityanath Das for organising the meeting with the senior officials. He also thanked every officer for their cooperation in the last 20 months. Chief secretary Adityanath Das, DGP Gautam Sawang and other senior officials were present at Wednesday’s meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-lauds-officials-efforts-in-implementing-welfare-regime/articleshow/80795539.cms||Gopi Dara
February 11, 2021||Kanpur||NSI develops confectionary products using jaggery||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: National Sugar Institute (NSI) Kanpur has come out with various bakery and confectionary products using liquid or powdered jaggery (gur). Jaggery or gur is a traditional sweetener in our country which is prefered to the white sugar because of its medicinal properties. To provide healthier and nutritive products from the sugar industry, NSI, Kanpur, has successfully developed many varieties of such products, chocolates, brownie, cakes, jaggery popcorns etc. The sugar technology division of the institute has been working on it for the last two years and the process has now been standardized. “It was being considered as a challenge to produce such products maintaining their quality, shelf life and taste but the efforts made by the institute in developing superior quality liquid and powdered jaggery (gur) paved way for production of such over the counter products,” said Prof. Narendra Mohan, director of the institute. He said in view of demand for such products and investment profiles, the institute is looking forward to working with the ministry of rural development and ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) for setting up units around sugar factories and areas having sugarcane availability. The MSME sector has expressed its inclination to use this technology forward for setting up micro and small units and regional centres from Uttar Pradesh. Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh and Odisha had already approached the institute for working out the process for taking forward the technologies developed by it, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nsi-develops-confectionary-products-using-jaggery/articleshow/80796293.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Praja Shanti prez files PIL against VSP privatisation||Vijayawada: Evangelist and president of Praja Shanti party KA Paul on Wednesday moved a PIL in the high court challenging the proposed privatisation of Vizag steel plant (VSP). Paul argued in his petition that privatisation of VSP will have a direct impact on 33,000 employees and another 40,000 who are employed in allied sectors. Apart from these, nearly 4 lakh people are indirectly dependent on the steel plant, he said in the PIL. He stated that the steel plant was established after a prolonged movement in which 32 persons sacrificed their lives. Thousands of poor farmers gave away over 24,000 acres of land for setting up the steel plant at a meagre compensation of Rs 1,200 per acre at the time which is now valued not less than Rs 5 crore. Privatisation of VSP on the basis of losses cannot be done without taking the socio-economic impact on society into consideration, he said. Paul alleged that some private players are planning to grab the assets of the plant, now worth over Rs 2 lakh crore, at a throwaway price, adding that some insiders are helping private players. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/praja-shanti-prez-files-pil-against-vsp-privatisation/articleshow/80796307.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Dakshineswar Metro extension gets CRS approval||KOLKATA: The Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) on Wednesday gave its nod for the Dakshineswar extension of the north-south Metro. Approval from the CRS, under the aviation ministry, is mandatory for commercial operation of any new Metro. Last Friday, a team led by chief commissioner of railway safety (CCRS) Shailesh Kumar Pathak came for a two-day inspection of the 4km Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch. On board a Medha rake, they conducted speed trials at 82kmph. They also rode a motor trolley and checked a list of technical parameters, including the signalling system and the track alignment. The two new stations on this route — Dakshineswar and Baranagar — were scrutinized, along with the Noapara station,which has been operational since July 2013. “We were lucky to have fulfilled all the criteria to get the approval three days after the CRS inspection,” a senior official in the railways told TOI. Metro Railway, which runs the city’s rapid transit network,will now write to the Railway Board about the new line’s readiness for commercial operations. The prompt approval, albeit with some conditions, has raised hopes for imminent inauguration of the extension, before the election code comes into effect. Once the new line is added to the existing 28km north-south corridor, commuters can cover 32.2km from the city’s southern end — Kavi Subhas station in New Garia — to the suburbs in the far north. Implementing agency Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) has built the 4km stretch at Rs 628.4 crore over the last 10 years. Metro Railway has already prepared a fare chart — Rs 25 for end-to-end travel. The mostly elevated section, which also includes 1.4km of embankment, has suffered huge time and cost overruns because of encroachers. The last 202 of the total 500 encroachers were rehabilitated in February 2018. After that, the project picked up pace. However, it also missed deadlines. The last one was in July last year when the train protection and warning system (TPWS) — a software that prevents collision — ran into the Covid-induced lockdown. Finally, German manufacturers Siemens’ delivered the software in October and the line’s 750V DC third rail system was energized on November 30. The first trial run was conducted on December 23. Metro Railway applied for CRS clearance in October. In the second week of January, CRS gave the preliminary permissions for the two new stations and Noapara, which is now the terminal of the existing line. People from vast stretches on either side of BT Road, Bally, Dunlop and Dankuni are waiting to access the Metro through the 4km suburban stretch since it takes over two-and-a-half hours to cover the distances by bus, especially after the Tallah bridge was razed for reconstruction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dakshineswar-metro-extn-gets-crs-approval/articleshow/80797399.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 11, 2021||Vadodara||Panel to investigate assault on vice-dean||Vadodara: M S University’s Faculty of Arts has constituted a five-member fact-finding committee in connection to Monday’s incident of alleged manhandling and verbal assault of arts faculty’s vice-dean by members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP). On Monday, a group of ABVP members had barged into the office of professor Hitesh Raviya, head of English department and vice-dean of the faculty demanding that the faculty cut short the syllabus of the forthcoming examination by 50%. The examinations are set to begin from February 15. The same group had already made the representation before arts faculty dean professor K Krishnan but entered Raviya’s office to make the same representation again. When Raviya insisted that such a large group should not enter the office without permission, especially when social distancing norms are to be maintained, the group started addressing him disrespectfully, calling the teacher by his name. The ruckus continued for over half an hour even in the presence of university’s vigilance staff. At one point of time, ABVP members even locked Raviya’s office from inside to stop the teacher from leaving the premises while some even tried to push him. “It was thanks to my teachers, colleagues and security staff that they were stopped from physically assaulting me. Even if their representation is genuine, such misbehaviour should not be tolerated,” Raviya told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/panel-to-investigate-assault-on-vice-dean/articleshow/80792929.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Patna||Munger-Bhagalpur NH-80 to be four-lane||BHAGALPUR: With an aim to upgrade NH-80, its 57-km-long stretch between Munger and Bhagalpur will be converted into four-lane. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) official sources said the financial bid and tender process were in the final stages and construction work will start soon with an estimated cost of Rs1869.27 crore. NHAI sources said the construction has to be completed in two years from the day of work allotment. The constructing agency will maintain the road for 15 years after that. The sources said the objective is to provide infrastructure boost and connectivity of the eastern regions of Bihar with Buxar and Santhal parganna regions in Jharkhand via Patna-Mokama-Munger-Bhagalpur in order to facilitate commercial activities and promote tourism. Bipin Chandra, NHAI regional officer (Patna), said the process for construction of the four-lane stretch will start soon. The approval for the construction of the four-lane stretch between Munger and Bhagalpur is part of the dream project of CM Nitish Kumar for a four-lane NH from Buxar via Patna-Mokama-Munger-Bhagalpur and connecting Jharkhand. Mangal Pandey, who was road construction minister before the cabinet expansion on Tuesday, had tweeted on Sunday: “Out of the total 57km, the construction of 25km stretch between Munger and Kharia village junction will be made in the first phase.” Pandey also stated that the cost to be incurred for the first phase construction will be Rs918.38 crore. The remaining 32km stretch between Bhagalpur bypass point and Rasalpur village will be taken up in the next phase. The construction cost of this stretch will be Rs950.89 crore. NHAI’s Chandra said the four-laning of the stretch will give a boost to infrastructural development in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/munger-bhagalpur-nh-80-to-be-4-lane/articleshow/80775307.cms||Kumar Rajesh
February 11, 2021||Business||Mirchi Q3 revenues up 80% QoQ, PAT positive||MUMBAI: Entertainment Network (India) Ltd, or ENIL, reported an 80% sequential (quarter-on-quarter, or QoQ) revenue growth to Rs 84.5 crore in the three months to December 31, 2020. This was led by strong growth in volume due to the festive season, the operator of India’s No.1 FM radio channel Radio Mirchi said on Wednesday while announcing the third quarter results . Digital products grew handsomely, marking a significant increase in its digital orientation. Recently, the company had dropped ‘Radio’ from its brand name to become just ‘Mirchi’ in line with its strategic shift towards digital and solutions. ENIL achieved positive earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation (ebitda) after two quarters of losses. Profit after tax (PAT) for the quarter was Rs 16.7 crore, rising 57% mainly on account of a reassessment of royalty provisions and reduction of total costs by 37%. Balance sheet remained strong with cash reserves of Rs 197 crore as on December 31, 2020. Commenting on the results, ENIL MD & CEO Prashant Panday said, “The quarter marked a strong ad volume growth of 11.5% over last year, positive ebitda of Rs 20.9 crore, and strong demand for our solutions, especially digital, products. Solutions margins expanded to 48% from 35% last year on the back of a higher share of digital products. Share of digital solutions in quarterly revenues stood at 10%, marking a strong pivot towards digital. It is clear that the worst is behind us. The future holds the promise of strong growth.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mirchi-q3-revenues-up-80-qoq-pat-positive/articleshow/80800600.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Business||SBI’s home loans cross Rs 5L crore||Mumbai: The country’s largest lender SBI on Wednesday said that its home loan book has crossed the Rs 5-lakh-crore mark and that it plans to double the portfolio in five years. SBI chairman Dinesh Khara said home loans were now the bank’s largest portfolio among various businesses and the bank was the market leader when it came to individual home loans. He said SBI has planned to grow the portfolio by improving efficiencies in disbursements and further reducing the turnaround time for proposals, which is at five days where it has a tie-up with the developer and 12 days for other loans. “We are working on various digital initiatives to improve the efficiencies in home loan delivery including a unique, integrated platform Retail Loan Management System (RLMS), which will provide an end-to-end digital solution,” said Khara. The loan book in the bank’s real estate and housing business unit has grown five times in 10 years from Rs 89,000 crore in 2011 to Rs 5 lakh crore. “With interest starting as low as 6.8% per annum, SBI commands a market share of 34% in the home loan segment. On average, the bank onboards around 1,000 home loan customers in a day. We have completely waived the processing fee till March for customers availing home loans in SBI-approved projects,” said Khara. The bank has set a target of Rs 7 lakh crore for 2024, he said. According to data from Emkay Research, SBI was the leader in home loans at the end of September too with nearly 24% market share, followed by HDFC (17%), ICICI Bank (11%) and LIC Housing Finance (10%). Although the bank has loans of close to Rs 8 lakh crore to large businesses, these are split under two divisions of the bank. According to SBI MD C S Setty, the average credit score of borrowers in its home loan portfolio was 750 and the average loan size had marginally increased to Rs 31 lakh. SBI’s competitive interest rates had enabled it to draw borrowers from other institutions, with close to 23% of home loans being the takeover of existing loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbis-home-loans-cross-rs-5l-crore/articleshow/80800250.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Business||Sebi fines NSE, 2 ex-MDs total Rs 1.5 crore for co-lo scam||MUMBAI: Sebi on Wednesday fined the NSE Rs 1 crore and two of its former MDs — Ravi Narain and Chitra Ramakrishna — Rs 25 lakh each for omissions and commissions in the now infamous co-location (co-lo) scam. This scam had taken place at the bourse between 2012 and 2014. Sebi fined the three for their roles in the scam, which favoured some select stock brokers to get the NSE’s trading data ahead of others, and profited from it. The NSE, Narain and Ramakrishna have to pay the fine within 45 days from the date of the Sebi order. In April 2019, Sebi had ordered the NSE to disgorge Rs 625 crore as a penalty, the fund being the exchange’s profit from co-lo services. Through this service, the NSE had allowed brokers to place their trading servers close to the stock exchange’s main server. This was allowed mainly to cut down on the time to get trading data from the bourse to the brokers. In turn, these brokers disseminated the data from the co-located servers to their clients for trading ahead of others to profit. Co-lo service is not illegal and widely allowed globally, including by Sebi. However, in case of NSE’s co-lo scam, some exchange executives had colluded with OPG Securities, and probably other brokers, and regularly gave them early log-in access to NSE’s main and secondary servers. Between 2012 and 2014, NSE’s servers disseminated data on a first-come, first-served basis. Since OPG Sec and some other brokers were logged in to NSE’s servers ahead of all other brokers, they also got the data ahead of others to profit from the same. “The violations in this case are serious in nature, even though there are no investor complaints on record arising out of such violations,” a Sebi adjudicating officer noted in the 96-page order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-fines-nse-2-ex-mds-total-rs-1-5cr-for-co-lo-scam/articleshow/80800918.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Patna||Will sternly deal with doctors coming late: PMCH superintendent||PATNA: While Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) is set to become the biggest hospital of the country and second largest in the world, shortage and absenteeism of senior doctors is still a concern. Newly appointed PMCH superintendent Dr I S Thakur said the absenteeism issue has been sorted up to 90% now. Dr Thakur, who took the charge on February 1, said while postgraduate doctors have been instructed to come to duty at 8:30am, seniors have been asked to reach by 9am. “Almost 90% of the doctors are now coming on time and we will soon sort out this problem with those not abiding,” Dr Thakur said. He said those doctors found ignoring the instructions will be dealt with strictly. The superintendent said he personally visits different sections of the hospital to check the attendance. He further said the registration starts at 8am and continues till 1:30pm and all those who get themselves registered have to be given consultation. Dr Thakur said he will even ensure that senior doctors take round in the evening. PMCH lacks any digital mode to check the attendance of doctors and healthcare workers and continues to use the old method of marking attendance in a register. Though iris biometric attendance was proposed to be started in the hospital long back, this is yet to begin. “I have recently taken the charge and will look into all the problems,” said Dr Thakur, adding he is presently focusing on sanitation and cleanliness issues and will address other glitches too. Talking about the ways to tackle absenteeism, IMA state senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar said the government should improve the service condition of doctors as per those working with AIIMS and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences. Vacancies should also be filled. “Time-bound promotion and good service conditions should be given so that they are well paid and need not practice in private. Doctors should be paid handsomely.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-sternly-deal-with-doctors-coming-late-pmch-superintendent/articleshow/80795308.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 11, 2021||Patna||‘Land-locked states should be allowed to develop port’: Ram Chandra Prasad Singh||PATNA: JD(U) president and Rajya Sabha member Ram Chandra Prasad Singh on Wednesday demanded that land-locked states such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh be provided necessary facilities and land in the country’s coastal areas to develop their own ports. While supporting the Major Port Authorities Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha, Singh also demanded a new policy to help the land-locked states to develop their ports. Later in the day, the Rajya Sabha passed the Bill to replace the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963. The Bill seeks to provide greater autonomy, flexibility to major ports in India by creating a ‘Board of Major Port Authority’ for every major port and replacing the existing port trusts. The Bill was passed by the Lok Sabha on September 23, 2020, during the Monsoon Session of Parliament last year. Speaking in favour of the Bill, Singh said, “Our major ports are big hubs of import and export. But northern states like Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh do not have their own ports because they are land-locked. I request that a new policy be framed so that the land-locked states can develop their ports in coastal areas.” Singh also demanded that the land-locked states also have their representatives in the Board of Major Port Authority, which would be constituted after enforcement of the new legislation. “The states where these major ports exist must have at least one representative in the proposed Board of Major Port Authority. Besides these, the land-locked states should also have their representatives in such authorities,” Singh argued in the Upper House of Parliament. Singh further pointed out that there is a provision for appointment of Supreme Court retired judges and the retired chief justice of high courts in the adjudicatory board of the major ports. “We have many tribunals in the country for which we are not getting a sufficient number of retired judges of the Supreme Court and retired chief justice of the high courts. It is my suggestion that if the judges of high courts are included in the eligibility criteria, the ratio of availability of retired judges for the adjudicatory board will increase,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/land-locked-states-should-be-allowed-to-develop-port/articleshow/80795605.cms||Madan Kumar
February 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Greenfield steel plant to come up in Vizag||Vijayawada: Even as the central government is getting ready for disinvestment in Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, a South Korean steel company has come forward to set up a greenfield steel plant on the same premises. Union steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday told the Rajya Sabha in reply to a question by YSRC member V Vijayasai Reddy that POSCO has evinced interest to set up a steel plant in the VSP land. A non-binding memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed with the company in October 2019, the minister said. Before signing the MoU, representatives of POSCO and Hyundai visited the plant site , the minister said. A joint meeting of POSCO, Hyundai, RINL, National Mineral Development Corporation and the ministry of steel was held on October 22, 2018, even before the signing of the MoU. The South Korean ambassador was also present at the meeting, Pradhan said, and added that the ambassador also made a personal inspection of the site in Visakhapatnam. The government has formed a joint working group for exchange of information on the proposal, the minister informed the House. He further said POSCO will hold at least 50 per cent of the shareholding in the new plant, while the shareholding of the RINL is being worked out, based on the value of the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/greenfield-steel-plant-to-come-up-in-vizag/articleshow/80795334.cms||Gopi Dara
February 11, 2021||Vijayawada||226 projects across 33 cities in state taken up under Amrut||Vijayawada: The central government has selected 33 cities across the state under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme, said Union minister of state (independent charge) for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri. In reply to a question by BJP member G V L Narasimha Rao, the minister told Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that 226 projects were taken up under the scheme in all these cities and project works worth Rs 3,333.76 crore were sanctioned. The minister said 77 projects worth Rs 518.66 crore have been completed while 149 projects worth Rs 2,815.10 crore are at various stages of completion. The minister further said 22 projects worth Rs 593.71 crore are 70 per cent complete while the rest are between 50 to 75 per cent complete. The scheme has been extended to March 31, 2021, the minister said, adding that works were delayed due to natural calamities such as floods, as well as the lockdown and elections. Similarly, under the Smart Cities category, four cities were selected from the state, in which 242 projects worth Rs 9,229 crore were initiated. The minister said Kakinada, Visakhapatnam and Tirupati were selected in 2016, while Amaravati was selected in 2017. The minister told the House that works worth Rs 7,886 crore are at various stages of implementation. Forty-nine works in Kakinada, 30 works in Visakhapatnam and 23 works in Tirupati are complete while work orders have been issued to 20 projects in Amaravati, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/226-projects-across-33-cities-in-state-taken-up-under-amrut/articleshow/80796146.cms||Gopi Dara
February 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Without modern crematoriums, deceased wait for dignified farewell||Visakhapatnam: A lack of modern, electric crematoriums in the Port City has left the deceased without basic facilities that are required for a dignified farewell. Recently, a number of Vizagites took to social media to express their experiences at the crematoriums. A further complaint was of ‘outsiders’ who often operate at crematoriums, demanding money and heckling the relatives of the deceased. The city has around 50 minor and major cremation grounds while its main crematorium Chavulamadam is at Gnanapuram. An electric crematorium was set up at Gnanapuram about two decades ago but has since remained dysfunctional. Bodies are often cremated in the open, causing pollution as each cremation requires at least 300 kilos of dry firewood. A Vizagite, Gayathri Rao, shared her experience on social media, stating “No smart city should have such a hellish cremation ground. My aunt passed away and I went with my cousin to Chavulamadam at Gnanapuram. I was appalled to see that the whole place was dirty, occupied by a group of people who have absolute control on what goes on at the cremation ghat (business). These people live there, have their pet animals with them. They recycle everything and charge the bereaved family members heavily.” Responding to the complaints of citizens, GVMC commissioner G Srijana and officials visited the crematorium at Gnanapuram on Tuesday. The commissioner also informed that two gas crematoriums and an electrical one will soon be set up. Speaking to TOI, chief medical officer (CMO) of GVMC Dr KSLG Sastry said, “To start with, two major crematoriums in the city, namely Gnanapuram and Gajuwaka, will get a facelift besides installation of electric and gas crematoriums”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/without-modern-crematoriums-deceased-wait-for-dignified-farewell/articleshow/80796332.cms||Sulogna Mehta
February 11, 2021||Patna||‘Yoga helps relieve stress’||PATNA: The importance of yogic exercises in rejuvenation of human body was discussed in detail by experts participating in a two-day national webinar on ‘Rejuvenation Through Yoga’, organised by the physical education department of Central University of South Bihar (CUSB). More than 500 academics drawn from different parts of the country are participating in the webinar which was kicked off by CUSB vice-chancellor H C S Rathore on Wednesday. Rathore, in his inaugural address, eulogised the importance of yoga in day to day life and called upon the teachers as well as students to practice yoga for staying physically and mentally fit. Speaking as the chief guest on the occasion, Swarnim Gujarat Sports University’s former vice-chancellor Jatin Soni elaborated the benefits of various postures (asanas) in yoga and said that rejuvenating yoga poses relieve the stress, the main cause of all destructive processing happening within the body. In fact, presence of stress spikes up the catabolic (destructive) activities inside the body which leads to early ageing, he said. “Rajeev Chaudhary from Pt. Ravi Shankar Shukla University, Raipur, provided valuable insights on recreating and redesigning ourselves through yoga. Any aberration or imbalance in our physical and mental behaviour can lead to toxicity, causing quick ageing. Subodh Singh and Shridip Chatterjee from UP College, Varanasi, also expressed their views on different aspects of yoga,” said CUSB PRO Mudassir Alam. Earlier, department head Ashish Kumar Singh welcomed the guests. Venktesh Singh, dean, School of Physical and Chemical Sciences and coordinator IQAC, CUSB, proposed the vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/yoga-helps-relieve-stress/articleshow/80795698.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||TN, Maharashtra excelin postal carrom c’ship||Lucknow: Last year's champions Tamil Nadu defeated Assam 2-1 to win the final match of the men's team championship of the 25th All India Postal Carrom Tournament at KD Singh Babu Stadium on Wednesday. Host Uttar Pradesh finished third by defeating Bihar 2-1. In the women's team category, Maharashtra defeated last year’s winner Telengana 2-1. In the first match of men's final, Bharthidasan (TN) beat Parag (Assam) by 25-00, 24-12. However, Kishore (TN) lost to Akhlash (Assam) 25-12, 22-19. In doubles match, Suman and Dharani (TN) beat Joykanta and Chanekya (Assam) 25-01, 25-04. In the match for third and fourth spots, UP beat Bihar 2-1. In the first match, Imran (UP) lost to Jalaj (Bihar) 19-13, 25-17 while Mohd Owais (UP) beat Subodh (Bihar) 25-00, 25-5. In the third match, Shekhar and DV Singh (UP) defeated Vivek and Deepak (Bihar) 25-16, 20-08. In women's team championship finals, Maharashtra beat Telangana 2-1. In the first match, Sonal (Mah) beat Ramadevi (Tel) 25-09, 25-00 while Anita (Mah) lost to Savitha (Tel) 25-00, 25-00. In the third match, Bhagyashree and Likhita (Mah) defeated Ramasree and Lakshmi (Tel) 13-06, 25-11. Contesting for the third and fourth positions, Tamil Nadu defeated West Bengal 2-1. In the first match, Asha (TN) beat S Mitra (WB) 25-08, 25-04 while Mumtaz (TN) defeated M Sarkar (WB) 12-22, 25-09, 16-10. In the third match, Suganthi and Radha (TN) beat M Pal and K Basu (WB) 25-00, 25-00. Total 109 matches were played on Wednesday. Training & practice session Cricket players from Lucknow selected in Under-14 and Under-16 categories were provided training on the second day of the three-day practice session, according to secretary of Cricket Association Lucknow (CAL), KM Khan. Former Ranji player and UP minister Mohsin Raza honoured senior coach of Sports Authority of India (SAI), Arun Bharadwaj, by presenting him a shawl on the occasion. Bharadwaj gave tips about various techniques to players. RP Singh appointed member of Hockey India selection panel Former captain of the Indian hockey team and director, sports, RP Singh, has been appointed the member of Hockey India selection committee. CEO, Hockey India, Elena Norman congratulated Singh for his new assignment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tn-maharashtra-excelin-postal-carrom-cship/articleshow/80803804.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Business||India’s Budget numbers credible: Fitch||Mumbai: Rating agency Fitch has said that the higher fiscal deficit projected by the government will slow consolidation but the government’s fiscal projections are “broadly credible”. However, it sees implementation challenges in Budget proposals including bank privatisation. While the proposed capital infusion of Rs 20,000 crore in public sector banks is seen as “insufficient” by Fitch, the creation of a bank to take over stressed loans is seen as a credit positive. Responding to the Union Budget proposals, Fitch said that it points to a loosening of fiscal policy to support the country’s ongoing economic recovery from the pandemic and will consequently lead to a rise in public debt. “The debt/GDP trajectory is core to our sovereign rating assessment, meaning higher deficits and a slower consolidation path will make India’s medium-term growth outlook take on a more critical role in our analysis,” the agency said. According to Fitch, India entered the pandemic with little fiscal headroom from a rating perspective. In June, Fitch had revised the outlook on India’s ‘BBB-’ rating to negative, from stable, factoring in the impact of the pandemic on India’s public finance. “Its general government debt/GDP ratio stood at 72% in 2019, against a median of 42% for ‘BBB’ rated peers. The Budget’s deficit projections for FY22 to FY26 are about 1 percentage point a year above our previous estimates, which could make it more challenging to put debt/GDP on a downward trajectory,” the agency said. It added that the debt-to-GDP ratio would rise above 90% of GDP over five years. But, recent reforms and policy measures, including those announced in the Budget, could also influence the agency’s expectations and, thus, debt trajectory forecasts. Fitch has forecast growth at 11% in FY22 then at around 6.5% a year through to FY26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indias-budget-numbers-credible-fitch/articleshow/80801071.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||Jaffer's resignation purely due to cricketing differences: U'khand cricket secy||Dehradun: Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) secretary Mahim Verma said on Wednesday that there are “no religious overtones in the matter of the resignation of former India cricketer Wasim Jaffer from the post of the head coach of the senior men’s Uttarakhand team on Tuesday". Jaffer's resignation was embroiled in controversy after it was alleged by a few that he was "favouring Muslim players in the team". Verma told TOI: “His resignation came purely due to cricketing differences over choice of players in the squad.” Jaffer had resigned after alleging “interference and bias for non-deserving players on the part of selectors and the CAU secretary.” In response to the allegations, Verma said, “Our association had given Wasim Jaffer a free-hand and there were no restrictions on him. He primarily took the call on the team selection but we need to consider the opinion of our selection committee as well.” In a report by news agency PTI on Wednesday, Jaffer was quoted saying, “...Jo communal angle lagaya (the communal angle that has been brought up), that is very, very sad.” He said, “They levelled an allegation that I am in favour of Iqbal Abdulla, I wanted to make Iqbal Abdulla the captain, which is absolutely wrong.” The leading run-getter in Ranji Trophy also dismissed charges that he brought maulvis (Muslim religious scholars) to the team’s training. According to the cricketer, prayers took place after the team’s training and he “could not understand why it had become such an issue.” On this, Verma said, “One should understand that inviting any outsider in the team’s bio-bubble camp is against the rules. There are no religious issues at all between us and the things being circulated on social media and other platforms are totally false. We don’t want to link these issues to anybody’s religion. Our association is open to people from all communities.” Verma added: “As far as the squad selection for the Vijay Hazare Trophy is concerned, the selectors have shortlisted players on merit and on the basis of their performance in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy. Jaffer has submitted his resignation to us which we have accepted and our association is now looking for a new coach.” Jaffer was appointed the head coach of the state team in June last year. He had signed a one-year contract with CAU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jaffers-resignation-purely-due-to-cricketing-differences-ukhand-cricket-secy/articleshow/80797720.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||Beer sales awaiting good times as Covid fear lingers||Nagpur: Wine shops and bars have opened and liquor sales may be booming but beer is still awaiting good times in the pandemic days. A fear among people that if they drink beer, which is served chilled, they may end up getting Covid or similar symptoms has taken a toll on its sales. Though not scientific, the scare has nearly halved the beer sales this year, compared to 2019-20, say sources in the business as well as official data. Beer sales have failed to catch up with that of other spirits. The data compiled by state’s excise department show that beer sales in the Nagpur district lags by 43% in 2020-21 compared to last year. In entire Vidarbha, it is down by 35%. Much of business and collection is accounted for from Nagpur only. The region has three dry districts of Wardha, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur. Sales of other sprits like country liquor, Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL), and wine too are down. However, the shortfall in beer sales is double that of others. In Nagpur district, over 2 crore bulk litres of country liquor was sold from April to January in 2020-21. This is a fall of 19% against same period last year. With 9 lakh bulk litres of IMFL sold this year, the shortfall is of 12%. Over one lakh bulk litres of wine was sold this year, which is less 8% than 2019-20 On the other hand more than 48 lakh bulk litres of beer was sold in 2020-21. This is nearly half of 85 lakh bulk litres sold from April to January last year. For entire Vidarbha clubbed, country liquor sales are down by 8% and its 9% for IMFL while its 35% for beer. “Apart from fear, the availability of beer was down due to Covid. Beer has a shorter shelf life compared to other sprits. As the plants were shut due to lockdown, fresh stock was not easily available. Even when home delivery was started, beer was not a preferred item,” said Ajay Chandwani of M/s Desh Videsh Wines, a bulk dealing firm. Chandwani said the demand was slowly picking up and expected to improve as Covid fear was slowly going. Excise department figures show beer sales only surpassed the last year’s level in December. In January, there was a jump of 30%. Rajeev Jaiswal, secretary of Wine Shopowners’ Association, said the cold weather was expected to keep the sale low. At present rum is in high demand. Covid has led to a fall in excise duty collection. From April 2020 to Jan 2021, Rs372 crore was collected in Nagpur district. This is a reduction of 16% compared to same period last year. At Rs482 crore, mop up from entire Vidarbha lags by 8% against last year’s figure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/beer-sales-awaiting-good-times-as-covid-fear-lingers/articleshow/80797677.cms||Shishir Arya
February 11, 2021||Patna||UGC norms: Tough time for colleges||PATNA: If the UGC has had its way, not more than 20 out of 262 constituent colleges in the state will continue to impart higher education beyond 2022. According to special guidelines issued by the UGC recently, higher education institutions should be accredited with a minimum score of 2.5 (B+ grade) by 2022. In Bihar, however, out of 262 constituent colleges, only 89 have got valid accreditation from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). Six of these accredited institutions have been awarded ‘A’ grade and 14 have got ‘B+’ grade. Colleges which have been accredited with ‘A’ grade by NAAC include Patna Women’s College, A N College, Patna, College of Commerce, Arts and Science, Patna, St Xaviers’ College of Education, Patna, CM Science College, Darbhanga, and Millat Teachers’ Training College, Madhubani. State Higher Education Council vice-chairman Kameshwar Jha said that out of 237 affiliated colleges in the state, only 23 have so far been accredited by NAAC. “Another 40 constituent colleges and 23 affiliated colleges have uploaded their self-study reports (SSR) for accreditation,” he said. Surprisingly, even premier institutions like Patna College, Patna Science College, Patna Law College and Gaya College are likely to face a tough time as they have been accredited with less than the mandatory 2.5 score. While Patna College, the oldest institution of higher education in the state, has been accredited with a ‘C’grade, Patna Science College and Gaya College have been accredited with a ‘B’ grade. Of the 13 conventional universities in the state, as many as seven universities have been assessed and accredited by NAAC. The latest to be assessed by NAAC is Patna University which has been accredited with B+ grade. Other NAAC-accredited universities include BRA Bihar (Grade B), Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit (GradeB), L N Mithila (Grade B), Magadh (GradeC), and Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur (Grade B). If the UGC remains firm on its stand, all these institutions would soon become a thing of the past. However, Jha asserted that no institution in the state would be allowed to be shut. Efforts are on to improve the academic as well as infrastructure of universities and colleges and get them accredited with a better grade. The council is providing funds to the institutions for this purpose besides organizing special training sessions for college officials, said the vice-chairman. Even the UGC has also introduced a new initiative called ‘Paramarsh’, recently for mentoring the non-accredited institutions. This initiative intends to promote well-performing accredited institutions to mentor the NAAC accreditation aspiring institutions to upgrade their academic performance and get accredited. As many as 167 ‘Mentor Institutions’ have been approved so far under ‘Paramarsh’, to mentor 936 non-accredited higher education institutions in the country. ‘Non-accredited colleges of the state will take the help of these mentor institutions,” Jha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ugc-norms-tough-time-for-colleges/articleshow/80795218.cms||B K Mishra
February 11, 2021||Business||Tube Investments Q3 net profit up 37% at Rs 107 crore||Chennai: Murugappa Group company Tube Investments of India (TII) said on Thursday that it earned a net profit of Rs 107 crore in third quarter up 37% from Rs 78 crore last Q3. The company made net profit of nearly Rs 96 crore in Q2. The board has declared an interim dividend of Rs 2 per share for FY 2020-21. TII has also announced it will get into manufacturing and sale of electric three wheelers with an outlay of Rs 200 crore. The board elected M A M Arunachalam (also known as Arun Murugappan), non-executive, non-independent director as the chairman of the board of directors with immediate effect. The company’s Q3 revenues of Rs 1,309 crore was up 34%. TII shares gained 2.7% to close at Rs 946.30 on the BSE on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tube-investments-q3-net-profit-up-37-at-rs-107-crore/articleshow/80867962.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Patna||Patliputra University signs MoU with Aryabhatta Knowledge University to use office space on rent||PATNA: Faced with huge space constraints, Patliputra University (PPU) has signed an MoU (memorandum of understanding) with the Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU) to take its campus and some halls on rent to streamline the university functioning. The PPU, which had come into being in March 2018, was allotted 8.05 acre land by the state government near Mithapur bus stand. Till now, the PPU has not been given possession of the land causing much difficulty to run its general sections, offices and postgraduate (PG) departments. According to PPU media incharge B K Manglam, registrars of both the universities have recently signed an MoU with a provision to hand over the AKU’s four spacious halls on the first floor to the PPU on a monthly rent of Rs5 lakh. The university will shift its entire examination section to the spacious halls so that it can function smoothly without interruptions, he said. The PPU has also decided to set up its central library and reading section in one of the spacious hall premises of the Aryabhatta Knowledge University enabling research scholars and PG students to avail central library facility. The acting PPU VC, Prof Surendra Pratap Singh, has initiated the move to further streamline the university functioning and improve its academic ambience on its campus too, Manglam said, adding that during initial 14 days of the work as acting VC, Prof Singh held at least 13 meetings in a row with principals, academics and staff of the university to restructure the development plan as envisioned by the CM Nitish Kumar at the university’s inaugural function. According to Manglam, the university has taken various policy decisions under the guidance of the acting VC to give much relief to retiring teachers and employees of the university. The university has asked each college to submit relevant papers of the retiring employees at least six months in advance so that it can hand over them their retirement dues on the day of superannuation, he said, adding all pending cases of the retired teachers and employees have been cleared now at the university level. Besides, the university has started clearing appointment cases on compassionate grounds which have been pending at the university for long. At least 25 people have been given appointment letters on compassionate grounds in class III and IV category so far while cases of others are being taken up on priority, he added. The PPU functioning, which was badly affected due to space constraint and poor strength of ministerial staff, is likely to improve now following appointment of new hands on compassionate grounds. The VC has also made it clear to expedite long pending promotion demand of teachers as per the UGC guidelines, he said, adding the PPU has already set up a promotion cell to cater to the needs of teachers. In another major policy decision, the university has decided to confirm services of those newly appointed teachers who have completed their probation period of two years. The PPU also intends to complete pre-PhD registration and test soon to give an impetus to its research work programme in science, arts and commerce streams, he said, adding the university has started centralized evaluation of answer books of Degree Part I and II examinations to publish their results in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ppu-signs-mou-with-aku-to-use-office-space-on-rent/articleshow/80795494.cms||Kumod Verma
February 11, 2021||Patna||Bihar Congress launches ‘Join Social Media’ campaign||PATNA: As a part of its nationwide programme, state Congress on Wednesday launched the ‘Join Congress Social Media’ campaign to counter hate and curb the spread of fake news in the country. The grand old party has targeted to rope in five lakh people across the country and in Bihar also it has set a target to rope in at least 40,000 social media warriors. The campaign was jointly launched by state Congress research and manifesto committee head Anand Madhab and Congress national social media co-coordinator Pankaj Kharbanda at Sadaqat Ashram. Madhab said from each Lok Sabha constituency in the state at least 1,000 people following Congress ideology will be incorporated and they will be connected through various social media platforms. “Our aim is to stop spread of false news and especially, hatred. Wrong and venomous information are being forwarded on social media, which is dangerous for the country. In fact, the idea is to give right information and counter false news,” said Anand, adding the profiles of those interested in joining this campaign will be checked before adding them. Party’s state spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre said, “Ever since the BJP has come to power, there is hate and chaos across the country. The party is musing the social media platforms and using the same platform, we will unite our country and work for our motherland.” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi during the nationwide launch of the campaign on Monday also urged people to join it and become an ‘army of truth’. He said the motive is to counter hatered being spread in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-launches-join-social-media-campaign/articleshow/80795775.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||GVMC invites citizen inputs in budgeting exercise||Visakhapatnam: For the first time in Andhra Pradesh, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has decided to go for community-led participatory budgeting, starting from the 2021-22 financial year. The civic body on Wednesday inked a three-year memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy, a not-for-profit organisation working towards reshaping city governance by catalysing active citizen participation. Even though the GVMC pegs its budget estimates every year to reflect public aspirations, these are not a part of the budget exercise and it is mostly based on the perception of civic officials. The survey and analysis report would be completed in the next 10 days to finalise the budget proposals for the 2021-22 financial year. The NGO has been implementing similar projects in other states, including in Bengaluru. Janaagraha will conduct a quick survey to collect opinions, aspirations and suggestions of about 10% of Vizagites on the GVMC’s budget. The initiative is expected to create a new frontier for civic participation and lead to collective action. In the second phase, the focus will be on improving the revenue stream of the corporation by identifying the gaps. GVMC commissioner G Srijana said the survey would cover about 10% of Vizagites. “The GVMC would leverage the ward secretariat system for the people’s budget survey, which would be conducted between February 11 and 13. The public can also submit their opinions in a virtual mode on https://www.janaagraha.org/vizag/. The GVMC hopes the initiative would go a long way in influencing and impacting local spending by making the public active participants in the budgeting exercise. The campaign named as ‘MyCityMyBudget’ would go on for three years,” said Srijana. Srijana added that the inputs and aspirations reflected in the survey and the consequent analysis will be used in the budgeting exercise. “It will also serve as the guidepost for expenditure model and guidance at the budget implementation stage. The GVMC wants to incorporate about 20 to 25% inputs in the final budget,” said Srijana. Srinivas Alavilli, head of civic participation at Janaagraha, said the organisation wants to make sure that city governance is as important as governance at the state government or Union government-level. “At the city-level, only the municipal commissioner or the mayor can help realise the aspirations of the public in the budget, which is the basis for community-led participatory budgeting,” said Srinivas. Sapna Karim, head, civic participation, Janaagraha, said this will ensure that citizens have a voice in the city’s development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-invites-citizen-inputs-in-budgeting-exercise/articleshow/80795250.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 11, 2021||Business||Adar Poonawalla buys 60% in Magma Fin||MUMBAI: Vaccine king Adar Poonawalla has acquired Magma Fincorp by investing in a fresh issue that will give him 60% control of the private lender and its affordable housing and insurance arms. The 32-year-old Magma Fincorp was founded by partners Sanjay Chamria and Mayank Poddar. It has a loan book of over Rs 15,000 crore including cars, commercial vehicles, used assets, SME finance and affordable housing. In terms of the transaction announced by the two groups on Wednesday, the company will make a preferential allotment of Rs 3,456 crore by issuing 45.8 crore shares to Poonawalla’s Rising Sun Holdings, and 3.6 crore share to Chamria and Poddar. The preferential allotment represents 64.7% of Magma’s enhanced equity with Rising Sun Holding owning 60% post-issuance and the existing promoters controlling 13.3%. The net worth of Magma Fincorp will rise to Rs 6,300 crore post-issuance. Magma Fincorp and its subsidiaries shall be renamed and rebranded under the brand name “Poonawalla Finance”. These are subject to all requisite regulatory approvals. After the completion of the preferential allotment, the existing financial services business of Poonawalla Finance is proposed to be consolidated into Magma Fincorp with Poonawalla being proposed for chairman. Chamria would continue to be the vice-chairman but step down from MD’s position, which will be taken over by Abhay Bhutada, MD & CEO of Poonawalla Finance. TOI had reported in August 2020 on the Poonawalla Group’s ambitions for the financial sector. “Financing is now a big boy’s game. We started out with just three people and now have close to 10,000 employees and Rs 15,000 crore of assets. Now you need huge capital and you also need to have the ability to raise money at very cheap rates,” said Chamria, speaking to TOI. He added that this deal would benefit everyone concerned. While the Poonawalla Group gets scale and a pan-India presence, the Magma business would also benefit because the capital will improve its credit rating and ability to raise funds. Shares of the company had risen 10% before the announcement to nearly Rs 85. The management team will be further strengthened through the appointment of a professional CEO & COO from among the best in the industry, with substantial experience of running large financial services’ businesses. Magma Fincorp has an AA rating from Acuite Ratings and AA- rating from Care for its long-term bonds. Magma Fincorp’s consolidated net profit had fallen 42% to Rs 13 crore in the third quarter due to pressures arising out of the pandemic. The rating agencies had, however, reaffirmed its AA grade. The company was launched as Magma Leasing in 1989 and was backed by KKR, which picked up a 14.9% stake that it exited through market sales a few years ago. Poonawalla, CEO of Serum Institute of India, has been in the news during the pandemic because of the central role his company is playing as the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer. Although based in Mumbai, Magma is focused on the rural and semi-urban sector with widespread coverage and presence across 21 states with 298 branches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/poonawalla-buys-60-in-magma-fin/articleshow/80800777.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 11, 2021||Business||CEO of Tata Starbucks to step down||MUMBAI: Tata Starbucks is seeing leadership changes with current CEO Navin Gurnaney deciding to step down. Gurnaney’s role will be handed over to Sushant Dash, president of Tata Consumer Products’ beverages portfolio. Tata Consumer owns 50% of Tata Starbucks with the remaining held by US partner Starbucks. Gurnaney has decided to part ways in less than two and a half years of taking over as chief executive of Tata Starbucks. The JV, with 216 coffee parlours in 17 Indian cities, returned to positive earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (ebitda) in December 2020. Sales, after hitting a low of 1% of year-ago in April 2020 due to Covid, recovered strongly month after month. It was 90% of the year-ago level in December 2020.Dash will take charge as Tata Starbucks CEO in May. Interestingly, in 2012, he was part of the strategy and marketing team that opened the first Tata Starbucks outlet in India. Even though 92% of the Tata Starbucks outlets are open, dine-in capacity is at 50%, Tata Consumer said while announcing its third quarter earnings. It added that channel salience, however, is returning to pre-Covid levels. Dash has his task cut out to spearhead the JV’s next phase of growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ceo-of-tata-starbucks-to-step-down/articleshow/80800384.cms||Reeba Zachariah
February 11, 2021||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar: Central ministry talks not on agenda||PATNA: Patna: A day after cabinet expansion in Bihar, CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday reached Delhi to meet PM Narendra Modi. Sources said Nitish's meeting with the PM is scheduled for Thursday. “I had come to Delhi in March before the Covid-19 lockdown was enforced. But now that travelling has become feasible again, I am here. I had to come here anyway after the assembly election to meet the PM. So, here I am,” Nitish told reporters soon after reaching the national capital. He, however, denied that his party's participation in the central ministry is on the agenda of his meeting with Modi, adding it's an old issue, and it's over. Nitish was referring to the "controversy" over JD(U) being offered only one central cabinet berth after the NDA's thumping victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha election in which it had bagged 39 out of 40 seats in Bihar. JD(U) had reportedly wanted at least two of its 16 MPs to be ministers, which could not materialize. Hours after landing in the national capital, Nitish had a dinner meeting with BJP national president J P Nadda at his residence. Sources in JD(U) said Union home minister Amit Shah, too, joined the dinner at the invitation of Nadda. It is learnt that the trio leaders discussed many political issues ranging from the West Bengal assembly polls to the LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s role in the NDA. Regarding the possibility of LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s entry in the Union cabinet, Nitish said everyone knows about the role LJP played in the last assembly election. “BJP has to decide. I don’t take notice of it,” he said. JD(U) has been critical about Chirag damaging it no end by fielding candidates in almost all the constituencies where Nitish’s party contested. Chirag has also been attacking Nitish over several issues, including the law & order situation.  Regarding the West Bengal election, Nitish said the state party unit wanted to contest there and JD(U) national president RCP Singh was talking to the party leaders. “Every party has its state unit. RCP is talking to them. But no final decision on seats or candidates has been taken yet,” Nitish said. Since six of the seven JD(U) MLAs joined BJP in Arunachal Pradesh in December, Nitish’s party leaders have been flexing muscles to contest elections due in West Bengal and Assam on the plea that they are not NDA partner outside Bihar. The Bihar CM also dismissed the allegations of a BJP MLA that upper castes were sidelined in the cabinet expansion and tainted people were accommodated. “Parties in any alliance government decided their candidates for making ministers. If someone is unhappy, it’s his personal thing. I can’t say anything on that,” said Nitish on the allegations of BJP MLA from Barh, Gyanendra Singh Gyanu, who was once very close to him also. Caste combination and regional balance had not been given due consideration and inexperienced and charge-sheeted people were made ministers. BJP banks on upper caste votes and now sidelining their representatives. BJP is now being made a party of Baniyas and Yadavs, Gyanu had said. Nitish also made sarcastic remarks on those who keep on criticizing him and his government. About the statement of RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav that cabinet expansion will do no good to state, Nitish said, “Those who do not know a b c d of Bihar are saying anything by misusing social media platforms to spread lies. They don’t know about the infrastructure and per capita income in Bihar 15 years ago." "We work silently and the world recognizes it gradually. Be it Jal-Jeevan-Haryali Mission, measures to protect environment, roads, cycle to girls and other infrastructure, Bihar is developing fast, but people outside know it gradually,” Nitish further said and added that he would keep visiting Delhi now onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-central-ministry-talks-not-on-agenda/articleshow/80795534.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
February 11, 2021||Kozhikode||Dad, step mother arrested for ill-treating two children in Kerala||KOZHIKODE: Police arrested the father and step mother for allegedly beating and locking up two children inside their rented accommodation at Mampad near Nilambur in Malappuram district on Wednesday. The children —five-and-half-year-old girl and three-year-old boy— were rescued from a rented building at around 10.30am by Mampad panchayat authorities and local residents. The arrested couple were identified as Thankaraj, 35, and Mariyamma, 28, hailing from Kadalur in Tamil Nadu. They have been booked under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) read with section 34 and relevant section 70 of Juvenile Justice Act. The children are hospitalized at the district hospital at Nilambur. Nilambur police said that the children said that they were beaten up by their father and step mother. “The girl has bruises on the head,” a police officer said, adding that police registered the case suo motu. The incident came to light when another guest worker staying in the same building opened the window of the third-floor room, where the kids were locked up, after hearing their loud cries and shot a video on mobile phone and showed it to local residents. The children were rescued by panchayat authorities after the couple, who were at work, was summoned and asked to open the house. Local residents said that the children were locked up in the room whenever the couple, who were construction labourers, went for work. Malappuram child welfare committee has taken custody of the children and they will be placed in a child care institution after their discharge from hospital. “The kids have injuries apparently after being beaten up. Also, it seems that they were denied food and are very weak and malnourished. We asked the child protection officer for a detailed report within two days,” said Sajeesh Bhaskar, district CWC chairman. “The elder girl has swelling in both eyes and cannot open the eyelids. She will be scanned to check if there is any internal injury,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/dad-step-mother-arrested-for-ill-treating-two-children/articleshow/80797690.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||Assault case accused BBAUstudents arrested, rusticated||Lucknow: Two engineering students of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU) were arrested on Wednesday morning for sexually harassing and assaulting a woman researcher on the campus a day earlier. Both accused were also rusticated from the university after internal proceedings. The three other unidentified accused in the case are still at large. The survivor, a PHD student, was thrashed along with her brother, a management student, both of the same university, when they opposed sexual harassment by the two accused and their three aides on Tuesday. The woman and her brother suffered head and limb injuries and were admitted to Lokbandhu Hospital, and have been discharged. A case of sexual harassment and assault was registered against the two identified accused and their three unidentified aides at the Aashiana Police station. Additional Deputy commissioner of Police, SM Qasim Abidi said, “The incident took place around 11am on Tuesday when the accused passed lewd comments on the woman. Her brother, who was with her, objected but was attacked by the accused who also assaulted the woman. The two students named in the FIR — Rohan Sagar and Sonu Kumar — were arrested and sent to prison in judicial custody. Both are students of the Bachelor of Engineering course at BBAU’s Institute of Engineering.” Meanwhile, the university authorities also recorded statements of the victims and after a probe decided to rusticate the two named accused. “Taking note of the girl’s condition and her injuries, and in accordance with prima facie evidence, the proctorial board unanimously decided to rusticate the two students,” said BBAU Proctor, Prof B B Malik. The proctor added, “In a different case, a management student Ashish Kanaujia has also been rusticated. The student has a track record of misbehaving with proctorial board members and staging protests on the campus. The entry of these three rusticated students in the campus has also been barred,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/assault-case-accused-bbaustudents-arrested-rusticated/articleshow/80803873.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Business||Sebi may compensate investors for tech faults||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi is considering putting in place a system for compensating investors for losses incurred due to technical glitches at exchanges, brokers, depositories and other market infrastructure intermediaries (MIIs). Whenever there’s a technical problem with any of the intermediaries, investors stand to face some loss. “Sebi is actively considering a proposal to introduce a framework for ascertaining the incidents of technical glitches where compensation needs to be paid to the investors and to devise a methodology and calculation of compensation,” the regulator said in its annual report. Over the years, there have been several technical glitches on the bourses’ trading platforms, impacting regular trade operations. There have also been cases of technical problems at the brokers’ end, more so as the buying-selling-settlement processes on the exchanges have increasingly become tech-dependent. Sebi also plans to evaluate the use of smart contracts in the securities market and frame necessary policies for the use of the same. “Smart contracts digitalise trust in a way that makes transactions robust, safe and enforceable anywhere. Smart contracts have the power to make the stock market faster and cheaper and streamline post-trade settlement,” the annual report noted. The markets regulator is also expected to come out with a compliance code for index providers, the companies which construct and manage market indices like the sensex, Nifty and other such benchmarks. Derivatives contracts based on such indices, worth thousands of crores of rupees, are traded every day by investors. Sebi also said it was studying the feasibility to introduce derivatives contracts on freights on commodities derivatives segments of the market. Further, to prevent the fragmentation of liquidity among various stock exchanges in the commodities segment and to develop and deepen the commodity derivatives markets, Sebi will explore a proposal to allow only unique sets of commodities to be traded at each exchange, the annual report noted. Sebi is also considering a proposal to ascertain the optimum corpus for the investor protection fund of the stock exchanges “on the basis of rigorous stress-testing, so as to ensure that the legitimate claims of the clients of the defaulting members/brokers even in extreme times are met”. Sebi will also review the quantum of settlement guarantee fund (SGF) of the clearing corporations based on the stress test, so as to increase the resilience of the markets to possible risks posed by extreme volatility, it said in the annual report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-may-compensate-investors-for-tech-faults/articleshow/80800875.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Business||Anand Mahindra invests in Agnikul||Chennai: Mahindra group chairman Anand Mahindra, has invested an undisclosed sum in IIT-Madras incubated space tech startup Angikul Cosmos in his personal capacity. “Agnikul is a startup that will build launch vehicles to carry micro/nano satellites to low earth orbit on demand. They recently test-fired a fully 3D printed semi cryo rocket engine at IIT-Madras. Terrific champions of the future. I’ve personally invested in the company,” Mahindra tweeted on Wednesday. Agnikul thanked Mahindra on Twitter for believing in their vision and said they were honoured to have his support. The funding comes at a time when Agnikul has just test fired the first 3D printed rocket engine Agnilet. 3D printing the engine cost the company one-tenth the cost of making a conventional rocket engine and also saved them substantial time. Agnikul Cosmos is building India’s first private small satellite launch vehicle. Their vehicle -Agnibaan- will be capable of carrying up to 100 kg of payload to low Earth orbits up to 700 km with a plug-and-play engine configuration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/anand-mahindra-invests-in-agnikul/articleshow/80798027.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||MSEDCL cuts 6.6k connections over dues||Mumbai: MSEDCL has disconnected power supply of those who failed to pay bills during lockdown months and till now. Officials said on Wednesday that electricity connections of 6,604 households and commercial units were cut temporarily in Bhandup-Mulund, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Panvel-Pen for non-payment. An official said, “We sent several reminders to the consumers to pay bills. As a final warning, we temporarily disconnected supply and they will have to pay the penalty to get the connection restored.” Sources said arrears in these areas had gone up to Rs 175 crore, with 1.6 lakh consumers not paying bills for eight to 10 months. Across the state, arrears has mounted to Rs 63,740 crore and sources indicated that action is being initiated in other areas/MSEDCL divisions too. MSEDCL officials were unable to provide data on temporary disconnections. There had been a public outcry on disconnection notices, and BJP had staged demonstrations in the state Maharashtra few days back. Former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya had protested outside Bhandup division, saying notices issued to 75 lakh consumers for disconnection must be withdrawn and government should provide “relief” to consumers. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had said few days back that Maha Vikas Aghadi government had assured people of a waiver during Covid-19 lockdown but was now “arm-twisting” consumers. Citizens received hefty bills for April-June, 2020, some as high as Rs40,000-60,000. “We gave options to consumers: Instalments, waiver of penalty for delayed payment and rebate for one-time payment. As per directions of power minister Nitin Raut, we did not disconnect any connection till December 31, 2020. But now it’s time to be stringent and demand pending dues,” said an official. Of the arrears which have to be recovered, agricultural consumers have to pay Rs 45,498 crore, an official said. For low tension (LT) wires residential consumers and commercial and industrial users, pending bills have gone up to Rs 8,485 crore. For high tension (HT) consumers, arrears escalated to Rs 2,435 crore and remaining dues were to be paid by other categories, sources said. MSEDCL tried to redress grievances through webinars, camps and on helplines. “There were two numbers to assist people,” an official said. People hoped fo relief in bills from the state government during Diwali. Raut had directed MSEDCL not to disconnect supply till December 31. But now arrears have piled up, and it is difficult to run day-to-day operations of MSEDCL,” an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msedcl-cuts-6-6k-connections-over-dues/articleshow/80798741.cms||Somit Sen
February 11, 2021||Allahabad||Seers at Magh Mela don ‘academic’ hat, counsel students||Prayagraj: Apart from delivering religious discourses, lectures on spiritualism and holding community feasts, saints and seers camping at the ongoing Magh Mela can also be seen coming to the rescue of students by giving tips to students on ‘how to crack competitive exams’. Students preparing for various competitive exams can be spotted interacting with Pujya Gurudev ji, head of Om Namah Shivaya organisation on regular intervals to seek guidance on how to crack competitive exams. Apart from religious discourses and holding bhandra at anna kshetra, a section of students arrive at his ashram and camp to seek guidance to prepare for competitive exams. “Students also seek guidance and suggestions to become self-reliant,” said Gurudev. Gurudev added, “Visitors including a major chunk of students are also being taught about living (jeevan jeene ki seekh). He also said, “We tell students about the importance of patience in achieving a goal”. Swami Pranav Puri says, “We regularly hold talks with youngsters and motivate them to set and achieve their goals”. He added, “Youngsters in a sizeable crowd arrive at the camp to interact with seers and saints and want to quench their thirst regarding aim of life, developing patience, meditation, etc.” “ There is no need to be disappointed if your efforts could not yield desired results in the first few attempts,” said Puri. Seers and saints also apprise students about the importance of education in their lives and ask them to work hard till they achieve their goals. Education plays an important role in a person’s development and one should make his or her sincere effort to be educated, said the saint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/seers-at-magh-mela-don-academic-hat-counsel-students/articleshow/80797098.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Call for agency to run Sec V parking zones||Kolkata: The Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) have identified 14 streets across four zones in Sector V as fee-parking zones and have put up tenders to engage agencies to operate them for a year. Thereafter, the contract may be renewed for five years. The four zones fall near Swasthya Bhavan, near Technopolis, around Webel and near Manikanchan. The parking zones will operate mostly from 7am to midnight for small vehicles only. For four-wheelers, an hour of parking would cost Rs 20 and each hour from then will be charged Rs 15. For two-wheelers, the rate will be Rs 10 for the first hour and Rs 5 for each hour thereafter. Display boards with the fee rate chart, NDITA website address, details of the parking agencies and the 24-hour helpline will be put up across Sector V. Officials said the parking agents engaged will wear a proper uniform with logo, agency name and contact number. There will be a 24-hour number for motorists to lodged complaints if they find any irregularity. The agency will not be allowed to collect fee from government and police vehicles. TOI had reported that some unauthorized parking agents were fleecing motorists in Sector V, following which NDITA and Bidhannagar police held a meeting and came up with this solution. NDITA has also planned to set up bicycle stands in three places in Sector V — in front of Webel Bhavan, near Godrej waterside and opposite Wipro gate. The authorities have initiated the process to engage agencies for the job. Last month, the authorities issued a notification saying all large office complexes and parking lots in Sector V will need to reserve some space for parking bicycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/call-for-agency-to-run-sec-v-parking-zones/articleshow/80797163.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 11, 2021||Delhi||127 new Covid cases, 2 deaths in last 24 hours||New Delhi: Delhi recorded 127 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Wednesday, taking the overall toll to 10,884, a day after no coronavirus fatality was registered in the national capital. The zero single-day death was reported on Tuesday after nearly nine months. A total of 100 cases were reported on Tuesday. With the latest figures, the infection tally in the city rose to 6,36,387, according to a health bulletin. The active cases tally on Wednesday stood at 1,046, while the positivity rate was 0.19%. Delhi had recorded 96 Covid-19 cases on January 27, the lowest in over nine months, and the first time the daily infections count had stood below the 100-mark in that month. The fatality counts last Friday and Sunday were also two each, same as on February 2. Wednesday’s 127 cases resulted from 66,803 tests conducted the previous day. It included 44,878 RT-PCR tests and 21,925 rapid antigen tests, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/127-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-last-24-hours/articleshow/80797663.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Varanasi||CM to inaugurate free coaching classes for competitive exams at DDU Gorakhpur University||Gorakhpur: DDU Gorakhpur University has selected four departments with smart classes in order to run free coaching for competitive exams. As many as 400 students will be taught in these coaching classes. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate the classes on February 16, informed DDU Gorakhpur University media cell. On the request of Gorakhpur zone commissioner Jayant Narlikar, the vice chancellor of DDUGU, Rajesh Singh, appointed Prof Ajay Singh as nodal officer, and is also making an expert panel for which discussions with teachers of Physics, Chemistry, Botany, Zoology, Economics, Political Science, History, Geography and Public Administration are underway. Experts from outside will also be roped in for tips on running these classes. At present, coaching classes will be provided for the preparation of civil services, PCS and CDS, informed the media cell. The district administration is planning to upgrade the selected smart classes in the university, said the media cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-to-inaugurate-free-coaching-classes-for-competitive-exams-at-ddu-gorakhpur-university/articleshow/80795918.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||After Chamoli disaster, folk singer Narendra Negi’s Garhwali song on ill-effects of dams catches on again||Dehradun: The recent calamity at Chamoli has once again brought to the fore a song by popular Garhwali singer Narendra Singh Negi, who is known for penning anti-establishment songs. “Devbhoomi ko nau badli bijli bhoomi karaliji, Uttarakhand ki dharti yun damun damyaliji (Devbhoomi’s name has been changed to bijli bhoomi, the land of Uttarakhand has been shaken by dams)” — is a song penned by Negi during the ‘Nadi Bachao Andolan’ (Save Rivers Movement) which started from Gaurikund around 15 years back. “We need to save the environment and our rivers from dams and unwarranted constructions. I agree electricity is important, but it is not the sole responsibility of Uttarakhand to provide electricity to the entire country. Therefore, the number of dams should be limited,” Negi told TOI. Recalling the song, Negi said that everyone sang it during the ‘Nadi Bachao Andolan.’ “Through this song, I tried to tell people how dams were ruining the beauty of the hills and also harming the environment. Constructing so many dams is not in favour of the state and its people,” the popular singer said, adding that the motive behind composing the song was to create awareness and draw the attention of the government as hundreds of small and big dams had been proposed on the rivers of Uttarakhand. When Tehri dam was being constructed, Negi’s song “Tehri Dooban Lagu Cha” had become quite popular. In the video, a father is seen writing a letter to his son, who has migrated, and requests him to return and see the places where he played and grew up since they were now drowning due to dam construction. During N D Tiwari’s tenure as state chief minister, Negi had sung “Nauchami Narayan”, which was a satire on the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-chamoli-disaster-folk-singer-narendra-negis-garhwali-song-on-ill-effects-of-dams-catches-on-again/articleshow/80797685.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 11, 2021||Business||Auto funds transfer glitch sorted: NPCI||Mumbai: The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) on Wednesday said that it has completed an IT migration that had caused outages and prevented mutual funds from receiving investor funds before the cut-off time for net asset value (NAV) calculation. The MF investors had given standing instructions through the National Automated Clearing House (NACH) platform. A spokesperson for the corporation said that there would not be any more delays. “We have recently migrated our systems to scale the NACH infrastructure to meet the increasing volume requirements and industry demands. This was a planned migration activity, during which we faced some initial teething issues such as delay in settlement,” said the spokesperson. According to the NPCI, it was unfortunate that the migration coincided with the regulatory rule effected from February 1, 2021, that NAV should be realised only after the funds received by the MFs. On December 31, 2020, Sebi had updated its September circular. It stated that, effective from February 1 this year, the applicable NAV in respect of the purchase of units of a MF scheme shall be subject to realisation and availability of the funds in the bank account of the fund before the applicable cut-off timings for purchase transactions. This would be irrespective of the amount of investment, under all MF schemes. This meant that even if the investors made the remittance before the cut-off, the MFs could not assign units at the earlier NAV until the money hit their accounts. “Most of the early issues observed in this regard are already solved and we are working with our bank and fintech partners to sort out any unresolved pendency. NACH has started exclusive clearing session for MFs since February 1, 2021, which will support the regulatory objective to pass on funds on the same day and help banks and ecosystem for better compliance. We regret this unwarranted inconvenience caused to the investors and would work towards providing best of payment experience,” NPCI said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/auto-funds-transfer-glitch-sorted-npci/articleshow/80800952.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||Refused money to buy liquor, drug addict chews thumb of retired policeman, arrested||Almora: Police have arrested a drug addict for allegedly chewing a thumb of a retired policeman after the latter refused to give him money to buy liquor in Bhandar village of Dwarahat area of the district. SSP Pankaj Bhatt said on February 9, a local, Jagat Singh, demanded money from Vishan Singh for buying liquor, as the latter refused, an argument ensued between them and in a fit of rage Jagat partially chewed Vishan’s left thumb. The SSP said the accused was arrested and sent to jail. SI Gaurav at Dwarahat police station said, “The complainant is a retired police officer. The case is being investigated. Police are also questioning villagers about the accused, who is a drug addict.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/refused-money-to-buy-liquor-drug-addict-chews-thumb-of-retired-policeman-arrested/articleshow/80797602.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Amit Shah to visit Tirupati on March 3, 4||VIJAYAWADA: Union home minister Amit Shah will visit Tirupati on March 3 and 4 and participate in the core committee meeting of the BJP and Jana Sena, party chief Pawan Kalyan said on Wednesday. Kalyan, along with party political affairs committee chairman Nadendla Manohar, met key BJP leaders in New Delhi on the second day of their visit to the national capital. Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy and Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan were among those the Jana Sena chief met and submitted a representation to on the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant.  Kalyan said, “Jana Sena respects the sentiments of the people of AP and has hence decided to convince Centre on this issue. YSRC has 22 MPs of its own and it can do much better.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amit-shah-to-visit-tirupati-on-mar-3-4/articleshow/80796232.cms||Venu Lanka
February 11, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 4% increase in second phase of Covid vaccination||PATNA: In the past five days since the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination for frontline workers was rolled out across the state, an average of 57.61% of the targeted beneficiaries have taken the shot, which is nearly 4% more than the percentage of healthcare workers vaccinated in the first five days of the launch of the first phase. Explaining the reason behind the jump, the state health department special secretary, Manoj Kumar, said now there are more session sites compared to the time when the immunization drive was launched and several glitches have since been resolved. “We are working in full capacity,” he added. Bihar had topped among all states in term of the percentage of healthcare workers vaccinated in the first phase. However, the health department’s task has not become easy yet. Wednesday mid-night was the deadline of registration for FLWs and till late evening 2.23 lakh had got themselves registered. The frontline workers include employees associated with the home department personnel, urban development and housing department, district administration, revenue department and Panchayati Raj institutions. As per the state health society, 39,510 registered FLWs got vaccinated till Wednesday, and they account for 17.7% of the registered beneficiaries. Officials said 20 to 25 days are required to vaccinate all them. To speed up the work, the health department is focusing on specific departments each day. Manoj said, “On Thursday and Friday, special session sites for personnel of the home department will be created. A letter has been issued by the home department in this regard too. On Monday and Tuesday, we will focus on urban development and housing department, revenue and Panchayati Raj. Our target is to complete this phase in a week.” Meanwhile, 64 new Covid-19 cases were registered on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,61,511. Officially, two deaths were reported after which the toll reached 1,520. With 2,59,234 recoveries so far, there are 755 active cases. Recovery rate has reached 99.13%. One death each was reported from Bhojpur and Nawada, taking the toll to 48 and 25 respectively. No Covid-19 positive patient was admitted at AIIMS-Patna on Wednesday and the hospital’s nodal in charge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said it had happened for the first time since they started admitting Covod-19 positive patients. One death was reported from there, and the deceased was a 66-year-old female of Lohanipur locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-increase-in-second-phase-of-vaccination/articleshow/80795403.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 11, 2021||Varanasi||Skeleton found in closed classroom in city college||Varanasi: Sensation prevailed on JP Mehta Inter College campus under the limits of Cantonment police station of the city when a human skeleton was found in a closed classroom on Wednesday. CO Cantt Gyan Prakash Rai said, “On being alerted by college principal Dr NK Singh, Cantonment police reached the spot. Forensic experts were also called to assist in the investigation. The human skeleton was sent for postmortem examination while all necessary measures like DNA sample collection are being initiated.” Police said, two students had gone to the rear of the college premises on Wednesday morning where some classrooms were lying closed for a long time. The boys noticed a skeleton lying between table and benches of one of the classrooms from a broken window and alerted the principal who informed the police. Inspector Cantt Rakesh Kumar Singh reached the college with his team and after initial investigation, the police decided to call forensic experts before sending the skeleton for postmortem examination. The college authorities said that the college had remained closed for a long time during Covid-19 pandemic while the campus had also been utilized as a shelter home. Officials said that they will have to wait for the outcomes of investigation to find out whether a person died during his stay at the shelter home created in the college or a body had been dumped in the classroom after killing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/skeleton-found-in-closed-classroom-in-city-college/articleshow/80795849.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Business||TVS family files amalgamation scheme with NCLT||Chennai: Members of the TVS family have filed a composite scheme of ‘amalgamation and arrangement’ with the National Company Law Tribunal with a view to implementing the ongoing family arrangement. The scheme involves amalgamation of Sundaram Industries Private Limited (SIPL) and Southern Roadways (SRW) into TV Sundram Iyengar & Sons (TVSS) and movement of various business undertakings (including shares in various companies) to the respective companies belonging of the branches of the TVS family. This will be done in a way such that ownership of the businesses (including shares in the companies) managed by a particular branch of the TVS family vests with companies in which that branch holds majority stake. The scheme was approved by the board of directors of the relevant companies involved and TVS Holding Companies on January 30, 2021. The scheme, which will be subject to necessary approvals including NCLT, comes on the back of the memorandum of arrangement between various members of the TVS family announced last December. This was aimed at working out the alignment of the ownership of shares in various companies forming part of the TVS Group with the management of the respective companies/businesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tvs-family-files-amalgamation-scheme-with-nclt/articleshow/80868405.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Patna||Woman, paramour killed in Nalanda||BIHARSHARIF : One Sablu Kumar, a resident of Rupan Bigha under the Tharthari police station area in Nalanda district, axed his wife Rekha Devi and her alleged paramour Nishat Kumar to death, after he found them in a compromising position in his house on Wednesday. According to police sources, Sablu, who has two kids, had returned home on Wednesday morning from Chennai where he worked in a private company. He knocked at the door of his house and when his wife did not respond, he entered his house after scaling the wall only to find his wife and Nishat, a resident of Dharampur village under the Hilsa police station area in Nalanda, locked inside his room. In a fit of rage he hacked them and escaped. Sablu’s deceased wife was also a native of Dharampur village. She used to stay in the house with her kids, while her in-laws stayed in a separate accommodation. Law & order DSP Sanjay Kumar who visited the place of occurrence said an FIR has been lodged and the weapon used in committing the crime was also recovered. Raids are on to arrest the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-paramour-killed-in-nalanda/articleshow/80794879.cms||Farrukh Nadim
February 11, 2021||Kanpur||Woman gets herself buried in pit to ‘appease’ god, saved by police||Kanpur: In a bid to appease god, a 50-year-old woman got herself buried in a pit in Sajeti of Ghatampur area on Wednesday. However, she was saved when someone alerted the police who took her out in an unconscious state and admitted to the community health centre where she was recuperating. As per family sources, Gomti Devi, wife of Ram Sajeevan of Madha village of Sajeti, is a disciple of Lord Shiva. “On Wednesday morning, she told her family members and neighbours that prior to Maha Shivratri festival, Lord Shiva had come in her dream on Tuesday night. Now, in order to appease Lord Shiva, she has decided to take ‘samadhi’,” said the police and added, “She then asked her family members to dig a pit and bury her alive in front of her house.” They dug a 4-ft-deep pit in front of the entrance of her house where she often used to perform ‘puja’. “After she went inside the pit, her family members placed a cot and covered the pit with mud after Gomti sat in the meditation posture,” said police further. The crowd thereafter started offering flower petals, indulged in chanting ‘bhajan-kitan’ and puja rituals at the woman’s ‘samadhi’. A few villagers who raised objection after coming to know about the bizarre ritual immediately alerted the police, who along with senior administrative officials including SDM and Circle officer Ghatampur arrived four hours after the ‘burial’. The cops dug the ‘samadhi’ and pulled an unconscious Gomti out. She was admitted to a nearby Community Health Centre (CHC), where she is presently recuperating. SDM Ghatampur Arun Srivastava told reporters that the woman has been rescued and is now out of danger. “She is undergoing treatment at CHC and doctors are monitoring her condition,” Srivastava said, adding “the pit was closed but police are keeping a watch.” The police are questioning her family members and neighbours in this regard, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-gets-herself-buried-in-pit-to-appease-god-saved-by-police/articleshow/80796337.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 11, 2021||Varanasi||Guv meets SHGs, farmers in Deoria||Gorakhpur: Governor Annadiben Patel inaugurated an exhibition based on agriculture and development and also a newly constructed auditorium at Police line during her two-day visit to Gorakhpur on Wednesday. She met SHGs women, progressive farmers and other beneficiaries of the government schemes and handed over a demo cheque of Rs 3,56,25,000 to SHG women under the National Livelihood Mission. On the way to Deoria, the governor visited Chauri Chaura Martyr’s memorial and paid tributes to the martyrs there. She also interacted with the SHG group women Puja Shahi, Kirti Rani Mishra, Kiran Gaur, Radha Kushwaha and took their feedback on various schemes. She said that women have become more aware after being associated with the with SHGs. She motivated women to raise voice against social evils like dowry and child marriage. She also appealed to officials as well as others to adopt at least one child suffering with TB. She said that peanuts, gram and fruits are a good source of nutrition for children. She also interacted with farmers and discussed new ways of farming and organic farming. She stressed on use of organic fertilizer and informed them about gowshala and compost fertilizer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/guv-meets-shgs-farmers-in-deoria/articleshow/80795972.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Ban Valentine’s Day: Bajrang Dal||Hyderabad: Bajrang Dal, Telangana, on Wednesday asked the state government to ban Valentine’s Day celebrations on February 14. Bajrang Dal TS unit convenor Subhash Chandar said they would tell people how Valentine’s Day is a western concept. “We need to commemorate Amar Jawan Diwas on February 14 instead of Valentine’s Day”. Members of the organisation will burn Valentine’s Day greeting cards and a rally would be organised on Necklace Road. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ban-valentines-day-bajrang-dal/articleshow/80805121.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Petrol now over Rs 94/litre; diesel 37p shy of Rs 85||MUMBAI: Petrol price across Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai breached the Rs 94-mark on Wednesday. In Mumbai, the price touched Rs 94.12 a litre, while it was Rs 94.23 in Thane and Navi Mumbai. Diesel is 37 paise shy of Rs 85-mark in Mumbai and 26 paise shy of the mark in Thane and Navi Mumbai. In Mumbai, the rate of diesel was Rs 84.63 a litre, with transporters threatening a nation-wide agitation against rising prices. In Parbhani and Nanded districts in Maharashtra, petrol price has crossed Rs 96-mark, while diesel in Amravati crossed Rs 86 a litre, making it the most expensive in the state. On Wednesday, in 29 districts in Maharashtra petrol was over Rs 94 a litre, while in 17 districts in the state diesel was over Rs 84 a litre. Fuel prices are higher due to high taxes and VAT imposed by Maharashtra government. Petrol and diesel prices are dependent on international crude oil prices which have gone up lately, so hikes are imminent, oil marketing officials said. Transporters and consumer activists, however, demanded that the government control prices by reducing taxes, excise duty and VAT. “We have petitioned the government several times to give us tax concessions on fuel as 65% of our transportation depends on diesel and it will have an impact on rising prices of essential and non-essential goods,” said Abhishek Gupta of Bombay Goods Transport Association. The hikes from January 1-February 10 are Rs 3.82 a litre (petrol) and Rs 4.16 (diesel).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/petrol-now-over-rs-94/litre-diesel-37p-shy-of-rs-85/articleshow/80798762.cms||Somit Sen
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Cong starts social media campaign||New Delhi: Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Chaudhary Anil Kumar launched a social media campaign ‘JoinCongressSocialMedia’ on Wednesday with the aim of enrolling more youth and volunteers in the party. Kumar said that through this campaign, Congress will provide a platform to the youth to take the party’s programmes, policies and activities to the people. He said they can join the campaign by giving a missed call on 1800 1200 00044. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cong-starts-social-media-campaign/articleshow/80797737.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Bhopal||In bid to escape, thief knives cop||Bhopal: Panic gripped Jawahar Chowk area of TT Nagar on Tuesday evening after a man allegedly jumped off a moving bike and tried to run away with handcuffs on while two constables were taking him to recover stolen goods. When the constables tried to nab him, the accused, Suraj Yadav alias Akash, 24, a resident of Panchsheel Nagar in TT Nagar, picked up a knife from a handcart and attacked them. One of the constables sustained severe cut in hand when he tried to grab the knife from accused. The accused bit another constable on his hand and slit his own throat with the knife. Police rushed him to hospital from where he was discharged after treatment on Wednesday. TT Nagar police acting on complaint filed by the injured constable registered a case against the accused on charges of assaulting a public servant to deter him from discharging his duty, obstructing public servant from his duty and obstructing lawful apprehension. Police produced him before the court from where he was sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-bid-to-escape-thief-knives-cop/articleshow/80797703.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||HC seeks assistance in case of spurious chikki for kids||Mumbai: Observing that the matter involves serious concerns, Bombay high court on Wednesday appointed an amicus curiae to assist it during the hearing of a 2015 public interest litigation on the alleged supply of substandard chikki to underprivileged school children and for action against the then women and child development minister Pankaja Munde. An amicus curiae or a friend of the court is a professional, usually a lawyer, appointed to advise it on some matter of law that directly affects the case. The matter came up for hearing before a bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta. The PIL was filed by Sandeep Ahire who said the chikkis were “infested with gravel, mud particles and granule stones.” The PIL alleged on February 13, 2015, a total of 23 contracts to procure items, including chikkis, worth Rs 206 crore were awarded in a single day without calling for a tender and Munde had favoured those who were awarded. The contracts for chikkis alone were worth Rs 80 crore. Senior advocate V A Thorat for the state said it had stopped the supply of rajgira chikkis in July 2015 and there is a new policy for e-tendering in place since October 2015. He referred to HC’s September 2015 order which recorded that the state’s health laboratory said only one sample from Ahmednagar was found with sand in it. Thorat said after the National Accreditation Board Laboratory in October 2015 said the chikki is fit for human consumption, the government released payment to supplier Suryakanta Mahila Audyogik Sahakari Sanstha. The judges said they would like to be apprised of the procedure to be adopted regarding procurement and quality. “Before e-tendering came into effect, there must have been some tendering process,” said the CJ. The bench took note that Ahire has not been appearing in the matter. “The concerns appear to be serious. We are appointing an amicus curiae,” said the CJ, posting the hearing on February 24, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-seeks-assistance-in-case-of-spurious-chikki-for-kids/articleshow/80794047.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Fake ads for e-goods land two in cop net||Mumbai: A school dropout and his accomplice were recently arrested for allegedly duping people of lakhs by placing fake ads for sale of electronics products on an online trading platform. Alleged mastermind Salman Shaikh (28) used a garage worker’s bank account to which victims were asked to transfer money for products ordered but were never delivered. With technical help, the police arrested Shaikh and his associate Mohsin Khan (29) on February 8 from Andheri (east) for duping Sachin Naik, manager with a private company, of Rs 7.23 lakh.Shaikh splurged the money on a lavish lifestyle and paid rent for a flat in Andheri (east). A case was registered at Versova police station in August. Naik had came seen multiple ads of electronic goods on sale at less than market prices. Shaikh had used a friend’s documents to get a SIM card used for the fraud. “Shaikh does not hold a bank account in his name. He withdrew money at once from the accounts of garage workers. We have got bank account statements showing the fraud transactions,” said an officer from Versova police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fake-ads-for-e-goods-land-two-in-cop-net/articleshow/80801902.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 11, 2021||Chennai||Public buildings a no-entry zone for the disabled||CHENNAI: This Friday, officials are meeting at the state commissionerate for the disabled for a mandatory disability audit. They will take stock of issues concerning people with all categories of disabilities, including access to public buildings and facilities. Ahead of this bureaucratic exercise, TOI visited the city’s government facilities and found that none provided easy access for the disabled. This despite the Accessibility India campaign launched by the Centre in 2015 and aimed at making public buildings barrier-free for the differently abled. Except ramps at the buildings and audio announcements at railway stations, little has been done to assist the disabled frequenting these facilities. At the MGR Central Railway station, disabled friendly toilets are locked and the drinking water facility is not accessible to the differently abled. Seats are blocked by litter bins. At the Egmore station, the ramp at the entrance is damaged and inaccessible. At Ripon Building, the corporation has constructed ramps and installed an elevator, but the toilets are not disabled-friendly and are located on the first floor. At the Secretariat, the ramp is not at the main entrance but at gate-5 and there is no signage. At the Koyambedu market, the pathway is damaged and there is no disabled-friendly toilet in the complex. Smitha, a member of Disability Rights Alliance, said she frequents the Secretariat and the Ripon Building. “The buildings are not very accessible. Ramps have been randomly built. At the Secretariat, there are neither ramps at the main entrance nor accessible toilets within reach. Ripon Building doesn’t have accessible toilets on any floor,” she said. “There is no directional information in Braille or tactile formats and there is no audio aid,” she said. At many public facilities, accessibility begins and ends with a ramp and this includes modern and new constructions. Vaishnavi Jayakumar, activist with Disability Rights Alliance, said: “We have found a lot of non-compliance at metro stations. Ticket counters are placed at higher levels, disabled-friendly signage is unavailable and toilets didn’t follow actual guidelines. MTC buses are already in contempt of court. Private hospitals and malls do not comply by not installing Braille signage,” she said. In 1988, the government had issued guidelines for barrier-free environment for the elderly and the disabled. Sudha Ramamoorthy of the Centre for Promotion of Social Justice said “infrastructure for people with disabilities are an afterthought”. “Something as basic as a ticket counter is not accessible to the wheel chair user,” she said. State commissioner for persons with disabilities Johny Tom Varghese said the funds under the Accessibility India campaign for 25 public buildings have been utilised and a utilisation certificate has been received as well. “More plans are in the pipeline to make other government and public buildings accessible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/public-buildings-a-no-entry-zone-for-the-disabled/articleshow/80797802.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||Ahead of panchayat polls, BJP starts mobilising influential people||LUCKNOW: As the pitch for the panchayat elections gains heat, the BJP has hammered out a strategy of reaching out to the socio-politically influential communities and consolidating them at the district level. The high court has set April 30 deadline for the completion of panchayat elections. Sources in BJP said the party’s organisational leaders, MPs, MLAs and ministers have been asked to reach out to key people in various wards of every district. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal are already touring the districts to hold meetings with ward-level functionaries. Amar Pal Maurya, BJP state general secretary and in charge of the Awadh region (comprising 15 organisational districts including Lucknow), told TOI that the process of identification of influential people in every district has started. “We would be calling them to our district level meetings and telling them about the ruling party initiatives and how it plans to take the people’s welfare programmes to the grass-root level,” he said. Sources said the party is trying to mobilise influential communities which hold sway in their respective regions. “The party has started the work of consolidating various sections of society on a war-footing,” said a senior BJP leader. Sources added that the party seeks to make deeper inroads into the vote bank of opposition. “The party has completed the first round of meeting of the core committee in every district. The idea is to pick party workers at the ward level who would be contesting rural local bodies’ elections,” said a UP BJP leader. He added that the party has been preparing its political ground at the ward level from the very beginning while identifying the key villages and majras (hamlets) at the respective rural local bodies. BJP sources said the party is also working on social equations and accordingly charting out a plan to carry out its people outreach plan. “The party is doing its homework and would accordingly execute the plan which has received a nod from the top state leadership,” a BJP leader added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ahead-of-panchayat-polls-bjp-starts-mobilising-influential-people/articleshow/80804510.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||Outside tunnel where rescue operations are on, a dog waits for men he knew||TAPOVAN: Blackie has not left for three days. Through the din of excavators and drills, the sporadic afternoon rain and the chaos that comes with a rescue operation on this scale, the two-year-old Bhutia dog has been sitting outside the tunnel at the Tapovan hydel project site, waiting for those he knew, the men that fed him and petted him. “We would give him food, a sack to sleep on when we worked. Blackie would be around during the day and would leave in the evening when we did,” said Rajinder Kumar, who had a narrow escape on Sunday when the flooded Rishiganga blocked the tunnel, trapping 34 workers of the NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydropower project inside. Blackie was born around the project site, when work on it had already begun. “He grew up around us.” On Sunday night, the day the flood hit, he was not around. Following his routine, he had gone downhill for the night. When he came back the following morning, none of the men he knew was around. “He must have realised something was amiss. The place was full of strangers who paid no attention to him. We didn’t know what to do, at first,” a local said. That morning, he recalled, rescue teams tried to shoo him away. Heavy machinery was being brought in and there was chaos all around. “But he kept coming back. He just wouldn’t leave.” Others who live here also said they had seen him around often. “He would laze around on the road leading up to the project site,” said Ajeet Kumar, who lives in Tapovan. Some of those on their way to the project site would stop, pet him for a bit and he would follow them playfully. “When I heard of what had happened on Sunday, I went to the tunnel site to see if I could help the next day. I saw Blackie. Whenever I go, he is there. But he is anxious, visibly.” Unsure if areas downhill are safe right now, the locals would rather that Blackie stay up here now. “We are looking after him now. Whoever sees him around feeds him. It’s like we have adopted him,” one of them said. “He sits outside the tunnel all day, all night, waiting. We hope he gets to see them again soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/outside-tunnel-where-rescue-ops-are-on-a-dog-waits-for-men-he-knew/articleshow/80797797.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||City inches towards 1L shots, covering 1/4th of registrations||Mumbai: More frontline workers took the Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday compared to healthcare workers as the immunisation drive entered the 19th day in the city. Mumbai also inched forward to the one lakh mark as it completed vaccinating 95,657 of the nearly 4 lakh registered from both groups combined. The city’s overall turnout, though, only marginally improved compared to Tuesday when 68% of the intended people took the vaccine. On Wednesday, it was 69% as 6,463 took the dose, of which 2,727 were healthcare workers and 3,736 were frontline workers. In the six days since the vaccination of frontliners began, over 12,500 have been vaccinated. Across Maharashtra, the total number of recipients vaccinated inched towards 6 lakh. On Wednesday, 37,223 individuals were vaccinated, of which 20,004 were healthcare workers and 17,219 were frontliners. While Maharashtra has completed vaccinating 5,73,666 and is among the top ten states to have immunised such big numbers, it has a long road ahead, said an official. The state has the highest number of registered health workers (10.54 lakh) and frontline workers (7 lakh). It is estimated that the state has nearly 20 lakh frontline workers, which means that even 50% have not finished registration. Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, said lakhs of people cannot be vaccinated in mission mode. Importantly, he said that the state may not start rolling out the second dose of the vaccine exactly on February 13, which is the 28th day since the first dose was administered. “We may start from February 15 since February 14 is a holiday. Besides, we are trying to administer at least one dose of the vaccine to all health and frontline workers by March, before preparations start for the prioritized group of people above 50 years,” he said. BMC officials too have said that Mumbai would start administering the second dose by February 15 or 16 with due appointments. While public health minister Rajesh Tope had said on Tuesday that the registration of prioritized group, including individuals above 50 years and those aged less than 50 with comorbidities, was likely to start from March 1, state officials said that they haven’t got any instructions from the Centre. “We have not been told anything so far about how the registration would happen,” said Patil. In Mumbai, the number of vaccination centres has been increased to 23, with 125 teams. At Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar that has vaccinated the highest among all centres, the sessions go on till 6.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-inches-towards-1l-shots-covering-1/4th-of-registrations/articleshow/80797886.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Cong hopes 5L will take on BJP||Mumbai: AICC has drafted an ambitious plan to register five lakh social media warriors to take on BJP. Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap said they will soon embark on a social media campaign, and they are expecting five lakh social media warriors to be registered within a month. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-hopes-5l-will-take-on-bjp/articleshow/80805173.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||Tourists aged below 10 and over 65 still not allowed in Pench||Nagpur: Even as restrictions on the number of tourists have been eased in wildlife parks under Pench and Bor tiger reserves, there are still hiccups as children below 10 years and tourists above 65 years of age are not being allowed to enter the parks. From February 1, the district collector, who is also the chairman of the disaster management authority, eased restriction on the number of tourists in Bor, and Umred-Karhandla and Mansinghdeo sanctuaries from four to six. However, tourists above 65 years of age are unable to make online bookings as the official website displays a message asking to put the age between 10 and 65 years. This clearly means those below 10 years and above 65 are not allowed. “Contrarily, these restrictions are not in force in wildlife parks in Chandrapur, Yavatmal, and Amravati districts. It is really ridiculous. One has to lie by putting 65 years as the age, even if the tourist is older than that. We cannot take a chance because if proved wrong, it will be really embarrassing. Why this injustice to senior citizens?” said Vijay Verma, a regular visitor to wildlife parks. Officials handling online bookings said, “The district collector order lacks clarity and it doesn’t make any mention of tourists below 10 years and those above 65 years. We can make changes if the field director tells us. The Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) is still continuing with the four tourists norm.” Pench chief conservator of forests (CCF) and field director Ravikiran Govekar said, “I will look into the problem.” Verma said, “The tourist restrictions are there despite the state government throwing all establishments like hotels, lodges, food courts, theatres, malls, beer bars, coaching classes, schools, colleges etc open.” Based on the prevailing state government orders, the PCCF (wildlife) on October 21, 2020, had allowed children below 10 years of age for safari if they are with family members. However, the same is not applicable in parks under Pench. The decision on tourists above 65 years was left open, depending on the Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tourists-aged-below-10-and-over-65-still-not-allowed-in-pench/articleshow/80797898.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 11, 2021||Chennai||I don’t know what itis to visit parks, malls||CHENNAI: I am a person with locomotor impairment in my lower limbs and use a wheelchair for mobility. I cannot use any public transport and have to spend 10 to 15 times more compared to anyone who does not face difficulties in accessing public transport. For my work, I have to visit government officials and their offices, be it in the Secretariat or in the housing board, are mostly inaccessible. This necessitates negotiation with the officer to meet in accessible locations thereby reducing the duration of meeting and missing the key elements of discussion. Personally, I do not know what it is to visit hotels, parks, cinema halls or malls. With most toilets inaccessible, I have to plan my meal in such a manner that I don’t need to visit a toilet for almost eight hours. Toilets that are accessible by wheelchairs are locked to prevent ‘misuse’ or used for storage. The Accessible India Campaign with its top-down focus of a few high profile offices in key cities has not even made those few chosen ones accessible for us years later. Making places accessible is one thing, informing people managing them is very crucial to ensure accessibility. This is missing at airports and railway stations. Training and sensitization of employees on the ground will ensure that vehicles are not parked in front of a lone ramp that is yet to adhere to international standards. (The author is co-founder of Equals Centre for Promotion of Social Justice, an advocacy group.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/i-dont-know-what-itis-to-visit-parks-malls/articleshow/80797862.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Doctor among 4 held for bid to sell baby||Mumbai: A 48-year-old doctor, a couple and a woman were arrested for allegedly trying to sell an eight-month-old baby in Virar on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off, cops laid a trap near state transport bus depot in Virar (E). When the couple, Sonjit Mandal (40) and Manju (37), from Narangi village in Virar arrived with the girl, police nabbed them and rescued the baby. The couple confessed the baby was handed over by Dr Jiten Bala, from Nilemore in Nallasopara. Anita Bhave (50) from Nallasopara had helped the doctor get the baby, who was to be sold for Rs 5 lakh. Police are investigating if the baby was being sold to an agent or was to be directly handed over to a childless couple. The accused have been booked under IPC section 370 (1) (whoever knowingly or having reason to believe that a minor for engaging in sexual exploitation) and Juvenile Justice(Care and Protection of Children) Bill. They have been remanded to police custody till February 16 by a Vasai court. Police said it is being investigated if the baby, now sent to a child care centre, was abducted or sold by her parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doctor-among-4-held-for-bid-to-sell-baby/articleshow/80798769.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Drug peddler linked to Pathan held||Mumbai: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested a drug peddler linked to Parvez Chinku Pathan and recovered 412gm of mephedrone (MD) worth Rs 25 lakh from him. NCB, led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede, on Tuesday raided Wasi Ahmed Ansari Chhotu’s residence at Shilphata, near Daighar police station in Kalyan, and recovered the drugs. Officials said Ansari was moving around in an Innova, which officials traced and arrested him. They found 55gm of MD in his vehicle. Chhotu used to buy drugs from Chinku Pathan and supply them in Kalyan and Thane. Chhotu has a criminal background, with cases of assault and attempt to murder against him at Byculla and Bhiwandi police stations. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drug-peddler-linked-to-pathan-held/articleshow/80798787.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Allahabad||Over 5,000 policemen deployed at ghats for Mauni Amavasya snan today||Prayagraj: Ahead of the Mauni Amavasya snan slated on Thursday, the mela police on Wednesday reviewed the security arrangements for pilgrims and kalpwasis. As millions of pilgrims, seers, saints and kalpwasis will take holy dips in the Sangam on Mauni Amavasya, the security has been beefed up in and around mela campus. Mela police are also taking help of para military forces to turn the mela area into a fortress. With a number of devotees from neighbouring districts and states flocking to Prayagraj ahead of Mauni Amavasya, as many as eight ghats have been constructed at Sangam. Mela police are also using drones to maintain a strict watch on visitors. IG (Prayagrajrange) KP Singh told TOI, “Over 5,000 policemen including ATS and STF jawans, squads of anti-sabotage team and para military forces have been assigned duties at static locations for the event.” Singh added that mela police have already launched crowd and traffic management for the third and biggest snan of the ongoing Magh Mela, and teams of jal police, NDRF, PAC flood relief personnel have also been deployed at the ghats. “Deep water barricading has also been done,” said the IG, adding, “A network of 108 CCTV sets and 12 watch towers will help cops keep a strict vigil on visitors.” Mela police informed that parking slots have been made at five prominent slots so that devotees do not have to take long walks to reach the banks of Sangam. In fact, three out of five parking slots were already full on Wednesday. Besides, mela police are also using the public address system to create awareness about Covid-19 protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/over-5000-policemen-deployed-at-ghats-for-mauni-amavasya-snan-today/articleshow/80796216.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||Yogi govt mulls e-court as online challans pile up||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials to work on setting up e-courts for speeding up disposal of e-challans issued for violation of traffic rules, since such cases are piling up in regular courts and the pendency is increasing. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi and principal secretary, law, Pramod Kumar Srivastava, held a meeting on Wednesday to work out the modalities of setting up e-courts in detail and bringing uniformity in the e-challan system across UP. Technology has enabled a system of e-challaning of vehicles not complying with rules, said home department officials. From January 7, 2019 to December 31, 2020 a total of 1.3 crore e-challans were issued and while those against which fine was deposited were disposed of, the remaining have to be sent to the court for further action. Currently, around 36 lakh e-challans are still pending in courts, they added. Since courts are already burdened, the CM has given instructions to submit an action plan for setting up e-court for fast disposal of challan cases, said an official. If these pending 36 lakh cases are settled, the state government will get revenue from fines, and awareness about traffic rules will also increase bringing a reduction in accidents, he added. Citing the procedure adopted In Varanasi and Faizabad where e-challan is being sent to courts through National Informatics Centre (NIC), officials said this system should be implemented across the state for ease and uniformity. The officials also discussed various aspects of e-mapping being done in Prayagraj by traffic directorate through NIC for implementation in other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-govt-mulls-e-court-as-online-challans-pile-up/articleshow/80804242.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Four arrested for stealing bikes||Hyderabad: Four persons of a seven-member gang, accused of stealing bikes belonging to the company which gives them for rent, were arrested by the Hyderabad police on Wednesday. While Mohammed Rizwan, Mohammed Yaseen, Mohammed Hamza and Mohammed Wajeed were arrested, three others _ Mehedi, Aziz and Numan _ are still at large. Police said that the accused are residents of either Yakutpura or Bhavaninagar. Rizwan hatched a plan to steal these bikes which have a GPS tracker. If a customer has to use these vehicles he has to enter his details. After that a one-time password will be issued to activate the GPS tracker and start the vehicle. “Due to the GPS tracking system, the accused stole the bikes and shifted them to an isolated spot using a vehicle used for towing. Later they remove the tracking system, company’s logo, bar code board and keypad locking system. They then replace the locking system,” a police official said, adding that the accused prepared fake registration documents for each stolen vehicle and then sold each bike for Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 to Wajeed and Aziz. In all, 18 cases were registered at various police stations and 38 stolen bikes were seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-arrested-for-stealing-bikes/articleshow/80805181.cms||---
February 11, 2021||India||‘Naxal incidents down 47%, Red spread limited to nine states’||NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday told the Rajya Sabha that Left-wing extremism-related incidents were down 47% between 2015 and 2020 as compared to incidents in the preceding six years from 2009 to 2014, and that the geographic spread or arc of Naxal violence had been contained to 53 districts across nine states in 2020 as compared to 76 districts across 10 states in 2013. In a written reply to a question, minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said the steadfast implementation of the multi-pronged strategy to counter LWE had resulted in consistent decline in violence and shrinkage in geographical spread. “The incidents of LWE violence have reduced by 70% from all-time high of 2,258 in 2009 to 665 in 2020. Similarly deaths (civilians + forces) have reduced by 80% from all time high of 1,005 in 2010 to 183 in 2020. The spread has been constricted and only 9 states reported LWE related violence as compared to 10 states in 2013,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/naxal-incidents-down-47-red-spread-limited-to-nine-states/articleshow/80810674.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||Covid hits Central Jail again, Arun Gawli among 6 +ve patients||Nagpur: After a gap of seven months, Covid-19 has again hit Nagpur Central Jail. Five prisoners including gangster-turned-politician Arun Gawli and one of the jailers have tested positive for novel coronavirus a day ago. Their names were contained in the list received by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation zone offices on Wednesday. Gawli, also a former MLA from Mumbai, was convicted for murder of Shiv Sena corporator Kamalakar Jamsandekar on August 3, 2012 along with 11 others. He is serving time in Nagpur Central Jail. A 39-year-old senior jailer also tested positive on Monday. Central Jail superintendent Anup Kumre confirmed the development to TOI. “We test prisoners for Covid-19 in case of any symptoms. Accordingly, 10 prisoners were tested on Monday of whom five came positive,” he said. Kumre added that the prisoners were doing well and treatment on them had started in Central Jail itself. “All are in separate cells. Latest cases are after Central Jail witnessed cases in June-July,” he said. Jail sources said, “A 45-year-old officer had tested positive on February 3. Then, another came positive on Monday. Hence some prisoners who had symptoms were tested.” Kumre denied any link between testing of officials and prisoners. Central Jail is having around 2,250 prisoners and considered sensitive for transmission of the pandemic. In June and July, over 300 prisoners and some staff had tested positive. A jail guard was reportedly considered as superspreader at that time. Testing of all prisoners was not done as test positivity rate was high and a majority were asymptomatic. Citing security issues at government-run hospitals, testing was stopped and a Covid Care Centre was developed at Central Jail to treat the patients. During June and July, public representatives had alleged Covid guidelines were not being followed in Central Jail. A former legislator had alleged the same in his bail petition filed before HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-hits-central-jail-again-arun-gawli-among-6-ve-patients/articleshow/80797952.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||LMC pins hope on feedback from citizens||Lucknow: Lucknow Municipal Corporation will send application and website links of the ‘Citizens’ Feedback’ option to the people, requesting them to register themselves to help increase the city’s marks in the Swachh Bharat Survey 2021. The LMC officers said that the city is doing well on the ‘citizens feedback’ parameter, but the momentum needs to be maintained till March. And, if Lucknow does well, it can score 1,800 marks in this category. About 1.70 lakh people have given their feedback till now. LMC expects a good score in ‘certification’ as Lucknow has acquired 100% open defecation free status. Regarding ‘service level progress’, officers said that teams have been formed to ensure that garbage is collected door-to-door and is treated regularly. Arrangements have been made for smooth functioning of sewage treatment plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-pins-hope-on-feedback-from-citizens/articleshow/80804089.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Pune||Three criminals riding scooter steal Sassoon doctor’s cellphone, in cop net||Pune: The Bund Garden police on Tuesday night arrested three criminals on record on the charge of snatching the smartphone of a Sassoon General Hospital doctor on the stretch between Alankar Chowk and Jehangir hospital around 1.45am on Tuesday. Assistant inspector Amol Kale on Wednesday said, “Three men, riding a scooter, snatched the phone of Dr Nitin H C (25), who chased and caught them from behind before they could pick up speed. A police patrol, present at the spot, took them into custody.” Police identified the suspects as Sagar Ghodke (21), Altaf Shaikh (21) and his brother Sohail (20), all from Keshavnagar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-criminals-riding-scooter-steal-sassoon-doctors-cellphone-in-cop-net/articleshow/80801904.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||26-day high in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai reported a significant jump in daily detection of Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The state added 3,451 cases, the highest in 26 days. On January 14, the state had added 3,579 cases. The total caseload of the state on Wednesday was 20,52,253 and with the addition of 30 fatalities, the total toll was 51,390. Exactly 10 days after local trains were opened for all, the city reported a jump in cases on Wednesday. As many as 558 new cases were reported, after two consecutive days of reporting below 400 cases. The number of new cases has breached 500 after seven days. The overall count in the city rose to 3,13,213. Four deaths were reported on Wednesday after two consecutive days of registering three fatalities. The city’s toll is now 11,402. Of the 3,451 cases, 1,075 were from MMR. Civic authorities, however, said the “marginal” jump cannot be linked to local train services for all and instead attributed it to more testing. “We have tested nearly 15,700 samples, which is slightly higher than previous days, and hence found more cases,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. He also added the quarantining of domestic and international travellers and subsequent testing on Day 7 were contributing to the numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/26-day-high-in-covid-19-cases-in-state/articleshow/80798136.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 11, 2021||Kolhapur||KMC defers drive to evict hawkers in temple area||Kolhapur: The anti-encroachment staff of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) was forced to postpone the drive to evict hawkers from the Mahalaxmi temple area on Wednesday amid stiff resistance from the squatters and intervention by city MLA Chandrakant Jadhav. The MLA spoke to additional municipal commissioner Nitin Desai and requested him to halt the action and call a meeting on Saturday. The KMC initiated the action to evict hundreds of hawkers within the 100m radius of the temple in the morning and started seizing their belongings. Soon, the hawkers sat a on dharna while some started arguing with city engineer Netradip Sarnobat and anti-encroachment department head Pandit Pawar. Some hawkers allegedly tried to physically stop the eviction staff. The hawkers claimed that the action was illegal since it had not been approved by the town vending committee, which is still not in place despite Parliament passing a law for the livelihood of street vendors nine years ago. The civic officials claimed that the hawkers have always remained adamant and did not support civic administration in registering them or forming the town vending committee. After hours of argument, MLA Jadhav arrived at the scene and discussed the matter with officials and hawkers. Pawar said, “The meeting will take place on Saturday. Until then, there will be no action. After the initial action, the hawkers occupied the space within 100-metre periphery once again.” A court had on Tuesday dismissed the petition by some hawkers seeking a stay on their eviction. Sachin Jadhav, chief estate officer, said, “The court has granted us permission for the eviction drive as already there are court judgements directing the KMC to remove illegal hawkers and encroachments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-defers-drive-to-evict-hawkers-in-temple-area/articleshow/80791501.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Woman duped of Rs 16L by ‘UK doctor’||Kalyan: A 33-year-old woman was duped of Rs 16 lakh by a “UK-based doctor” she met on a matrimonial app. The victim said she started interacting with him from last November. He allegedly promised to marry her and settle down in India. The woman, who holds a senior position in a multinational firm in Navi Mumbai, alleged that Prakash Sharma approached her, claiming he works at a private multi-specialty hospital. Police said Sharma recently told her that he was coming to India, and on January 23 he called up, claiming he had reached Delhi airport, and as he had a huge amount of gold customs officials caught him and to get released he would have to pay a fine. She paid him online and later, giving excuses, he took Rs 16.4 lakh from her and did not meet her. The victim said when he avoided calls and switched off his phone, she realised she was cheated and on Tuesday approached Khadakpada police, who registered a case under IT Act and of cheating. Khadakpada police are taking the help of cyber police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-duped-of-rs-16l-by-uk-doctor/articleshow/80801187.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 11, 2021||Thane||26-day high in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai reported a significant jump in daily detection of Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The state added 3,451 cases, the highest in 26 days. On January 14, the state had added 3,579 cases. The total caseload of the state on Wednesday was 20,52,253 and with the addition of 30 fatalities, the total toll was 51,390. Exactly 10 days after local trains were opened for all, the city reported a jump in cases on Wednesday. As many as 558 new cases were reported, after two consecutive days of reporting below 400 cases. The number of new cases has breached 500 after seven days. The overall count in the city rose to 3,13,213. Four deaths were reported on Wednesday after two consecutive days of registering three fatalities. The city’s toll is now 11,402. Of the 3,451 cases, 1,075 were from MMR. Civic authorities, however, said the “marginal” jump cannot be linked to local train services for all and instead attributed it to more testing. “We have tested nearly 15,700 samples, which is slightly higher than previous days, and hence found more cases,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. He also added the quarantining of domestic and international travellers and subsequent testing on Day 7 were contributing to the numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/26-day-high-in-covid-19-cases-in-state/articleshow/80815464.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 11, 2021||Varanasi||Kashi to host Tomato Fest, bring chefs, industry & farmers together||Varanasi: In a bid to promote the consumption of tomato, dishes, drinks and varied products prepared by using it, besides the famous ‘Banarasi Tamaatar chaat’ will be served during the ‘Tomato fest’ being organized in Varanasi soon. The fest will be part of the series of vegetable-fruit festivals started by the state government by holding the Strawberry Fest at Jhansi in January. The fest, aimed at increasing tomato consumption in hospitality sector besides attracting agro and food processing industries, will be a boon for farmers who struggle due to massive fluctuation in prices every year. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “Preparations are being done for holding tomato fest. The venue and dates of the fest will be declared soon. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma has held meetings for assigning roles of agriculture, horticulture, culture, tourism departments, Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi Municipal Corporation and Varanasi Development Authority. We will rope in hotels, restaurants, chefs and housewives.” District horticulture officer Sandeep Kumar Gupta said, “Tomato and onion are two vegetable that witness massive price fluctuation. When the prices start rising, there is massive hue and cry. But, mostly the price of tomato doesn’t rise and farmers are compelled to sell it for Rs 3-Rs 10 per kg. Risk for tomato growers is also high as it is perishable and can’t be stored for long.” As per rough estimates, tomato is cultivated in over 5,000 hectare in Mirzapur, Sonbhadra, Naugarh belt of Chandauli, Ghazipur and Varanasi, and on an average 350 quintal of hybrid tomato is produced per hectare, said Gupta. “It is a good move of the government and will help increase local and industrial consumption of tomato which will ensure good price round the year,” he added. The fest will help farmers understand the requirements of hospitality and industrial sectors and the varieties of tomatoes best suited for them. Gaurav Garg, the chief executive officer of the event management company assigned this fest, said, “It will be a good event. Housewives and master chefs will be participating and cooking their own dishes, while hotels, restaurants and vendors will also showcase their tomato-based food, drink and dessert items. The event will focus on attracting agro industries. There will also be fun and entertainment as renowned musical bands will perform at the fest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-to-host-tomato-fest-bring-chefs-industry-farmers-together/articleshow/80796014.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||Focused Covid testsfortnight launched||TNN Lucknow: Despite decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, the UP government launched focused novel coronavirus testing fortnight here on Wednesday. Relevant instructions to this effect were issued by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that the exercise will target different vulnerable groups like vendors, restaurant owners, cab drivers, rickshaw pullers, inmates of protection home and jails, government and private hospitals, etc. Meanwhile, 168 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours. “The new cases came from 42 districts while no case was reported in the remaining districts,” he said, adding that the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state reached 6,01,723. With 206 recoveries in the past 24 hours, the total number of those recovered reached 5,89,771. Prasad also said that though the cases were declining, the risk of pandemic infection was still existent. “Five deaths were recorded in the past 24 hours which speaks for what the infection can do to people. Therefore, adhering to the prevention protocol was a must,” he said. The total number of deaths reported so far is 8,696.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/focused-covid-testsfortnight-launched/articleshow/80804882.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||C-grade film director 9th porn case arrest||Mumbai: The crime branch has found the involvement of several in-house productions, including a UK based production company linked to a celebrity businessman, in the pornographic film racket unearthed a few days ago. The property cell on Wednesday arrested Tanvir Akhil Hasmi alias Tan (40), a director of C-grade films from Surat. The ninth arrest in the case, Hasmi was produced before a court and remanded in police custody till February 15. Yasmin Rowa Khan and four others who were caught shooting a pornographic movie in a bungalow in Madh Island last Thursday, were remanded in judicial custody. Hasmi was said to have made eight pornographic movies in the city and Surat and sold these to actor-model Gehena Vashist, who uploaded these on her website GV Studios. Videos shot by Hasmi were uploaded on apps and sites like Eight Shot, Nuefliks. It was learnt that there were different gangs shooting pornographic videos and providing these to a UK company through arrested accused Umesh Kamat, MD of a company, who was allegedly uploading the content on subscription-based mobile apps. The police said they had found the accused had links with the case registered by the cyber police last year against seven OTT services for explicit and obscene content.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/c-grade-film-director-9th-porn-case-arrest/articleshow/80801926.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 11, 2021||Navi-mumbai||26-day high in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai reported a significant jump in daily detection of Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The state added 3,451 cases, the highest in 26 days. On January 14, the state had added 3,579 cases. The total caseload of the state on Wednesday was 20,52,253 and with the addition of 30 fatalities, the total toll was 51,390. Exactly 10 days after local trains were opened for all, the city reported a jump in cases on Wednesday. As many as 558 new cases were reported, after two consecutive days of reporting below 400 cases. The number of new cases has breached 500 after seven days. The overall count in the city rose to 3,13,213. Four deaths were reported on Wednesday after two consecutive days of registering three fatalities. The city’s toll is now 11,402. Of the 3,451 cases, 1,075 were from MMR. Civic authorities, however, said the “marginal” jump cannot be linked to local train services for all and instead attributed it to more testing. “We have tested nearly 15,700 samples, which is slightly higher than previous days, and hence found more cases,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. He also added the quarantining of domestic and international travellers and subsequent testing on Day 7 were contributing to the numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/26-day-high-in-covid-19-cases-in-state/articleshow/80815465.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||Two UP athletes setjr national records||Kanpur: Anurag Singh Kaler of Sambhal and Munita Prajapati of Varanasi set a new national record in the 36th National Junior Athletics Championship-2021 which concluded at Sarusajai Sports Complex in Guwahati (Assam ) on Wednesday. Anurag Singh set a new record in the under-16 boys' shot put event when he hurled the iron ball 20.16 metres to break the old record of 18.06 meters set by Adish Ghildiyal of Uttarakhand in 2017. Munita Prajapati displayed her stamina in the 10,000 meter race of the under-20 group. She clocked 47:53.58s and improved the old record by almost one minute. The old record was set by UP’s Priyanka Goswami at Vijaywada meet in 2014. She had recorded a time of 49:16.51s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-up-athletes-setjr-national-records/articleshow/80804774.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
February 11, 2021||Pune||Pune: Delivery associates struggle with fuel prices soaring high||PUNE: The rising fuel prices have left employees of food delivery startups and logistics companies, involved in doorstep supply of items bought on e-commerce platforms, searching for ways to save fuel. Fuel prices in the city rose on Wednesday with a litre of petrol and diesel costing Rs93.77 and Rs83, respectively, said Ali Daruwalla, national spokesperson of the All India Petrol Dealers Association. Sagar Borkar, who recently started working for a delivery firm, said, “On any given day, I deliver 15 to 20 products across the city. I started this job two months ago after I was told to leave my earlier work as a call centre executive. We have requested the firm to raise our travel allowance, but to no avail.” “If the fuel prices keep on rising like this, we will not be able to sustain as our salaries are very less,” said Borkar. Akshay Dalvi, who works for the same firm, said the problem of recipients not being present to take delivery was a major problem now. “We are permanent employees of the firm with a fixed salary, which includes travel allowance that gets reimbursed every 10 days. With the fuel prices increasing, I am spending more than the allowance,” Dalvi said. Those in the food delivery business are also in a fix. “Before the pandemic, I used to make around 30 to 40 deliveries a day. It has now come down to almost half during some days.” Saras, who works for an app-based food delivery firm said, “I don’t think I will be able to continue with this work for long.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/delivery-associates-struggle-with-fuel-prices-soaring-high/articleshow/80801944.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Man in street fight hurls stone at cop||Mumbai: A police constable suffered a skull fracture and had to be administered four sutures on the head after he was attacked, allegedly by a man who the police said was involved in a street brawl in Santacruz (west) around 12.45 am on Wednesday. He tried to flee on seeing a team of cops on night patrol duty, the police claimed. The accused, Rishikesh Tiwari (22), who works as a food delivery boy, was in a street fight with two others. On hearing the commotion, the police team rushed in the direction to find the three in a fight. “The other two men who were quarrelling fled from the spot. Tiwari, who was also trying to slip away, attacked Narvekar while trying to escape. He was chased by two cops,” said a police official. Constable Ghanshyam Narvekar (48), posted at Santacruz police station, was also part of the patrol team with other officials. On seeing the cops, Tiwari tried to run into the bylanes when he came in front of Narvekar. “Tiwari attacked Narvekar with a stone while trying to run away,” said the official. Narvekar was rushed to hospital. His condition is stable. “Narvekar suffered a skull fracture and four stitches on his head. He is getting treated,” said senior inspector Dnyaneshwar Ganore from Santacruz police station. Tiwari, who has been booked for attempt to murder, has been remanded in poice custoday, said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-in-street-fight-hurls-stone-at-cop/articleshow/80805408.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||UP Board exams from April 24||LUCKNOW: UP Board class 10 and 12 examinations will begin on April 24. The high school examinations will get over on May 10 and those of intermediate on May 12. Announcing the datesheet, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who also holds the education portfolio, said the high school examinations will get over in 12 working days and the intermediate exams in 15 days. Last year too, Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Board examinations were completed in the same duration. Urging students to prepare themselves for the exams with a positive mindset, Sharma said the timely announcement of the datesheet will give sufficient time to the students for preparation.  As per the time-table, the first paper for class 10 students will be Elementary Hindi, and for class 12 it will be General Hindi. More than 56 lakh students — 31.5 lakh boys and 24.5 lakh girls — have filled forms for high school and intermediate examinations. A total 29.9 lakh examinees — 16.7 lakh boys and 13.2 lakh girls — have registered for high school examination. For the intermediate exam, 26.1 lakh examinees — 14.7 lakh boys and 11.3 lakh girls — have registered. The numbers are marginally lesser than last year when 56 lakh students had registered for the exams. Last year, UP Board exams began on February 18. The class 10 exams got over on March 3 and class 12 on March 6. In fact, UP was among the first states where exams got over before the lockdown. The Covid-19 pandemic which forced shutdown of schools for almost 7 months led to exams being delayed by almost two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-board-exams-from-april-24/articleshow/80804716.cms||Isha Jain
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal after UP, Bihar in fossil fuel-linked deaths||Kolkata: Pollution from fossil fuel contributed to 2.8 lakh additional deaths in Bengal in 2018, a recent study has revealed. Only Bihar and Uttar Pradesh reported more fatalities due to exposure to emission from burning of coal, petroleum and other fossil fuels. While 2.9 lakh deaths were linked to fossil fuel pollution in Bihar, the figure was a staggering 4.7 lakh in UP. Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu also recorded over 1 lakh fossil fuel-linked deaths.Studies conducted till now had linked PM2.5 to COPD, lower respiratory track infection, ischaemic heart disease, stroke, cancer and various other complications that led to fatalities. The study by Harvard University, in collaboration with University of Birmingham, University of Leicester and University College London, directly blamed fossil fuel emissions. A recent pollution source apportionment study in Kolkata and Howrah by NEERI also pointed to fossil fuel being a major cause of air pollution. Following this, the state pollution control board has been attempting to convert wood- and coal-fired chulhas used by roadside vendors to LPG and also shift coal-fuelled ironing to gas-based steam irons. According to the Harvard study, nearly a third of all deaths in India can be attributed to air pollution.What this essentially means is that those who died would have survived longer but for the exposure to pollution caused by fossil fuel. Until recently, it was difficult to identify how much fine particulate matter pollution could be directly attributed to fossil fuels, and by extension, deaths specifically from fossil fuel pollution. Advances in research and modelling now allow scientists to pinpoint the contribution of fossil fuel combustion. As well as underlining the urgency of cutting fossil fuel use, the study could open the way for litigation based on the direct harms caused by their combustion.While previous research relied on satellite and surface observations to estimate the average global annual concentrations of PM2.5, they were unable to tell the difference between particles from fossil fuel emissions and those from dust, wildfire smoke or other sources. In this study, scientists have used a more advanced technology of GEOS-Chem, a global 3D model of atmospheric chemistry, which has a high spatial resolution. Here, researchers divided the globe into a grid with boxes as small as 50km×60km and looked at pollution levels in each box individually.To model PM2.5 generated by fossil fuel combustion, the researchers plugged into GEOS-Chem estimates of emissions from multiple sectors, including power, industry, ships, aircraft and ground transportation and simulated detailed oxidant-aerosol chemistry driven by meteorology from the NASA Global Modeling and Assimilation Office. Once they had the concentration of outdoor fossil-fuel PM2.5 for each grid box, the researchers needed to figure out how those levels impacted human health. “Often, when we discuss the dangers of fossil fuel combustion, it’s in the context of CO2 and climate change and overlook the potential health impact of the pollutants co-emitted with greenhouse gases,” said Joel Schwartz, professor of Environmental Epidemiology at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health (HSPH). “We hope that by quantifying the health consequences of fossil fuel combustion, we can send a clear message to policymakers and stakeholders of the benefits of a transition to alternative energy sources.”“Our study adds to the mounting evidence that air pollution from ongoing dependence on fossil fuels is detrimental to global health,” said Eloise Marais, Associate Professor in the Department of Geography at UCL. “We can’t in good conscience continue to rely on fossil fuels, when we know that there are such severe effects on health and viable, cleaner alternatives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-after-up-bihar-in-fossil-fuel-linked-deaths/articleshow/80797967.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||Min: Citizens, LMC can do Indore repeat for city||Lucknow: To meet the goal of a top rank in this year’s Swachhta Survey, state finance minister Suresh Khanna on Wednesday suggested mayor Sanyukta Bhatia and Lucknow Municipal Corporation to organise a chain of cleanliness events. He was addressing the Swachhta maharally organised by the civic body to make citizens aware of the issue and to aim to make Lucknow rank first in this year’s survey. Organised at 1090 crossing, hundreds of school students and teachers, LMC employees and residents participated in the rally. With slogans of ‘Hum sabne ye thhana hai, Lucknow swachh banana hai’ the rally passed through Hazratganj, Lalbagh, before culminating at Jhandiwala Park (Lalbagh). Citing the example of Indore, which ranked first in Swachhta Survey 2017, Khanna said, “After coming at 25th position in 2016, Indore Municipal Corporation took an oath to achieve the first position in 2017 and organised several awareness events. People promised to keep their city clean and did it. By learning from Indore, Lucknow too can this year come from last year’s 12th position to number 1 with the corporation ensuring that there is awareness created regarding cleanliness and the mission, and with public giving positive citizen feedback.” “With many changes by LMC and joint effort of sanitization workers and citizens, Lucknow is improving on the cleanliness quotient. Our workers have done a relentless job keeping the city safe and clean during Covid-19 pandemic too. Some more efforts by citizens regarding sanitization and keeping their localities clean will help us not only in the long run, but also in making the city rank first in Swachh Survekshan,” said mayor Sanyukta Bhatia. Urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon said that UP’s commitment is to make the state a model for others for cleanliness, sanitization, waste management practices and relentless efforts by its people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/min-citizens-lmc-can-do-indore-repeat-for-city/articleshow/80804011.cms||Aditi Singh
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||2 nabbed for kidnapping, robbing recovery agent||Mumbai: Two men were arrested for kidnapping and robbing a recovery agent at Dahisar (E) recently. The accused saw the agent argue with a young woman and decided to target him after she left at Ambawadi on February 8. The automobile recovery agent was on a bike when it brushed past the woman around noon. The woman was not hurt but accidentally dropped her cellphone, and it got damaged. The duo argued over the damaged phone and a crowd gathered. Eventually, the agent placated the woman and agreed to pay up. “Manish Shinde (37) and Mahesh More (22) had been watching the incident from an auto. After she left and all dispersed, they picked on the agent, accused him of molesting the woman and bundled him into the auto,” said investigating officer Chandrakant Gharge. They drove away with him and took him around the suburbs to three locations. The agent was roughed up and robbed of Rs 10,000. After he filed a police complaint, Shinde and More were tracked down and arrested. Police said Shinde has been booked for sale of drugs earlier, besides a robbery case, and faced externment proceedings. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-nabbed-for-kidnapping-robbing-recovery-agent/articleshow/80798805.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Fake police gang busted in Hyderabad, three arrested||HYDERABAD: KPHB police on Wednesday busted a five-member gang, which was involved in abduction of a businessman, by claiming to be police personnel. They recovered a toy pistol, two daggers and a pair each of police and Army fatigues from their possession. On February 5, T Dileep, who does vehicle finance business, lodged a complaint with KPHB police about his abduction. According to him, he was contacted by one P Swamy Satyanarayana and sought Rs 15,000 by mortgaging his car on January 27. On February 1, when Dileep was travelling in in a car in KPHB , he was stopped by the five, who claimed to be police personnel and took him into custody. He was taken to Jaggareddygudem in West Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh by the accused in his car. Later, they demanded Rs 5 lakh ransom to set him free. By paying Rs 50,000, the victim managed to give the slip to the accused, reached Hyderabad and lodged a complaint with KPHB police. Based on details given by the victim and technical evidence, police arrested Nagaraju Karthikeya Raghuvarma alias Major Karthik, B Deepak Kumar, G Anil Kumar, while two other accused — Swamy Satyanarayana and Srinu — were absconding. Except Deepak, the rest are from Andhra Pradesh. Nagaraju, a native of West Godavari district, in 2017 went for Army selection, but failed to make the cut. Later, he bought an Army uniform and went to his village and claimed he was an Army officer. After he was involved in an extortion case, the AP police, on verification, found that he was a fake Army officer. He had extorted money from businessmen by claiming himself to be an Army or police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-police-gang-busted-three-arrested/articleshow/80805272.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Bid to tarnish probe and proof: Government||NEW DELHI: Government sources on Wednesday denied reports in a section of foreign media that evidence was “planted” in the digital devices of Bhima Koregaon case accused, saying that the report based on forensic examination of the devices by Regional FSL, Pune, submitted along with the chargesheet in the court, did not indicate any instance of tampering. Stating that there is nothing to suggest in the Pune FSL report that any evidence was planted or that accused Rona Wilson’s digital devices were compromised by ‘malware’, a senior government official said the FSL report provides full details of the types of tests conducted as part of scrutiny and analysis of the devices. Regarding the letters alleged to have been planted, the officer said the context and incidents mentioned are very much corroborated in the chargesheet by other oral, documentary & technical evidence attached. “The same is evident from the activities of accused Rona Wilson who visited ‘guerilla’ area Abhuj Maad along with Ritupan Goswami @ Naveen @ Prakash, as per digital data recovered from of G N Saibaba, convicted accused in another naxal case,” said an NIA officer. Calling the report of ‘Arsenal Consulting’ an attempt to tarnish the investigation and the evidence collected therein, the official said the Pune Police and NIA had submitted three chargesheets against 22 accused persons (16 arrested & 6 wanted) and none of them had been granted any relief including bail by the courts. “It needs no reiteration that India has a highly robust judicial system and the accused persons get best possible opportunity to represent their case. The attempt to discredit the investigation and finding faults with the evidence is another ploy by the defence,” the official said adding that the accused had approached various courts including the Supreme Court at different points of time but failed to get any relief including bail. In fact, high profile-lawyer Gautam Navlakha, another accused in the case, was denied bail by the Mumbai High Court only two days ago. Strongly refuting the allegations made in the Washington Post article, the official said that “a cogent case with entire evidence against the accused has been submitted before the trial court and the matter is sub-judice”. An NIA official also termed as “rather weird” the Arsenal Consulting conclusion that Wilson’s device was compromised for a period of 22 months prior to his arrest, when the case was registered only on 08.01.2018 i.e. six months prior to his arrest, arising out of an incident on 01.01.2018. “The timeline is hard to comprehend,” said the officer. An incident occurred on 01.01.2018 in which clashes took place between different groups at Bhima Koregaon and the investigation was taken up. On 17/04/2018, Pune Police conducted a search at accused Rona Wilson house at New Delhi and seized items like hard disk, CDs, laptop, mobile phones, memory cards etc, and prepared seizure memo following all due procedures including videography. After the preparation of seizure memo, a strict “chain of custody” was maintained and the digital devices including seized laptop, mobile phone & HDD were sent to Regional FSL Pune for further examination. Regional FSL Pune provided a forensic report including image/clone copy of the said electronic devices, ruling out any tampering with the devices. After filing the chargesheet, its copy, forensic images of digital devices along with final reports were provided to accused persons by Pune Police & NIA. “It appears that the copy of the forensic image of digital device was given by the accused to Arsenal Consulting in USA.” said an NIA officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bid-to-tarnish-probe-proof-govt/articleshow/80802014.cms||Bharti Jain
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Cops: CCTV cam shows Navy sailor getting into SUV outside rly station||Mumbai: As the disappearance and subsequent death of a Navy sailor in Palghar gets mysterious, closed-circuit television footages show him voluntarily getting into a vehicle outside a railway station, around 2km from Chennai airport. Surajkumar Dubey (26), posted at INS Agrani in Coimbatore, was found with 90% burn injuries in Velji village in Palghar’s Talasari taluka on February 5. In his dying declaration, he told Gholvad police of being abducted from outside Chennai airport on January 30 by three armed men who demanded Rs 10 lakh. Investigations revealed that Dubey had incurred heavy losses in the share market and had borrowed over Rs 13 lakh. A Palghar police team is in Chennai to gather evidence of the abduction. CCTV images outside the airport showed Dubey moving around till the wee hours of January 31. He had withdrawn Rs 5,000 from an ATM before walking to Tirusulam railway station. Fresh footage from outside the station shows him getting into a SUV voluntarily. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-cctv-cam-shows-navy-sailor-getting-into-suv-outside-rly-station/articleshow/80802092.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||Treatment of waste water a key scoring point in swachh chart||Lucknow: Treatment of waste water by the Lucknow Municipal Corporation will be a key factor in determining the city’s rank in the Swachh Bharat Survey (SBS) 2021.LMC will be judged on how it treats the waste water before releasing it into the Gomti river or for reuse in public toilets. The ministry of housing and urban affairs (MOHUA) has included ‘water plus’ protocol in the overall ranking in which marks will be allotted for waste water management by the urban local bodies. Overall, evaluation of the cities in SBS 2021 will be done under three parameters for total 6,000 marks — service level progress (2,400 marks), certification (1,800 marks), and citizen feedback (1,800 marks). Lucknow will compete with 52 other cities with 10 lakh or more population. While ‘certification parameter’ will be based on the assessment of open defecation free programme, ‘citizen feedback’ section will examine public satisfaction with the services. The ‘service level progress’ parameter will examine solid waste management. Now, it will also include ‘water plus’ protocol. “The solid waste management will carry 1,700 marks and water plus protocol 700 marks. While door-to-door garbage collection and its treatment will be checked under solid waste management, sewage treatment and water reuse will be assessed under water plus protocol,” said an LMC officer. A central team sent will visit Lucknow in March for inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/treatment-of-waste-water-a-key-scoring-point-in-swachh-chart/articleshow/80804138.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Sunni waqf board polls on March 6||LUCKNOW: After Allahabad high court put aside the extension of UP Sunni Central Waqf Board’s tenure, the state government on Wednesday issued a notification for election of a new board. Votes will be cast on March 6 in room number 2 of the board’s office and the result will be announced the same day itself. Eight members, all belonging to the Sunni community, have to be elected to the board. This includes two Members of Parliament (MP), two members of the legislative council (MLCs), two members of the state bar council and two mutawwalis (caretakers) of waqfs properties with an income of Rs 1 lakh and above annually. The tenure of the board ended on March 31, 2020, but because of Covid-19, it was extended by six months by the state government. In September, the government extended the tenure by another six months, which was then contested in court. The court on January 25 ordered for the elections to be held and also appointed the principal secretary, department of minority welfare and waqf, BL Meena, as administrator until the new board is formed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sunni-waqf-board-polls-on-march-6/articleshow/80804051.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||Sangh mobilising minority wing for funds from Muslims||LUCKNOW: The Sangh Parivar has decided to widen its net for raising funds for the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya with Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) all set to roll out its minority affiliate — Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM) — to mobilise funds from the Muslim community. Come Friday, MRM chief Indresh Kumar would kick off the campaign from Lucknow by meeting people from the Muslim community at a host of functions with the overarching theme of ‘Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan’. Sources said, RSS seeks to rope in MRM cadre in other parts of the country too. RSS sources said, Kumar would stay in the state capital for two days during which he would meet people from various sections of society, essentially Muslims, while seeking financial support for the temple. This comes amidst the nationwide drive by Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) to raise funds for the temple. The campaign which was launched on January 15 is scheduled to be carried out till February 26, which happens to be Magh Poornima. “This is the land of Ram. We need to work towards ending discord among various social and religious groups,” said MRM national co-convener, Murari Das, while speaking to TOI on Wednesday. “Construction of a grand Ram temple would also end social evils and put the country on a growth trajectory with help of people from all sections of society,” he said. Kumar is scheduled to meet people from various sections of society at Vishwa Samvad Kendra (RSS office) on Friday noon. He would address a gathering of MRM members and supporters at Hindi Media Centre, Gomtinagar. On Saturday, Kumar is scheduled to meet children of a ‘Yateem Khana’ (orphanage) near Nakkhas. RSS sources said, Indresh Kumar would ask children for a symbolical donation from their pocket money for the temple. Later, he would meet members of Muslim community at a guest house in Balaganj. Sufis from the ‘malang’ sect would also meet him at Chinhat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sangh-mobilising-minority-wing-for-funds-from-muslims/articleshow/80804561.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||Confusion over duration of immunity major concern among those not taking jab||Nagpur: Lack of clarity from the central and state government on duration of immunity provided by Covid-19 vaccine is reportedly one of the major reasons that 40% health care workers (HCW) have not turned up for the inoculation. A majority of HCW who did not take the jab in first schedule are reportedly not coming for the vaccination in second or further rounds too in Vidarbha. State government data shows 1,00,713 registered health care workers took the jab in 11 districts of Vidarbha between January 16 and February 10. There were 1.60 lakh registered HCW before launch of vaccination programme. The number has increased now. In Nagpur district, 31,377 were registered before launch and crossed 41,000 now. Thus, less than 60% of registered HCW have taken the jab. First schedule of registered health care workers has been reportedly completed and second or further rounds started for those who did not turn up in first round. At Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), which is one of two centres in the region for Covaxin, less than 30% HCW took the jab. Microbiologist Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed told TOI, “My name is registered for vaccination but I did not take it. I am confused as there is no clear idea about sustainability of antibodies developed after vaccination. This is the concern among many HCWs who are yet to take the jab. I think acceptance would have been higher if there was clarity from the government.” Dr Ahmed is not worried about adverse event following immunization (AEFI) or efficacy of vaccine. “Duration of immunity should have been made clear,” he said. Turnout among nurses, technicians, attendants etc is reportedly lower as compared to doctors. President of ASHA workers union Rajendra Sathe said, “Neither government not vaccine manufacturer have said how long antibodies will last. Also, government never assured one will not contract the disease after taking vaccine. Instead, government is insisting on following mask and other guidelines even after taking vaccine. Less than 25% nurses took the jab. Therefore, many ASHA workers not willing to take vaccine.” In reply to query of advocate Ankita Shah, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on its official Twitter handle — Covid India Seva — on Wednesday said, “At the moment, it is unknown how long immunity provided by vaccine may last. Hence, yes, in some cases it is possible to get infected even after vaccination.” Shah said, “Many like me are eager to get vaccine for parents and ourselves. But government should clarify duration of immunity and ensure it lasts for entire life or long span on the lines of pulse polio or other vaccines.” MoHFW also said research was underway to understand the duration of immunity provided by the vaccine. Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe said, “There should be no concerns about vaccine. Antibodies will definitely develop after taking vaccine. All should take the jab to end the pandemic. We can get herd immunity and control deaths and transmission even if 60% are vaccinated.” President of Maharashtra Association of Ayurvedic Resident Doctors Dr Sumit Marathe said, “I have not taken the vaccine. Ayurveda classical texts do not mention vaccine concept. I am very confident about ayurveda and it’s treatment for Covid-19. Ayurveda mentions about vyadhi kshamatva and vyadhi balavirodhatvam (capacity of the body to fight against manifested diseases or natural immunity), and vyadhi utpad pratibandhkatvam (capacity of the body to not allow disease or pathogenesis). Vyadhik shamatva denotes the resistance power of the body or defence of body against first occurrence of any disease. Also, in second term, it indicates that if body once encounters some disease, it will not allow the disease to be manifested because of specific resistance power. Ayurveda has always been a boon in many disease conditions. Many patients till now have been treated with ayurvedic medicines for Covid-19.” The officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had earlier stated around 10% HCW have refused to take vaccine as they were concerned about its safety over long term. As reported by TOI, the region has recorded very few AEFI cases, and all were minor like fever, body ache etc. Experts have time and again said minor AEFI are common in any vaccination and nothing to worry about.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/confusion-over-duration-of-immunity-major-concern-among-those-not-taking-jab/articleshow/80797998.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||Candidates forteachers’ posthold protest||TNN Lucknow: Scores of candidates who couldn’t secure a berth as teachers in the government primary schools on Wednesday staged a protest outside the residence of basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi. The protestors were seen holding placards which read ‘either select us based on our original credentials or bury us’. Majority of these candidates were among those who committed errors while filling up the online form for the posting. Candidates also demanded amendments in the government order so that they can make corrections in the forms and secure a place in the merit list. When contacted, Dwivedi said, “There has to be some benchmark for appointing teachers. If they feel the government has done wrong, they can approach the court. If the court allows, we will appoint them.” Officials said, any change that hampers the merit list will not be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/candidates-forteachers-posthold-protest/articleshow/80803966.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man kills friend for comment on ex-wife, held||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has arrested a 22-year-old man for allegedly killing his friend following an argument between them in south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri area. The victim had made a remark about the accused’s ex-wife, who is now engaged to some other man, that led to the murder, said police. The accused, a man of Nepali origin, was arrested when he was trying to cross over to the neighbouring country. He has been identified as Tilak Bahadur. Earlier on Monday, Shekhar Kharka, a resident of Aanchal Sagarmaatha in Nepal, was found dead in his room in Aya Nagar. A case of murder was registered to probe his death. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said it was found during the probe that the victim was sharing the room with another resident of Nepal, who was absconding. “Bahadur became the prime suspect and details about him were gathered. The accused was likely to flee to Nepal. So, teams were dispatched to three different borders of India-Nepal. Around 4 pm on Tuesday, the suspect was caught following a tip-off from Sarda Bairaj checkpost in Uttrakhand while he was trying to flee the country,” he said. During interrogation, the accused confessed to the crime. “He said the victim had made a comment on his ex-wife. This led to an argument between the two men following which Bahadur first attacked Kharka with a brick and then used a knife to slit his throat,” the officer said. After the murder, Bahadur changed his clothes, raised volume of the TV, locked the room and fled the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-kills-friend-for-comment-on-ex-wife-held/articleshow/80798037.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||23 out of 92 from UP missing in avalanche found alive||Lucknow: Bodies of three persons from Uttar Pradesh who lost their lives in Sunday’s avalanche in Uttarakhand, had been identified till Wednesday night. Two of the deceased were from Lakhimpur Kheri while the third belonged to Aligarh. Out of the 92 persons from the state who were working at the two hydro projects that were washed away in the flash floods three days ago, 23 persons have been found to be safe, said officials. A senior government official said that of the three deceased, two were found on Tuesday while the third was identified on Wednesday. “The government has been coordinating with the families to bring back the bodies. Two, one from Aligarh and one from Lakhimpur, have been cremated in their villages. The third body identified on Wednesday will be brought back to his village in Lakhimpur by Thursday,” he said. He added that till all remaining 66 persons are not tracked, UP government officials will continue to camp in Uttarakhand. All 92 persons from UP who the government is trying to track were working in the hydro projects. The official said that the government has so far not received any report of other persons from UP who might have been affected by the flood. A team of ministers, including Suresh Rana, Dharam Singh Saini and Vijay Kashyap, have been sent to Dehradun to coordinate relief efforts with the Uttarakhand government. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi is also heading a team of officials to coordinate with the Uttarakhand administration. Meanwhile, a 24x7 control room has been set up by the office of the disaster relief commissioner in Haridwar while local control rooms have been set up in districts which felt the impact of the disaster. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the families of each of those who lost their lives in the disaster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/23-out-of-92-from-up-missing-in-avalanche-found-alive/articleshow/80804675.cms||Neha Lalchandani
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Within 10 days, Centre to decide on funding vaccination of those aged above 50 years||Within 10 days the Union government will decide on how funding for the next phase of vaccination for those aged above 50 will be done. This third phase is likely to start mid-March, as announced by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in Lok Sabha last week. Nearly 27 crore are expected to be covered in this phase, which will need 60 crore doses. Member (health) Niti Aayog and chairman of National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) Dr Vinod Paul said the government was yet to finalise if it would be fully funded by the Centre, or partly funded by Centre and state. “The expert panel is studying it and the government will come out with guidelines in 10 days,” he said. He said options are being discussed, which include allowing companies to use corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds for vaccinating employees and local communities. Ministry of health & family welfare sources said the Union and state governments are expected to share cost. “The issue is at a very advanced stage and a decision is expected soon,” said the source. Many states, including Maharashtra, have sought clarity on funding for this phase. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope told TOI they have no clarity but people above 50 may be vaccinated from the first week of March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/within-10-days-centre-to-decide-on-funding-vaccination-of-those-aged-above-50/articleshow/80798824.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||New ICH building to have 300 beds||Kolkata: Institute of Child Health (ICH), a leading paediatric institute in the country is set to get a modernized building that will allow the hospital to upgrade its NICUs, PICUs, operation theatres and other units. The foundation stone for a G+10 storeyed building at the institute’s Park Circus premises will be laid on Thursday. “The existing building is an old structure. The new building will have 300 beds and state-of-the-art facilities. Hopefully, the building will be ready in three years,” said Apurba Ghosh, director ICH. Set up in 1956 by paediatrician KC Chaudhuri, on a piece of land allotted by the then Corporation of Calcutta, erstwhile Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had inaugurated the hospital. The trust-run hospital has 220 beds. On an average, 450 children are tended to daily at its OPD while around 4,500 surgeries are conducted annually in the different departments. Once the new building comes up, the existing structure will be utilized for OPD services and nursing classes. The institute started its nursing courses in 2020 with 120 students. The hospital will introduce MSc in paediatric nursing, a superspeciality course and increase the seats for the general nursing course. Funds have started coming in from some individuals and corporate houses for construction of the new building for the trust-run hospital. Credai has agreed to develop the building without a profit.Urban development minister Firhad Hakim and former MP Sugata Bose, who is also on the ICH board of trustees, will be at the foundation stone-laying ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-ich-building-to-have-300-beds/articleshow/80797974.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||Bharat Club, IPRK triumph||Lucknow: Bharat Cricket Club defeated RKB Club while IPRK Cricket Club beat Shakumbari Cricket Club in the league matches of the 2nd Gaurav Mehta Memorial Cricket tournament at GP Cricket Stadium. In the first match, RKB set the target of 166 runs (all out) which was successfully chased by Bharat Club at the loss of six wickets. Sahibe Alam scored highest 78 runs for RKB but Himanshu Pandey's (man of the match) unbeaten 91 helped Bharat Club win the match. In the second match, Shakumbari were out all for 99 runs in 30.5 overs. In reply, IPRK chased the target in 35.2 overs at the loss of six wickets. Man of the match Santosh Pal (IPRK) claimed two wickets without conceding a single run in his two over spell. BBD Super League Kooh Sports drubbed Central Cricket Club by 8 wickets in the league match of Babu Banarasi Das Prize Mondy Super League at Akhilesh Das Stadium. Batting first, Central Cricket were bundled out at 44 runs. Only Naman (17) could score in double digit. In reply, Kooh Sports chased the target at the loss of two wickets. Man of match Anand Srivastava claimed three wickets giving away just nine runs in six overs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bharat-club-iprk-triumph/articleshow/80804984.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||No bike rallies, slogans, VHP tells teams collecting funds for Ram Temple||LUCKNOW: When the Sangh Parivar gives a wider dimension to its 'sahyog samarpan' campaign, the exercise meant to collect donations for the Ram Mandir from people, there would be an elaborate list of dos and don'ts for volunteers involved in the job. The special focus would be on 'don'ts' to keep it absolutely trouble-free, says a senior VHP member associated with the campaign. Beginning February 14, people associated with close to 35 organizations linked to the Sangh, including VHP, BJP, Adhivakta Sangh, Mazdoor Sangh, Kisan Sangh, ABVP and others, would knock on the doors of the common man (families) asking for contribution for the Ram Mandir. Idea is to not leave even a single house, anywhere, all over the state. In Ayodhya, the campaign would be thoroughly watched by superiors to keep it peaceful. No wonder, along with the dos, the foot soldiers have "emphatically" been told about the don'ts this time. The VHP has clearly drawn hints from previous events when, on occasions, "show of strength" by the saffron outfit has not gone down well with people, said sources. So, this time there have been meetings to educate fund collectors on what they are not supposed to do. There would be no motorcycle rally, no slogan raising, no yatra or 'juloos'. "It has to be very disciplined and quiet with no unwanted fuss and crowd. It's more for Ayodhya because we do not want any problem at any level," said sources. The families can contribute Rs 10, Rs 100 and Rs 1,000 as per the denomination of the coupon. People can buy as many coupons as they want but 'karyakarta' has to be equally respectful to all, even those who can not contribute more than Rs 10. "There should be no argument and no 'tiraskar' by those who are asking for money. It has been made clear to all," said sources. Though 'tolis' (groups) would have pamphlets with the picture of Ram Mandir model, history of court cases and the dispute and the 'conclusion' of it all, they would only give it to people who ask for it and not forcefully distribute the material. The organization has made groups of minimum ten people that would cover 50 houses each. A 'toli pramukh' (group captain) can bring in more people but the crowd should not look and behave aggressively. There has to be no distinction based on religion or caste and every family has to be visited. "Every group has been given a route map. Assessment for every group will be done every evening," said Awadhesh Kumar Pandey, a BJP functionary in Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-motorcycle-rallies-no-slogans-vhp-tells-volunteers-collecting-donation-for-ram-mandir/articleshow/80804609.cms||Neha Shukla
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||ED gets seven-day custody of former cabinet minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati in DA case||LUCKNOW: The Enforcement Directorate got seven-day custody remand for interrogation of former cabinet minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati on Thursday in a disproportionate assets case. District judge Dinesh Kumar Sharma granted Prajpati's seven-day custody starting 10 PM on February 11. The judge also said that proper care of the accused would be taken for treatment and supply of medicines. Besides, 20 minutes should be given to the family members and his counsel to meet him daily in the custody period, the order says. The ED’s counsel Kuldeep Srivastava pleaded that the agency had detected Rs 2.98 crore income which was beyond the former minister's known sources. He also charged him with not cooperating in the inquiry. The ED sources said that custodial interrogation of Prajapati was essential as investigations so far have traced unaccounted cash deposits worth over Rs 20 crore in the names of his family members. The deposits were made while Prajapati was minister for mining in UP between 2013 and 2016. He is at present lodged in Lucknow district jail in a gang rape case. The ED had registered the DA case against the ex-minister on October 26, 2020. The accused failed to provide details of his movable and immovable assets and instead shifted the onus to his CA. In his election affidavit, he had mentioned loans of Rs 2.14 crore taken by his wife from his son, Anil Prajapati. However, he could not provide any detail for the source of such funds, said the ED. His elder son Anil was also summoned, who stated that he owned six immovable properties and would submit a copy of sale deeds in ten days but did not remember the source of the funds used to acquire the properties. Prajpati in his earlier statements also said that after 2013, his wife and daughter were not engaged in any business. Despite that, transactions to the tune of crores were found in the accounts of his wife, daughter and two sons. The ED said that it also got more than 100 registries of different properties worth around Rs 32 crore spread across Lucknow, Kanpur, Amethi and Sitapur during the searches at seven places in the three districts. The sources of money to buy these properties were not known. It also found allotment letters of four villas in Mumbai, valued at Rs 2.5 crore each, belonging to family members of the former minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-gets-seven-day-custody-of-former-cabinet-minister-prajapati-in-da-case/articleshow/80804810.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
February 11, 2021||Kanpur||Pachauri: Survey to be done to remove Anwarganj-Mandhana rail track from city||Kanpur: The survey for removing the 16 km-long Anwarganj-Mandhana railway track from the city and to create Panki-Mandhana link and further connect it to Delhi-Howrah route is likely to start soon. A team of the Railways, besides National Highways Authority of India, PWD (Public Works Department), State Bridge Corporation Ltd, Metro Rail Corporation will conduct the survey of the railway line, said BJP MP Satyadeo Pachauri on Wednesday. According to Pachauri, he has received a letter to this effect from railway minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday. “Railway minister in his letter dated January 27, 2021, has assured and stated that a team comprising of National Highways Authority of India, PWD, State Bridge Corporation Ltd, Metro Rail Corporation officials will soon conduct a survey to remove the 16 km-long Anwarganj-Mandhana railway line and further create Panki-Mandhana link and connect it further to Delhi-Howrah rail route,” said MP further. To recall, Pachauri had raised the issue of removing the 16 km-long Anwarganj-Mandhana railway track from the city during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha in September last year. Raising the issue, Pachauri on September 22, 2020, had stated that the railway track, passing through the heart of the city, divides it into two parts -- North and South -- causing frequent traffic jams. The MP had demanded that the railway track between Kanpur-Anwarganj and Mandhana should be removed and instead Mandhana should be connected with Panki. He had stated that the existing 18 railway crossings parallel to the GT Road that witnesses pressure of more than 50 trains, have become a major traffic nuisance for residents of surrounding localities. The locals of the area were of the view that previous Union governments had failed to provide any relief. They further stated that they had been demanding authorities and politicians to make travelling easy and less time-consuming for the commuters. “We have been suggesting that the track between Kanpur-Anwarganj and Mandhana should be removed and instead Mandhana should be connected with Panki. Frequent closure of these crossings has been causing inconvenience to motorists and traders, besides increasing pollution level of the area. Patients in the ambulances are the worst sufferer,” the locals stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pachauri-survey-to-be-done-to-remove-anwarganj-mandhana-rail-track-from-city/articleshow/80796326.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||CPM MLA disrupts governor’s address on farmers’ issue||JAIPUR: The lone CPM MLA, Balwan Poonia, on Wednesday proved he is a one-man army who can put the opposition BJP and Congress in a predicament. As soon as governor Kalraj Mishra began to read the speech on the first day of the sixth assembly session, he started shouting slogans in support of the farmers' agitation and accused the Centre of ignoring their plight. Poonia also demanded the governor give his approval to the agriculture bills passed by the assembly in the last session. He said the governor should apprise the Centre of the sentiments of farmers from Rajasthan. As the governor continued his speech unmindful of the protest, he stormed to the well of the House and demanded withdrawal of the three farm laws enacted by the central government. The governor continued his speech, though it was difficult to comprehend due to the disruption. Poonia also shouted ‘Andolanjeevi Zindabad’ a new word coined by the Prime Minister to the protesters. After some time, chief whip and Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal intervened and took him to his seat, but he continued to disrupt the house with his parallel speech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cpm-mla-disrupts-governors-address-on-farmers-issue/articleshow/80802001.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Kolhapur||Jal samadhi threat prompts MPCB to order water release||Kolhapur: The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) on Wednesday asked the irrigation department to release water from the dams so that hazardous effluents from the Panchaganga river can be flushed out. The decision was taken after several locals from Shirol tehsil threatened to take jal samadhi and stood in the water for over an hour to protest against the rising level of pollution in the river. The protesters, mostly farmers, claimed that since a shoal of fish was found dead at Shirol barrage of the river three days ago, no action had been taken against the polluters. The officials belonging to the sub-divisional office of the MPCB met the protesters at the protesting site and said immediate measures will be taken to stop the death of aquatic life. Vikas Kharat, sub-divisional officer of Ichalkaranji division, said, “I have asked the Ichalkaranji town council to remove the dead fish from the river. Also, I have asked the irrigation department to release water from the dams to flush out the pollutants. The MPCB officials have been asked to take stringent steps as per the directions of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray against the polluters.” Earlier, a meeting was called at Kharat’s office, but the protesters declined to meet him and instead decided to take Jal Samadhi. Sagar Shambhushete, a farmer from Nandni village, said, “Every time any pollution-related issue arises nothing much happens beyond issuing notices. More than a month has passed since the chief minister ordered to seal the establishments causing pollution, still the river continues to get polluted which means clearly that no actual action against the polluters is being taken.” Meanwhile, former Shiv Sena MLA Ulhas Patil met environment secretary Manisha Mhaiskar and apprised her about the pollution of Panchganga river. Later, Mhaiskar spoke with MPCB officials and asked for a detailed report about the whole incident before taking action against the polluters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/jal-samadhi-threat-prompts-mpcb-to-order-water-release/articleshow/80791518.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Rajkot||Pvt firm employee accused of raping minor schoolgirl||Rajkot: A private firm employee in Rajkot was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly raping a minor girl on three occasions over the last four months. The 30-year-old accused had allegedly threatened to kill the girl’s brother if she did not comply with his demands.Gandhigram police arrested Sanjay Kanjariya on basis of a complaint lodged by the mother of the 17-year-old Class XII girl on Tuesday night. According to case details, the accused and the survivor were neighbours on Raiya road. The accused allegedly raped the girl for the first time at his house in October last year. Later, he raped her again in November and then again in February 6.The matter came to light when the girl returned from school and then again left home saying that there were extra classes on February 6. When her parent’s inquired at school they found out that there were no extra classes. Since they already had doubts on Kanjariya’s intentions, they went to check at his house and found the girl there. When questioned, the girl told her parents that Kanjariya used to threaten her that he will kill her brother if she did not comply with his demands.Cops applied charges of rape and under various sections of POCSO Act on the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pvt-firm-employee-accused-of-raping-minor-schoolgirl/articleshow/80794205.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Couple commit suicide by consuming poison||Hyderabad: Beset with personal problems, a couple committed suicide by consuming poison at their house in Mylardevpally on Tuesday night. The deceased were identified as Ramesh Joshi (52), an accountant and his wife Rajkanya Joshi (50), a housewife from Brindavan Colony. They were from Rajasthan and have an 18-year-old daughter. Ramesh used to work as an accountant at a steel shop in Mylardevpally. On Wednesday morning, the teen noticed that her bedroom door was latched from outside. As her parents did not respond despite repeated attempts, she opened the window and shouted for help. Noticing this, the neighbours broke open the main door and found the bodies of the victims. “We found traces of food in a vessel next to Rajkanya,” said Mylardevpally inspector K Narasimha. Police searched the house, but they did not find a suicide note. “We suspect that the couple consumed food laced with an unknown poison. We suspect that some personal or financial problem could be the reason,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-commit-suicide-by-consuming-poison/articleshow/80805378.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Pvt hosp introduces Gen4 robotic surgery||Kolkata: The pandemic had prevented healthcare units from introducing new technologies for almost a year. With a drop in the number of positive cases, hospitals have now started upgrading their technologies. Narayana Superspeciality Hospital (NSH), Howrah, recently launched Gen4 robotic surgery that will facilitate minimally invasive surgeries with hi-tech machines.Only a few hospitals like Apollo Glenegales and Tata Medical Centre have robotic surgery facilities. But the facility at the cancer hospital in Howrah will be using the latest version called ‘Gen4’, which the hospital claims is being used for the first time in eastern India.The team at the hospital using the Vaunted Da Vinci Robotic Surgery System will perform a wide range of procedures in areas like urology, gastro-intestinal, gynaecology, cardiothoracic and ENT.“Gen4 technology offers better optics. Its firefly system with infrared lights offers a better insight of the cancerous tissues. The surgeon controls everything sitting on the console with the help of robotic arms, stereoscopic 3D vision and EndoWrist instruments,” said consultant gynae-onco surgeon Kaustav Basu.Besides Basu, the robotic surgery department will have urology and uro-onco robotic surgeon Abhay Kumar, HPB and GI-oncosurgeons Sumit Sanyal and Saurav Chowdhury , GI-oncosurgeon Shubhayu Banerjee and vascular and thoracic surgeon Amitava Chakravarti.“Apart from providing hi-tech benefits of the robotic surgery to the patients, our concern is to make such advanced treatments more accessible for the underprivileged section of the society. Robotic surgery allows doctors to perform critical and complex procedures with high precision, resulting in very good clinical outcomes,” said R Venkatesh, regional director (east), Narayana Health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosp-introduces-gen4-robotic-surgery/articleshow/80797992.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 11, 2021||Chennai||Now rent a bike taxi for multiple stops||Chennai: Bike taxi services have been an economical alternative to cabs, especially for the young who wanted a short trip or two, but for those who wanted to visit several places over a few hours without an own vehicle, options were limited. Now, the only bike taxi service in the city offers rental services for multipoint trips. Rapido, which has been operating in Chennai for two years, launched the facility on Wednesday, which may spur more service providers to enter the scene. The new service will allow commuters, who have to complete multiple tasks at different locations but do not want to go through the hassle of multiple bookings and waiting for the ride to arrive every time. Rapido said this would will bring down transportation cost further. In case someone travels around 40km in the city within four hours using the bike rental option, it would cost him/ her ₹399. Renting a cab for a similar duration or distance would cost around ₹650, which is almost 60% more. Rapido co-founder Aravind Sanka said that in the last months the company noticed a rising need for multistop, affordable and easily accessible ride among customers. “With Rapido Rental, we aim to address the need of such users. This can be a short stopover to pick a few things from a local shop to longer/ multiple stops related to work or personal use such as for comprehensive shopping or house hunting.” he said. An official statement from the company said that the concept was conceived as a result of customer usage data analysis. The Company launched an MVP (minimal viable product) to validate the data and hypothesis. Rapido Rental operates in six tier-I Indian cities including Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad in the south. Rapido, which launched its operation in Chennai with 500 bikes in 2019, has around 90,000 ‘captains’ (riders) who share the earnings with the company. Transportation activist R Rengachari said bike taxis would find more takers among youngsters. “Given the significant reduction in MTC’s small buses and share autorickshaws hiking fare, bike taxis would attract more passengers,” he said. Passengers safety is important, he said, referring to crimes linked to such bike taxis earlier in the city. The state transport department, meanwhile, is yet to finalise rules for bike taxis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/now-rent-a-bike-taxi-for-multiple-stops/articleshow/80802021.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||BJP nominee’s husband ends life||Mohali: A 45-year-old daily wager committed suicide at his workplace in Mohali on Wednesday. Sompal, a resident of Mataur, was husband of Munni Devi, a BJP candidate from ward 37 of Mohali.“Sompal had been working at the electricity board office in Phase I, here, from the past around five years. His wife, too, had been the board’s employee for around 17 years. He took the extreme step after reaching there in the morning,” said a cop.Monu, a relative, said, “After receiving a call from the electricity board office, we rushed there. The last rites will be performed on Thursday.” The family alleged Sompal ended his life due to four people, who were threatening them to take back the nomination in the MC elections. “The family says four people thrashed Sompal and threw him into a drain near YPS rotary on Chandigarh-Mohali border on Tuesday night,” the cop added. Assistant sub-inspector Krishan said, “No suicide note has been recovered. We have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. The postmortem has been conducted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-nominees-husband-ends-life/articleshow/80798061.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Officials call for strict watch on all home-isolated cases||PUNE: State health officials have now asked local authorities to ensure strict and regular monitoring of all home-isolated Covid patients in their jurisdictions. There are nearly 1.6 lakh positive patients currently under home isolation in the state. Several have breached protocols, authorities said. The order comes days after the visit by a central team that was dispatched to helpstabilise the high number of active cases in the state. Improved public health surveillance was one of the team’s suggestions. “Many patients under home isolation have violated rules. Local authorities have also not followed-up with these individuals,” said state director of health services Dr Archana Patil. One health official said regular checks of these patients were no longer being carried out. He said, “There used to be regular monitoring via phone calls, to check if patients had negative Covid-19 reports before stepping out. But those checks seem to have slowed because scores of health officials are now busy with the vaccination programme.” One person who recovered from Covid recently, said he was never asked by authorities to submit a negative report after the home isolation period. His relative, who had recovered in October, was asked to submit one. State technical expert on Covid, Dr Subhash Salunke, said level of monitoring has indeed reduced over the last few months. He said, “Local authorities had teams to monitor every patient at home. The police too were keeping an eye on them. This process needs to be reintroduced because we cannot let our guard down.” Pune district has 2,706 patients in home isolation. Another 1,757 active cases are in hospitals. “The health infrastructure in the state is stretched to the limits. But we just cannot ignore this large number of active cases,” Dr Salunke said. He said the high-level Covid-19 team, which was dispatched by the Centre to assess the ground situation in the state, said certain pockets need to improve health surveillance. Nearly 10 districts currently hold over 70% of all active cases in the state. Top five on this list are Pune, Thane, Mumbai, Nagpur and Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/officials-call-for-strict-watch-on-all-home-isolated-cases/articleshow/80802049.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Many departments yet to pay dues of JMC-Greater||JAIPUR: JMC-Greater has hundreds of crores of rupees pending from other government departments which is yet to be collected despite its own poor financial condition. To review the financial status of the civic body, JMC-Greater commissioner Yagyamitra Singh called a meeting with all revenue officers, additional commissioner Brijesh Chandoliya and others. Officials at the meeting said the civic body was yet to get more than Rs 100 crore from Jaipur Development Authority (JDA). According to rules, any new colony which is 70% developed has to be returned back to JMC-Greater, but that is not followed by the JDA leading to losses incurred by the corporation. Sources at JMC-Greater said, “Singh had asked the officials to write a letter to the UDH about the pending money. Apart from the transfer of colony, whatever plots or houses sold by JDA or housing board, 15% of JMC share has not been paid. A letter will be sent to other departments to clear the dues of JMC-Greater.” It was discussed that the PHED claimed to have installed 1,000 public supply water points for which JMC is paying hundreds of crores of rupees but the PHED never presented the list of those points. On an average, more than Rs 300 crore is pending from other departments. Chandoliya has been asked to look after the financial management of JMC-Greater and the work of revenue officers will be looked after by him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/many-depts-yet-to-pay-dues-of-jmc-greater/articleshow/80802057.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Cost of laptop for poor kids: Delhi govt gets relief from SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed an order of the Delhi High Court directing the Arvind Kejriwal government to reimburse the “burdensome” cost of laptop/gadgets needed for online learning by students up to Class 8, admitted to private schools in the 25% economically weaker section (EWS) quota under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. The Delhi government, through senior advocate Vikas Singh, said it provided free education till Class 8 and private schools were closed after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out in March last year and there was no physical learning in either government or private schools. “To justify demand for fees during the period when schools are closed due to the pandemic, private schools voluntarily decided to start an online mode of teaching students. The Delhi government, fearing that the 25% category of students admitted under EWS category will lag behind in online learning that could create inequality among students in the same class, issued several circulars making it mandatory for private schools to ensure that such students are provided with necessary learning material to participate in the online classes,” it said. Singh told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that the HC order directing Delhi government to reimburse private schools for the expenditure incurred towards providing laptop/electronic devices to poor students went beyond the mandate of the RTE Act, which under Section 12 provided for reimbursing an amount equivalent to the expenditure incurred by the government in teaching students in its schools. “The online mode of teaching, as envisaged in private schools, has not started in government schools and, hence, there is no question of reimbursement of such expenditure to EWS category students admitted in private schools,” the counsel argued. What clinched the plea for interim relief was Singh’s argument that the HC’s direction for reimbursement would be in the nature of capital expenditure whereas the RTE Act envisaged only reimbursement in the nature of revenue expenditure. “The HC judgment will have a huge financial implication in the state, which will be in addition to what the state is already incurring towards its obligation under Section 12 of the RTE Act,” he said, adding that Delhi government spent around 30% of its budget on school education and the results were there for everyone to see in the performance of students in Class 10 and 12. The bench said courts could not issue a direction which would cast capital expenditure burden on a government. It issued notice to the PIL petitioner on whose plea the HC had passed the directions and stayed operation of the HC judgment of September 18 last year. The HC had ordered setting up of a committee comprising education secretaries of the Centre and Delhi government and a representative of the schools’ association to identify gadgets required by poor students to participate in online classes. The HC had also said that private schools were to either purchase or hire the gadgets, expenses towards which were to be reimbursed by the Delhi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cost-of-laptop-for-poor-kids-delhi-govt-gets-relief-from-sc/articleshow/80798200.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||Forest dept working plans to be more people-centric||Nagpur: With forest governance undergoing transformation, the Maharashtra forest department has decided to present an exclusive and rigid working plan into an inclusive, live, vibrant, and responsive document. For over a century, the working plan has been the sacred document for forest management. Talking to TOI, Praveen Srivastava, PCCF (production & management), said, forest governance has undergone a transformation with the enactment of the Forest Rights Act (FRA). Recent denotification of bamboo from the category of notified forest produce from the Indian Forest Act (IFA) was yet another jolt in the sequence of shaking forest governance. Srivastava said though the National Working Plan Code (NWPC) 2014 attempted to make this document more science and technology-centric, besides assimilating emerging trends of biodiversity, ecotourism, carbon assessment and trees outside forests, ironically, most of these changes continued to remain on paper, and little translated on to the ground. Capturing of concerns of people critically was missing. “There is a strong reason to introspect as to how far forest governance sans people concerns remain relevant? Ideas like ‘We the people’, the guiding light of our constitution did not impact the existing statutes even after seven decades,” he said. Srivastava added that forest governance remained equally untouched. Apathy towards concern for people at large and their representatives already is showing itself in commensurate apathetic response from policy-makers. No policy indifferent to people nor any institution insensitive to popular aspirations may have any future in democratic governance. “It is with this background that an attempt is being made to transform the present exclusive, rigid working plans into the responsive document. The trigger certainly was the ongoing unsettled conflict between the forest department and tribal community,” the PCCF said. Taking a cue from a successful experiment in Baripada in Dhule, where the Joint Forest Management (JFM) under Chaitram Pawar has worked wonders, Srivastava said, “Baripada is a live example of pro-active efforts of JFM coupled with soil and water conservation works undertaken by the forest department has resulted not only in augmenting forest density but also rising water table in agrarian fields.” In order to assimilate popular aspirations, now the working plans will also include a chapter wherein the gist of all legislative assembly and council questions, response by the forest department, findings and observations of assembly and parliamentary committees about the issues related to the forest divisions concerned would be captured. “This would help assimilate concerns of people in a systematic manner the credible document. Also, it has been decided that a meeting would be arranged with the local representatives, including MLAs, MLCs, and MPs before writing the working plan and after completing it. This would ensure internalization of people concerns as well as help in educating about the working of the forest department to people at large,” said Srivastava. “Future working plans would be more grounded in terms of their connectivity with the people. Prime intent remains to strive to adapt the basic document in sync with the constitutionally mandated principles which so far had eluded in the past,” he stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-dept-working-plans-to-be-more-people-centric/articleshow/80798195.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 11, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 5,000 sign up against domestic violence in six months||CHENNAI: Every day, The International Foundation for Crime Prevention and Victim Care (PCVC) gets about a dozen calls for help from women facing domestic violence on their hotline, Dhwani. But when the pandemic broke out, it dropped to a couple of calls a week. And that’s when PCVC decided to ramp up its ‘I am Dhwani’ campaign, which aims to get individuals and organisations to not only pledge to practise non-violent, equal relationships but also spread awareness and support people facing domestic violence. And in the last six months, more than 5,000 people have signed up to be part of it. “As per the 2011 census, around 70 lakh women in TN face physical violence every year. So our motto ‘7 for 7lakh – where in three to five years we get seven lakh people to sign up for the ‘I am Dhwani’ campaign. And each person in turn will try to influence at least 10 other people around them not to commit or endure violence,” says Rashmi Singh, executive director, PCVC, who is in charge of Dhwani. The people who have signed up are from all walks of life -- corporates, NGOs, frontline workers, members of SHGs, and young people. According to Rashmi, once lockdown began, calls for help dropped. “The women in abusive relationships were with the abuser and so it was difficult for them to reach out. Also, since the government had said that only essential services would be functional, they felt there was no one they could reach out to,” says Rashmi. “So we decided to do our best to create awareness through our campaign. The idea is that while we need support services, it is important for people to know what constitutes domestic violence and where they can go for support.” While the campaign was conceptualised in 2019, PCVC geared it up during the pandemic, conducting virtual sessions, training programmes and social media campaigns. “We made short films, which we put out on social media, developed code words, and mobilised teams of volunteers as women felt safer calling at night,” says Rashmi, adding that in the initial four months women wanted just crisis counselling as they did not want to walk out and expose themselves to the pandemic. The campaign targets people from all walks of life. “So we reach out to corporates, education institutions and civil society organisations, who already have a mass outreach,” says Rashmi, adding that they want to reach out to people in all TN districts. The training modules that have been developed to orient potential ‘I am Dhwani’ changemakers entail developing understanding on some of the key concepts of gender and gender and gender-based violence, and also getting to know some of the subtle forms of violence, which are normalised. It will also help people identify it in their lives and in the lives of people who are in their immediate sphere of influence and teach them how to start taking action. PCVC also plans to conduct ‘The Changemakers Networking Event’ soon. “It will bring together all the changemakers from all the awareness programmes so that they can discuss ideas and how to take the movement forward,” says Rashmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5k-sign-up-against-domestic-violence-in-six-months/articleshow/80802116.cms||Priya Menon
February 11, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Schools register 23,000 bogus names for scholarships||PUNE: As many as 23,000 bogus registered names have been revealed for per-matric scholarship under community minority category in Maharashtra schools during a special drive. It was conducted by the state directorate of Minority and Adult Education. Special squads have been formed to visit schools across Maharashtra to check the records. The scholarship introduced in 2008-09 for Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Zoroastrians, Jain, Buddhists allows beneficiaries annual scholarship of Rs 500 to Rs 1,200 per student from standards I to X. Schools have registered fake names and contact details of students to benefit from this scholarship. State director of Minority and Adult Education, Sunil Chauhan, said, “We have not yet finished the process of scrutinising the names. We will get more bogus names. We are going to take strict action against the individuals who are party to this offence and also register police complaints against them.” The drive by the department registered through various schools in Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Thane and other places in Maharashtra brought to light the bogus names under which the scholarship amount was being siphoned. Chauhan said the squads visiting schools to check the data and match the documents found these bogus names. “The school records and the actual database had a total mismatch so we investigated further with the cellphone numbers registered which also did not match,” he added. The number of applications received from across Maharashtra is almost double that of 2.8 lakh scholarships offered. This year, 5.1 lakh applications were received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-register-23k-bogus-names-for-scholarships/articleshow/80802110.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||Civic staff kin await Rs50 lakh death claim||Nagpur: Overcoming grief following her husband’s death, 36-year-old Shanti G (name changed) was hopeful of raising her two children and take care of her ageing in-laws from the Rs50lakh cover the state government had promised for frontline health workers including paramedics, sanitation staff, nurses and Asha workers. Though her husband, a sanitary worker, passed away due to Covid in October, she is yet to get any monetary aid from the civic body or the state government. Even as Shanti waits for aid, she has taken up a menial job that gives her Rs5,000 a month. “I have applied for both Rs50lakh insurance claim as well as job on compassionate grounds. I hope to get at least one of them,” she said. While the job against her husband’s death may still be an option, Shanti is unaware that her insurance claim has been rejected. NMC chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar told TOI that 12 applications have been found ineligible for the scheme. “We had received 25 applications and had forwarded them to health department at Pune. On Wednesday, they informed that 12 don’t meet the conditions. The scrutiny committee led by joint director of health services have allowed us to approach the government. We shall now directly forward these 12 applications to the finance secretary for consideration,” he said. Dr Chilkar said rest of the applications were still under process. Civic officials were surprised on the scrutiny committee’s decision and said these applicants played a crucial role in Covid management. “The committee stated the deceased staffers were not linked to patients directly. In fact, our sanitary workers did a commendable job in disposal of Covid bodies,” he said. The applicants too said say their bread winners passed away due to Covid acquired while working in city hotspots like Satranjipura, Mominpura and other places during the lockdown. Darshan (name changed) said he didn’t receive any official communication till date though his mother passed away in July. “I used to work at railway station for livelihood. Not much work is available right now,” he said adding that he had been visiting the NMC headquarters to know about the status. Ashish (name changed) said he hardly found time to go and check about his application status. “My mother supported our family. I used to help her out at work. Since applying, I had visited the zone office twice but didn’t get any details. My mother was 55. She used to go work daily during the lockdown. We haven’t heard if a sanitary worker has got 50lakh,” he said asking if they would actually get any aid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-staff-kin-await-rs50-lakh-death-claim/articleshow/80798159.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 11, 2021||Pune||ICU docs in high-fatality regions to receive training||Pune: Members of the state Covid-19 task force have now been asked to train ICU staffers in districts that have registered a high number of patient deaths. A weekly report of districts with high mortality rates will be readied and teams will visit these regions for the training sessions, the state director of health services, Dr Archana Patil, said.The training teams will comprise task force specialists and doctors from government and private hospitals.Districts of Satara, Sangli, Yavatmal, Bhandara and Amravati all have fatality rates well above the state average of 2.5%. Task force member Dr Rahul Pandit said they are preparing a detailed training programme for doctors at smaller centres. “It will be mainly hand-holding. This is a suggestion that was placed by the central team of Covid experts that had visited the state.”State technical expert Dr Subhash Salunke said every hospital and municipal body has to ready death audit reports along with detailed incident assessments. “There are 17 districts that have a Covid fatality rate over the state’s average of 2.5%. They will need more attention,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icu-docs-in-high-fatality-regions-to-receive-training/articleshow/80802101.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||State opens EWS door to give Marathas jobs||Mumbai: The state government may allow Maratha candidates, categorised as Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC), to get the benefit of reservation under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category in recruitment to all state departments. On Wednesday, the energy department issued a circular allowing SEBC candidates to apply under the EWS quota. While Ashok Chavan, chairman of the state cabinet sub-committee for Maratha reservation, said the government was positive about applying the same decision to all other departments. A circular issued by the energy department stated that Maratha candidates can apply, willingly, under the EWS quota, which is 10%. Candidates from the Maratha community, who are also eligible for EWS and fulfil the income criteria, can seek benefit under the quota. The government has instructed all district administrations to set up special cells to initiate drives to issue EWS certificates. Energy minister Nitin Raut said the decision allowing the benefit for SEBC candidate in recruitment will be subject to the SC final verdict on SEBC reservation. The SC had stayed the SEBC quota in education and jobs in an interim order in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-opens-ews-door-to-give-marathas-jobs/articleshow/80805609.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||Man hit by stone in train,suffers right leg fracture||Lucknow: A 22-year-old youth travelling in Marudhar Express got hit by stone and suffered a leg fracture during the journey. The incident took place minutes after the train departed from Bharatpur junction in Rajasthan at around 5.20pm on Wednesday. A video of the incident was shared on twitter by fellow passengers, in which the victim Satendra Kumar is seen bleeding from right leg. He was given first-aid to stop the bleeding, but he continued to lose blood. Nearly an hour later, when the train reached Agra Fort around 50 km away, he was attended by medical team and shifted to SN Medical College. Satendra, who works as a carpenter in Jodhpur and was returning to his home in Hamirpur to attend a friend’s wedding, told TOI, “I was returning from the lavatory when a stone hit my leg near the door. I lost lot of blood. After X-ray, doctors confirmed that I have fracture in right leg.” Mahaveer Godara of Surat, a co-passenger told TOI that no medical aid was provided to Satendra even though the TTE was informed and had alerted control room and the train made brief halts at Achnera and Idgah stations in Agra division. Divisional commercial manager of Agra division, S K Shrivastav said, “The passenger was attended by railway staff Dr Avantika at Agra Fort. He was immediately shifted to SN Medical College.” Probe was on but it was still not clear how he was hit by a stone, though GRP and RPF said the victim was sitting on the door when hw was hit by stone. “It appears he was hit when he was sitting on entrance,” said Agra Fort RPF SHO Omprakash Yadav. Our probe also shows he was sitting on the door, said GRP SHO Usha Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-hit-by-stone-in-trainsuffers-right-leg-fracture/articleshow/80804848.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||Decision on vaccine funding for 50+ within 10 days: Niti Aayog member||PUNE: The Centre will, within 10 days, decide the funding plan for phase 3 of Covid vaccinations, which involves those aged 50 and above. An estimated 27 crore people are likely to be a part of this phase, which is set to start in March. But it’s still unclear if vaccines will be free for this group. Currently, health and frontline workers are receiving their jabs for free as the central government has agreed to pay for doses. Experts said phase 3 will need at least 60 crore doses. Dr Vinod Paul, Niti Aayog member (health) and chairman of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19, said the government hasn’t yet decided if it’s fully funding phase 3 or splitting the cost between states. “It will come out with guidelines within the next 10 days,” he said. Dr Paul said many options were being discussed, including the possibility of allowing corporates to deploy CSR funds to vaccinate staffers and local communities. A source in the health ministry said cost of the third phase may be shared between the Centre and states. “A decision is expected soon. The Centre may not fully fund phase 3. But it’s not expecting states to do so either,” the source said. Many states have written to the Centre seeking clarity on funding. In Maharashtra, health minister Rajesh Tope said the state is willing to pay for 50-plus individuals who are below the poverty line. Director of health services, Dr Archana Patil, said with the Union budget announcing a special allocation for Covid, the Centre should, ideally, fund phase 3 too as it has the highest number of beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/decision-on-vaccine-funding-for-50-within-10-days-niti-aayog-member/articleshow/80802139.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||After sugar, UP becomes highest ethanol producer||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh, country’s highest sugar producing state, has also attained the distinction of becoming the highest producer of ethanol in the country with the number of distilleries producing the solvent from heavy molasses, a by-product of cane juice, rising from two in 2019-20 to 20 in 2020-21. According to the figures released by the state government on Wednesday, UP manufactured 126.1 crore litres of ethanol, a solvent which is essentially mixed with petrol. The government has also been seeking to divert sugarcane juice directly for production of ethanol, a strategy to arrest the fall in the prices of raw sugar in the wake of a glut which eventually affects payment by sugar mills to farmers. The government said cane price payment was a major issue in 2017 when the BJP came to power. “The government not only made record payment to farmers but also ensured modernization and expansion of at least 24 mills,” a government spokesman said. The state government’s stand vis-à-vis cane payment coincides with the ongoing standoff between the Centre and farmers, many of them from the cane rich west UP region, against the new farm laws. The cane department also mopped up significant revenue through production of sanitizer in the last nine months when coronavirus pandemic was at its peak. The distilleries of sugar mills and other units produced a record 1.77 crore litres of sanitizer which was not only supplied within the state but was also exported to other states. The spokesperson said that the step to issue licenses to units producing jaggery (gur) within 100 hours of application led to rise in cane crushing capacity by 27,850 tonnes crushing per day (TCD). “This was apart categorizing jaggery from Muzaffarnagar and Ayodhya under state government’s flagship ODOP scheme,” he said. The government is also planning to host Gur Mahotsav in Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-sugar-up-becomes-highest-ethanol-producer/articleshow/80804376.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Business||As economy picks up, demand for commercial vehicles soars||Chennai: After two years on skid row, the medium and heavy commercial vehicle market is witnessing a turnaround in demand on the back of infrastructure buildup push by the government. Big truck sales more than doubled in the October-December quarter at 51,192 units from 24,552 units in July-September and 4,403 units a quarter before.Girish Wagh, president of Tata Motors truck business, attributes the growth to increased mining of coal and iron ore. “The sequential growth of MHCV volumes is also seeing revival in cargo segment, which for the first time this year, saw growth over last year, by 16% in December and 9% in January,” he says. Daimler India Commercial Vehicles CEO Satyakam Arya says the demand is driven by the construction sector and e-commerce, while Kamal Bali, MD of Volvo group said “with manufacturing rebounding from October, the movement of goods from factory gates has picked up.”As for the scrappage policy, Eicher MD Siddhartha Lal said, “We are waiting for details like the incentives or disincentives which will be offered but it should help what is already an upcycle. Medium and heavy truck sales are up 20% in Q3.”Financiers however are not as excited, yet. “In the last two years, large capacity was built after the government relaxation to allow additional weight to be carried by trucks. From December onwards, we have seen demand pick up on a month-on-month basis. However, this pickup in demand cannot be compared to the previous years’ growth and will take time,” said Shriram Transport Finance MD Umesh Revankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/as-economy-picks-up-demand-for-commercial-vehicles-soars/articleshow/80798187.cms||Mamtha Asokan
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Onion prices rise to Rs 60/kg, traders say relief likely soon||NEW DELHI: The price of onions has spiked in Delhi owing to supply being less than usual from various states, including Maharashtra. Many onion producing states have reported damage to crops due to unseasonal rain towards the end of 2020. Currently, the staple is retailing between Rs 40 and Rs 60 per kg across the capital, while the wholesale rate is between Rs 10 and Rs 40. The prices of other vegetables are normal, most of which are supplied from Haryana. Traders say there has been a 50% decline in the stock of onions arriving at Azadpur Mandi, from where the vegetable is supplied to retail markets across Delhi-NCR. Normally, 50-60 trucks of onions used to come every day, but the number has dropped to 30-35 now. However, the traders said the stir by farmers at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders had not affected supply because trucks were using the peripheral expressway and entering the city through Gurugram. Some drivers were also using village roads to arrive at Azadpur Mandi. Srikant Mishra, secretary of Onion Traders’ Association, Azadpur Mandi, said, “The rain in December last year damaged onion seedlings in the nurseries. The farmers had to prepare the seedlings again, which caused a delay in production.” “By the end of February, supply of onions from Sikar district in Rajasthan and Ujjain, Bhopal, Narsinghgarh and Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh will start, which will lead to reduction in prices,” added Mishra. Ram Avtar Singh, a retailer at Laxmi Nagar, said the price of onions was between Rs 25 and Rs 35 throughout January, but started to increase at the beginning of February. “We are buying onions at Rs 30-40 from the wholesale market and selling at Rs 40-50,” he added. “Onion prices will remain high only for around 15 days and will start coming down by the last week of February. The supply from Maharashtra has been hit because the seedlings got damaged. Within the next 15 days, the wholesale and retail prices of onions will reduce,” said Rajinder Sharma, an onion and potato trader. Another trader said the price would have risen further had the supply from Gujarat also been hit. “The supply of onions from Gujarat is by and large normal, so that has helped cover up some shortage from Maharashtra,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/onion-prices-rise-to-rs-60/kg-traders-say-relief-likely-soon/articleshow/80798280.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||‘Toll collection won’t be allowed in Rajasthan from February 12’||JAIPUR: In view of the farmers’ agitation against the centre’s three farm laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a united front of over40 farmers’ unions, on Wednesday announced that “all road toll plazas in Rajasthan will be made toll free from February 12”. It was announced by Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s Darshan Pal in a press statement. Meanwhile, a statewide Kisan Adhikar Yatra under the leadership of Rampal Jat, national president of Kisan Mahapanchayat, will begin on Thursday to strengthen the ongoing farmers’ movement in support of legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP). In the first phase, the ‘yatra’ will start from Jaipur. It will finally reach Jaipur having travelled throughTonk-Bundi-Kota-Baran-Chittorgarh-Bhilwara-Rajsamand-Jodhpur-Ajmer. During the yatra, a tractor rally will be organised in Baran on February 12. On February 13, a discussion with farmers will be conducted at Matrikundiya in Chittorgarh, on February 14, a rally and public meeting will be organized by farmers, labourers and general public at Pipad in Jodhpur and on January 15, a discussion with farmers will be organised at Jodhpur city. Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s Darshan Pal also announced that on February 14, candle march and mashaal juloos and other programmes will be organised across the country remembering the sacrifice of the martyred soldiers in the Pulwama attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/toll-collection-wont-be-allowed-in-raj-from-feb-12/articleshow/80802231.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chennai||25,000 vax doses wasted in Tamil Nadu; give them to elderly, say doctors||CHENNAI: More than 25,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine have gone waste following low turnout at vaccination centres across Tamil Nadu since the launch of the nationwide drive on January 16. The directorate of public health, which is responsible for the drive in the state, said nearly 15% of the shots have gone waste after vaccinating 1,97,114 people until Wednesday. With several elderly and vulnerable people waiting for their shots across Tamil Nadu, senior epidemiologists, virologists and infectious diseases experts are now demanding that the vaccination drive be opened to general public, with priority to elderly and those with comorbid conditions. “This will reduce wastage. Some people may jump the queue, but even that may still be better than wasting precious doses. At least 100 countries across the globe are still waiting for their first dose,” said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramaniam Swaminathan, who has been treating Covid-19 patients. Ready to give shot to elderly, waiting for Centre nod: TNUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan had recently tweeted that the government is ensuring that no vial or session is wasted and in case of absenteeism, vaccines are being allotted to other beneficiaries. The Covid vaccines Covishield or Covaxin come in 10 or 20 dose vials and have to be used within four hours after they are opened. But with poor turnout, several vials containing unused doses are moved into special boxes labelled as “unusable vials”. Public health officials said vaccinators cannot offer the vaccine to willing elderly or those with comorbid conditions because the national programme does not allow vaccination of people who are not registered on the centralized Cowin portal. “The vaccine is approved by the Centre for emergency use. The vials are supplied to all states by the Centre. We are told that it cannot be given to anyone other than registered healthcare providers or frontline workers,” said joint director immunization Dr K Vinay Kumar. Senior virologist Dr T Jacob John says when Covid-19 cases are coming down, the goal should be prevention of severe disease and death along with strategies for safe reopening. “We can do this more effectively with the vaccine. We should give the first dose of the vaccine to the targeted groups as early as possible even if that delays the second dose to health workers,” he said. Studies also show that the efficacy goes from 54% to 82% when the vaccine’s second dose of Covishield is delayed from 28 days to 12 weeks, he added. Doctors also said asking elected representatives and senior political leaders to take the vaccine will create trust about the vaccine. State health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state has written to the Centre to seeking permission for offering the vaccine to vulnerable groups. “The first phase of vaccination had three arms healthcare workers, frontline worker and elderly/vulnerable groups. We have told the Centre that we will be able to offer the vaccine simultaneously to all groups. If they permit us we will be able to start vaccinations. This can reduce wastage too,” he said. The Union health ministry, however, said it will not be able to “permit select states change the course” of the national programme. During their interaction with state officials over videoconference on Tuesday, central government officials have asked the state to wrap up the first dose of vaccinations for healthcare providers in another 10 days, but did not allow the state to expand coverage to elderly group. Director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam said the state has told healthcare workers that it would cancel their “priority” if they do not get themselves vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/25000-vax-doses-wasted-in-tn-give-them-to-elderly-say-doctors/articleshow/80802254.cms||Pushpa Narayan
February 11, 2021||Kolhapur||Suspect held in fake caste cert case of Solapur MP||Kolhapur: The Solapur crime branch arrested a 55-year-old man from his residence in Akkalkot in connection with the fake caste certificate case of BJP MP Jay Siddheshwar Swami late on Tuesday night. The suspect, Shivsiddh Vitthal Bulla, had earlier told the police that the fake certificate had got lost while he was travelling from Akkalkot to Solapur. Senior police inspector Sanjay Salunkhe told TOI that Bulla has been arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 420 (cheating), 464 (making false document), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 120 (concealing design to commit offence punishable with imprisonment). A Solapur court on Wednesday remanded Bulla in police custody till February 15. He calls himself a disciple of Swami. Bulla had lodged a complaint with the Walsang police in Solapur district stating that the bag containing the certificate fell from his motorcycle near Kumbhari village while he was travelling on February 9, 2020. The complaint was registered on February 14. On February 24, the Solapur district caste verification committee ruled that the certificate of Jay Siddheshwar Swami was invalid. It said that the BJP MP had produced a fake caste certificate by conspiring with government officials. The committee asked the tehsildar of Akkalkot to file a criminal case in that connection. Swami had produced the certificate of Beda Jangam community, which is a schedule caste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/suspect-held-in-fake-caste-cert-case-of-solapur-mp/articleshow/80791602.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||‘Crude price drop gains not being shared’||JAIPUR: Governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday said the Centre was not sharing with people or the state governments the benefits of the drastic fall in international crude prices while raising additional cess which was not shared with the states. This practice by the Centre is depriving the states with its genuine shares, said the governor during his customary address ahead of the state’s Budget session. During his speech marked by the disruption by CPM MLA Balwan Poonia, Mishra highlighted the state government’s work on Covid management, relief measures, police reforms, women’s safety and industrial development, among others. He also mentioned about three agriculture bills passed by the assembly to protect the interest of farmers. But the bills passed in a special session in November to counter the contentious central agriculture laws, have not been cleared by the governor yet. Mishra said due to the state government’s policy of registering all FIRs, every complaint is being filed in the state and investigation units for crime against women have been set up in every district. Highlighting the Congress government’s achievements, the governor said that farm-loan waiver, Indira Rasoi scheme, one-stop shop for industry, social welfare schemes, women empowerment and water conservation schemes have helped people immensely. He said the development of basic amenities like drinking water, electricity, roads, education and medicine and expansion of schemes like Ayushman Bharat, Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Health Insurance have given new hope to the public during the pandemic. Elaborating on Rajasthan’s Covid-19 management, he said the state’s capacity has increased to 70,000 RT-PCR tests per day while arrangement of 140 dedicated Covid hospitals and health centres, over 43,000 isolation beds, 1,899 ventilators, 3,170 ICU beds were made. The governor said the free medicine scheme has proved to be extremely useful in handling the pandemic. Under the scheme, 713 different types of medicines were being made available free of cost. A new tourism policy, m-sand policy, recruitment of youths in the last two years were among other points which the governor spoke about.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crude-price-drop-gains-not-being-shared/articleshow/80802165.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||GR mooted deemed conveyance adalat in 2013, none held so far||Pune: Citizen activists have written to the district collector and the state government drawing attention to the non-implementation of a government resolution issued in 2013 by the housing department to hold a deemed conveyance adalat every month. The adalat to be headed by district collectors was to resolve issues related to deemed conveyance. As per the GR the deemed conveyance adalat was to be conducted just as a lok adalat with the collector as chairman, district deputy registrar of cooperative societies, collector of stamps and city survey officer, cooperation commissioner as members. More than 70,000 housing societies in the state do not have conveyance deeds. City-based activist Vijay Sagar said even with such a GR, the government is not taking any cognizance regarding the difficulties of the housing societies struggling to get deemed conveyance. “In the last eight years since the GR was announced there has been no hearing and no appointment which shows the neglect on behalf of the authorities to implement this GR,” he said. The GR issued in 2013 has stated that according to the amendments in the Maharashtra Ownership Flats (Regulation of the promotion of construction, sale, management and transfer act 1963, the state government has appointed competent authority under section 5 and powers are conferred on them to implement the deemed conveyance process. Sagar said in spite of these specifications there is hardly any cognizance and drives are conducted which may not benefit housing societies already are demanding an easy process. He has now written to the state government and Pune collector. As per MOFA, the builder has to form the society and do the conveyance in favour of society within four months but builders purposely don’t do them. Hence, consumers face a lot of problems and are not getting the ownership of flats and land even after paying all amount to the builders, Sagar added. Housing department officials told TOI that they will look into it. Officials from the state government, on condition of anonymity, told TOI that collectors are already burdened with hearings. “There is a need to decentralise it and the DDRs should be conducting these hearings,” a senior revenue official said. Activists pointed out that even though the cooperative department is conducting drives for deemed conveyance, consumers are facing issues and decisions are not given as the society members are not able to collect all the documents. Members of the housing federation have already sent their grievances to the state government that individuals are not in a position to gather all the documents as they have to collect these from different departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gr-mooted-deemed-conveyance-adalat-in-2013-none-held-so-far/articleshow/80802183.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 11, 2021||Pune||Pregnant women should not be given Covid jabs: Niti Aayog experts||PUNE: Public health experts have said that pregnant women should not be administered the Covid-19 vaccines. They were reacting to some reports that said many expecting women were now approaching doctors seeking guidance on vaccination. The health ministry has already advised against Covid vaccination for pregnant and lactating women. Dr Vinod Paul, Niti Aayog member (health) said, “There have been no vaccine trials for this group. So this group cannot be administered the vaccines,” he said. Dr Gagandeep Kang, vaccine scientist and a professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said, “Pregnant and lactating women are usually left out of trials because no one wants to risk any unanticipated damage to the mother or baby. Since there are no trials, the current vaccines cannot be tried on this group.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pregnant-women-should-not-be-given-covid-jabs-experts/articleshow/80802174.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 11, 2021||Bengaluru||Kids forgot language and maths in Covid year: Study||BENGALURU: A study by Azim Premji University on learning loss during one year of the Covid-19 pandemic shows that 92% and 82% of children in government schools have lost at least one specific foundational ability from the previous year for language and mathematics respectively. The study, which covered 16,067 primary school children in 1,137 schools in five states, was released on Wednesday. With schools closed since March 2020, the study pointed out that a complete academic year has elapsed with almost no learning. Apart from that, the phenomenon of students’ ‘forgetting’ learning from the previous class has made it worse. Learning, not promotion, important, says reportStudents of classes 2-6 were assessed on four abilities in language and mathematics which are required for all subsequent learning. These include reading a paragraph with comprehension, expressing the gist in one’s words and adding and subtracting numbers. While pre-Covid abilities were tested based on teachers’ interaction with children, post-Covid abilities were tested through oral and written tests. According to the findings, 92% of class 2, 89% in class 3, 90% in class 4 and 95% in class 5 and 93% of grade 6 students lost one specific ability like writing sample sentences based on a picture, reading with comprehension and describing a picture. In maths, the loss was seen among 67% in class 2, 76% in class 3, 85% in class 4, 89% in class 5 and 89% in class 6 in identifying twodigit or three-digit numbers, addition, subtraction, drawing inferences from data, describing 2D/3D images. For instance, nearly half the students surveyed in class 3 could not solve problems using subtractions in daily-life situations. And, 55% of class 5 children could not even multiply two-digit numbers. The study was done in Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. The trends, the university said, are uniform across the country. The report warns that learning loss will accumulate and impact long-term prospects of children. “Policy and processes to identify and address this loss are necessary as children return to schools. Supplemental support, whether in the form of bridge courses, extended hours, community-based engagements and appropriate curricular materials, will be needed to help children gain the foundational abilities when they return to school. And most importantly, the teachers must be given enough time to compensate for both kinds of learning loss – and we must not rush into promoting children to the next class,” said the report while stressing the importance of teachers to address the situation in classrooms. Teachers sought school reopening and they were also worried about the social loss, said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kids-forgot-language-and-maths-in-covid-yr-study/articleshow/80811214.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Kolhapur||Chitranagari will face no dearth of funds: Deshmukh||Kolhapur: Cultural minister Amit Deshmukh on Tuesday said the proposal to carry out the third phase of development work for Chitranagari, worth over Rs 30 crore, will soon be accepted by the state government. A meeting was held on Tuesday in Kolhapur that was headed by Deshmukh and attended by officials of Kolhapur Chitranagari Mahamandal — the body governing shooting of the movies and daily soaps on the 75-acre plot at Morewadi, located on the outskirts of the city. The Chitranagari was set up three-and-a-half decade ago and till date hundreds of Marathi and Hindi movies have been shot here. However, it has not been able to cope up with the rising demand of the film industry in the last 15 years. “There will be no dearth of funds for the development of the Kolhapur’s Chitranagari. All facilities required to increase shooting of the films and daily soaps will be developed in coming days.” Deshmukh tweeted. Deshmukh, during the meeting, spoke with district guardian minister Satej Patil who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Deshmukh assured Patil that he has asked district collector Daulat Desai to look for additional space for expansion of Chitranagari.  The officials from Chitranagari claimed that several movie production houses from Southern part of the country have also approached them for carrying out shooting activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/chitranagari-will-face-no-dearth-of-funds-deshmukh/articleshow/80791611.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||More frontliners turn up for shot in PCMC limits||Pune/Mumbai: More frontline than healthcare workers turned up for Covid vaccination in Pimpri Chinchwad on Wednesday. A total of 264 frontline workers, mainly police and civic staffers, took the shot against 254 healthcare workers at the eight vaccination sites in the PCMC limits on Wednesday. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar, who took the shot, said, “I did not encounter any side-effect after the vaccination.” Overall, 52% or 3,458 of the expected 6,700 beneficiaries were administered the shot in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday. The target vaccination also rose by 1,600 more beneficiaries on Wednesday as against Tuesday’s 5,100. PMC is now planning to start vaccination police personnel. “We are planning to start vaccinating police personnel at the police hospital in Shivajinagar from Thursday, along with healthcare workers, to increase the vaccination count,” said Ashish Bharati, chief of the PMC health department. PMC areas recorded a total of 74% achievement in the region on Wednesday (see box). Immunised tally inches closer to 6L Across Maharashtra, the total number of recipients vaccinated inched towards 6 lakh. On Wednesday, 37,223 individuals were vaccinated, of which 20,004 were healthcare workers and 17,219 were frontliners. While Maharashtra has completed vaccinating 5,73,666 and is among the top ten states to have immunised such big numbers, it has a long road ahead, said an official. The state has the highest number of registered health workers (10.54 lakh) and frontline workers (7 lakh). It is estimated that the state has nearly 20 lakh frontline workers, which means that even 50% have not finished registration. Second dose drive may not start from Feb 13 Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, said lakhs of people cannot be vaccinated in mission mode. Importantly, he said that the state may not start rolling out the second dose of the vaccine exactly on February 13, which is the 28th day since the first dose was administered. “We may start from February 15 since February 14 is a holiday. Besides, we are trying to administer at least one dose of the vaccine to all health and frontline workers by March, before preparations start for the prioritized group of people above 50 years,” he said. BMC officials too have said that Mumbai would start administering the second dose by February 15 or 16 with due appointments. Officials await order  from Centre While public health minister Rajesh Tope had said on Tuesday that the registration of prioritized group, including individuals above 50 years and those aged less than 50 with comorbidities, was likely to start from March 1, state officials said that they haven’t got any instructions from the Centre. “We have not been told anything so far about how the registration would happen,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-frontliners-turn-up-for-shot-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/80802319.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 11, 2021||Lucknow||Officials to be rated on basis ofplaints on CM helpline: Yogi||Lucknow: The performance of officials posted in tehsils and police station levels will now be assessed on the basis of complaints received from citizens on the Chief Minister’s helpline. Addressing a meeting on Wednesday, CM Yogi Adityanath said, “People may lodge a complaint on CM’s helpline (1076) if they face any problem. Performance of officials posted in the field will be assessed on the basis of complaints received on the helpline.” He warned that even tehsildars and station in charge would not be spared if complaints were received against them. The CM said that people should be sensitized about the helpline and encouraged to register complaints on it. “Those whose issues are not resolved at tehsil level should contact the administration on the helpline. Immediate action should be taken on these complaints. District magistrates, district police chiefs and police station in-charge will be responsible for ensuring that complaints received at the station or tehsil level are resolved. Action will also be taken against those who register fake complaints on the helpline,” he added. Yogi said the disposal of complaints at police station and tehsil level would also be rated to find out which areas were better at dealing with complaints and issues. “The CM had been receiving complaints that issues raised by residents were not being addressed properly at tehsil level. He has directed that all such matters should be taken up seriously,” a government spokesman said. The helpline has been working with around 250 operators. It was used extensively during coronavirus lockdown in tracking Covid patients, those under quarantine, migrant workers. It was also used to coordinate with pradhans for distribution of food grain and other relief material.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/officials-to-be-rated-on-basis-ofplaints-on-cm-helpline-yogi/articleshow/80804190.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan government begins preparations for assembly bypolls||JAIPUR: The state’s election department on Wednesday started preparations for the bypolls to be held in four districts – Bhilwara, Udaipur, Rajsamand and Churu – with chief electoral officer Praveen Gupta instructing police, narcotics and excise departments to strictly monitor the sale of alcohol and ensure there is no distribution of cash and other commodities to voters once the model code of conduct (MCC) is imposed. Additional chief electoral officer Krishna Kunal directed the police department to submit a report on the status of FIRs registered during the previous elections (assembly and Lok Sabha). Bypolls have been necessitated due to the death of sitting MLAs of Sujangarh in Churu, Rajsamand, Sahada of Bhilwara and Vallabhnagar of Udaipur assembly seats. Of these, three seats were held by the Congress and one by the BJP. Gupta said that speedy action should also be taken in cases of violation of model code of conduct, once the election date is announced, and illegal weapons, liquor and vehicles should be seized immediately. Kunal asked the nodal officers of income tax department to set up 24x7 toll-free control rooms in order to take immediate action on the seizure of more than Rs 10 lakh. He directed the banks to investigate suspicious transactions of more than Rs 10 lakh under Income Tax Act. He said that the teams of income tax department should be deployed so that illegal cash transportation could monitored effectively. He also asked the excise department officials to set up 24X7 control rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-begins-preparations-for-assembly-bypolls/articleshow/80802273.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Worries over schools, colleges becoming Covid-19 hotspots||HYDERABAD: Lack of social distancing norms being followed across schools and colleges across the city has parents and teachers worried. They fear that these institutions might turn into Covid hotspots if guidelines continue to be violated. “I was shocked to hear that the management is conducting classes for its three campuses from one location. There is no social distancing...more than one student is sharing a bench,” said a parent of an intermediate second-year student who decided to send her son to college as he wasn’t unable to follow online classes. “But it is turning out to be risky,” she added. While there has been no Covid-19 cases reported from schools so far, universities and colleges have seen some positive cases. Yet, many continue to flout prescribed norms, claim lecturers at junior colleges. They say at least three to four students are made to sit on a single bench. “About 100 to 120 students are crammed into a single classroom so that they can be supervised by one lecturer instead of four,” said one of them who has been teaching at a corporate college for the past 16 years. “Instead of 300 students per day in a session, colleges are accommodating about 800 students. In such a scenario, it won’t take much time for students and lecturers to contract the virus if someone is already infected and is asymptomatic,” he added. In schools and technical colleges, staff admit maintaining Covid-19 norms outside the classrooms is tough. “Children are gathering in large numbers and are interacting without masks outside the gate. They are following norms only in the presence of teachers,” said Shantha P, a private teacher. V Balakrishna Reddy, a lecturer at an engineering college said, “In classrooms, we are ensuring that students follow Covid-19 norms, but we can see them triple riding on bikes. Even in the corridors, they are not following any norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worries-over-schools-colleges-becoming-covid-19-hotspots/articleshow/80805630.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 11, 2021||Pune||Public policy lab powered by FLAME University||Pune: FLAME University and Gateway House, a foreign policy think tank, will conduct research in politics, history, economics, healthcare to help decision-making for policy makers. FLAME University students will intern at the lab and the university’s faculty will work with Gateway House scholars on a risk analysis to international security, energy, international law, space, science and emerging technologies. The lab will produce original, applied, pure and multidisciplinary research and intellectual property that will result in joint peer-publishable research, a statement from the university said. Vice-chancellor of FLAME University, Dishan Kamdar, said, “A multi-disciplinary approach is core to the research agenda in our university as we encourage our faculty and students to conduct research across diverse areas such as politics, history, economics, healthcare and others which are important.’’ Executive director and co-founder of Gateway House, Manjeet Kripalani, said, “The study of international affairs is gaining importance as the country is a critical player from business and trade to strategic positioning. We will bring our decade-long experience to the lab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/public-policy-lab-powered-by-flame-university/articleshow/80802259.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Skeleton found in box in shop shut for 10 months||HYDERABAD: Skeletal remains of a man murdered in January last year were found on Wednesday stuffed inside a wooden box in a furniture store shut for over 10 months. The decomposed body was found by local temple officials of Borabanda who broke the lock to reoccupy it as the shopkeeper hadn’t paid the rent for months. A foul smell emanating from a wooden box lying in a corner led to the discovery of the skeleton and the shocked temple staff called in the cops. SR Nagar police suspect it to be a case of murder over extramarital affair. The store owner was taken into custody. The victim was identified as Kamal Maity who was known to the store owner Palash Pal, both hailing from Bengal. “Maity was killed in January last year and his body stuffed inside the box. The head was found to be detached,” said a police officer. Temple authorities told police that the shop was part of temple property and was given on rent to Palash more than two years ago. “For the last 10 months, he has kept the store closed. We have taken him for questioning as it could be a case of an extra-marital affair,’’ SR Nagar inspector K Saidulu told TOI. “We have registered a case under IPC section 302 (murder) and 201,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/skeleton-found-in-box-in-shop-shut-for-10-months/articleshow/80802299.cms||Srinath Vudali
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||Tigress T6’s fourth litter of 5 cubs enthrals tourists at Gothangaon||Nagpur: After all the bad news about tiger deaths last month, Umred-Karhandla-Paoni Wildlife Sanctuary (UKPWS) on Wednesday was upbeat with the sighting of tigress T6, nicknamed Fairy, with five small cubs. Visitors expect a tourism boom in Gothangaon this summer season. Tigresses giving birth to five cubs have been recorded in parks like Tadoba and its landscape, Pench and Kanha, but this is the first instance in Umred-Karhandla. “This indicates better habitat management. UKPWS was notified as a sanctuary on June 29, 2012, and during the last nine years of its establishment, this is the first time a tigress has delivered five cubs,” said Ravikiran Govekar, chief conservator of forests (CCF) & field director, Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR). Govekar said, “We will have to be cautious while moving in the area. The cubs are too small and we need to sensitize guides and drivers to be extra careful and vigilant not to disturb the cubs. If need be, we may also regulate tourism for some period.” “As we were moving slowly on Pullar road, guide Shivshankar Gedekar heard calls and even before we could settle down a tigress appeared on the road from the dense bushes, checking both sides of the road. It was followed by three cubs. I’ve never seen such a sighting,” said Rahul Pande, a city businessman. “While three cubs accompanied the mother, two were left behind. We waited at a distance when the tigress returned to take the two remaining cubs. She carried the two cubs one by one gently in her mouth by the scruff of their tiny necks,” said Pande. Tourists caught video footage of the tigress with three cubs and after half-an-hour, they also took a video of the other two cubs. According to local guides, this is the fourth litter of Fairy since 2014 at Gothangaon in Kuhi range. In 2014, Fairy delivered two male cubs (Bittu & Sriniwas), followed by two female cubs Sita and Geeta in 2017, and four cubs (2 male and 2 female) in 2019. Guides said the five cubs are sired by young male Surya, Maya’s offspring that had migrated to Umred-Karhandla in December 2019. Both, Fairy and Surya, were seen together during last tourism season. Currently, there are 11 tigers including cubs in the sanctuary, 60km from Nagpur. Pande said, “There was only one tourist vehicle at that time but as the Pullar-Bhiwapur road is open for traffic for villagers, a few vehicles arrived on the scene but were stopped 200 metres away. The vehicles moved only after the tigress and the cubs reached a safer spot.” In June 2020, Maya was sighted with five cubs by field staff but now she is moving with four cubs only. Experts say mortality is high among tiger cubs. A day before tourists were thrilled to sight Patgaon tigress in MP Pench with five cubs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tigress-t6s-fourth-litter-of-5-cubs-enthrals-tourists-at-gothangaon/articleshow/80798324.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Garment industry wants infrastructure support from Rajasthan||JAIPUR: In a bid to remain competitive in the highly competitive global garment industry, manufacturers want the state government to lay out a road map for creating supportive infrastructure in the Budget, which will be presented later this month. Garment Exporters Association of Rajasthan (GEAR), whose members also cater to the domestic market, said common facility centres for keeping tabs on the latest technologies used in the sector globally, dormitories for workers near the industrial areas, upskilling of labour, recycle zones for waste fabric and subsidies in certifications which foreign buyers need will be the key to achieve sustainable growth in the sector. GEAR president Vimal Shah said, “Technology is changing rapidly in the industry, with new and more efficient machines and processes coming up. We want the government to set up a textile technology centre to keep a track of the emerging technology in the sector which will help the industry to remain competitive. It will not only enhance the quality of work, but make manufacturing cost-effective.” He said the sector is a labour intensive with women comprising 30% of the workforce. “We would like the Budget making provisions for allotting cheaper land to the industry to set up dormitories for outstation employees. Similarly, residential apartments can be built for the families employed in the sector which will save transportation time and cost.” In the central Budget, the finance minister announced to set up seven mega textile parks. On Tuesday, Mewar Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MCCI) wrote a letter to Union textiles minister Smriti Irani to consider Bhilwara for sanctioning two parks. GC Jain, president of MCCI, said the state government should approach the Centre to bring two projects to the state and if necessary it should allocate some funds for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/garment-industry-wants-infra-support-from-state/articleshow/80802303.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||‘Mixopathy’ a concern, says Ayush research professor||Pune: Bhushan Patwardhan, recently appointed as National Research Professor by the Ministry of Ayush, on Wednesday said he did not approve of ‘mixopathy’ and supports an evidence-based medicine system. He said ‘mixopathy’ is not desirable and does not promote a scientific outlook. Instead, work should be done to integrate all medicine systems so that the best of all worlds can be bring out future medicines based on scientific evidence. He was speaking against the backdrop of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between Savitribai Phule Pune University and consortium of Ayush Institutions on various collaborations in education, research and training. Coincidently, the Pune chapter of Indian Medical Association has been on a two-day relay fast since Tuesday against the notification issued by the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), a statutory body under the Ayush ministry, which stated that postgraduate ayurveda doctors could perform select surgical procedures after taking a bridge course of six months. During the press interaction, Patwardhan said, “I don’t approve of it (mixopathy) myself. It is not desirable and I don’t think it is promoting scientific outlook. We want to promote scientific temper and scientific culture in Ayush. There is no ayurvedic medicine or allopathic medicine because there is only evidence-based medicine. That which stands on scientific evidence and is useful for people is the real one. We call it integrated medicine, and in future, it will bring the best from all (different medicine systems) in the interest of the people. We are moving in that direction and the NITI Aayog committee of which I am a member is involved.” Rajesh Kotecha, secretary at the Ministry of Ayush, said the animal study on coronavirus by the ministry in collaboration with other departments is at an advanced stage. He said it is ‘too early to claim anything’, but the initial results have been ‘very positive’. On how certain companies had claimed to have found the cure for Covid-19, Kotecha said they should follow protocol. The ministry was in talks with the Quality Council of India to form guidelines on standardising various ayurvedic centres and sensitising people to look at accreditations when approaching various therapeutic centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mixopathy-a-concern-says-ayush-research-professor/articleshow/80802325.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Soon, Sukhna choe to get water monitoring station||Chandigarh: Plans are afoot to navigate Sukhna and N choes out of dirty waters.The UT administration has allotted a tender of Rs 22 lakh to install a sensor-based real-time water quality monitoring station at Sukhna choe.The previous month, N-choe was equipped with a similar device (called extraction-type) on a trial basis, which has now been found to be suitable.With this, waters of Sukhna and N choes will be monitored.The UT engineering department has apprised the National Green Tribunal (NGT) of it. “The tender process to install a real-time water quality monitoring station has been completed. It has been allotted for Rs 22.39 lakh. The station will come up in the forest area of Sukhna choe near Raipur Khurd. As the forest department has also given it a go-ahead, the work will start in a couple of days and be completed in a month,” said a UT official.The sensor-based device can be dipped in water to check its quality. “It is called probe-type device, which is based on the latest technology and meets the guidelines of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). It will give us the quality report of water Sukhna choe is receiving, so that flow of sewage and other waste water can be stopped,” another official said.“In the ‘extraction-type device’ at N-choe, water has to be brought under it for testing. With the engineering department giving it a green signal, payment of Rs 19.50 lakh will be made for it,” sources said.The real-time water quality monitoring station is the first-of-its kind project in the region. It will check the pH value, biochemical oxygen demand and chemical oxygen demand of water.NGT directionsThe National Green Tribunal, which is keeping an eye on the steps the UT and the municipal corporation are taking to keep Sukhna and N choes clean, had directed the administration to install real-time water quality monitoring stations. A sub-committee of the tribunal had recently visited the city to check the progress in plugging sewage flow points at both the choes. The UT and the MC have also been submitting the status reports of the work undertaken to keep the choes clean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/soon-sukhna-choe-to-get-water-monitoring-station/articleshow/80798293.cms||Deepak Yadav
February 11, 2021||Delhi||24-yr-old killed in argument over parking space||New Delhi: A 24-year-old golgappa seller was stabbed to death allegedly by his neighbours after they had an argument over parking space in central Delhi’s Hauz Qazi on Monday. Police have arrested three men for their alleged involvement in the murder. The arrested men have been identified as Mohan, Ankit and Khajanchi Babu. According to police, the murder came to light around 11.30pm when they were informed by a hospital that a man had been brought dead with stab wounds. The deceased has been identified as Anshu. It has been found that three cousins, Ashish, Vinay and Anshu, had a quarrel with their neighbours, Mohan and Ankit. “The quarrel started over parking a scooter during which Mohan (35) stabbed Anshu with a kitchen knife in his chest,” said a senior police officer. Both the families sell golgappas by the roadside for a living. “A case of murder has been registered and following the preliminary probe, Mohan, Ankit and Khajanchi Babu have been arrested,” police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/24-yr-old-killed-in-argument-over-parking-space/articleshow/80798384.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||Systematic management of sewage in sight for 11 villages merged with PMC||Pune: The residents of fringe areas such as Uruli Devachi, Keshavnagar-Mundhwa, Undri and Phursungi can finally expect systematic management of sewage generated daily.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has initiated measures to set up sewage treatment plants (STP) and also lay sewage lines in the 11 villages merged with it in 2017. The PMC had conducted sewage-related surveys in these villages. The residents of these villages had highlighted the lack of STPs and inadequate sewage lines, leading to release of untreated sewage in the water bodies. Based on the observations, the PMC has now come out with a plan to strengthen the sewage system. The entire project will cost Rs592 crore, of which the civic body will execute work worth Rs 392 crore in the first phase. This will include two STPs at Manjri and Keshavnagar and laying of 182km-long sewage lines. The 11 villages that have been identified for the execution of the project are Uruli Devachi, Keshavnagar-Mundhwa, Phursungi, Lohegaon, Shivne, Uttamnagar, Dhayari, Ambegaon Budruk, Ambegaon Khurd, Undri and Hadapsar-Sadesatranali. The civic body has started the tender process to appoint the contractors. If things go as per the plan, the actual work could begin next month. All the villages have a growing population and a strong sewage line network and treatment plants are necessary to meet the increasing requirements. A PMC official said, “The existing sewage network in every village is poor and cannot cope with the added load. The sewage lines are old and broken. Besides, all the lines are not interconnected. Uruli Devachi, Keshavnagar-Mundhwa, Phursungi and Lohegaon do not have STPs. In the other villages, the sewage network can be connected to the PMC’s existing STPs in the respective areas”.Plans are afoot to set up five STPs in 11 villages and lay a 287km-long sewage line network. This will include laying of new lines and repairing the existing ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/systematic-management-of-sewage-in-sight-for-11-villages-merged-with-pmc/articleshow/80802374.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 11, 2021||Chennai||AIADMK will not be slave of a family or allow it to rule it: Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday said there was no place for conspirators in the AIADMK and reiterated that the party would neither kowtow to a family nor allow it to take over the party. Without taking the name of former CM J Jayalalithaa’s confidante V K Sasikala, Palaniswami said, “The AIADMK is a party ruled by the cadres and it rose with their hard work. It will not be a slave to a family nor allow it to rule (the party).” In Chennai, fisheries minister D Jayakumar said there would never be a meeting between EPS and Sasikala. He also dismissed as “a joke” the messages being circulated on social media about PM Narendra Modi playing a role in bringing Sasikala and the AIADMK together during his upcoming visit to Chennai. The CM, who is also the AIADMK’s joint coordinator, also unleashed a scathing attack on Sasikala’s nephew and AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran for the second straight day accusing him of “weaving a web of conspiracy” to capture the party. TTV tried to break the govt, says EPSPalaniswami said Dhinakaran tried to bring down the government and break the party by luring 18 MLAs to his side. “The Amma government withstood the turbulent times. After trying for four-and-half years, he has once again started. You (cadres) know who I am talking about T T V Dhinakaran of course. He was not even in the party for 10 years. When Amma was there, he was removed from the party’s primary membership. He had rejoined the party through trickery,” said the CM. He said the party would never accept Dhinakaran or permit the “family” to rule the party. “Only an AIADMK worker can become the CM. The party is only for hardworking and loyal cadres and this culture will continue,” said Palaniswami, who was named as the party’s CM candidate by the AIADMK general council. “You cannot touch the AIADMK nor will your dream come true, how may ever avatars you (Dhinakaran) take,” he said and urged the party cadres to take a pledge to work for the victory of the party. Earlier in the day, he campaigned in Tirupattur, Vaniyambadi, Ambur and also interacted with party youth, women and IT, and social media wings. On his arrival in Salem on Tuesday evening, Palaniswami told reporters whoever violated the party’s rules and regulations would be expelled immediately. On local administration minister S P Velumani’s ‘sibling rivalry’ comment, EPS said it was directed at warring functionaries within the party and not at AIADMK and AMMK. The CM hoped that the issues between the alliance parties on seat sharing would be settled by talks. “There are no issues between the alliance partners,” he said. On welcoming AMMK functionaries into the AIADMK, the CM said it would be decided by the party high command. Back in Chennai, Jayakumar said the crowd gathered to welcome Sasikala was only to create an illusion and was an organized one. “This may not sustain for long… They (Sasikala and Dhinakaran) did not call anyone but the DMK, for coming together. Our (the AIADMK’s) common enemy is the DMK, so the invite is for the DMK, not for the AIADMK,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-will-not-be-slave-of-a-family-or-allow-it-to-rule-it-cm/articleshow/80802361.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||White paper on pandemic expenses||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation’s standing committee will publish a white paper giving details of all the expenses incurred on Covid-19 mitigation measures. Details of special provisions made and money spent on jumbo Covid hospitals would be shared in the paper. “The white paper will be published once the payment of all major dues are cleared by the end of next month,” Hemant Rasane, the chairman of the standing committee, said. He said instructions had been given to the accounts department to cross-verify all the bills. Corporators of the opposition parties said the civic administration and elected members of the ruling party should now give explanations about the Covid-19 expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/white-paper-on-pandemic-expenses/articleshow/80802381.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||HC suspends Raja Singh’s jail term||Hyderabad: Justice G Sri Devi of the Telangana high court on Wednesday suspended the one-year jail term awarded to BJP MLA T Raja Singh. The judge made this interim order after hearing an appeal filed by the legislator challenging the special court trying offenses on legislators that convicted him in a 2015 case. He was detained when he was proceeding to oppose the beef festival organised on the Osmania University campus on Dec 12, 2015. Later on, when some of his followers tried to meet him at the police station, the police prevented him and his followers from meeting. The MLA then allegedly assaulted the police. The police filed a charge sheet in this case and it was transferred to special court. The special court heard the case of the prosecution and the argument of the MLA and convicted him to one year jail and a Rs 5,000 fine. The legislator’s counsel Srujan Kumar Reddy said the police did not furnish any documentary or visual evidence. They merely relied on oral submissions of few witnesses and the trial court erroneously relied on them to arrive at decision to convict him, the counsel said. The judge issued notices to state, police and sought their counters within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-suspends-raja-singhs-jail-term/articleshow/80805723.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||Cases at two-week high in PMR, rise to most in 26 days in Maharashtra||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added two-week high 514 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday as against 416 recoveries. This is for the first time in February that daily infections have climbed above discharges in the region. In the state, as many as 3,451 cases, the highest in 26 days, were added on Wednesday. On January 14, the state had added 3,579 cases. The total caseload of the state on Wednesday was 20,52,253 and with the addition of 30 fatalities, the total toll was 51,390. Exactly 10 days after local trains were opened for all, the city reported a jump in cases on Wednesday. A total of 239 cases were recorded in the PMC limits as against 170 recoveries on Wednesday. In rural areas, 138 people tested positive for the infection, while 103 were discharged after the treatment. In an exception, the Pimpri Chinchwad areas recorded 143 recoveries as against 137 new cases. With this, the tally of positive patients now stands above 3.90 lakh and its discharges at 3.77 lakh. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 10 patients succumbed to the infection on Wednesday. Of these, five deaths were reported in the PMC limits, four in the rural areas and one in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits. A total of 9,123 people have died of teh infection in PMR so far. The tally of active cases increased to 4,463 in the region on Wednesday, including 1,757 in hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cases-at-2-week-high-in-pmr-rise-to-most-in-26-days-in-state/articleshow/80802351.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Man with alleged links to terror outfit arrested in Nanded||Aurangabad: The Punjab police arrested a man with suspected links to Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) from Nanded city of Maharashtra and took him to that state on a transit remand on Sunday afternoon. Police officers identified the suspect as Gurpinder Singh (37) and said he was rounded up from the vicinity of Punjab Bhavan, near the Nanded taluka office. “The Punjab police’s special operation cell, intelligence wing (CID), members of anti-terrorism squad and Nanded police’s LCB conducted a joint operation for about 48 hours before zeroing in on the suspect,” said the officers. “There was Amritsar JMFC warrant in an Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act case against the suspect and our local crime branch team helped them track and arrest him,” Nanded superintendent of police Pradipkumar Shewale told TOI. When contacted, Punjab special operation cell’s senior inspector, Jaswinder Singh, who led the Punjab police’s multiple teams, said three terror suspects who were arrested in December last year had revealed Gurpinder’s name. “We placed it on record before the JMFC court, which issued a warrant against him,” he said. “The Punjab police registered an FIR under UAPA, along with sections of the Indian Arms Act, by Punjab’s special operation cell having police station in Amritsar on December 19, 2020, naming four suspects, three of whom were arrested in December,” said Singh. The FIR states: “The (arrested) suspects — Sarabjit Singh alias Kirat, Amandeep Sing alias Bhinder and Gurdeep Singh alias Baghi — are active members of Khalistan Zindabad Force and were conspiring to commit terrorist activities in Punjab.” The FIR further states: “They are in touch with Belgium-based KZF chief Jagdish Singh alias Bhoora, who is motivating and facilitating them (arrested accused) by arranging funds from different countries, procurement of weapons and asked them to recruit people to carry out terror activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-with-alleged-links-to-terror-outfit-arrested-in-nanded/articleshow/80791623.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 11, 2021||Chennai||Bedi acting in an autocratic manner: Pondy CM to Prez||Puducherry: A delegation led by chief minister V Narayanasamy called on the President of India on Wednesday and urged him to recall lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi accusing her of acting like a ‘typical autocrat’ in violation of constitutional provisions and rule of law.Ministers Malladi Krishna Rao and M Kandasamy and Lok Sabha MP V Vaithilingam accompanied the chief minister. The delegation submitted a memorandum to the President outlining the reasons for Bedi’s recall and said Bedi had failed to redelegate the enhanced financial powers to the CM and his cabinet colleagues even after directions from the Union home ministry. Narayanasamy regretted that Bedi referred the cabinet’s decision to offer 10% horizontal reservation within a state quota in admission to MBBS, BDS and paramedical courses for the government school students to the Centre. He pointed out that the Tamil Nadu government reserved 7.5% for government school students in the medical and paramedical seats and Tamil Nadu governor accorded approval after the Madras high court intervened. He accused Bedi of obstructing the distribution of rice for free to the beneficiaries, insisting on opting for direct benefit transfer mode during the pandemic. He said Bedi either delayed or modified several schemes of the elected government in violation of the constitutional scheme and Rules of Business of Puducherry government, 1963 and in violation of Madras high court orders.The CM said Bedi gives directions to secretaries, police and other officials without the knowledge of elected government and representatives and ministers in-charge of the department. “Dr Kiran Bedi is running a ‘Tughlaq darbar’ in violation of the rule of law ... Dr Kiran Bedi has been violating the Centre’s directions for selfish gain at the cost of the exchequer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bedi-acting-in-an-autocratic-manner-pondy-cm-to-prez/articleshow/80798376.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Over 100 IDs found dumped in Ajmer||Ajmer: Over hundred identity cards, including driving licences and PAN cards, of people from across the country were found dumped in garbage in Dhan Mandi area on Wednesday. Police reached the spot and seized the ID cards and are now informing their owners. Prima facie, it looks like handiwork of pick-pocketers who might have taken out money from wallets and dumped the ID cards. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-100-ids-found-dumped-in-ajmer/articleshow/80802417.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Police arrest two burglars||Hyderabad: Sangareddy police apprehended two burglars who made a vain bid to break into a bank during the early hours of Wednesday. Three burglars attempted to break into Grameena Vikas Bank in Shivampet, Sangareddy. However, the offenders triggered an alarm and Pulkal police of Sangareddy managed to apprehend two of the three offenders. A manhunt has been launched to nab the absconding accused, Pulkal SI Nagalakshmi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-arrest-two-burglars/articleshow/80805741.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||42 vocalists to pay tribute to Bhimsen Joshi at 3-day fest||Pune: Pandit Uday Bhawalkar’s dhrupad-style singing will open the three-day music festival titled Khayal Yadnya at Yashwantrao Chavan auditorium on Friday at 7am.The festival, organized by DV Kanebuwa Pratishthan, is a tribute to late Bhimsen Joshi in commemoration of his birth centenary year and will feature only vocalists. A whopping 42 artistes, including three duos, will feature in the conclave, which will conclude after 8pm each day. Each artist is expected to get about one hour to perform.This is the first concert series of such a big scale in the city after the Covid-induced lockdown. Despite the season tickets priced at Rs3,000 (balcony) and Rs5,000, the festival has received a good response, according to Govind Bedekar, treasurer of Kanebuwa Pratishthan.The festival will conclude with a recital by Banaras gharana duo Pandit Rajan and Sajan Mishra on Sunday evening. The sessions on the first two days will be concluded by Ustad Rashid Khan and senior Jaipur gharana exponent Padma Talwalkar.Some well-known artistes, who will perform during the festival, are Bhuvnesh Komkali, Vijay Koparkar, Kaivalyakumar Gurav, Alka Deo-Marulkar, Shounak Abhisheki, Shruti Sadolikar-Katkar, Ajay Pohankar, Venkatesh Kumar and Ashwini Bhide-Deshpande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/42-vocalists-to-pay-tribute-to-bhimsen-joshi-at-3-day-fest/articleshow/80802436.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||CT scan to rule out Covid-19 leads to chance detection of rare hernia||PUNE: A chest CT scan performed to rule out Covid-19 led to the accidental detection of a large diaphragmatic hernia in a 52-year-old woman suffering from breathlessness. A diaphragmatic hernia is a condition wherein abdominal organs, usually stomach, spleen or intestines, migrate into the chest compressing the lungs. In the woman’s case, in addition to large and small intestines, even her left kidney and the tail of the pancreas also compressed the base of the lungs, making surgical correction a challenge. Treating surgeon Kedar Patil said, “It was a challenging surgery since about 30% of the woman’s abdominal organs had migrated into the chest cavity, causing mediastinal shift and respiratory distress.” The woman, a homemaker from Sangli, was admitted to a private hospital in Sangli in June last year. This was the time when the Covid pandemic was reaching its peak. Doctors then performed a CT scan to rule out Covid-19, but the radiological imaging test led to the findings of a large diaphragmatic hernia in the woman. “The large hernia was putting pressure on the woman’s lungs and heart causing her respiratory distress. The condition is more commonly seen in newborns due to congenital developmental anomalies or among those who had confronted severe physical trauma. The finding was rare in the woman’s case,” Patil said. The woman was put on breathing exercises to improve the lung function. She was shifted to Poona hospital in Pune on June 14 where a team of doctors led by Patil performed an advanced laparoscopic surgery called diaphragmatic hernioplasty. As the lungs were compressed for a long time, the woman developed pneumonia post-surgery,. The woman got diagnosed with Covid-19 just before the scheduled discharge in the third week of July. As per the protocol, the woman was then shifted to Bharati hospital in Dhankawdi, the dedicated Covid hospital in Pune. The woman recovered and was sent home in the first week of August. Post-discharge, the woman took six months to regain full functioning of the lungs. “She does not have breathing difficulty now and has completely recovered now,” said the woman’s sister. The complex surgery was selected for presentation at two global conferences recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ct-scan-to-rule-out-ncov-leads-to-chance-detection-of-rare-hernia/articleshow/80802407.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 11, 2021||Ajmer||Court allows dargah police to dispose of tantrik’s skull||AJMER: A special court on Wednesday allowed Dargah police to dispose of a tantrik’s skull which was kept in the police station’s store for the last one-and-a-half years. The skull will now be buried according to rules. The court while hearing the case of murder of a tantrik by another tantrik directed the disposal of the skull as per rules on the application of Dargah police. The skull made police personnel uneasy and it was a burden to keep the skull at the station, police said in the application. Police pleaded in the court that after the skeleton of the victim was found they preserved the skull for the legal process and buried the skeleton. Police pleaded that there is no use of keeping the skull under security now. As the prosecution did not object to the application of police, the court directed for the disposal of the skull. Around 18 months ago, police found the dead body of a self-proclaimed tantrik Vishwas Baba near Roothi Rani Ka Mahal in Taragarh Valley. During probe, it came to light that the deceased had a dispute with another tantrik Hamid, who was arrested on charges of murdering Vishwas Baba.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/court-allows-dargah-police-to-dispose-of-tantriks-skull/articleshow/80802444.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||Man falls prey to card swap trick, loses Rs 74k||Pune: The cybercrime police on Tuesday arrested a jobless man from Nagpur on the charge of swapping a furniture firm employee’s debit card with a fake one, securing its PIN on the pretext of helping him withdraw cash at an ATM kiosk in Timber market on January 21 and robbing him of Rs74,760 the following day. Suspect Anoop Shivnarayan Pajare (33) diverted the employee’s attention to replace his debit card with a deactivated one. Pajare then made withdrawals amounting to Rs74,760 from various ATMs. He has been remanded in police custody till February 15. Inspector Kumar Ghadge of the cybercrime police said on Wednesday, “Pajare was arrested at an ATM in Shivajinagar after we extensively used CCTV cameras to track his movements. We have recovered 10 debit cards, a cellphone and Rs11,000 from Pajare. He is wanted in seven other similar cases registered in Nagpur and elsewhere.” The furniture firm employee, Jaipalram Kala (42) from Rajasthan currently resides at Tilekarnagar in Kondhwa||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-falls-prey-to-card-swap-trick-loses-rs-74k/articleshow/80802531.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 11, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Two-member panel to probe TRB ‘job scam’||CHENNAI: Two years after an alleged scam in the recruitment of 814 computer instructors through Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB), the Madras high court on Wednesday appointed a two-member committee consisiting of a former HC judge and a retired inspector general of police to look into the issue. The committee will study the manner in which the examination was conducted at various centres. It will be open to the committee to seek CCTV footage. In the event of CCTV footage not being available at some centres, the panel must seek an explanation about it. It will also be open to the panel to speak to the examinees so that all apprehension expressed by the petitioners may be addressed, said a bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy. The bench passed the order on an appeal moved by the state government challenging a single judge order. “Justice N Authinathan (retired) who has been appointed by the single judge as a one-man committee to go into the probe shall appoint a retired police officer not below the rank of inspector-general who is without any political leanings so that the committee now comprises of two members,” the bench said. The asked the committee to conclude the exercise within six weeks and file the report before the single judge by April 30. The appointments already given to the successful candidates will abide by the result of the proceedings and the final order that may be made on the petitions by the single judge, the bench said. The issue pertains to an order passed by a single judge on December 17, 2020 constituting the one-man committee to probe the allegations. The order was passed on a batch of petitions moved by unsuccessful candidates alleging large scale irregularities including allowing the use of mobile phones while attending the exams. As all such allegations pertained to three exam centers established in KSR college of Engineering, Namakkal, Annai College of Engineering, Thanjavur and Kongunadu College of Engineering, Trichy, the court permitted the state to proceed with the appoint process of candidates selected from all other centers. As the single judge restricted the probe only to the three centers, the bench has expanded the same to all the 742 centers where the exams were held. The direct recruitment drive was conducted in 2019 by TRB to fill 814 vacancies of computer instructors grade I (postgraduate cadre).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-member-panel-to-probe-trb-job-scam/articleshow/80802523.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Youth stalked girls online, morphed pics for blackmail||NEW DELHI: A probe into the arrest of the 19-year-old youth who was charged with blackmailing a woman online has revealed that he had allegedly stalked at least 50 women in the past one year, including schoolgirls. While many women never complained, police found several objectionable pictures and chat screenshots on his mobile handset, which would be examined by forensic experts. The accused, Rahim Khan, was arrested on a complaint filed at RK Puram police station by a student of a prominent school. DCP (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said Khan was arrested from his house in Faridabad, Haryana. “He harassed over 50 girls, including minors, through various social media platforms after stalking them on Instagram, etc. Incriminating evidence, including photos shared by the victims, have been recovered from Khan’s mobile phone,” he added. Khan morphed photos of women after stealing them from their social media profiles. He used three apps to crop a woman’s face and attach it to nude photos downloaded from the internet. Later, he would threaten to make the pics go viral and blackmail them. He also sexted minor girls by making a fake account with the name and photo of a random girl. Later, he used the conversations to allegedly blackmail them, police said. In her complaint, the student alleged that an identified man using the handle “ch_rahim_khan786” was sending her morphed pictures and demanding nude photos of hers. An FIR was filed under Pocso Act and Information Technology Act. Using technical surveillance and details received from Instagram, Khan was tracked and arrested. During interrogation, the accused claimed that he was not doing it for money, but “pleasure and personal satisfaction”. He quit studies after Class VIII and was living off his parents. He was not interested in studying or doing a job. He used the smartphone taken from his parents to stalk girls. “Efforts are being made to contact other victims,” said the DCP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/youth-stalked-girls-online-morphed-pics-for-blackmail/articleshow/80798574.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||National law universities put BCI in dock over LLM test||HYDERABAD: The Consortium of National Law Universities has moved the Supreme Court against the Bar Council of India’s (BCI) decision to scrap one LLM programme and to be the authorised body to hold the entrance test for the programme. On January 3, the BCI issued a notification abolishing the one year LLM programme and derecognised LLM degrees from foreign universities. It mandated that the post-graduate law course should be of two years, spread over four semesters. It also stated that admissions to the LLM programme would be through a post-graduate common entrance test in law which will be conducted by the BCI. The consortium, which has 22 national law universities under its ambit, argued that as per the Advocates Act, BCI’s powers are limited to enrolment of advocates, for which LLM is not an entry course. “The BCI conducts an entry level test for enrolment of advocates. We have no issue with the Bar test and its powers to regulate professional legal education. However, LLM is an academic degree required to become an assistant professor and the BCI does not have the higher education experts to conduct the test,” said Prof Faizan Mustafa, president of the consortium. He added that the BCI is expanding its role by taking control of the PG and PhD courses and has no powers to regulate it. The Supreme Court bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, Justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramaniam asked the consortium to file an affidavit on number of students that have applied for the consortium’s Common Law Aptitude Test for LLM. The judges have adjourned the hearing to Thursday. “We have received close to 5,000 applications from students keen to pursue the LLM exam that is scheduled in May/June, 2021. The same shall be submitted to the bench on Thursday,” said Mustafa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/natl-law-univs-put-bci-in-dock-over-llm-test/articleshow/80802543.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chennai||Coimbatore turns into Software as-a-service hub||Software as-a-service (SaaS) firm Kovai.co, which was once a 10-member team building software in a 1,000sqft office in Coimbatore, moved into a modern 40,000sqft workspace on Avinashi Road spending close to $1.2 million on interiors just before the pandemic. SaaS major Zoho, which has played a key role in putting Chennai on the world SaaS map, is also setting up three satellite offices at various locations in Coimbatore. Chennai’s status as the SaaS capital of the country (and the world) is now percolating to Coimbatore as the product-building culture develops in the industrial city in Western Tamil Nadu. Loyal and quality tech talent, top engineering colleges, a growing community of product founders, and relatively better cost of living, has helped throw the spotlight on the city’s SaaS ecosystem. The presence of major IT services players such as Cognizant, Bosch and HCL has also been key for the city’s tech focus. Startups building products from scratch in Coimbatore are making a mark globally, and the reverse migration to tier-2 cities due to Covid-19 is enthusing the city’s technologists to turn it into a SaaS hub on the lines of Chennai. "We want to be to Coimbatore what Freshworks and Zoho were to Chennai, and for that we need to build something exciting in Coimbatore so that the strong tech talent does not feel the need to go to Chennai or Bengaluru," says Saravana Kumar, founder of Kovai.co. The firm has expanded its leadership team with global talent recently, and added around 100 employees last year. With all its products built entirely out of Coimbatore, Kovai.co has managed to touch $10 million in annual recurring revenue while being bootstrapped and recorded almost 300% revenue growth for certain products during the pandemic. Zoho’s director Rajendran Dandapani says post-Covid, the industrial city of Coimbatore has ‘grand dreams’. "More and more companies are exploring options of setting up local offices to allow employees, who had left metros during the Covid lockdown, to come back to work," he says. As the pandemic was largely positive for subscription-based businesses, Coimbatore SaaS startups such as Kovai.co, RFPIO and Payoda have reported brisk revenue run rates and customer additions in the past few months. Vish Sahasranamam, co-founder of FORGE Accelerator, says the city has benefited from global citizens from Coimbatore choosing to base product development here. "These founders are systematic and methodical when it comes to business management and are focused on profitable businesses rather than valuation," he says. For instance, while living in the US and starting his cloud-based request for proposal response software RFPIO, Ganesh Shankar was clear that his product would be ideated and built out of Coimbatore. RFPIO has since then raised more than $25 million in external funding from global investors and counts Google Cloud, Adobe, Atlassian, Siemens, Zoom, and others as users. "In the past four years, there has been a significant growth in Coimbatore’s software product culture and have expanded our workforce by around 40% during the pandemic," says Shankar, who lives in Portland, the US. "The talent is also so stable that just two employees have left us in the four years," he says. PSG Tech alumnus Anand Purusothaman spent more than 10 years working for different tech startups in New York before choosing to set up his SaaS firm Payoda in Coimbatore. "We started by hiring freshers and talent from IT services companies back in 2008. Loyalty and work ethics of the city’s engineers are its biggest strength," says Purusothaman. Today, AppViewX, a Payoda group company, counts Fortune 500 companies among its clients and has raised more than $30 million from global investors. SaaS founders also told TOI that while cost was once a factor to set up in Coimbatore vis-à-vis Chennai, today Coimbatore’s quality product talent sometimes demands a pay even higher than Bengaluru or Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coimbatore-turns-into-saas-hub/articleshow/80798491.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
February 11, 2021||Pune||Pune: Worker gets buried under gravel while unloading material from truck||PUNE: A 35-year-old man died after getting buried under gravels while they were being unloaded from a dumper truck and the vehicle rolled over the mound at an old stone-crushing unit — now used as a dumping site — at Mangdewadi near Katraj, about 11km from the city, around 4.30am on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as Raju Bandagi. A police team traced the runaway dumper truck driver and brought him to the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. The police have also summoned the dumper truck owner for questioning. Some other truck drivers, who witnessed the incident, told the fire brigade that the dumper truck reached the site from Bhor for unloading the gravel. One of them said its driver had rolled up the rear portion of the truck over a gravel mound of about four feet height. “Bandagi got down from the driver’s cabin and proceeded to open the tailgate of the dump box,” said the fire station duty officer, Santosh Ramteke. “At this moment, Bandagi slipped and fell. At the same time the gravel material slumped on him from the open tailgate of the dump box and the dumper truck also rolled over the material,” he said. “When we reached the spot, only the driver’s cabin and front wheel of the dumper were visible. We summoned two cranes to the spot, but they failed to move the truck. Then an earth mover was summoned, the material from the truck was removed and then the heavy vehicle was pulled up. After digging further, we found Bandagi lying motionless under the soil,” Ramteke said. The fire brigade and the police officers took Bandagi to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. The dumper truck driver had fled the scene abandoning the vehicle. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said, “We shall register an offence after completing our assessment of how the accident occurred. For now, we have recorded the incident as an accidental death (AD) case and further investigations are on.” The police said stone-crushing units from Khed Shivapur, Bhor, Velha and adjoining areas use the old unit for dumping construction soil and gravel because it is located close to the city. Construction firms collect material from this site for projects in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/worker-gets-buried-under-gravel-while-unloading-material-from-truck/articleshow/80802513.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Trichy||NCT trains 2 students in every class to screen mates for virus||Trichy: National College Trichy (NCT) is in the process of creating an emergency team comprising students to perform Covid-19 screening in each class for early detection of positive cases and prevent further spread. A team of 45 students from English, economics and commerce departments have been identified in the first stage to take part in ‘One room, One Quick Reaction and First Aid Team’ launched on the campus. The idea is to create an emergency team of two students in each class to check the vitals of students. The college is also planning to make students attend certificate courses. The college collaborated with DMed Pharmacy and Surgicals, Trichy to impart training to students where students were also taught on handling first aid and emergency care. Two students from each classroom will be trained in the next few days on checking the vitals of students, Covid-19 symptoms and early identification of positive cases. After the reopening, many college managements find it difficult to check every student for symptoms. By making students of each class undergo basic check-up before entering the classroom, the college is expecting to detect positive cases and students with other ailments and prevent others from contracting the infection. “The classes begin at 8 30 am and close to 5,000 students enter the college. It is not possible to check the temperature and other symptoms at the main gate itself. By equipping students, we can ensure early detection of positive cases,” said associate professor R Vasanthan from English department. “ Apart from taking precautionary measures, students were trained in identifying Covid-19 symptoms,” said the resource person for the session, Selvaraj Murugaiya, assistant professor of the department of pulmonology, SRM Medical College and Hospital, Trichy. V Yogeswari, final year undergraduate student of BA English said that symptoms for normal flu and Covid-19 induced flu are almost similar. But we can suspect Covid-19 infection if they found a drop in oxygen saturation post exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nct-trains-2-students-in-every-class-to-screen-mates-for-virus/articleshow/80802538.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jodhpur||Investiture ceremony in Jodhpur tomorrow||JODHPUR: An investiture ceremony will be held in Jodhpur on Friday to present medals to 44 Army officers and soldiers in recognition of their acts of bravery and distinguished service to the nation. In addition to this, 22 selected units of Southern Command will also be awarded the Unit Citations for their excellence in serving the country as well as keeping themselves operationally well prepared at all times. The awards include Yudh Seva Medal (YSM), Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM) and Sena Medal (SM). The awards are being presented for both gallantry and distinguished service by the army personnel. “All the commands hold their investiture ceremony to present the awards who have been selected for the same. The army personnel are awarded for their exemplary service while being posted at both field and peace locations. In this year’s awardees, there are two majors who are getting the Sena Medal for the second time while a jawan is being awarded Sena Medal posthumously”, said an army official. The event will be presided over by Lieutenant General JS Nain, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Command.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/investiture-ceremonyin-jodhpurtomorrow/articleshow/80802472.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||‘Field officers can’t be posted in home dists’||Jaipur: In a circular issued by the department of personnel (DOP) on Wednesday, it stated that the residential address/native place mentioned in the service book of a government official will only be considered as his/her home districts at the time of appointments, postings and transfers and field officers like SDMs, deputy superintendent of police (SP), tehsildars, police inspectors, sub-inspectors should not be posted in their home districts. Earlier, this practice was followed by the government informally and now it has been made official with the framing of rules. In the event of a marriage, the husband’s original address proof is required to be produced by a female government employee for making changes to her residential address (home district), it stated. After marriage, she will be given an option to choose between her father and husband’s native as her home district. It further stated that no changes will be made to the residential address mentioned in the service book of a government official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/field-officers-cant-be-posted-in-home-dists/articleshow/80802559.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Trichy||South TN reports 58 fresh cases, central districts 51||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state reported 58 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 51 fresh cases taking the tally to 76,426, which include 432 active cases. Both the regions recorded one death each on Wednesday. All the districts in the region recorded less than 10 fresh cases each. Sivagangai, Tenkasi and Tirunelveli recorded nine cases each, the highest in the region, followed by Dindigul and Kanyakumari (eight each), Virudhunagar (6), Theni and Tuticorin (three each), Madurai (2) and Ramanathapuram (1). Of the 420 active cases in the region Kanyakumari (88) recorded the highest, followed by Madurai (74), Tirunelveli (63) and Dindigul (51). The six other districts recorded less than 50 active cases each with Ramanathapuram (9) recording the lowest, followed by Tuticorin (16), Sivagangai (25), Theni (31), Virudhunagar (31) and Tenkasi (32). The lone death in the region was a 46-year-old man from Theni, who died four days ago. In the central region, Thanjavur (10) recorded the highest number of fresh cases pushing its tally to 17,840. Trichy came next with nine fresh cases taking its tally to 14,806. While Nagapattinam registered eight cases, Karur and Tiruvarur recorded seven fresh cases each keeping the tallies 5,441 and 11,251. While the count of Perambalur was three, Ariyalur reported zero fresh cases. Perambalur’s tally of 2,274 remained the lowest among the other districts in the region. The death toll of the region touched 947 with Trichy registering the death of a 76- year-old man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/south-tn-reports-58-fresh-cases-central-districts-51/articleshow/80802569.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||PCMC may revise pending dues’ notice to Prabhune||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is likely to revise the Rs2.98 crore pending dues notice sent to Padma Shri awardee Girish Prabhune’s NGO Punarutthan Samarasata Gurukulam Sanstha in Chinchwad, said assistant municipal commissioner Smita Zagade. A meeting was held in Mumbai on Tuesday in the presence of deputy chairperson of state legislative council Neelam Gorhe, Prabhune and PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar. Zagade said that they assessed the construction of the NGO once again by on-field verification, when they were told that some part of the land has been used by the civic body to construct a bridge, which was found to be true. Since the land given away for construction attracted property tax in the earlier notice, the tax will be reassessed and reduced further. The assistant commissioner said, “The fine for unauthorized construction, which was imposed earlier, will be relaxed, as some part of the land was used by the civic body. However, the reduced tax for the secondary school is around Rs12 lakh and Gurukulam Ashram school’s tax is around Rs8-9 lakh. So the tax will still be around Rs20 lakh after all the revision. The amount will have to be paid. It will still be under a higher tax slab.” Hardikar said they are working on a few solutions. “The NGO has raised objections and we have taken note of those. We will revise the tax structure acknowledging their objections. The compensation for the land used will be given and the process will be hastened,” he said. Girish Prabhune stated, “Our day-to-day operations run on donations. We have been promised by the commissioner that we will be given fair compensation for our land, which has been used for the bridge construction. We do not have even Rs20 lakh to pay but we will explore ways to pay the tax.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-may-revise-pending-dues-notice-to-prabhune/articleshow/80802563.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Justice for all kids: Training workshop to help||New Delhi: Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) and department of women and child development (WCD) have jointly begun a three-day training programme for child welfare committees (CWC), juvenile justice boards (JJB) and district child protection officers (DCPO) in order to understand the purpose of the work that the JJBs and CWCs are mandated to do, which will help in ensuring justice to every child. Delhi WCD minister Rajendra Pal Gautam, in his inaugural address, assured of unwavering support of the government in ensuring that justice is delivered to every child. Officials present at the event encouraged the CWCs and JJBs to focus on substantive justice. Welfare committees, constituted under Juvenile Justice Act 2015, are the bench of magistrates at the district level responsible for rescue, rehabilitation and integration of children such as victims of sexual violence, early marriage, trafficking, crimes, substance abuse, and begging, bonded labour among others and therefore CWCs are the first line of defence for these children. Anurag Kundu, chairperson of DCPCR, pointed to the large gaps between the expectations drawn from the rights, and the reality. He focused on how the institutions need to redesign their processes to make them truly child-centric.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/justice-for-all-kids-training-workshop-to-help/articleshow/80798667.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||Pune: Crooks hack into firm’s server, siphon off Rs 1.5 crore||PUNE: The Sinhagad Road police have started a probe into cyber crooks hacking into the server of a finance and e-payments company between April and July last year and securing the password of its account to siphon off Rs1.5 crore. A formal FIR relating to the incident was registered on Tuesday after the Pune cyber police did an initial verification of the company’s complaint application. “We are probing the matter,”said senior inspector Devidas Gheware of the Sinhagad Road police. A senior officer from the company, who did not wish to be named, said, “Our company started as a software firm in 2013. In July 2019, we ventured into UPI and other application-based modes of money transfers. Our server is located at our office near Navale bridge. During lockdown, all the employees were working from home and the server was under observation from a remote location. The server is linked to the data centres and few bank accounts and e-wallet services provided by us.” Police registered a case for offences punishable under relevant sections of the IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crooks-hack-into-firms-server-siphon-off-rs-1-5cr/articleshow/80802576.cms||Gitesh Shelke
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||BMC lens on contractors who quote lowest for e-tenders in nick of time||Mumbai: BMC’s IT department has initiated an audit to ascertain if its online tendering system has been breached by contractors who may have accessed rival bids and undercut their quotes to bag civic contracts worth hundreds of crores. This followed a complaint alleging that a section of contractors gets access to confidential reports of the “wallet balance” of other contractors in the BMC and their bid amount. All civic contractors have to maintain funds in a digital wallet from which they pay BMC deposits and charges for participating in online bidding. “Contractors know the wallet balance of other contractors and also the percentage quoted by them before the closing of any bid. These contractors have been bagging contracts with a very small margin and they submit their bids minutes before the bids close,” the complaint stated. BMC norms state contractors have to pay an additional security deposit (ASD) if they bid 12% or lower than the estimated cost of any project. The ASD amount increases in proportion to the discount below the estimated cost. According to the complaint, the list of bidders is provided to contractors by BMC officials after noon and the bid submissions close by 4pm. At the same time, these contractors also get the wallet balance of the bidders. The lower the bid, the higher the deposit amount they must park. So based on the reduction in the wallet balance, contractors find out the bid amount. Once all the bidders have submitted the bids, and they have figured out the amounts quoted based on the wallet balance, they make the lowest bid minutes before the session ends at 4 pm. On Tuesday, BMC issued a circular modifying its bid submission system. “From now on, all bidders will have to pay the ASD after they are shortlisted within 15 days. So the bidders will get more time to pay the deposits and won’t have to pay the deposit at the time of bid submission,” said P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects). “We are carrying out an audit of the bidding system,” said Sharad Ughade, assistant municipal commissioner, IT. Civic chief Iqbal Chahal did not respond to a query from TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-lens-on-contractors-who-quote-lowest-for-e-tenders-in-nick-of-time/articleshow/80794732.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan government nod for desert festival from February 25||JAISALMER: The state government on Wednesday gave its nod to organise the internationally renowned desert festival from February 25 to 27. There was uncertainty over the festival due to the pandemic, but district collector Ashish Modi and MLA Ruparam Dhandev sent a proposal requesting the state government to give its nod. Soon after the government gave its nod, preparations started for the festival, which will be held according to the Covid guidelines. For getting entry into the festival, tourists will have to use masks and sanitisers. The news brought cheers among the tourism businessmen as the festival will boost tourism in the state. Modi said a high-level meeting was convened on February 4 in which MLA Ruparam Dhandev, zila pramukh Pratap Singh, municipal council chairman Harivallabh Kalla and others took part. All of them approved to organise the festival as per Covid guidelines to save tourism in Jaisalmer. Discussions are being held on the programmes during the festival. The general public has been asked to give their suggestions. Modi said the desert festival is the glory of Jaisalmer and it will certainly increase the tourism business. Efforts have started to publicise the festival on social media platforms. A teaser is being made for the same. With Spicejet starting its flight services from February 12 for Delhi and Ahmedabad, it will facilitate the tourists coming to the desert festival. Apart from this, trains from Jaisalmer to Jammu via Jaipur and New Delhi will also help tourists reach Jaisalmer. He said that the municipal council has been directed to clean the city. The cleanliness drive was launched at first gate of the Sonar Fort. Beautification works are underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-nod-for-desert-fest-from-feb-25/articleshow/80802581.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Trichy||Viral video was with crocodile carcass: Probe||Trichy: Inquiry into the suspected poaching of a crocodile near Mukkombu dam a few days ago revealed the crocodile had died after getting trapped in one of the dam shutters. It was with the dead crocodile that a group of youth had shot the video that went viral in social media, said Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha. The crocodile died after getting stuck in one of the shutters of the Mukkombu dam a few days ago. The inquiry revealed that officials from the Public Works Department (PWD) had removed the crocodile from the shutter. A group of college students who were taking bath in the river stumbled upon the carcass of the crocodile. Sujatha said that the youth dragged the dead crocodile and shot a video of the act. While the video that went viral showed the youth abusing the reptile listed on Scheduled 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, an inquiry was initiated. “It was suspected that the youth in the video may have poached the crocodile after spotting it in the river. But it was already dead,” said Sujatha. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/viral-video-was-with-crocodile-carcass-probe/articleshow/80802555.cms||---
February 11, 2021||India||Unions to escalate stir in Feb with rail roko, ‘free’ toll plazas||NEW DELHI: In order to intensify the farmers’ movement against the farm laws, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday decided to make all road toll plazas in Rajasthan “free” from February 12 and hold a rail blockade programme across the country from 12 pm-4 pm on February 18. The SKM also decided to hold a ‘candle march’ and ‘mashaal juloos’ across the country in remembrance of the sacrifice of martyred soldiers in the Pulwama attack on February 14. The decision seems to be an effort at image correction after the “anti-national” act of hoisting a religious flag at Red Fort on January 26 drew widespread condemnation. “On February 16, farmers will show solidarity throughout the country on the birth anniversary of Sir Chhotu Ram,” the SKM said in a statement. Chhotu Ram was one of the prominent leaders of pre-partition Punjab province. The decisions were taken in a committee meeting of the Morcha as part of its plan to make the agitation a pan-India movement in the coming days. The mobilisation will be a test for the unions as so far, they have been successful in Punjab, Haryana and parts of west UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unions-to-escalate-stir-in-feb-with-rail-roko-free-toll-plazas/articleshow/80810994.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Trichy||Stalin to campaign in delta dists from Feb 14||Trichy: DMK president M K Stalin will address party cadres in Nagapattinam, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts on February 14, as part of his third phase of election campaign - ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’. In a statement, the DMK headquarters said that Stalin will begin the third phase of his four-day campaign at Kuppam panchayat, Kanai and Vikravandi in Villupuram district on February 12. He will address cadres in Radhakrishnan Nagar and Trichy national highway in Ulunthurpet in Kallakuruchi district at 1pm the same day. Stalin will then proceed to Cuddalore district on February 13 where he will campaign at Kalaignar grounds, Periyar Nagar, Virudhachalam in Cuddalore West at 8am, and in Chidambaram in Cuddalore East at 1pm. Stalin will resume his campaign in Nagapattinam and Thanjavur during the morning hours on February 14, covering Kalaignar Arangam and Thirukkadaiyur Main Road and Poompuhar. He will campaign in Prathaparamapuram union in Tiruvarur district and Velankanni-Vedaranyam Road, Keelaiyur union and Kilvelur in Nagapattinam district at around 1pm, the same day. On the fourth and final day of his campaign, the DMK president will speak in Unaiyur and Thirumayam in Pudukottai district, Kollapuram in Ariyalur district and in Perambalur town on February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stalin-to-campaign-in-delta-dists-from-feb-14/articleshow/80802590.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||45-year-old widow found dead in Kota||Kota: A 45-year-old widow, who lived alone, was found dead at her house in Shiv Sagar area under Udhyog Nagar police station on Tuesday evening. Suspecting that the woman was choked to death as there were ligature marks around her neck, police lodged a case of murder against unidentified accused while initiating probe and handed over the body to family after post-mortem on Wednesday. The woman, Maya, was found dead in her room on first floor of her house. Her only daughter was married off a year ago while a man, whom the deceased called her ‘Guru Bhai’ lived on the ground floor. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/45-year-old-widow-found-dead-in-kota/articleshow/80802587.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Trichy||‘Expedite acquisition of land for service road’||Trichy: Members affiliated to Federation for retrieval of Trichy Palpannai-Thuvakudi service road staged a protest in front of Thiruverumbur taluk office on Wednesday insisting on expediting land acquisition for the service road. The protest comes even as traders on the stretch intensified their opposition to the land acquisition citing impact on their businesses and livelihood. An issue unresolved since 2014, the 14.5 km-long service road project between Palpannai and Thuvakudi on the Trichy–Thanjavur NH caught the attention of residents and traders after notification was issued for acquiring 1.5 lakh sq.km for the road recently. The demand for road arose following recurring accidents on the stretch due to absence of service road. The federation pointed out lack of pace in land acquisition as one of the reasons for the delay in implementing the project. Insisting on speeding up the acquisition, the members laid siege to the taluk office. In a statement issued by the federation, it was stated that the Madurai bench of Madras high court had passed an order on September 15, 2019 to start the road project and finish it in six months. It took five months for issuing the notification and the only team to look after the land acquisition completed only 5% of the work in 15 months. The federation maintained that the acquisition should be completed and compensation given before the assembly election. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/expedite-acquisition-of-land-for-service-road/articleshow/80802583.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Trichy||Miscreants release water from dam||Perambalur: A section of farmers staged a protest and blocked vehicular traffic on Wednesday demanding action against the unidentified people who released water from Visuvakudi reservoir without the knowledge of the PWD officials. The protesters alleged that water released from the dam on Tuesday night washed away their paddy and turmeric crops in the area. The protesters blocked Perambalur - Annamangalam Main Road. On information, Arumbavur police and revenue and PWD officials rushed to the spot and assured them stern action against the culprits. Due to the protest, vehicular traffic was disrupted for more than three hours. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/miscreants-release-water-from-dam/articleshow/80802585.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chennai||TN elephant deaths: HC orders CBI probe||Madurai: Acting on a Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) report which said that Tamil Nadu elephants were being poached by people from other states and that no action was being taken against middlemen and kingpins, the Madras high court on Wednesday ordered a CBI probe into all elephant poaching cases in the state. The court asked the agency to file a status report in three months, and directed the WCCB to assist the CBI in the investigation. The court passed the order while hearing a batch of writ petitions filed before it in 2018. Citing the recent death of at least eight elephants and recovery of 300kg ivory from the possession of accused, the court asked how only male elephants got ‘electrocuted’. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice N Sathish Kumar wondered as to how such deaths can happen despite the presence of a large number of field-level forest personnel. The bench said the WCCB report revealed transactions including transfer of money through banks, and added: “Poaching activities are not done merely for livelihood but for international trade and sadistic pleasure in creating art with other living beings. The greed of man could be seen from the transactions that had happened.” The judges said that the crime which had been happening in Tamil Nadu forests prior to 2015 extended not only to other states but beyond the national borders now, and added: “We are not dealing with a case of mere poaching. Demand has been created by unknown customers, whose name would come out only after the investigation.” The judges also observed that though the WCCB report was sent to higher officials in 2019, they have not dealt with the specifics given in the report nor had taken action against middlemen or kingpins. The judges said there are two types of cases – those where no complaint was filed under the Wildlife Protection Act; and cases where no action was taken despite availability of information. Noting that a cross-border investigation was necessary, they then directed the CBI to take over the investigation into the pending cases. The judges said that WCCB could render its assistance to the CBI in these cases as the issue came to light only after its investigation. The judges observed that the WCCB had submitted a separate report giving several recommendations to prevent the electrocution of elephants due to overhead transmission lines and illegal solar-powered fencing by private persons. Though the state had stated that it had accepted the suggestion of WCCB and work is in progress, the judges noted that such works are only done in the Megamalai forest areas in Theni district. They directed the government to give effect to the WCCB report in all the forest areas across the state and submit a compliance report. The cases were then adjourned to June 10 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-elephant-deaths-hc-orders-cbi-probe/articleshow/80802588.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 2 siblings among 3 die as tractor hits bike in Tonk||JAIPUR: Three persons, including two kids, were killed when the bike in which they were travelling hit by a gravel-laden tractor in Tonk on Wednesday. According to police, Nitesh Sharma (35) was going to drop his seven-year-old niece Sakshi Sharma for tuitions in Tonk city while her father who is a police constable was on duty. A police officer said, “While Nitesh was taking Sakshi, her three-year-old brother Akshat Sharma insisted to go with him to which Nitesh agreed. While they were passing through Jinsi Road, their bike was hit by a rashly driven tractor carrying gravel.” Both the children sustained fatal head injuries and died on the spot. Nitesh was rushed to SMS Hospital in Jaipur where he succumbed to injuries. After the accident, the driver of the tractor left the vehicle and managed to flee. “We have seized the tractor and a case of causing death due to negligence has been lodged against the driver,” the officer added. A large number of people also gathered at the mortuary at the government hospital in Tonk where the bodies of the two children were kept and also at SMS Hospital in Jaipur where body of their uncle was kept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-siblings-among-3-die-as-tractor-hits-bike-in-tonk/articleshow/80802597.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Trichy||480 DPCs opened in Tiruvarur||Tiruvarur: The district administration has opened a total of 480 direct procurement centres in Tiruvarur district to purchase samba paddy during the kharif marketing season. District collector V Santha has advised farmers not to give any money to officials or workers at the centres for procuring their grains. She asked farmers to inform the respective officials if they found any irregularities at the centre. According to the government announcement, farmers will be given Rs 1,958 per quintal for ‘A’ grade paddy and Rs 1,918 for common variety paddy apart from Rs 70 as subsidy. Farmers should get their Chitta, Adangal from their respective village administrative officer and submit at the DPCs while going to sell their produce, the collector said in a statement. Required instructions were given to the officials and workers of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation to avoid any irregularities at the DPCs when farmers come there to sell their produce. The collector said that if anybody demands money, farmers should inform Senior Regional Manager of Tiruvarur on phone number 04366- 222542 or deputy manager at 9442225003 or deputy manager, Mannargudi at the number 6383497270.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/480-dpcs-opened-in-tiruvarur/articleshow/80802593.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||Charas worth Rs 11.4L seized, one arrested||Pune: The anti-extortion cell of the city police seized almost 2kg charas (hashish), worth Rs11.43 lakh, from the door panels of a sports utility vehicle and arrested Manali resident Virendra Dhanthuram Sharma (40) from Khadki on Tuesday afternoon. A police team intercepted the SUV on old Pune-Mumbai highway in Khadki. A case was registered against Sharma with the Khadki police. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said, “The police team seized charas weighing 1kg and 905 grams and the SUV worth Rs5 lakh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/charas-worth-rs-11-4l-seized-one-arrested/articleshow/80802596.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||Cops crack 3-yr-old murder case, 4 held||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police crime branch claimed to have solved a three-year-old case in which a criminal on police record was murdered and his body dumped in river Indrayani near Talegaon Dabhade following the arrest of two suspects. Two more suspects had already been arrested in another case. Police said the duo told their interrogators that they killed Sahadev Solanki of Nigdi along with their two more accomplices on August 12, 2018, as the victim was constantly harassing them. Shailesh Gaikwad, senior inspector, Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch, said, “The suspects, Shankar Shinde (27) and Ravi More (27), were arrested on a tip-off. We had already arrested Amol Wale (26) and Meghraj Wale (27) in another crime. The involvement of Wale brothers in the murder was revealed during the probe,” Gaikwad said. Gaikwad said Solanki had a case of murder registered against him. After realising on bail, Solanki started harassing the suspects. On August 12, 2018, they invited Solanki for a drink. When he became unconscious, the suspects took him near Talegaon Dabhade.They strangulated him to death. “The next day, they tied a stone to the body and threw it into the river,”he said. “We have handed the suspects to Shirgaon police for further probe,” Gaikwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-crack-3-yr-old-murder-case-4-held/articleshow/80802600.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||Man in police net for cutting birthday cake with sword||Pune: The city police crime branch on Tuesday arrested a 27-year-old jobless man for using a sword to cut his birthday cake at a party in Ganesh Peth on January 23. “Sameer Anant Dhamale from Raviwar Peth celebrated his birthday with his friends on a road at Dhorgalli near Bora hospital around midnight. He used a sword to cut the cake and posted his photo on a social networking site as a status update,” said senior inspector Sunil Takawale from the Pune police crime branch (Unit 1).Takawale said policeman Ajay Thorat on Tuesday received information that Dhamale was roaming with a sword in Raviwar Peth. We verified the information and took him into custody near Lonkarwada in Ganesh Peth and recovered the sharp weapon from him. He said, “Dhamale, during questioning, told the police that he got the sword custom made to show it off like an antique weapon used by the rulers/warriors in the older days.”He said, “The sword is 26 inches long with a wide grip measuring 6 inches. We have registered an FIR against him for illegal possession of a weapon under the Arms Act and Maharashtra Police Act. His custody was transferred to the Khadak police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-in-police-net-for-cutting-birthday-cake-with-sword/articleshow/80802592.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||‘Unassessed PCMC properties over 30k’||Pimpri Chinchwad: A private firm appointed by the property tax department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has identified over 30,000 unassessed properties in its survey of the civic limits. The survey had started in November 2020 and was yet to be completed. Last week, the standing committee granted the firm an extension of another three months to complete the survey. Smita Zagade, the assistant commissioner of PCMC, said some of them were new properties, while others were extended ones or with a change of use on the existing premises. “These properties are unassessed and should have been regularized by the property owners. We will verify these surveyed properties accordingly. The unauthorized properties will have to be regularized in the coming weeks. Now that the firm has been granted an extension, the remaining survey of half of the civic limits could identify 20,000 more such unassessed properties,” Zagade told TOI. Zagade said the survey found over 500 mobile towers, which had not been authorized by the civic body to operate. There were few malls which had flouted the construction norms by raising one or more floors without proper permission. A civic official said the such unassessed properties increased during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/unassessed-pcmc-properties-over-30k/articleshow/80802594.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||‘Modi government is ‘dhokha jeevi’, democracy not in BJP DNA’||UDAIPUR: CPI(M) Politburo member Brinda Karat on Wednesday said tribals in South Rajasthan are totally bereft of their land and forest rights. “They have not been granted pattas, they cannot use sand from the land or timber from the forest and hence big traders from Gujarat are selling them these products at exorbitant prices. This is the reason that some 1,400 to 1,600 tribal homes are standing as incomplete structures,” she said. Brinda, the national vice-president of Adivasi Janadhikar Eka Manch, was on a two-day visit to Udaipur. She said the state government and administration unreluctantly grant rights of land, hills to bigshots and industrialists but when the poor tribal people try to build homes, they are harassed with documentation, penalised on the pretext of rules and regulations and not even granted loans by banks. Launching a scathing attack on the Modi government, Brinda said, “Modi is a ‘Dhokha jeevi’ govt. For example, their budget is a complete cheating on the name of tribal education. On one hand they announce 750 new Eklavya residential schools for tribal areas, but on the other hand they allocated only a Rs 100 crore budget compared to last year. In 2020, the fund allocated for the Eklavya schools was Rs 1,313 crore whereas this year it is Rs 1,418 crore. It should have been atleast Rs 25,000 crore if they really wish to build 750 new schools.” Karat also condemned the Gehlot government for registering cases against tribal youths in connection to the Kankri Dungri movement. She said what Modi is doing at the Centre, the Congress tries to repeat it at the regional level. On a question related to BTP's contribution towards tribal issues, Karat said the party had not so far taken up any concrete issue for their cause. Commenting on farmers’ protest, she said, “Modiji and his supporters have called all bad names to the poor farmers who have been protesting for their rights. From Khalistanis to Chinese agents and Naxals, they have given all names. It is not in the DNA of the BJP or the RSS to endure dissent or act democratically. If they really wish to make amends, Modiji should keep aside his arrogance and take back the farm laws. A new farm law should be made taking the consent of the farmers,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/modi-govt-is-dhokha-jeevi-democracy-not-in-bjp-dna/articleshow/80802591.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Udaipur||‘Modi government is ‘dhokha jeevi’, democracy not in BJP DNA’||UDAIPUR: CPI(M) Politburo member Brinda Karat on Wednesday said tribals in South Rajasthan are totally bereft of their land and forest rights. “They have not been granted pattas, they cannot use sand from the land or timber from the forest and hence big traders from Gujarat are selling them these products at exorbitant prices. This is the reason that some 1,400 to 1,600 tribal homes are standing as incomplete structures,” she said. Brinda, the national vice-president of Adivasi Janadhikar Eka Manch, was on a two-day visit to Udaipur. She said the state government and administration unreluctantly grant rights of land, hills to bigshots and industrialists but when the poor tribal people try to build homes, they are harassed with documentation, penalised on the pretext of rules and regulations and not even granted loans by banks. Launching a scathing attack on the Modi government, Brinda said, “Modi is a ‘Dhokha jeevi’ govt. For example, their budget is a complete cheating on the name of tribal education. On one hand they announce 750 new Eklavya residential schools for tribal areas, but on the other hand they allocated only a Rs 100 crore budget compared to last year. In 2020, the fund allocated for the Eklavya schools was Rs 1,313 crore whereas this year it is Rs 1,418 crore. It should have been atleast Rs 25,000 crore if they really wish to build 750 new schools.” Karat also condemned the Gehlot government for registering cases against tribal youths in connection to the Kankri Dungri movement. She said what Modi is doing at the Centre, the Congress tries to repeat it at the regional level. On a question related to BTP's contribution towards tribal issues, Karat said the party had not so far taken up any concrete issue for their cause. Commenting on farmers’ protest, she said, “Modiji and his supporters have called all bad names to the poor farmers who have been protesting for their rights. From Khalistanis to Chinese agents and Naxals, they have given all names. It is not in the DNA of the BJP or the RSS to endure dissent or act democratically. If they really wish to make amends, Modiji should keep aside his arrogance and take back the farm laws. A new farm law should be made taking the consent of the farmers,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/modi-govt-is-dhokha-jeevi-democracy-not-in-bjp-dna/articleshow/80802591.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Natl law univs put BCI in dock over LLM test||Hyderabad: The Consortium of National Law Universities has moved the Supreme Court against the Bar Council of India’s (BCI) decision to scrap one LLM programme and to be the authorised body to hold the entrance test for the programme. On January 3, the BCI issued a notification abolishing the one year LLM programme and derecognised LLM degrees from foreign universities. It mandated that the post-graduate law course should be of two years, spread over four semesters. It also stated that admissions to the LLM programme would be through a post-graduate common entrance test in law which will be conducted by the BCI. The consortium, which has 22 national law universities under its ambit, argued that as per the Advocates Act, BCI’s powers are limited to enrolment of advocates, for which LLM is not an entry course. “The BCI conducts an entry level test for enrolment of advocates. We have no issue with the Bar test and its powers to regulate professional legal education. However, LLM is an academic degree required to become an assistant professor and the BCI does not have the higher education experts to conduct the test,” said Prof Faizan Mustafa, president of the consortium. He added that the BCI is expanding its role by taking control of the PG and PhD courses and has no powers to regulate it. The Supreme Court bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, Justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramaniam asked the consortium to file an affidavit on number of students that have applied for the consortium’s Common Law Aptitude Test for LLM. The judges have adjourned the hearing to Thursday. “We have received close to 5,000 applications from students keen to pursue the LLM exam that is scheduled in May/June, 2021. The same shall be submitted to the bench on Thursday,” said Mustafa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/natl-law-univs-put-bci-in-dock-over-llm-test/articleshow/80802710.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Trichy||Gaja relief items left to rot for 2 yrs, buried||Trichy: Essential relief materials meant to be distributed to those affected by the cyclone Gaja, which wreaked havoc in the delta districts in 2018, have been found rotting in a godown at Orathanadu in Thanjavur distrrict. The relief items including rice, split gram, dhal and cooking oil which have been lying unattended for more than two years were buried by officials on Wednesday. Lakhs of people including farmers lost their property and crops in the cyclone on November 16, 2018. The government disbursed a total of 27 essential items through Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation and cooperative societies. This apart, the government also received essential items donated by non-governmental organizations and volunteers. It has now come to light that revenue officials stocked large volumes of these essentials meant to be disbursed to villagers residing in 58 panchayats at a godown in Orathanadu taluk office and two other panchayat office buildings in Puthur village in the taluk. The authorities concerned forgot about the items. It was a stench that emanated on Tuesday from the locked-up panchayat office building that caught the attention of officials. On being informed, the block development officer of Orathanadu, Murugan arrived at the spot and inspected the relief items. It came to light that the entire stockpile of essentials had been rotting for sometime. Subsequently, revenue authorities dug a 20-foot-long and 5-foot-deep pit and buried all the essentials in it. When contacted, Orathanadu tahsildar Ganeshwaran told TOI that they had stocked excess items in the building after distributing the required quantity to the public. They have buried some of the items which have gone waste, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gaja-relief-items-left-to-rot-for-2-yrs-buried/articleshow/80802599.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Aurangabad||6 of a family booked for duping investors||Aurangabad: The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) ofthe city police has booked six members of a family on charges of cheating investors of Rs 1.2 crore on the pretext of investing money in real estate and assuring good returns. On a complaint lodged by 43-year old software engineer Mohammed Azhar Qureshi, an offence has been registered against the suspects at Jinsi police station on charges of criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy along with sections of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 1999. Assistant police inspector (EOW) Amol Satodkar said all the family members on whose bank accounts the amounts were received have been named as suspects in the case. “In February, the software engineer invested in the multi-services firm floated by the suspects. The suspects assured of a return between 8 and 11% on the invested amount. The suspects claimed that the money would be invested in development of properties and construction,” he said. The engineer invested Rs 28 lakh and seeing him get returns, others too invested over Rs 92 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6-of-a-family-booked-for-duping-investors/articleshow/80791688.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Entry-level admissions: Parents relieved, but schools worried about fees clause||NEW DELHI: With the nursery admission schedule finally out, parents feel a lot relieved. Schools have, however, raised concern over the fees clause, which bars them from collecting annual and development charges. Sohini Singh, a parent who had been eagerly waiting for the process to begin, said, “I was worried what would happen if the admission doesn’t take place. Now I am relieved and, as the application period is shorter, I will have to quickly do it.” Singh, the mother of a three-year-old, has already shortlisted close to 15 schools around her home. “I don’t want to take a chance, so I am applying in all the nearby schools. As the process is online, I don’t have to spend time travelling.” Due to Covid-19, a few schools that used to also provide offline forms have shifted fully online. “This year, no offline form will be available. If we keep that option, there will be crowding,” said Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School. With the general category admission finally beginning, parents wishing to apply under the economically weaker section/disadvantaged category are also eagerly waiting for their schedule. “I hope that for this category, too, the process will not be delayed further. I am happy that the admission process has now been initiated,” said Poonam Kumari, a parent who lives in Jaitpur. Schools are concerned over the fee clause as they have been allowed to charge only registration, admission, caution and tuition fees. Upon admission, only tuition fee can be charged. The caution fee can also be taken only if a school already charges it. “The fee matter is in court and the order has been reserved. So hopefully before the admission is completed, there will be something,” said an official of a school management committee. “The fee clause also hints that the schools will not open in April too. It says annual and development charges can’t be charged till the schools reopen. We will have to wait and watch now,” said a principal. “Hopefully, there will be something from the court now. Moreover, this will be an entirely new academic session, so we don’t know the idea behind such a decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/entry-level-admissions-parents-relieved-but-schools-worried-about-fees-clause/articleshow/80798683.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covaxin rollout at all district hospitals from next week||MUMBAI: Covaxin, which is being administered under a ‘clinical trial mode’, will be rolled out in all district hospitals of the state from next week. Until now, six centres across Maharashtra were giving the Bharat Biotech vaccine that has seen a tepid response among healthcare workers. The decision to increase the centres was taken after the state recently received the second consignment of 1,50,400 doses of Covaxin from the centre. Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, said that the number of centres will increase to 30. A little over 5,100 healthcare workers have taken the vaccine since January 16 when the nation-wide drive started. Maharashtra is among the 19 states that have received Covaxin. Tamil Nadu got the highest dose at 1.9 lakh, followed by Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Delhi which received 1.7lakh doses each. States that have received fewer doses are Kerala, Jharkhand, Punjab and Chhattisgarh; all have received 37,760 doses each. Kerala, though, has left the vaccine unused till date. As per information provided by the centre, smaller states such as Sikkim, Goa and union territories haven’t been allocated any Covaxin doses. Even north-eastern states, barring Assam, haven’t been given Covaxin doses. In all, 25.7 lakh doses of the vaccine have been distributed so far. Nodal officers from some of the existing centres in Maharashtra have told TOI that hesitancy, both among doctors and non-doctors, is responsible for the low uptake of the vaccine. The recipients have to sign a consent form which states that the vaccine is still undergoing phase III clinical trials, and hence they would be paid compensation in case of a serious adverse event that is causally related to the vaccine. “That sometimes scares people who come to inquire,” said one of the nodal officers. Patil, however, claimed that centres couldn’t pursue more individuals to take the vaccine as they didn’t have adequate doses till now. The state had received only 20,000 in the first lot. “Besides adding new centres, we also intend to have multiple sessions at one site,” he said. Another senior state official emphasised that no major side-effects have been reported post vaccination with Covaxin, but when questioned about concerns of efficacy, he didn’t wish to comment. At Mumbai’s JJ Hospital, which is the only centre giving Covaxin, nodal officer Dr Lalit Sankhe said that the footfall has increased gradually. “We now receive up to 70 of the intended 100 beneficiaries in a day,” he said, adding the centre will be receiving another 2,000 doses in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covaxin-rollout-at-all-dist-hosps-from-next-wk/articleshow/80798686.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 11, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||25th edition of IFFK kicks off in T’puram||Thiruvananthapuram: IFFK gained a prominent spot in world’s cultural map owing to its uncompromising political stand, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan while inaugurating the 25th IFFK here on Wednesday. “This festival has stood by the oppressed and anguished sections of the society. That is the reason why IFFK prioritizes films from the African, Asian and Latin-American countries. Only films from third-world countries are allowed in the competition section. This stand arises from the struggle against the cultural capitalism of America and Europe. IFFK assumes a distinct identity from other film festivals which disregard political ideals and only focus is on entertainment value,” said Vijayan. He also said that the lifetime achievement award is part of the political stand. The inaugural function began with lighting of 25 lamps symbolizing 25th anniversary of IFFK. Adoor Gopalakrishnan received the lifetime achievement award on behalf of Jean-Luc Godard on the occasion. On Thursday, 24 films will be screened at six different theatres in the city. Lijo Jose Pellissery’s ‘Churuli’ will have its world premiere on Thursday at the Tagore Theatre, at 2:45pm. The film narrates the tale of two men, on the trail of another man inside a dense forest, encountering mysterious events. Mahesh Narayanan’s ‘C U Soon’ which was made during the lockdown period in Kerala, will be screened under the category Malayalam Cinema. Six films will be screened in the International Competition category. As many as 11 films in the World cinema category and two films in the Indian Cinema Now category will be showcased. Kim-Ki-duk’s ‘Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter and Spring’ which won the Grand Bell Award and Blue Dragon Award for Best Film will feature in the Homage category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/25th-edition-of-iffk-kicks-off-in-tpuram/articleshow/80798694.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Rajkot||‘Harassed’ by kin, guest house owner hangs himself in Dwarka||Rajkot: Owner of a guest house in Devbhumi Dwarka town hanged himself to death on Tuesday night, allegedly due to the humiliation and harassment by two of his relatives, including his wife’s brother.Police on Wednesday booked Ramesh Sumaniya and Miya Manek for abetting the suicide of 35-year-old Viram Manek. Deceased took his life at his Yuvraj Guest House on Charakla Road in Dwarka, but before taking the extreme step, he had called up his mother-in-law, Raju, and informed her how her son Ramesh and his brother-in-law Miya is not letting him live in peace and also the reason why he was forced to end his life. According to police, the deceased operated a guest house where pilgrims to the Dwarkadheesh temple used to stay. He had also dug a bore-well on government wasteland from which he was supplying potable water to different parts of the town. Ramesh had asked Viram to close the bore-well and wind up his business on the wasteland as he wanted the land for some other purpose. On February 7, he and Miya had also threatened the deceased. On February 8, the two accused, armed with iron pipes, came to thrash Viram at his residence. But following the intervention of Ramesh’s father the matter ended there, said cops. The next day, Viram blocked the accused duo’s numbers on his cellphone. The accused then called him up from some unknown number and abused him. Ramesh allegedly called the deceased their ‘pet dog’ reminding him that it was his father who had helped him set up the guest house and the water distribution business. On February 9 evening, Viram left home saying he was going to the guest house and hanged himself there. On Tuesday night, deceased’s wife Manju lodged an FIR against her brother Ramesh and Miya (her sister’s husband) accusing the duo of abetting her husband’s suicide. Police are investigating the case and are yet to arrest the two accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/harassed-by-kin-guest-house-owner-hangs-himself-in-dwarka/articleshow/80794922.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Man gets kidney from mom, both had Covid antibodies||Aurangabad: Doctors at Kamalnayan Bajaj Hospital here have performed a renal transplant in which both, the donor and the recipient, were having Covid-19 antibodies. Claiming that it was the first-of-its-kind kidney donation in Aurangabad during the current pandemic, the doctors said the transplant gave a new lease of life to 26-year-old man from Deola taluka of Nashik district. He received the kidney from his mother. Both of them had reported a low-grade fever a few months back, but did not undergo Covid-19 testing. Nephrologist Sameer Mahajan said the man could not undergo the transplant earlier due to outbreak of Covid-19 despite being on a dialysis for almost one-and-half year. “The tests revealed both donor and her son had presence of Covid-19 antibodies in their body. In case of other patients, we had postponed the kidney transplant, but as the youth from Nashik was already on a dialysis for months, we decided to perform the renal transplant,” he said. The youth, whose father is a porter and mother does domestic work, underwent the rental transplant on January 21 and is in healthy condition presently. “There is no scientific literature available on performing organ transplant on patient with Covid-19 antibodies. Any organ transplant involves the use of immunosuppressive therapy to keep a person’s body from rejecting the transplanted organ. We took a call in favour of performing a renal transplant after apprising the family about all pros and cons,” Mahajan said. Dr Sudhir Kulkarni, Marathwada president of Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC) said the National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO) has included screening for Covid-19 antibodies in its check-list for carrying out organ donations, including a renal transplant. “As per NOTTO, the risk-benefit ratio should be the key point to be exercised in deciding the need for transplantation during the current pandemic. The health institutions have been asked to take a call case by case considering the need of organ donation, especially in case of end-stage organ failures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-gets-kidney-from-mom-both-had-covid-antibodies/articleshow/80791701.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||PCB to convert five open areas into parking zones||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has decided to convert five open areas, including the road near Royal Western India Turf Club, into a pay-and-park zone in an effort to generate additional revenue. The board will float a new tender in this regard over the next few days. As of now, the PCB generates around Rs2.5 crore annual revenue from existing pay-and-park zones. The board has decided to clean the area near Wanowrie tannery to convert it into a parking lot. Other locations where parking plazas will come up include, the lane near Mohini Mahal on Lloyd Road, the vacant space near Bombay Garage and the open space opposite Lashkar police station, said board officials. PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “Additional parking plazas would enable us to generate more revenue. At peak traffic hours, often people are unable to find parking space on East Street and MG Road. The additional parking space would help us mitigate traffic congestion to some extent.” On Tuesday, the PCB general body also resolved to bring private buildings in cantonment areas, where advertisement hoardings have been installed without its permission, within the ambit of tax collection. “Private players have been in this business for the last many years. We have identified over 100 such sites in our limit. We would be able to generate some revenue from this sector as well,” Kumar added. Meanwhile, activists and PCB residents are of the view that the board must provide the facility for citizens. “The board should have completed work on its multi-storied parking lot. That would have generated a decent amount for them. It has already invested a significant amount in the project and now the project doesn’t have any future. It was a waste of tax payers’ money,” said activist Netraprakash Bhog.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-convert-five-open-areas-into-parking-zones/articleshow/80802609.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Nursery admissions from February 18, first list on March 20||NEW DELHI: After much delay and anticipation due to Covid-19, the nursery admissions to the private schools in the city will start on February 18. Due to the delay, the application time given to the parents is shorter than usual and the last date of submission is March 4. As the schools are not open physically, they will not be allowed to charge annual and development fees, adds the circular, issued on Wednesday. The whole process will be conducted online. “Congratulations to all parents and children. We have to defeat corona and get back the glory of our schools. The schools are waiting for the students,” tweeted chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Due to the pandemic, there was a proposal that the entry-level admissions — for nursery, KG and Class I — to private schools might be deferred. However, it was not implemented and the first list will be out on March 20. On February 17, the schools will have to upload the admission criteria and the points allotted to each of them. Some of the key criteria are neighbourhood — proximity of residence to school — and siblings — if an applicant has any brother/sister studying in the same school. This year, no rule has been added, and all previous rules, including the upper age limit, stay. While the current schedule is meant for general category seats, schools have been asked to declare the total number of their seats and submit the details to the respective district education offices and also put them up on the notice board and the website. Depending on the number of general seats, the allocation to fulfil the 25% quota for economically weaker section/disadvantaged groups will be decided as per Section 12(1)(C ) of Right to Education Act. This centralised admission is conducted by the directorate of education. Since the lockdown, schools have not been allowed to charge annual and development charges. Since “physical classroom learning is not going on for entry-level classes at present, in pursuance to directorate of education orders dated 18.04.2020 and 28.08.2020, no fee except prescribed registration fee, admission fee, caution fee (if school already charges) and tuition fee shall be charged at the time of admission and, thereafter, only tuition fee shall be charged,” the circular states. The schools have also been told that there cannot be any diversion from the schedule and they will also have to constitute a grievance redressal and monitoring system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nursery-admissions-from-feb-18-first-list-on-mar-20/articleshow/80798693.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: RSS volunteer in hospital after being shot, 3 held||KOTA: An RSS chalak in Ramganjmandi town of Kota district sustained bullet injuries in both his legs after being shot at by three bike-borne youths here on Tuesday night. Acting promptly, Kota rural police detained two persons immediately after the crime while the key accused was nabbed on Wednesday. Traders of the town called a bandh against the incident and shops in the main markets of Ramganjmandi town remained shut on Wednesday. Deepak Shah (48), who is also a stone trader in the town, sustained a bullet injury in each of his two legs around 8.30pm on Tuesday night when three bike-borne youths attacked him at Bazar No. 2 where Shah along with some other RSS volunteers was convincing locals for donation under ‘Sri Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan’”, Kota (rural) SP Sharad Choudhary said. The injured RSS volunteer was immediately rushed to hospital where he is undergoing medical treatment. His condition is said to be out of danger. Two of the accused, identified as Bhavik Chawda (20) and Sameer alias Sufian (21), were detained immediately after the crime after their bike slipped on the road while attempting to flee while the prime accused, Imran alias Ashu Paya (23), was arrested on Wednesday from Raipur in Jhalawar district while he was about to abscond to Madhya Pradesh, the SP said. Preliminary investigation revealed that the motive behind the attack was past enmity between Imran and Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rss-volunteer-in-hosp-after-being-shot-3-held/articleshow/80802602.cms||Rajiv Saxena
February 11, 2021||Pune||PMC refuses automated doors along Swargate-Katraj BRTS corridor, PMPML takes softer stand on issue||PUNE: The civic body has refused to fix the automated doors at stops along the Swargate-Katraj Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor stating that the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited did not use them properly in other BRTS corridors. The open doors along the corridor’s bus stops, which were operational from February 5, is a major safety concern among commuters. V Kulkarni, the head of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s road department, told TOI that automated doors would not be installed at the bus stops. “The doors at the bus stops are not automated. For automated doors to operate, the PMPML (Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited) buses should have the radio frequency identification (RFID) system, which is not available in all the PMPML buses. Second, it has been seen in other corridors that the automated doors were not used properly. The doors were manually opened in the morning and closed in the evening. So, there is no point in spending Rs1 crore on something which isn’t used properly by the transport body,” Kulkarni said. In November last year, the PMPML and the PMC had a spat over starting operations along the Swargate-Katraj BRTS corridor with the former saying that bus services would not resume until the stops had automatic doors. When asked about the doors being left open, Rajendra Jagtap, the chairman and managing director of the transport body, said, “The automatic doors have not been installed by the PMC and this was the best they could provide.” Another official of the PMPML said, “Earlier, there were no doors at the bus stops. Now, we have ensured that the PMC fits the doors,” he said. On how safety was not a concern with open doors, the official said, “The PMC is working on it.” Commuters and activists criticised both the bodies. “What was the whole fight about between the PMC and the PMPML? Does the PMPML want to imply that having open doors at the bus stops is safe for passengers? Why did the PMPML, after taking a stern stand, open the corridor for bus operations?” asked Prakhar Nihare, a daily commuter. Commuter group PMP Pravasi Manch’s Sanjay Shitole said bus services should be stopped immediately until the minimal requirements, including the installation of automated doors, were met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-refuses-automated-doors-along-swargate-katraj-brts-corridor-pmpml-takes-softer-stand-on-issue/articleshow/80802606.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 11, 2021||Bareilly||Fed up with poor economic condition, two sisters end lives in UP's Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: Fed up with poor economic condition of their family, two sisters — aged 20 and 21 — allegedly ended their lives by consuming poison in Tilhar area of UP’s Shahjahanpur district on Wednesday night. The girls belonged to a very poor family and after the death of their father a few years ago, they were leading a very tough life, said neighbours. Police said the girls — the youngest amongst nine siblings (seven sisters and two brothers) — had a quarrel with their mother over some issue, and in a fit of rage, they consumed poison in the evening. They were rushed to a community health centre, but doctors referred them to the district hospital, where both succumbed during the treatment, said police, adding that they have sent the bodies for autopsy. According to police, the victims’ brothers are labourers, but their earning is not sufficient to fulfil the demands of the family. Police said elder brother Mohammed Rafeeq had submitted an application, stating that fed up with poor economic condition of the family, his sisters ended their lives and he did not want any action in this connection. Tilhar police station SHO Jasveer Singh said, “It appears to be a case of suicide. The girl’s family has given an application as well. The autopsy will be conducted on Thursday and the report will verify the truth.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fed-up-with-poor-economic-condition-two-sisters-end-lives-in-ups-shahjahanpur/articleshow/80794847.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 11, 2021||Pune||Khadki Cantt gets Rs 29 crore dues from OFB||Pune: The Khadki Cantonment Board received Rs29.65 crore service charges dues from the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) on Tuesday. The KCB had been pursuing the matter with OFB for the last few months. The money has come at a time when the board’s financial condition is precarious. Pramod Kumar Singh, chief executive officer of the KCB, told TOI, “The OFB, through the Ammunition Factory Khadki (AFK), has paid Rs7crore as arrears and the remaining amount pertains to service charges for 2019-2020. We have considered this as a provisional payment as it was supposed to pay total Rs41 crore. There is a bit of confusion over the standard table of rate (STR), which is yet to be fixed by the defence estates office of the Pune circle for the KCB limits. Once it is fixed, the remaining amount will be claimed from the OFB.” The KCB requires at least Rs5.5 crore per month to meet its expenses, including salaries of employees and pension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/khadki-cantt-gets-rs-29-crore-dues-from-ofb/articleshow/80802622.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 11, 2021||Aurangabad||SPI gets 5,779 applications for 60 seats||Aurangabad: The Services Preparatory Institute (SPI), a one-of-its-kind state-run institution that prepares students for premier defence institutes in the country, has received as many as 5,779 applications against an intake capacity of 60 seats for the academic year 2021-22. The SPI will be holding the common entrance test at 23 centres in eight cities across the state on February 14. SPI director Colonel (retd) Amit Dalvi on Wednesday said the admission process has evoked good response despite the pandemic. “Students taking the common entrance test on February 14 are requested to follow all Covid prevention norms. At our level, we are also taking all possible precautions at every examination centre,” he said. The SPI entrance is scheduled to be held at seven centres in Aurangabad, followed by Pune, Kolhapur (four each), Nashik (3), Amravati (2) Nagpur, Latur and Mumbai (one each). As per official instruction, candidates need to report to the examination centre at least 30 minutes before the scheduled start of 10 am. The entrance exam, which is for the first time getting held simultaneously on the same day across the state, will have 150 questions with equal weightage to Mathematics and General Ability Test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/spi-gets-5779-applications-for-60-seats/articleshow/80791708.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Now, restrictions on travellers from Kerala, which has maximum active cases||MUMBAI: Travel restrictions imposed by the Maharashtra government on passengers arriving from four states -- Gujarat, Goa, Rajasthan and Delhi -- will also be imposed on passengers arriving from Kerala.  Officials said Kerala has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the country, followed by Maharashtra. The two states respectively account for 40% and 24% of India’s total active case load. For air travellers from these states, a negative RT-PCR report is compulsory, to be done within 72 hours before flight. If a flyer did not have this report, he or she would be tested at the airport at their own cost. Similar conditions have been laid down for railway passengers. Maharashtra has asked railway passengers to do an RT-PCR test within 96 hours prior to travel. Passengers who do not have a report would be screened for fever and body temperature at railway stations in Maharashtra when they alight. Those displaying Covid symptoms would have to undergo an antigen test and if they test positive, would be admitted at a Covid Care Centre at their own cost. Those travelling by road to be mandatorily screened at state borders for symptoms. “The restriction (Kerala) has been imposed as a precautionary measure," said an official. Meanwhile, there has been a demand by passengers from the other four states to ease travel restrictions as cases in those states are on the decline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-restrictions-on-travellers-from-kerala-which-has-max-active-cases/articleshow/80798750.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala: Manjeswaram MLA M C Kamaruddin gets bail in remaining 6 cases||KOZHIKODE: Manjeswaram MLA M C Kamaruddin has secured bail in 148 cases in which his arrest was recorded in connection with the multi-crore Fashion Gold jewellery investment scam, which will pave the way for his release from Kannur Central Prison three months after his arrest. With Hosdurg judicial first class magistrate court granting bail in six remaining cases on Wednesday, Kamaruddin managed to get bail in all cases in which he has been booked. The IUML legislator was arrested on Nov 7 last year on the basis of complaints by depositors who invested money in Fashion Gold International of which he was the chairman. The court, while granting bail to Kamaruddin, asked him not to enter the police station limits in which cases were registered against him. It would mean that he will not be able to enter the limits of Chandera, Bekal and Kasaragod police stations in the district in addition to Kannur and Payyannur police station limits. However, he has no cases in his assembly constituency. The court also asked him not to influence the probe and report before the investigating officer whenever asked. Kamaruddin’s advocate PK Chandrasekharan said that bail procedures, including executing bonds in six cases, and also 13 cases under Kasaragod chief judicial magistrate court for which bail was granted earlier will be completed on Thursday. If so, the MLA will be able to leave Kannur prison that day itself. Till date, 155 cases were registered in connection with Fashion Gold scam but the arrest of the MLA hasn’t been recorded in seven cases. Meanwhile, the probe by crime branch SIT in this case has come to a halt as the investigation officers were transferred. Police have not been able to nab TK Pookoya Thangal who is the first accused in many cases and managing director of Fashion Gold. Kamaruddin was booked under IPC sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating), provisions of Kerala Protection of Interests of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act and section 3 and 5 of the Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act. Kamaruddin had been maintaining that his arrest was politically motivated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/mla-kamaruddin-gets-bail-in-remaining-6-cases/articleshow/80798803.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||EDMC to turn temple waste into manure||New Delhi: East Delhi Municipal Corporation, in partnership under Su-Dhara sentinel project on urban waste management, has initiated a move to convert temple waste and floral offerings into compost and manure. The civic body on Thursday said compost generation started in Ward 38-E and 50-E. Women in these two wards are being trained to make gulal from flowers, it added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/edmc-to-turn-temple-waste-into-manure/articleshow/80868768.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi corporations seek strength in unity, mull merger of finance depts||NEW DELHI: Despite being a financially vibrant city, Delhi’s municipal bodies are constantly trying to fend off monetary crises. The frequent strikes by sanitation workers and teachers over unpaid salaries — last year, even hospital staff suspended work in October for the same reason — explicitly underlines the struggle to match the civic bodies’ income with their expenses. There is now a line of thought that believes unifying the finance departments of the three municipal corporations could help tide over the constant cash crunch. Explaining the roadmap along this line proposed by North Delhi Municipal Corporation, a civic official said the faulty trifurcation of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi in 2012 left major revenue projects and high property tax wielding colonies to the south civic body, while major hospitals and services requiring a lot of money for operations went to the north body. The east corporation was unfortunate too to inherit the bulk of the city’s slum clusters and unauthorised colonies. The north mayor, Jai Prakash, announced on Wednesday that the north corporation’s detailed proposal on a unified financial department would be sent to Delhi government and lieutenant governor. East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain welcomed this proposal, saying, “A nodal officer can be appointed from each civic body to oversee clubbing of the finances. This will benefit both employees and citizens.” South mayor Anamika hadn’t seen the proposal and said she would comment only after poring through the details. Jai Prakash noted that unifying the finance and planning departments of the three municipalities would leave a surplus of Rs 1,317 crore even after paying salaries and pensions. North corporation’s proposal argues that if unification of the three bodies was not possible, at least their finances should be clubbed. “The combined expenditure on salaries and pensions of all three corporations is less than the internal revenue plus combined non-plan grants received by the three civic bodies,” the proposal states. The calculations have been carried out on the basis of the 2019-20 financial year. Revenues of the three corporations totalled Rs 6,725 crore that year, with SDMC accounting for 48.6% of this. Delhi government’s non-plan grants took the income to Rs 10,257 crore. North corporation had the largest salary/pension bill of Rs 4,200 crore when its income was Rs 2,590 crore, but the combined salary bill of the three corporations was just Rs 8,940 crore, leaving a net balance of Rs 1,317 crore. In January, the Confederation of MCD Employees had petitioned the LG to reunify the corporations, arguing that the root cause of financial crises was the ‘arbitrary’ trifurcation of the single municipal corporation. A corporation official told TOI that at the time of trifurcation, the then Sheila Dikshit government had assured financial handholding to help the subsidiary civic bodies to become self-reliant. “But the government changed soon after, and the promised monetary help never arrived,” the official claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-seek-strength-in-unity-mull-merger-of-finance-depts/articleshow/80798779.cms||Paras Singh
February 11, 2021||Delhi||HC refuses to modify order on SDMC||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to modify its order imposing a cost of Rs 25,000 on SDMC for not sending to DSSSB the requisition of over 1,100 vacant posts of special educators in the schools run by the civic body.pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-refuses-to-modify-order-on-sdmc/articleshow/80798796.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Singer M S Naseem dies||Thiruvananthapuram: Singer M S Naseem, who was a popular presence on television and stage shows with his rendition of old Malayalam classics, died at a private hospital here on Wednesday. He was 67. He is survived by his wife Shahida and daughters Nadiya and Nazmi. He was bedridden for more than a decade after a stroke. Naseem made his debut with the song ‘Nirayum Tharangale’ in the film ‘Ananthavrithandam’. He endeared himself to music lovers by reproducing gems of singers A M Raja and P B Sreenivasan on stage and mini screen. He associated with journalist and music critic Ravi Menon for a documentary that tracked the life and music of playback singers who enthralled Malayalis for a long time. He was working on another documentary when he suffered a stroke. The mortal remains were buried at Pallipuram Pariyarathukara Muslim Jamaat mosque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/singer-m-s-naseem-dies/articleshow/80798871.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Ahead of bypoll in Nagarjuna Sagar, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao’s largesse for Nalgonda||HYDERABAD: With Nagarjuna Sagar by-elections round the corner and a lot at stake for the TRS after the setbacks in Dubbak and GHMC polls, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday showered sops worth Rs 2,700 crore on the erstwhile Nalgonda district. Of the total bonanza, Rs 2,500 crore would be spent on various lift irrigation (LI) schemes in the next one-and-a-half years and Rs 186 crore on development of municipalities, mandal headquarters and gram panchayats in the district. This is the highest amount sanctioned to any district ahead of a bypoll after the TRS came to power. After the TRS candidate scored a stunning victory in Huzurnagar bypoll in October 2019, KCR had sanctioned Rs 100 crore for the assembly constituency. Addressing a well-attended public meeting in Halia, which falls under Nagarjuna Sagar constituency, the CM said his government would take up new schemes like offering Rs 1 lakh financial assistance to ‘Nayee Brahmins’ (barbers) for setting up modern saloons in villages and setting up a fund with Rs 1,000 crore for CM Dalit Development Fund from the next financial year. With the BJP upping the ante on the TRS for giving short shrift to Dalits and marginalised sections, the CM’s announcement on the new Dalit fund assumes importance. In another largesse, the CM said his government would soon start issuing new pensions and ration cards. It may be recalled the government had stopped sanctioning pensions and ration cards in the last one year due to the pandemic. The CM said a GO will be issued on Thursday on granting of Rs 10 crore for Nalgonda municipality, Rs 5 crore for Miryalaguda municipality and Rs 1 crore each for other municipalities. He said Rs 30 lakh each will be released for mandal headquarters towns and Rs 20 lakh each for 844 gram panchayats in the district. Before addressing the public meeting, the CM laid the foundation stone for various LI schemes. They include Nellikallu, Pagilla, Kambalapalli, Sambapuram Pedda Gattu, Pedda Munagala, AKBR, Dunnapothula Gandi, Ballepally Chapla Thanda, Kesavapuram Kondrapol, Bothalapalem Wadapalli and Muktyala branch LI schemes. Cement concrete lining of Sagar left canal, Janpahad branch distributary CC lining and other works will also be taken up, he said and added that the government would sanction two more LI schemes. Asserting that works on the LI schemes would be completed in 18 months, he said: “If they are not completed within the stipulated time, we will not seek votes in the next assembly elections.” He also said that Dindi LI scheme will be completed soon. He vowed to link Godavari and Krishna rivers by brining Krishna waters to Peddadevulapalle in Nalgonda district to ensure water for every acre in Nagarjuna Sagar ayacut. The CM said about 4,000 acres to 5,000 acres in villages like Nellikallu and Chintalapalem are caught in land disputes. “We will resolve the disputes and issue land pattas to the eligible beneficiaries in the next two to three days.” He directed the district collector to take the necessary steps in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ahead-of-bypoll-in-nsagar-cms-largesse-for-nalgonda/articleshow/80802830.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 11, 2021||Delhi||‘Net’ worth: Delhi civic bodies to reboot IT infra after lockdown exposes lag||NEW DELHI: While the country has been pushing ahead on the Digital India Mission, its capital’s municipal corporations and their hospitals, dispensaries and schools are running on 256kbps connectivity. TOI has already reported how over 9,000 birth and death certificates are pending due to the slow processing for lack of internet resources. This weakness in the civic bodies’ IT infrastructure, originally created in 2008, could now be remedied to contemporary standards. The three municipal corporations have issued joint tenders for the revamp of the digitalZ infra to raise connectivity in hospital/schools sixteen-fold. Prior to its trifurcation, the Municipal Corporation of Delhi was the second largest municipal body in the world with 272 wards, only Tokyo being bigger in terms of area. “An e- governance initiative was taken-up by MCD in 2008 to harness the power of the information & communication platform to achieve its vision,” says the joint report of the corporations. Prior to 2008, the various departments of MCD had taken up IT projects independently and these operated in isolation. Languishing as far as modern connectivity is concerned, Delhi’s municipal bodies run 1,800 schools and 66 hospitals and dispensaries on just 256 kbps connections, slower than home internet these days. Six larger hospitals and 56 regional/division offices runs on 512 kbps, 12 zonal offices on 10 mbps and the Civic Centre headquarters, on 35 mbps. An SDMC official said there was a big pendency on issue of birth/death certificates due to the slow internet speed that allows only a limited number of cases to be processed daily. “The commissioner had ordered all four zonal offices to avail new broadband connections to increase the daily processing speed to 80-100 birth certificates,” the official said. An education department official said that the teachers relied on their personal data packs for online education. The number of connections, backup infrastructure and net speeds will be boosted in the new project. “There will be 15,490 user points across the three corporations with significant increase in internet speeds,” an official disclosed. Importantly, 1,850 schools will get 4 mbps access, while 666 hospitals/dispensaries will get 2,900 user points with 4 mbps speed. The connectivity speed for the six large hospitals and 73 MCD regional offices has been fixed at 10 mbps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/net-worth-civic-bodies-to-reboot-it-infra-after-lockdown-exposes-lag/articleshow/80798813.cms||Paras Singh
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Two arrested for extortion||Hyderabad: KPHB police on Wednesday arrested two persons for allegedly extorting money from builders. On February 8, G Venkaiah Babu (43), a businessman from Addagutta Society lodged a complaint with the police claiming that some people are extorting money from the builders. Based on the complaint, police registered a case under section 420 and 406 of IPC and arrested K Basanth Raju, who was claiming to be a member of the Human Rights Animal & Environment Protection Cell and his associate P Bhargav Kiran. According to Madhapur DCP M Venkateshwarulu, the accused used to send notices on the letterhead of Human rights Animal & Environmental Protection Cell to builders in Samathanagar, Addagutta society. Warning them about taking up construction work against the provisions of environmental law, they demanded money to refrain from obstructing their work. “To delay the construction work, the accused filed 32 RTI applications with GHMC Kukatpally circle and also used local political leaders to put pressure on builders. They have extorted about Rs 50 lakh from the builders,” the DCP said. Police arrested the accused and seized Rs 2 lakh cash, an Innova car, and other incriminating evidence from their possession. The accused will be produced before the court for judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-for-extortion/articleshow/80798861.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||With elections in sight, EDMC refrains from adding new tax burden on citizens||New Delhi: The leader of the House in East Delhi Municipal Corporation, Pravesh Sharma, finalised the annual budget for 2021-2022 on Wednesday. No new taxes have been imposed in the pre-election year. The proposal of imposing new taxes like education cess, betterment tax and professional tax has been scrapped, said Sharma.The cash-strapped civic body failed to incorporate any major infrastructure project in its budget. The overall budget proposal amounts to Rs 4,653.2 crore.Sharma gave details about various work that has been carried out this year and about ongoing projects, which are expected to be completed in 2021-22.“EDMC has launched a new project of ‘door-to-door collection and transportation of waste’ in accordance with Solid Waste Management Rules-2016. The work has been awarded to a private agency,” he added. The budget states that EDMC has developed 60 community toilet blocks and 290 public toilets. Pink toilets are now being prepared for women in different areas, it adds.“To combat air pollution, EDMC has deployed 10 mechanical road sweeping machines and anti-smog guns in high-risk areas and 40 water sprinkler tankers on roads to settle suspended dust particles as part of its efforts to check pollution. Similarly, to reduce the height of Ghazipur landfill site by biomining the legacy waste, trommel segregating machines have been installed. Capacity to process construction & demolition waste is being increased from 500 MT per day to 1,000 MT per day,” Sharma said.The leader of the House further said that East Delhi Municipal Corporation also prepared an action plan on alternative technology for wastewater management.In the health and medical sector, Sharma said that “new courses have started in ophthalmology and orthopaedics branches in Swami Dayanand Hospital, and the admission process has been completed for these courses for the year 2020-21. Sixty-two CCTV cameras and accessories have been installed for better security in the hospital campus.”The civic body’s website has now been shifted to NIC platform, states the budget. “EDMC is soon going to start an app-based attendance system for its employees. It will record their live location,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-elections-in-sight-edmc-refrains-from-adding-new-tax-burden-on-citizens/articleshow/80798851.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Cantt board elected body completes its six-year tenure||Secunderabad: Emotional scenes were witnessed as the elected body of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) completed its six-year tenure on Wednesday. While five years was the actual tenure, a one-year extension was given last year. The members left the vice-president’s chamber in the SCB office after cutting the farewell cake. The moment they left, the SCB staff shifted furniture from the office and locked it. Speaking to the media, the outgoing vice-president Jakkula Maheshwar Reddy thanked the voters. “The Cantonment voters gave us this opportunity to serve them for six years. Though the SCB is under financial stress, all of us did our best to fulfill the promises. In the last two days, infrastructure works worth Rs 7 crore were started in all the eight wards. BT roads and CC roads will be laid and underground drainage system will be constructed with these funds,” Reddy said. He added that during their tenure, water supply was improved, community halls were constructed and drainage works were completed. “Earlier, we used to deploy 300 water tankers per day to meet the demand, but now only 30 are being used,” Reddy added. Reddy said that he will soon visit Delhi to urge the Ministry of Defence (MoD) to release Rs 612 crore pending service charges to the SCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cantt-board-elected-body-completes-its-six-year-tenure/articleshow/80798913.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Tractor rally: Man held from Punjab for instigating crowd at Red Fort||NEW DELHI: Iqbal Singh, who had a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head for his alleged involvement in the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day, was arrested by Special Cell of Delhi Police from Hoshiarpur in Punjab on Tuesday night after being tracked through technical surveillance. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said Singh was identified with the help of multiple videos of the violence, many of which were recorded by the rioters themselves. He and others were also identified by Facebook Live videos. “He delivered provocative speeches and instigated the crowd to resort to violence. He was sent by a court to seven days in police custody on Wednesday,” added Yadav. Singh was a “katha vachak” at a gurdwara in Punjab. A probe revealed that he visited the Delhi borders, where farmers have been protesting, several times since November last year. “He returned to Delhi on January 22 for the Republic Day tractor parade. It was found that he was a part of the mob that had reached Red Fort. He instigated the crowd to resort to violence through videos uploaded on social media platforms,” said the DCP. An investigating officer said Singh’s alleged links to actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who was arrested on Tuesday, needed to be ascertained. He further alleged that Singh did a live video for over an hour on a news channel in which he could be seen instigating the crowd to resort to violence. Singh was confronted with the videos when a police team went to arrest him. Police claimed that the events leading to the violence were well-planned and not a random occurrence. “We need to go to Punjab and look into his news channel. We need to establish where his funding is coming from. He (Singh) told us during interrogation that he ran the news channel on which there was a live video for 1.15 hours,” claimed the investigating officer. Singh, however, claimed that he did not go to Red Fort to cause violence and whatever he did or said was in the heat of the moment. “I went to Red Fort without any plans. When I reached there, emotions flared up. Whatever I did is on my live video. I did not instigate anyone,” he further stated. A cash reward of Rs 50,000 each was announced on four suspects — Buta Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Jajbir Singh and Iqbal Singh — for allegedly instigating protesters and leading a mob into Red Fort. While three of them have been arrested, raids are being conducted to nab the other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tractor-rally-man-held-from-punjab-for-instigating-crowd-at-red-fort/articleshow/80798896.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Inspector attempts suicide||Hyderabad: A circle inspector (CI) on Wednesday attempted suicide by consuming poison. On Wednesday evening, the patrol team of Kakatiya University police noticed a man lying unconscious in the vehicle near the varsity. They identified the man as Sai Ramana, 45, CI of Chityal police station in Jayashankar-Bhupalpally district. Police found a pesticide bottle and a suicide note in Ramana’s possession. In the note, Ramana mentioned that no one was responsible for his death and he decided to end his life due to personal and financial problems. District SP Sangram Singh Patil visited the hospital in Warangal where Sai Ramana is undergoing treatment. “His situation is stable,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inspector-attempts-suicide/articleshow/80798958.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Mani C Kappan to move to UDF as CPM denies him Pala seat||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Hectic parleys to ensure support of maximum district committees were launched by AK Saseendran and Mani C Kappan groups in NCP state unit as CPM has formally conveyed that Pala seat won’t be given to the party. Kappan, who won in Pala in the bypoll that followed the death of KM Mani, conveyed to NCP general secretary Praful Patel that the ideal way for the party would be to move to the UDF fold. Kappan, who is in Delhi, will meet national president Sharad Pawar on Thursday. Following new developments, NCP state president TP Peethambaran was also summoned to Delhi by Pawar. “The party will announce a decision on Friday. I think the decision will be favourable to me. There is no justification in giving away a sitting seat to the party which was defeated in the elections,” Kappan told reporters in Delhi. Though there was an impression that NCP’s complaints would be addressed and the party would be retained in LDF last week when CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury joined the discussion convened by Pawar with Kerala leaders, Patel’s phone call to CM Pinarayi Vijayan changed the scenario. Patel, who spoke to Vijayan last weekend, demanded the four sitting seats of the party. However, Vijayan told him that Pala wouldn’t be given to NCP considering the recent expansion of LDF. Patel, who planned to visit Kerala this week for negotiations, postponed the trip after the development. Kappan, who was in touch with UDF leaders, is learnt to have conveyed his decision to switch sides as he was apprised about the phone call by Patel. AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar, who is an old friend of Kappan, is learnt to have offered a membership for him in Congress. KPCC leadership believes Kappan’s entry would help strengthen Kottayam district unit of Congress. On his part, Kappan will try to take NCP with him to UDF. Though he has the support of state president TP Peethambaran, the national leadership wants to assess the strength of both Saseendran and Kappan factions before taking a decision. Transport minister AK Saseendran has already said that he would be staying with LDF irrespective of the decision taken by NCP leadership. When asked about the developments, Vijayan said that NCP would continue with the front. “State president of the party is the authorized spokesperson on this issue and even today (Wednesday) he said the party will remain in the front,” he said during a news conference. When asked about Kappan’s statement that NCP’s stand would be announced on Friday, he said let’s see it on that day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kappan-to-move-to-udf-as-cpm-denies-him-pala-seat/articleshow/80799020.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Cong supporting unruly elements in MC polls’||At a time when the BJP is facing hostility in many municipal councils ahead of the civic body polls, local leaders are facing an unprecedented challenge of campaigning for their candidates and ensure their win because of the backlash their party is facing due to the ongoing farmers’ stir. It has been a bumpy ride for the saffron party in the civic body elections till now, with the party deciding not to field candidates in many MCs and contesting only on a fewer seats in Doraha. The party has fielded candidates in a majority of wards of Khanna MC, which is the civic body with high number of wards after Ludhiana. In this backdrop, Shariq Majeed talks to BJP’s Ludhiana district (rural) president Pawan Kumar Tinku. Q; How is campaigning going on in Khanna and Doraha, where your party has fielded candidates for the MC elections? It is going well and there is enthusiasm among people. In fact, in Khanna it seems like a festival. Q: What are the issues you are raising in Khanna MC elections? Our main poll issue is that we will clear the garbage that is scattered across the city. I was surprised to see that a girl who was on a Scooty came near us and said that she was calling her relatives on phone, giving them details about the location of her home. It was shocking that she told them on phone that her home was 10 yards from a big garbage dump. Water-logging is another major problem as the money that came under Amrut Scheme is not being utilised properly for the laying of the sewerage. They have dug up streets but there is no such thing as development. The problem is worse in many wards across the railway line, including ward nos. 1,2,3,4,5,6 and 7, and people are living in hell-like situation. The condition of link roads, including Amloh road, Malerkotla and Samrala link roads, was not good. Apart from corruption, they (those managing MC) haven’t done anything. Q: What are the key areas of concern for Doraha? There is an issue of poor connectivity in terms of roads in Doraha, including Bazigar Basti, and in areas where poor people live. There is no development in such areas. Q: Why didn’t you field candidates in Samrala and Payal? There is a need to preserve Punjabi and Punjabiyat in society. Some miscreants may have used the shoulder of farmers to create disturbance in these areas, so we decided not to field candidates in these MCs. Q: You mentioned that the BJP was facing problems in these elections. Can you elaborate on that? In some wards in Khanna where the BJP is contesting, some problems arose during campaigning. Our posters were torn, hoardings were torn as well and flags were removed. The Congress is with such elements and is supporting them, which is why they do such things. Q: What is your take on the farmer agitation? The Prime Minister has given farmers leaders time but they didn’t accept the invitation. The farmers have been misled in such a way about these laws that parties which have lost their ground base are shooting from the shoulders of farmers to sustain that base. But people have come to know that it will not happen in future. They are using the farmers. Q: Has the end of alliance with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) affected you in the area? We have in fact benefited after breaking the alliance because people didn’t have an option and would vote because of compulsion. But now they have the option of BJP. With the support of people, the BJP will form a government with absolute majority in the state. Today people’s attitude towards SAD and Congress has changed and every person wants that he gets good employment, person from medium class wants that he gets electricity and water at cheap rates, industrial growth should be there, which will solve unemployment. Farming will develop because of industrial growth as well. Q: There was this notion going around that your party was allegedly finding it hard to get candidates to contest for Khanna and Doraha? There is nothing of this sort. The thing was that earlier we were contesting in alliance with SAD and we used to field candidates on fewer seats and they would do injustice with us. Now, we are making our own ground and when we are doing so, some problems will come. However, the morale of the workers and their trust has not decreased. Q: If elected, what would your party do to ensure that the Ludhiana-Delhi highway that passes through Khanna doesn’t cave in again? This highway is the biggest symbol of corruption during the Congress regime. There was no planning. The highway should have been made in a way that vehicle drivers coming from opposite sides could see each other, but owing to this highway designing they cannot do so. They made this excuse that it happened because of rodents, but the truth is that the material which should have been used in it was not used. It should be investigated in a serious manner. After elections, we will immediately meet the Union minister Nitin Gadhkari on this matter. Q: Khanna has been among the world’s most polluted cities. Will it be an issue in these MC polls? If one visits Khanna, you won’t find anything apart from filth and that includes bad quality of air. There is no greenery here as well. It’s a serious cause of concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-supporting-unruly-elements-in-mc-polls/articleshow/80795131.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Vaccine not for the pregnant: Experts||NITI Aayog member Dr Vinod Paul said the government has reiterated that pregnant women should not be administered the vaccine, and this has been issued in guidelines too.  “There have been no trials on this group, so they cannot be administered the vaccine,” he said. With confusion over pregnant women asked to consult gynaecologists, the member said guidelines issued by the government were clear. Dr Gagandeep Kang, vaccine expert reiterated that since there are no trials done, the country has left out this group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vaccine-not-for-the-pregnant-experts/articleshow/80799038.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Farmers act in groups to save protest & crops||New Delhi: Farmers at Tikri borders are forming groups to divide the responsibility of attending the anti-farm law protests so that the sit-in can be sustained for a long time. Farmers from various villages in Haryana and Punjab are coming in certain numbers, while others are returning home to look after the harvest, especially wheat crop that will be ready in April. Messages are being circulated through panchayats for the participation of women and youths to fill the gap.On Wednesday, the crowd was slightly thin, and the events and speeches on the main stage were wrapped up by 4pm. The number of langars has also been dipping. Balram Singh, a farmer from Danoda Kalan village in Haryana’s Jind district, however, said he had been at the site for the past eight days. “We are a group of 10 villagers and plan to stay here for 15 days. In our absence, other family members or neighbours are looking after our fields,” Singh said. Once they go back, those people will come, he added. “The government may be thinking that farmers may leave for harvesting their crop. But this will never happen as we are working in an organised manner,” Singh said.Rambir, a member of Dalal khap from Jind district, said every day at least 50 women had been coming from one village in his district. “Some of them are farmers and others are housewives. They come in the morning with food, water and even milk, and leave by the evening. They travel 200-250km in a day.” Many protesters are determined to stay back till the end. Sudesh Goyat, a resident of Hisar, said she had been associated with the cause for 75 days. “I am the daughter of a farmer and understand their pain well. I will continue my fight till the end and won’t go anywhere. Farmers’ fight is not for themselves, but for coming generations.” Gupta said that rather than crowding at one place, they were focusing on spreading awareness. “Our youths are making videos at border areas and circulating them in groups, among villagers, to motivate them to join the cause.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-act-in-groups-to-save-protest-crops/articleshow/80798979.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi cops probe if foreign funds were used in Republic Day violence||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s investigation into the Republic Day violence is now focusing on foreign funding angle, sources have told TOI. Arrested Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu is being interrogated by a special team in this connection. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav, whose team has arrested Sidhu after chasing him through three states for 13 days, said they were probing all aspects, including the funding source, leading to the Red Fort violence. An analysis of Sidhu’s call details and mobile location has confirmed his role, claimed a source. It reportedly shows that on January 26, he was moving towards Red Fort from the Rajghat side around 3pm. Thereafter, he moved towards Singhu border and, around 4.20pm, his location was traced near Kundli in Sonipat. Around 10pm, he was near Kurukshetra. “On January 26, he telecast the live streaming of the Republic day incident on his Facebook profile. In a video, he can be heard claiming that they would use weapons and violence to force into the Red Fort in case police don’t let them enter through the main entrance,” a senior official said. On January 27, he was at Patiala in Punjab around 5pm; he then switched off his phone. Police got the first clue about his whereabouts when an online account linked with his phone number was recharged. Further clues, as TOI reported on Wednesday, came from the analysis of Sidhu’s communications with San Francisco-based actress Reena Rai who had allegedly uploaded the videos sent by the actor on his Facebook page, the cops said. Sidhu, who started as a model, had also completed his LLB from Panjab University and started practising as a lawyer. He told the cops that his first placement was with Sahara India Pariwar as a legal adviser. He claimed that he had also worked with a British law firm managing many Hollywood studios, before joining an Indian production house. Sidhu, sources said, was evasive during the initial round of questioning, but was interrogated later jointly by sleuths of intelligence agencies, crime branch and special cell. He was reportedly using three email IDs to communicate with his associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-probe-if-foreign-funds-were-used-in-r-day-violence/articleshow/80798930.cms||Raj Shekhar
February 11, 2021||Goa||Justice delayed: Adm Prakash on Viraat order||Panaji: The Supreme Court order stopping further dismantling of the decommissioned naval aircraft carrier, INS Viraat, may be a little too late and former Navy chief Admiral Arun Prakash described the developments as “justice delayed”. The Supreme Court on Wednesday had asked an Alang-based private ship-breaking company to stop dismantling the iconic aircraft carrier after a Dubai-based firm approached the apex court to purchase the vessel from the Gujarat firm. But with 40% of the Viraat dismantled, including the ramp and flight deck from which aircraft would take off, Prakash said there was no point now in trying to salvage it. “There is absolutely no point going ahead. To retrieve the situation at this point will be too expensive. The vessel is beyond redemption,” Prakash said. Dubai-based Envitech Marine Consultants Pvt Ltd, which plans to convert the decommissioned aircraft carrier into a museum, had approached the Supreme Court after the defence ministry refused to grant no objection certificate to purchase the vessel from Shree Ram shipbreakers. The group had offered to buy the decommissioned carrier, which served as the flagship not only for the Indian Navy but also for the British Navy, for Rs 100 crore and convert it into a floating museum-cum-entertainment centre in Goa. Envitech Marine wanted to create a floating museum, which would highlight the achievements of the Indian Navy, Indian Army, Indian Airforce and Indian Space Research Organisation. Besides a naval and aviation museum, it also wanted to create tourism infrastructure such as restaurants and hotel, and a convention hall. The Goa government had even issued a letter of support for the project and two locations were identified. “Goa missed a great opportunity,” Prakash said. “It is impossible to reassemble the parts that have already been cut,” said Shree Ram Group chairman Mukesh Patel, who had bought the ship at an auction conducted by Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Limited (MSTC) in July last year for Rs 38.54 crore. “We have already dismantled some portions of the hull. So, it is not possible for the ship to remain afloat now,” said Patel, after learning about the SC order from the media. But Envitech Marine seems to be holding on to some hope. “We will see what best can be done,” Envitech Marine director operations Praseed Kumar said. Given the extent of the dismantling that started in December last year and the fact that the 23,900-tonne warship has been beached for over four months, the cost to refloat the vessel, restore the flight deck and make the vessel sea-worthy will be prohibitive. Patel said they had not received any notice from the Supreme Court yet. “But it is already too late for the ship to be used for any other purpose. Our legal team would submit a reply if a notice is served to us,” said Patel. INS Viraat was beached on September 28 last year in Alang at a formal ceremony attended by junior shipping minister Mansukh Mandaviya and Navy officers, after numerous attempts to convert the carrier into a museum failed. Commissioned in the British Navy in 1959 as HMS Hermes, INS Viraat was inducted into the Indian Navy in 1986-87. The warship is being torn apart for her metal, which sources say is going to be sold to motorcycle manufacturers. A British organisation, The Hermes Viraat Heritage Trust, had also tried to save the warship and had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UK prime minister Boris Johnson asking them to intervene and save the ship. The aircraft carrier served as Britain’s flagship, HMS Hermes, in the Falklands war before being sold to India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/justice-delayed-adm-prakash-on-viraat-order/articleshow/80802949.cms||Newton Sequeira
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Man booked for drunk driving||Hyderabad: Sultan Bazar traffic police registered a case against a man claiming to be a political party worker during a drunk driving check conducted on Tuesday night. On Tuesday night, Sultan Bazar traffic police conducted drunk driving check at Ramkot X roads. “Empty beer bottles were found in the vehicle. Srikanth’s blood alcohol count was above the permissible limit, so we have seized the car and booked a case of drunk driving against him,” Sultan Bazar traffic inspector Suman Kumar said.  “We have seized the car and the offender has to appear before the court after counselling,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-drunk-driving/articleshow/80799030.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Rs 500 crore sought for Gulf workers||Hyderabad: Gulf workers met finance minister T Harish Rao on Wednesday and urged for allocation of Rs 500 crore in the budget for their welfare and sought a comprehensive NRI policy. Gulf Workers Awareness Centre (GWAC) president Krishna Donikeni, who has so far walked hundreds of kilometres during his padayatra demanding that the government come out with an NRI policy, met the minister at his residence in Siddipet. The padayatra, which began in Nirmal on January 4, will culminate in Hyderabad. The Gulf workers went to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s village of Chintamadaka in Siddipet as part of the padayatra to highlight the issues of Telangana workers in Gulf countries. Dubbak MLA M Raghunandan Rao of the BJP, whom the Gulf workers also met, said the TRS had promised to look into the issues of Gulf workers in the past and reminded that KCR had specifically spoken about the workers having to go to the Gulf because of lack of employment opportunities at home. “As an elected representative of the people, I will speak about the issues of Gulf workers and take up the matter with the government in the assembly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-500-crore-sought-for-gulf-workers/articleshow/80799007.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: In DDA’s big infra push, Rs 500 crore for metro Ph-IV, third Ring Road||NEW DELHI: In a major boost to infrastructure in the capital, Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday made a significant allocation for projects like Rithala-Narela Delhi Metro corridor, Urban Extension Road-II (third Ring Road), East Delhi Hub in Karkardooma, sports complexes, roads, flyovers, cycle corridor, etc in its annual budget for 2021-22. DDA, in its meeting on Wednesday chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, approved the budget with an annual outlay of Rs 6,738 crore, with receipts being projected at Rs 6,749 crore. A sizeable component of the expenditure was earmarked for development of the Narela sub-city, which remains a ghost town primarily due to lack of connectivity through public transport. In a statement, DDA said it was committed to providing Rs 1,000 crore in a phased manner for the Rithala-Bawana-Narela corridor of Delhi Metro’s Phase IV project and a provision of Rs 400 crore had been made in this budget. A similar allocation was made for the extension of Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida) deep inside Dwarka sub-city many years ago, which was one of the major reasons behind the area becoming popular with homebuyers. The Rithala-Bawana-Narela corridor, however, is yet to be approved by the central government and it is likely that instead of a Metro corridor, the area would be connected through a MetroLite or Metro Neo, which are cheaper light rail transit options. It was decided that the UER-II project would be completed at the earliest to significantly improve connectivity between Narela, where it starts, to Rohini, Dwarka and the proposed land pooling areas across Delhi and in the neighbouring states. DDA has allocated Rs 100 crore for the much-delayed project, which also promises to substantially reduce traffic congestion on arterial roads but has been stuck due to funding issues. A provision of Rs 2,326 crore has been made for development infrastructure facilities like roads, sewerage, water supply, power lines and drainage, mainly in the sub-cities of Narela, Dwarka and Rohini. DDA has allocated Rs 410 crore for sports infrastructure, which includes construction of four new sports complexes at Dwarka, including one on PPP basis, and one sports complex at Rohini and construction of a golf course at Dwarka. For the upcoming East Delhi Hub, which is being built on a 30-hectare site at Karkardooma based on Transit-Oriented Development norms with mixed land usage, Rs 500 crore have been allocated. Rejuvenation and restoration of the Yamuna floodplain would be carried out in a phased manner and 10 sub-projects with a provision of Rs 105 crore have been made. DDA has allocated Rs 40 crore for rejuvenation of 41 waterbodies. Of these, work on 10 has been completed, 13 are nearing completion and work on the remaining waterbodies would be completed by March 2021. The budget also saw allocation of Rs 28 crore for Delhi Cycle Walk project, work on Phase-I of which has started between Badarpur and Malviya Nagar, which is known as the “Neelgai line”. Another Rs 28 crore have been allocated for the development of Bharat Vandana Park in Dwarka. While DDA is arguably better known for its housing projects, its focus seems to be on in situ slum redevelopment projects. The authority has allocated Rs 1,100 crore for completion of ongoing housing projects in 2021-22, but no new schemes are planned. DDA is the nodal agency for rehabilitation of 376 JJ clusters for the ambitious mission “Housing for All” under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban). Construction of 7,500 EWS houses is in progress, which is likely to be completed by December 2021. Work on around 7,100 houses as part of the slum rehabilitation projects may start soon and 26,500 more houses are in the pipeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-ddas-big-infra-push-rs-500-crore-for-metro-ph-iv-third-ring-road/articleshow/80799178.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Ahead of swachh survey, NDMC bans all kinds of road cutting till Mar 31||New Delhi: In view of the forthcoming Swachh Sarvekshan 2021, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has imposed a complete ban on all types of road cutting in its area till March 31, except for urgent repairs or maintenance works for restoration of civic services. “In this connection, a direction has also been issued to all government bodies like MTNL, BSNL, DTL, etc. for strict compliance. Those found violating the norm will face action. The decision has been taken to avoid mess on roads in the form of debris usually left on roadsides while cutting roads. No fresh permission will be granted by any department,” said a NDMC official. “The direction will cover even those road cutting works for which permission was granted earlier and others already underway. However, the order has been issued at a time when majority of road cutting work has already been completed in the area,” the official added. Essential works such as repairing damaged pipelines or sewer manholes, etc. will be done, but by NDMC departments only. “Due to extension of Swachh Survekshan survey, teams will conduct ground inspection till March and we don’t want any mess on roads. However, other construction activities will continue provided construction material is covered and all norms are followed properly,” said official. In wake of ongoing inspection, the civic agency is paying special attention to cleaning dustbins regularly, especially those installed in parks and gardens such as lodhi Garden and Nehru Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ahead-of-swachh-survey-ndmc-bans-all-kinds-of-road-cutting-till-mar-31/articleshow/80799063.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Spas and parking lots to come up on vacant nursery school plots of DDA||New Delhi: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has allowed vacant land in the city earmarked for nursery schools to be used for other purposes, including healthcare facilities, spas, guesthouses, banks, coaching centres and parking and residential purposes. The decision has been taken for better utilisation of land resources in the city where many such vacant plots are located in the midst of residential areas. In a statement, DDA said that these vacant nursery school sites could now be earmarked for uses allowed as part of neighbourhood facilities. The first priority for allotment of these vacant plots will be for primary and senior secondary schools as per the prescribed CBSE norms on its own or by amalgamation of adjacent plots in the layout plan. The residential use may also be allowed in case of nursery school sites sandwiched between the residential plots by modifying the layout plans, it explained. The proposal for use of vacant and unallotted nursery school sites and plots for other uses was approved in the authority’s meeting chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday. The authority approved the proposal for an exhaustive list of activities that would be permitted in such sites like pre-primary schools, nursing homes, clinics, dispensaries, pathology labs and diagnostic centres, wellness centres (including day fitness centres, spas, weight loss centres and ayurvedic centres), guesthouses, banks, coaching and tuition centres, NGOs, training centres, parking and greens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spas-and-parking-lots-to-come-up-on-vacant-nursery-school-plots-of-dda/articleshow/80868863.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Tagore’s rare letters to Abanindranath found||KOLKATA: A set of six rare and important letters written by Rabindranath Tagore to his nephew Abanindranath, which reveal little known facets, including the financial challenges once faced by Visva-Bharati, have surfaced. These letters were published in the 1976-edition of Visva Bharati Patrika, only to have disappeared from public memory till the magazine was found from the author Ajeyo Ray’s Santiniketan residence recently. This treasure trove will be published in the forthcoming edition of the literary magazine ‘Bichitrapatra’ that is celebrating 150 years of Abanindranath and 50 years of Satyajit Ray’s ‘Pratidwandi’. On February 3, Abanindranath’s 99-year-old grandson, Amitendranath Tagore, had told TOI these letters, dated between June 1913 and December 1938, were “important”. “I had never seen them,” said Amitendranath, one of India’s finest sinologists who passed away on February 7. Soumyakanti Dutta, who along with Souradip Bandopadhyay and Ayan Chatterjee are associated with ‘Bichitrapatra’, said these letters, a never-published-before bibliography of Abanindranath’s works by his grandsons and Lila Mazumdar’s English translation of Abanindranath’s lecture on Indian art titled ‘Bageshwari Shilpa-Probondhaboli’ are being published. “‘Bichitrapatra’, which has director Sandip Ray as its chief advisor, is also publishing unseen Satyajit Ray’s sketches on ‘Pratidwandi’ from his ‘kheror khata’ and the film’s script,” Dutta said. One of the letters written in 1937 from Santiniketan has Tagore saying it is tough for him to pay Rs 40 as conveyance charges for his return journey from Kolkata along with his entourage. “Eta amar byaktigoto dabi, nishwo Viswa Bharatir torof thekeo dabi janiye rakhlum,” Tagore had written, demanding reimbursement from his nephew’s earnings by performing ‘palagaan’. According to linguist Pabitra Sarkar, it was “quite uncharacteristic of Tagore” to make such a demand. “He was hard-pressed for money then,” Sarkar added. Amitendranath, who had shared with TOI his experiences of doing those ‘palagaan’, had added that other letters written to close associates during that period might reveal similar requests. “But he never went public about it,” Amitendranath had said. Sarkar, who wrote the script for a documentary on Rabindranath’s art, is interested in knowing where the two busts of Tagore, mentioned in a letter from London, are kept. “Another letter provides information about the tension in the artistic community around Tagore. Yet, another letter mentions his idea about the direction the practitioners of the Indian Society of Oriental Art would take. Interestingly, Tagore never practiced this art form,” Sarkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tagores-rare-letters-to-abanindranath-found/articleshow/80799025.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
February 11, 2021||Bareilly||Pall of gloom descends on scores of villages in Kheri||Bareilly: Kamlesh, 19, youngest member in his family of six, who left his village to earn money for his brother’s wedding, returned home - in a body bag. He was among the several missing from UP's Lakhimpur Kheri district since the flash flood in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday.After the arrival of his body - the first among a list of missing labourers - in Ichchanagar on Tuesday night, a pall of gloom descended on the village. Entire villages in the district have been in mourning since the tragedy. Most of them are fearing for the worst.And after seeing the condition of Kamlesh's body, the hope of others' survival has considerably reduced. His body was disfigured and had multiple fractures possibly caused by collision with large rocks swept by the gush of water.His aunt, Kaushalya Devi, is yet to come to terms with the tragedy. Her unmarried young nephew was like her own son. She had raised him along with her son Raju. Tragically, her son Raju is missing as well.Like many elderly villagers, the father, Lalta Prasad, is clueless. He doesn't know how to run the house now. All the earning members were missing in Uttarakhand since Sunday.There were a few lucky ones too. Shanu, one of the survivors, returned home and hugged his two sons, Bilal and Anas, like never before. His worried family had stopped cooking food.Village head Ichchanagar Santosh Raj told TOI, “Chances of survival is less for most of the missing ones. We are trying to assist their families in claiming the insurance money. The compensation announced by the government may not be sufficient. Some families have lost their sole earning member.”Nighasan SDM Om Prakash Gupta said that they are coordinating with the Uttarakhand government. "Our official is in Chamoli district," the SDM added.Meanwhile, hundreds of villagers along with administrative officials and local politicians gathered to cremate Kamlesh's body.The second body of a local from Babupurva village is expected to arrive on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pall-of-gloom-descends-on-scores-of-villages-in-kheri/articleshow/80795194.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 11, 2021||Ludhiana||Mayor accuses BJP of indulging in ‘garbage’ politics||Ludhiana: A day after the BJP blamed Ludhiana mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu for the garbage collection company A2Z quitting the contract, the mayor on Wednesday launched a counter attack, saying the saffron party wants to turn the city into a heap of garbage by doing politics over the issue. At a press conference on Tuesday, the BJP had held him responsible for the door-to-door garbage collection company A2Z walking out of the contract and also levelled some other allegations against him. Launching a scathing attack against the BJP, Sandhu alleged that the party is not allowing the municipal corporation to award the contract to a suitable contractor for garbage collection. He said it was the BJP and its coalition partner SAD, who brought A2Z company to Ludhiana and awarded them contracts. The mayor also made it clear that A2Z would not be spared for leaving the civic body in the lurch and a notice to the company has been issued for quitting the contract. Strict action would be taken against the company as per law, he asserted. Levelling allegations against the firm, Sandhu said, “A2Z was awarded the contract when there was a joint House of BJP and SAD and senior BJP leader Parveen Bansal was the senior deputy mayor. Why did the BJP leaders remain silent when the company sublet its contract? Now, when the company has run away leaving us in the lurch, they are holding us responsible for this. We tried our best to hold talks with the company and convince them to carry on with their contract. We have been engaged in dialogue with the company since December when they served us the notice to quit the contract.” Sandhu further said it is sad to see the politics over awarding of contract to a new contractor. He went on to ask as to what is the harm in holding discussions with the company, which was sublet this contract by A2Z and is ready to do the work at the old rates only. “But, unfortunately, the BJP wants to defame us and our government by disrupting the welfare works and creating hurdles. They are levelling frivolous allegations against me, but this does not bother me at all, because everyone knows about my intentions, which are clearly directed at development of the city. I can only request them that rather than doing dirty politics, they should help us and the MC in keeping our city clean. I will call a meeting of the House and an all-party meeting as well, and all valid suggestions will be considered there,” the mayor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mayor-accuses-bjp-of-indulging-in-garbage-politics/articleshow/80795183.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Food poisoning: Principal served notice||Hyderabad: With as many as 15 students falling ill after consuming food at the gurukul school in Uyyalawada, Nagarkurnool district, collector L Sharman issued a show-cause notice to school principal Krishnaiah. On February 8, the students had dinner in the hostel and complained of stomach pain and started vomiting. They were rushed to the hospital and discharged a day later. It was suspected that the rice they ate was unfit for consumption. Zilla parishad chairperson Padmavathi, on learning about the food-poisoning, went to the school and made enquiries with the staff on the food unfit for consumption. Educational institutions, especially residential institutions, have been asked to keep the kitchens clean and prepare fresh food. Sharman himself visited some of these institutions and said that every precaution should be taken to see that children get fresh food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/food-poisoning-principal-served-notice/articleshow/80799086.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 11, 2021||Chennai||Biz scheme to assist Tamils coming home from overseas||Chennai: The state government on Wednesday announced New Entrepreneur-cum-Enterprise Development Scheme – Special Initiative for Migrants (NEEDS-SIM) to help 3.6 lakh Tamil foreign returnees to the state during Covid-19, become entrepreneurs.An official statement said the scheme would come with certain incentives and relaxations of the existing NEEDS being promoted by the industries department. “The government has issued an order on February 5 to offer loan to foreign returnees to start business,” the statement said. The scheme is applicable to all those who returned to Tamil Nadu from abroad since January 1, 2020. Interested people could approach the district industries centre/ collectors.Due to Covid-19, the state has seen 3.6 lakh Tamils return to from various countries via air and ship until January 31, 2021. The returnees have expertise in various sectors and the new scheme would facilitate them to start new businesses in the state, the statement said. The state has been promoting NEEDS to help the first-generation entrepreneurs. It provides a capital subsidy of 25% of the project cost subject to a maximum of Rs 30 lakh. Interest subvention of 6% is also extended on the loan availed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/biz-scheme-to-assist-tamils-coming-home-from-overseas/articleshow/80799097.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Cong-BJP nexus evident: CPM||Thiruvananthapuram: The Congress-BJP nexus has become more evident with the stand taken by both parties on the Sabarimala bill issue and backdoor appointments to government service, according to CPM state secretariat. The party leadership felt that there was more to it than meets the eye with secret parleys between both parties to defeat LDF in the upcoming assembly election. “UDF has formed a general perspective based on their soft stand towards BJP. Both UDF and BJP are levelling baseless allegations against the government with an intention to create trouble for LDF,” said CPM acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan. “UDF leaders don’t level any allegations against BJP though there are several issues to highlight,” he said during a news conference. He said petrol prices are skyrocketing and a litre of petrol costs Rs 90 in India while in other countries of the subcontinent the price is around Rs 40 only. “This is because of BJP’s wrong policy. But, leaders of Congress or BJP are not speaking anything about this,” he said. Vijayaraghavan refuted when asked whether the state government would reduce the state tax component for helping the people hit by the repeated price hike. “That is because you don’t know Economics,” he told the reporter who asked the question. The CPM secretary, who is also the LDF convener, alleged that Congress is pedling soft-Hindutva line at the national level. “Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi are proponents of soft Hindutva. They don’t effectively oppose any attempts of BJP to communalize our nation. Priyanka Gandhi has recently taken a Ganga pilgrimage to establish her Hindutva identity,” said Vijayaraghavan. He alleged that Congress in Kerala was trying to expand the relationship with BJP. “They are not opposing BJP in any issue. The agenda of both parties is to weaken the LDF government which is working hard to address the issues of common man,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cong-bjp-nexus-evident-cpm/articleshow/80799118.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Bhopal||Misrod most accident-prone in Bhopal, Habibganj next||BHOPAL: Hoshangabad Road in Misrod has emerged as the most accident-prone zone in the city. In 131 road accidents in Misrod in 2020, 14 people lost their lives while 69 were injured. It is followed by Habibganj area with 129 accidents, 11 deaths and 92 injured. A high number of road accidents were also reported at MP Nagar, Jehangirabad, Bag Sewania, TT Nagar and Govindpura in the South Zone of the city. A senior police officer said that in Misrod, the stretch of Hoshangabad Road from Samardha-Gyarah Meel-Misrod has become an accident-prone zone. The construction of highway and bridge is ongoing and the diversions meet the main roads at many spots.  He said that in Habibganj area 5-Number Square, Ganesh Mandir turning near Habibganj Naka, Rajiv Gandhi Square and the main road in front of Habibganj police station have become mishap-prone. The officer said traffic problems in Kolar are enormous due to unplanned development and high traffic flow. The roads in North Zone or on the Old City outskirts, including Berasia, Eintkhedi, Khajuri and Sukhi Sewania, have emerged as the deadliest areas as most fatal road accidents have taken place there. Last year, a total 2,295 road accidents took place in the city, killing 237 people and injuring 1,807. The figure of casualties in road accidents may be less than previous years, but if we compare keeping in mind 81 days of lockdown, including 71 days from March 22 to May 31 and ten days of lockdown since July 24, it is quite high. Speaking on the high casualty rate in road accidents in rural areas, SDOP, Berasia, K K Verma said that the roads connecting villages, mostly highways, are in better condition. Most indulge in overspeeding, take sudden turns without any indicator. As a result, these two-wheelers often collide with heavy vehicles or cars/SUVs. Verma said that most of the accidents were reported on the Bhopal-Berasia Road, Shamshabad Road in Berasia and Golkheri Road in Eintkheri. “People spend so much on the safety of their mobile phones but do not purchase a good helmet for the safety of their head,” he said. ASP (Traffic) Sandeep Dixit said that overspeeding was the main cause in most of the accidents. “In city areas, people do not get much chance to over speed due to heavy traffic. So even if accidents take place, they are seldom fatal. Also, heavy vehicles ply on highways, so accidents are more fatal there,” he said. ASP Dixit also said that traffic police — along with the police station concerned — inspects accident spots, analyses and classifies them under black spots, vulnerable spots and hot spots. If any road engineering defects are found at these spots, the concerned agencies are informed to rectify and take measures like installing reflectors and creaing traffic rules awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/misrod-most-accident-prone-in-bhopal-habibganj-next/articleshow/80806313.cms||Sudeept Mishra
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Let men apply too for nurse jobs, Telangana HC directs SCCL||HYDERABAD: Wondering whether public sector unit (PSU) Singareni Collieries is justified in saying it will reserve all nurse posts to women and will not allow men even to apply for such posts, Justice P Naveen Rao of the high court has directed the PSU to receive applications from eligible male candidates. The judge said the ongoing recruitment for junior staff nurse posts will be subject to the result of the current petition. The judge gave this interim direction while hearing a petition filed by Mohammed Fasiuddin, currently working as a badli worker in the same Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL), Ramagundam. The petitioner had applied for junior staff nurse post following a notification issued by the company on January 22. The last date for receiving the applications was February 4. The company had made it clear that applications were invited only from female candidates. The petitioner approached the high court saying it was discriminatory and contrary to the provisions of the Constitution to exclude men from consideration. “This is also gender discrimination,” he said, stating that such discrimination was unacceptable and unconstitutional. SCCL standing counsel said that even though there was no policy to this effect, it has been an age-old practice in the company to take only women as nurses. But to invoke 22-A, there should be a clear policy decision taken by the company, the judge said. In the absence of any such policy or rule, the firm continuing its age-old practice looks unlawful, the judge said and directed the firm to receive applications from eligible male candidates too by extending the last date to receive such applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/let-men-apply-too-for-nurse-jobs-hc-directs-sccl/articleshow/80799071.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Bird flu scare: T poultry suffers Rs 200 crore loss||Hyderabad: The poultry industry in Telangana has suffered Rs 200 crore to Rs 250 crore loss in less than a month due to the bird flu scare. Industry insiders said these losses are on the lower side when compared to the losses suffered by the industry in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and other bird flu-hit states. The overall loss of the poultry industry at the national level is estimated at about Rs 3,400 crore due to bird flu, said a financial expert from the poultry industry. National Egg Coordination Committee (NECC) business manager Sanjeev Chintawar said, on an average, seven lakh birds weighing 2 kg are sold every day in Telangana. “Though there has not been a single case of bird flu in Telangana, sale of live chicken birds has come down due to the scare resulting in farmers and breeders resorting to distress sale,” he said. Chicken eggs’ sales have also plummeted, he said. Though poultry farmers and breeders suffered losses due to bird flu scare in Telangana, the consumers did not benefit much as retailers did not reduce the price to the extent the farmers and breeders did. “The retailers made good profit as only a few of them reduced prices considerably and a majority of them reduced the prices only marginally,” said a poultry farmer. The poultry farmers said the market is slowly picking up as not a single case of bird flu has been reported in Telangana and no fresh cases have been reported from flu-hit states too in the recent past. However, they said it may take some more time for the market to stabilise. The state government along with the poultry industry and NECC has taken up an awareness campaign stating that chicken and eggs are not only safe but healthy to eat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bird-flu-scare-t-poultry-suffers-rs-200-crore-loss/articleshow/80799113.cms||Roushan Ali
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||Question mark over Nagpur Metro completion as civic agencies refuse to pay money||Nagpur: Phase I of Nagpur Metro may never be completed as the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) have refused to pay their remaining shares, which amount to over Rs550 crore. A source in MahaMetro said that central government had paid its full share of the project. "We have also received the entire foreign loan amount. State government has to pay Rs435.34 crore. It has approved Rs184 crore, which we will get soon. It has promised to make allocation for the balance amount in the coming budget. However, NMC and NIT are not paying their share," he added. NIT and NMC both have 5% shares in the Rs8,680 crore project. Their total shares were Rs434 crore each. NIT is still to pay Rs191.09 crore to MahaMetro. Some days ago the then NIT chairperson Sheetal Ugale had written to the state government, asking to waive its share in the Nagpur Metro project. Ugale stated that NIT had been dissolved and hence had no source of revenue. This happened before the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government scrapped the previous government’s decision to scrap NIT. NMC is supposed to to pay balance of Rs367.37 crore to MahaMetro. Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari told TOI that NMC would not pay its share in cash. "We have given a lot of land to MahaMetro for commercial exploitation. This more than covers our share," he said. The MahaMetro official however, pointed out that the projects to come up on these lands like Yeshwant Stadium, Cotton Market etc were not part of Nagpur Metro project. "NMC has just signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with us for developing these lands. A lot of formalities remain. It will take time to appoint a private operator and more time before he pays premium," he said. NMC administration recently doubled the development charges with retrospective effect from July 2016. It plans to send additional demand notes to builders and house owners whose building plans were sanctioned after June 2016. However, collecting money through this method will take months. MahaMetro has set a target of completing the Nagpur Metro project by December 2021 and hence needs money in the next few months. "If we are unable to pay our contractors, why will they complete the project? NMC and NIT should have made provisions in their budget every year for paying their 5% share. State government has told them to pay their share in instalments but they are not willing," said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/question-mark-over-nagpur-metro-completion-as-civic-agencies-refuse-to-pay-money/articleshow/80803077.cms||Ashish Roy
February 11, 2021||Chennai||Feeling at sea, sailors clutch on to helplines||A fortnight ago, Indian seaman Bhupendra reportedly died by suicide on a ship in the Middle Eastern waters because he was upset over not being able to go home despite completing a year on board. According to emails written by other members on board, the body is being stored in a partially working deep freezer, which is causing distress to the rest of the crew. The 23-year-old’s body has still not reached India, his family has just been informed of his death.Prolonged contracts, indefinite tours of duty, long working hours, financial losses — times have been difficult for shipping companies and the mental health of seafarers this past year of the pandemic. "The pandemic has impacted massively on the mental health and finances of so many and we’ve seen a huge increase in calls for help. Between January and October 2020, we gave out 12 times the welfare grants than the previous year," says Sara Baade, CEO, Sailors’ Society, which this year launched 24/7 counselling helplines for distressed Indian seafarers and their families in Hindi, Tamil, Gujarati, Telugu, Bengali, Odia and Malayalam."We have seen an increase in cases of depression and there have been several cases of suicide in recent months, including an attempted suicide in January by an Indian crew member on board the bulk carrier Anastasia, which was stranded for months. He was a victim of the crew change crisis; his time on board extended from the contracted five months to 13, and he could not return home to his family who had been diagnosed with Covid-19," she says."There is an added sense of isolation and helplessness among seafarers surrounded by ocean waters," says Amitabh Kumar, director general of shipping, Government of India. "Although we have managed to sign off 2,60,000 seafarers between March and December 2020, there are still many who are stuck at sea," says Kumar. Concerted efforts are being made to give crew members the psychological support they need. "Organisations like National Union of Seafarers of India and the Tata Institute of Social Sciences have counselling services and helplines for seafarers and their families."Seafarers need a specific kind of counselling because of their lifestyle, says Chennai-based psychologist Aprajitha Bhardwaj, who specialises in maritime counselling. "Over the year of the pandemic, we have had to give emotional support to seafarers who have had bereavements but were unable to go home," says Bhardwaj, who spent several years on board a ship. "For instance, when you are counselling a person who is on land and showing signs of anxiety, you can ask them to remove themselves from the situation for a while, take a walk for instance. A seafarer has nowhere to go. If there is a death or accident on board, how do you get away and clear your mind?" says Bhardwaj. "So counselling seafarers needs to be attuned to their unique circumstances."Any enclosed space, which has limited potential for mobility and social interaction can cause mental distress, says psychiatrist Dr Thara Srinivasan of Schizophrenia Research Foundation, who has worked with seafarers living with mental illness. "While some ships have medical attention on board for physical ailments, there is nothing for mental health and welfare, which is much needed," said Kumar.Shipping companies have realised the need for organising their own helplines. Ports have also allowed counselors to visit vessels. "But continuous psychological reinforcement and support is needed because of the nature of their work," said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/feeling-at-sea-sailors-clutch-on-to-helplines/articleshow/80799048.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Car plunges into canal in Warangal, 3 dead||WARANGAL: In a tragic incident, three persons died as the car in which they were travelling plunged into the SRSP distributor canal near Kondapaka village of Parvathagiri mandal in Warangal rural district on Wednesday. One person was rescued by the villagers. The deceased were identified as Veerla Sridhar (38), B Rajesh (28) and Pasula Saraswathi (42). Vijaya Bhaskar was rescued. According to Mamnoor assistant commissioner of police Naresh, owner of Vinayaka Traders Sridhar and his friend Bhaskar along with driver Rajesh were travelling towards Parvathagiri. When the car reached Teegarajupally village, school teacher Saraswathi asked for a lift and got into the vehicle.  A little while later Rajesh lost control and the car plunged into the canal. Saraswathi and Sridhar drowned. Rajesh also died as he was stuck in the car wearing a seat belt. However, Bhaskar managed to open the car door and was rescued by the villagers. The three bodies were retrieved from the canal and shifted to MGM Hospital. Panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao visited the spot and directed the officials to help the family members of the deceased. He instructed the revenue and R&B officials to immediately construct a sidewall and erect signboards to prevent accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/car-plunges-into-canal-in-warangal-3-dead/articleshow/80799057.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
February 11, 2021||Bareilly||Dead farmer’s kin moves Delhi HC, seeks SIT probe||NEW DELHI/ BAREILLY: The family of a 25-year-old man who died after his tractor overturned during the Republic Day farmers’ rally in the city has approached the Delhi high court, seeking a court-monitored Special Investigation Team (SIT), comprising police officers “with a demonstrably impeccable record of professional integrity, honesty and efficiency, to carry out time bound investigation” into the death. The petition, which is likely to come up for hearing on Thursday, has been filed by Navreet Singh’s grandfather Hardeep Singh, who has sought enforcement of his right to a fair investigation and justice as well as the right to know the truth about his grandson’s death, challenging the police version. The 69-year-old from UP’s Rampur, in his petition, has also sought a direction that the SIT shall file periodic status reports before the court to ensure a time-bound investigation. Controversy erupted over Navreet’s death. CCTV footage showed Navreet speeding into barricades resulting in the tractor turning turtle on January 26. According to the police, Navreet died after his tractor overturned at ITO where farmers had taken a detour from the pre-agreed rally route and reached from the Ghazipur border. The police claimed that Singh was driving the tractor and came under the vehicle as it overturned after smashing into the barricades. The petition has, however, questioned the police account and claimed that as per witnesses’ accounts reported in the media Navreet was driving his tractor past the Andhra Education Society in New Delhi, and he was allegedly shot by policemen, due to which he lost control of his vehicle, which collided with barricades and overturned. Hardeep told TOI on Wednesday that the family had no choice but to approach the HC. “Where else could we have gone? We want to know what had happened. We were not provided the X-ray report by the chief medical officer and told that reports can be submitted only in the court.” The autopsy report said “shock and haemorrhage as a result of antemortem head injury” was the reason of Navreet’s death. However, the report found a “lacerated wound of size (2cmx1cm) over the left side of the chin, 1cm below the left angle of the mouth”. It added that “margins are inverted and bone deep”. Rampur CMO Dr Sanjeev Yadav couldn’t be contacted for remarks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/family-of-farmer-died-during-jan-26-rally-seeks-sit-probe/articleshow/80795279.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Goa||Speaker set to decide on 12 MLAs on Feb 26||Panaji: Solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that the speaker of the Goa legislative assembly, Rajesh Patnekar, has listed the disqualification petitions filed against 10 Congress and two MGP MLAs on February 26. When the petition filed by state Congress president Girish Chodankar — seeking a direction to the speaker to decide the pending pleas — came up for hearing along with that of MGP’s, Mehta, appearing for Patnekar, told the court that matter would be taken up for disposal. The bench then listed the next hearing for the first week of March. The court, in its order, mentioned that Patnekar has listed the case for disposal. The disqualification petitions have been pending for a year and a half, and Patnekar had adjourned the hearings by citing the Covid-19 pandemic and the writ petition filed by Chodankar. Chodankar had urged the court to direct the speaker to decide the disqualification plea against the 10 MLAs of his party who joined BJP in July 2019. MGP had also moved the court regarding disqualification of two of its members — deputy chief minister Manohar Ajgaonkar and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar — who joined BJP in March 2019. The advocate appearing for Chodankar said that the date fixed by Patnekar was a “red herring”. Congress spokesperson Trajano D’Mello said “the counsel appearing for Chodankar informed the court that the respondents are merely delaying the proceedings of the disqualification petition, and that the speaker should be directed to decide the matter on February 26 itself.” According to D’Mello, Mehta argued before the Supreme Court that the issue regarding the powers of the court to direct the speaker is pending, and therefore the speaker must not be directed by the court in this case. At this point, Chodankar’s lawyer pointed out that the issue has been decided by the Supreme Court in the case of Keisham Meghachandra vs Speaker, Manipur legislative assembly. “The Supreme Court appears to have agreed, and has asked for the petitions to be disposed on February 26,” said D’Mello. A bench headed by CJI S A Bobde and also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian passed the order on Wednesday. Earlier in January, during a virtual hearing, the Supreme Court had heard both sides and scheduled the plea for the second week of February. Prior to this, the Supreme Court had sought a response from Patnekar and the 10 MLAs after Chodankar sought directions to restrain them from participating in assembly proceedings during pendency of the disqualification petition. The plea has also sought the Supreme Court’s direction to restrain three MLAs — Chandrakant Kavlekar, Jennifer Monserrate and Filipe Rodrigues — from functioning as ministers in Goa till the disqualification petition is disposed. In July 2019, 10 Congress MLAs, including then opposition leader Kavlekar, claimed to constitute two-third of the Congress and decided to “merge” with BJP. The speaker accepted the merger and allotted the ten MLAs seats in the assembly among the ruling benches. Some former Congress MLAs were rewarded with plum portfolios in the state cabinet. Chodankar then filed the disqualification petition on August 8, 2019, before the speaker, and had contended that these MLAs “had ex-facie incurred disqualification under Article 191(2) of the Constitution, read with para 2 of the tenth schedule, and are liable to be disqualified as members of the legislative assembly”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/speaker-set-to-decide-on-12-mlas-on-feb-26/articleshow/80803041.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Goa||Landlocked for decades, South Goa hamlet gets access through rail underpass||Margao: As the heavy-duty multi-terrain crane lifts the last of the pre-stressed panels to complete the rail underpass at Kamral, 55-year-old Narayan Jaywant Naik is overwhelmed with emotion. Naik has experienced first-hand the hardships faced by the 200-odd residents of this hamlet in the absence of a motorable road to connect them to mainland Curchorem. The rail underpass constructed by the South Western Railway (SWR) as a part of its track-doubling project will finally put an end to their hardships, making the dream of three generations at Kamral come true. Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd, the Indian Railways’ organisation that is engaged in the SWR’s Hospet-Vasco track-doubling work, on Wednesday completed construction of the underpass at Kamral during a five-hour long rail traffic block – the third of the six underpasses being built along the Goa stretch of the double-tracking project. Once the approach roads on both sides are constructed, the Kamral underpass will be thrown open to the public later this month. “It will be our most cherished moment. Many people from this village lost their lives as ambulances couldn’t reach here in time; the sick have to be lifted on makeshift stretchers and carried to the other side of the railway track to help them get to the nearest hospital,” another resident, Devanand Bhandari, also a member of the Sanvordem-Curchorem Rail Consumers Association, told TOI. For decades, the locals – pedestrians and two-wheeler riders – have been using the ramshackle underground nullah (storm water drain) passing beneath the railway track to cross over. However, as the nullah remains flooded during the monsoon, the only way for them to cross is to walk across the railway line, risking their lives. “It’s even more risky for students and the elderly,” Bhandari said. Lending a peep into history, Naik said the few houses on the landlocked side of the railway track were of those working in the nearby roof tiles factory set up during the pre-Liberation period. “It was a meter-gauge railway line then at nearly ground level, and with fewer trains, people had no difficulty in crossing the tracks. However, after the conversion of the line into broad guage in early ’90s, rail traffic increased and crossing the tracks became risky. While the other side expanded and developed owing to the access road, this side remained neglected and isolated,” Naik said. The villagers of Kamral on Wednesday expressed their gratitude to the Indian Railways. “All the 50-odd families are grateful to the Railways for giving us this underpass and ending our sufferings. Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral has been vigorously pursuing our demand with the Railways for the past several years and we are happy that his efforts have finally borne fruit,” Naik said, even as a beaming Cabral, who was present on the occasion, nodded in agreement. Cabral, who is also the state’s environment minister, told TOI there was no opposition to the track-doubling project along the 5.5km of track passing through his constituency. “Those opposing the project in other constituencies are mostly outsiders,” he said while stressing on the need for Goans to imbibe a sense of nationalism and support national projects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/landlocked-for-decades-south-goa-hamlet-gets-access-through-rail-underpass/articleshow/80803102.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
February 11, 2021||Goa||Ahead of Carnival weekend, airfares to Goa soar||PANAJI: In the run-up to the Carnival weekend, airfares to the state have shot up by up to four times, as have flight tickets out of Goa on Monday. While an air ticket from Pune to Goa usually costs less than Rs 3,000, it’s now priced at over Rs 10,500 ahead of Carnival. On Monday, the flight to return to Pune will cost a cool Rs 11,500. This isn’t an outlier. A one-way ticket from Hyderabad to Goa for Friday and Saturday costs Rs 8,200, as is the return fare after the weekend. Airfares for this route usually hover around the Rs 3,000-mark. It’s the same with Bengaluru. A one-way ticket that usually costs Rs 3,000 or lower is selling for Rs 8,000. Airfares from all metros, in fact, have at least doubled. The popular Mumbai-Goa route, which usually costs Rs 3,000, is now selling for Rs 6,700. This trend appears to confirm the normalising of domestic tourism even though the Covid-19 pandemic is far from over. Interestingly, luxury bus fares haven’t quite shot as one would expect them to. A bus ticket from Mumbai, Pune or Bengaluru costs around Rs 1,800-1,900; while this is costlier than the usual Rs 1,000-odd ticket price, it’s a far cry from past busy weekends, when a bus trip could set a passenger back by Rs 3,000, one-way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ahead-of-carnival-weekend-airfares-to-goa-soar/articleshow/80803168.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Quash proceedings before the ED, CBI court: Jagathi urges HC||Hyderabad: Stating that the trial court’s decision to conduct the trial in the enforcement directorate’s (ED) money laundering case first and to commence the trial in CBI cases later would result in irreparable damage to them, Jagathi publications and its auditor and YSRCP MP V Vijaysai Reddy on Wednesday approached the Telangana high court urging it to quash the proceedings before the ED/CBI special court in Hyderabad that is hearing CBI’s quid pro quo case and the ED’s money laundering case against them. The trial court last month said that it would commence the trial in the ED case first and made it clear that the trial in CBI’s 11 chargesheets in the same case would commence later. Aggrieved by this, Jagathi and Vijay Sai filed separate petitions wherein they mentioned that the trial court erred in arriving at this conclusion and sought a stay on the ongoing proceedings before the trial court till the matter is decided by the high court. “CBI deals with the crime and ED deals with the ‘proceeds of crime’. It would be absurd to hold a person guilty in ‘proceeds of crime’ case without first proceeding to verify whether the person has committed the crime in the first place,” the petitioners said, adding that such a course if allowed to be adopted would result in peculiar and embarrassing situations for the criminal justice system. They also said that they had sought a simultaneous or joint hearing in the matter. “Even the trial court in the past said that it would hear them simultaneously,” they said in their petitions. Meanwhile, the trial court on Wednesday granted permission to Nimmagadda Prasad, an accused in CBI’s Vanpic chargesheet, to go out of Hyderabad and to visit various places within India as part of his business operations from February 11 to August 2 upon furnishing security, worth Rs 5 lakh. “He has to report back to the court for its August 4 hearing. The hearing in pleas pertaining to Penna Cements and Raghuram Cements chargesheets was adjourned to Thursday. Dalmia Cements case was posted to February 26 and India Cements and Lepakshi Knowledge Hub cases were posted to February 19. Emaar projects case was posted to February 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/quash-proceedings-before-the-ed-cbi-court-jagathi-urges-hc/articleshow/80799144.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chennai||5 more industrial parks soon at Rs 1,500cr||Chennai: The state industries promotion corporation Limited (SIPCOT) of Tamil Nadu is all set to create an exclusive e-vehicle park at Manallur on the outskirts of Chennai and four industrial parks in other parts of the state. The industrial parks would come up at a cost of Rs1,536 crore in more than 3,500 acres of land in Manallur in Thiruvallur district, Vallam Vadagal (phase-II) and Oragadam (phase-II) in Kancheepuram district, Manaparai in Trichy and Tindivanam in Villupuram. “We are in the process of creating necessary civic infrastructure and the works are in different phases,” managing director of Sipcot J Kumaragurubaran said. The new industrial parks would take the number of Sipcot industrial parks to 26 from the existing 21 parks. They generate employment in and around the upcoming industrial parks and boost the socio-economy of the region, he said.The upcoming Manallur industrial park in a span of 691 acres has been designed exclusively to establish e-vehicle and its component manufacturing industries. “The state government has taken several measures to promote electric vehicles and related industries. It has also exempted 100% tax for electrical vehicles (non-transport vehicles), there will be a great demand for e-vehicle in future. Sensing the need for establishing to meet the expected demand, the Manallur park has been designed for specific needs,” said the officials.As part of the project, a skill development centre would be established for providing training related to e-vehicle and auto components to the youngsters in the vicinity. It would come up at a cost of Rs25 lakh. Electronic and electrical parts manufacturing and assembling industries would come in Manallur. Apart from this, automobile-based industries would come up here. Synthetic organic chemicals and integrated paint industries and allied industries would also come up in the park. The industrial park in Vallam Vadagal (phase -II) that would come in Oragadam (phase - II)would house industries that do not fall under the environmental impact assessment (EIA) notification 2006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5-more-industrial-parks-soon-at-rs-1500cr/articleshow/80799123.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Edu dept’s animated clip on dos & don’ts for students||Kolkata: Top-ranking government schools in the city were busy on Wednesday giving final touches to their safety measures before in-person classes resume for senior school students on Friday. Many schools also referred to a two-minute animated illustration released by the school education department, explaining the dos and dont’s for students, school authorities and parents on Covid-19 guidelines. From sanitizing the premises to holding meeting with the staff and conducting a dry run with thermal guns, principals and other members of the school managements spent the entire day going through every detail. Extra care was taken to clean and sanitize the labs as most of the schools have decided to give priority to outgoing students who have not been able to do any lab work since schools have been shut in March last year. “We are ready with all the safety measures that the government has recommended,” said SaswatiAdhikary, headmistress of Bethune Collegiate School. At Scottish Church Collegiate School, the authorities have distributed masks to all the teaching and non-teaching staff with school’s logo and a sanitising tunnel has been set up. “For the time being only students of Classes XI and XII will come because we want them to do some lab work. Our security guards have been given thermal guns to scan the temperature of anybody who comes in,” said Bivash Saniel, the headmaster of the school. At Sakhawat memorial Government Girls’ High School each class will be divided into mini groups so that both teachers and students can follow the social distancing norms. The premises of Hindu School got sanitised multiple times and all the guidelines by the government have been implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/edu-depts-animated-clip-on-dos-donts-for-students/articleshow/80799188.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 11, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Cabinet nod for VP Joy as new chief secretary||Thiruvananthapuram: On Wednesday, the state cabinet decided to appoint VP Joy as the next chief secretary of Kerala. Joy will succeed Vishwas Mehta, who is retiring on Feb 28, and his tenure as the chief secretary will continue till June 30, 2023. Joy, an officer from the 1987 IAS batch, is now back in state after a central deputation. At the Centre, he was holding the charges of secretary of coordination and security in the cabinet secretariat. A native of Kinginimattom in Ernakulam, Joy had served as scientist at Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre in the capital from 1985 till 1987, when he joined IAS. Beginning his career in administration as sub-collector Palakkad, Joy later served as director of collegiate education, registrar of cooperative societies, Ernakulam collector, DPI, secretary of agri, transport, labour, housing and taxes departments, transport commissioner, KSEB chairman and principal secretary (finance). At the Centre, he served as director in the ministry of petroleum and natural gas, joint secretary in the ministry of power, joint secretary in the cabinet secretariat, central provident fund commissioner and CEO of EPFO, director general of hydrocarbons in the ministry of petroleum and natural gas and chairman of national authority of chemical weapons convention. In addition to being an administrator, Joy had penned numerous poems in Malayalam, two Malayalam novels, three English books and four works of translations. His latest translation of Upanishads, titled Upanishad Kavya Tharavali, has been widely acclaimed. He has also published seven research papers and has been awarded for his poetry-related works including the SK Pottekkatt award. The cabinet, on Wednesday, also appointed secretary (general education) A Shajahan as the next state election commissioner. Shajahan will take charge on March 31 when the tenure of incumbent commissioner V Bhaskaran expires. He is set to retire from IAS on July 31 this year. The cabinet also decided to appoint Dr S Sreekumar, S Vijayakumaran Nair, SA Saif, VTK Abdul Samad, CK Shajib, Stani Thomas, Mini Zakarias and Bony Kuriakose as members to fill the eight member vacancies in PSC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cabinet-nod-for-vp-joy-as-new-chief-secretary/articleshow/80799214.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||Cong no. 4 in state, will take it to top soon: MPCC chief Patole||Nagpur: Newly-appointed Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president Nana Patole has set his sight on making the party numero uno in the state. Interacting with the media here after taking over the reins of the grand old party in the state, the former assembly speaker candidly admitted that Congress was at number four at the moment and he would be making all out efforts to take it to the top in quick time. “Our focus would be on introducing the younger generation to the party and entrusting them with important responsibilities to reach maximum people. This doesn’t mean that we will discard the old and loyal faces. My immediate priority would be inter-party polls in April for various positions. Afterwards, I will take a review of all ministries under Congress and make their report card. The concerned persons will be given feedback with suggestions on removing discrepancies.” Echoing power minister Nitin Raut, the Sakoli MLA clarified that Congress’s stand on granting concession in power bills to Maharashtra citizens was clear from the beginning. “We want to work for the common people. The BJP-led NDA government at the Centre had enforced lockdown forcing the people to stay indoors citing Covid-19 pandemic, which led to jump in the bills.” Accusing governor BS Koshyari of “murdering democratic values”, Patole, who would be officially taking charge on February 12 at Mumbai’s August Kranti Ground, said though the Maha Vikas Aghadi cabinet had duly recommended 12 names for the legislative council, the former had deliberately not approved them till date. Terming the three new farm laws as “black laws”, Patole said the NDA government had rubbed salt on farmers’ wounds and the protests wouldn’t stop until those were repealed. “I have plans to involve Congress activists and leaders for spreading awareness about adverse effects of these laws across the state. The people are realizing that the PM Modi led government is fast moving towards dictatorship as it’s trying to crush the protests.” Calling the PM’s emotional words in Rajya Sabha as “nautanki”, Patole said he (the PM) shed crocodile tears to gain sympathy. “Why he didn’t replicate it for BJP stalwart LK Advani? The PM said the government was working for the poor farmers, but in BJP’s rule there are only two poor farmers — Ambani and Adani. Many farmers have lost lives during the protest, but no tears came for them from the ‘Natsamrat’,” he said. On his tenure as speaker, Patole said he made history by himself moving a proposal to conduct separate census for the OBCs. “I have also asked the legislature to frame laws for reintroducing ballot paper during election along with EVMs and would be following it up. I never cared for the post and will happily take any ministry and responsibility was entrusted on me by the high command.” Patole speaks * A Big number of Congress leaders and activists would make a gharwapsi * Ready to fight with PM Modi in Varanasi if high commands orders * Will iron out all differences in party and give a chance to new faces * Internal rivalry more in BJP than Congress * There are groups like Gadkari and Fadnavis, Gadkari and Modi and others * Made administration to work during tenure as speaker * No decision made on deputy CM’s or speaker’s posts as speculated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-no-4-in-state-will-take-it-to-top-soon-mpcc-chief-patole/articleshow/80803250.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Senior officials in Pb get jabbed to ally vaccine apprehensions||Chandigarh: To allay the apprehension of health workers regarding Covid-19 vaccine, senior officials of the Punjab health department have started coming forward to get jabbed. The state government has set February 19 as the last date for registered health workers to get their first dose of the vaccine. Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan said many senior administrative and health officers were getting vaccinated under the campaign. Prof KK Talwar, former PGIMER director, Chandigarh, and advisor to government of Punjab; Hussan Lal, principal secretary health and family welfare; DK Tewari, principal secretary medical education and research; Prof Raj Bahadur, vice chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot; Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, nodal officer Covid-19 Punjab; and Dr Avneet Kaur, former director health services are among many senior officials who have received their first dose of vaccine. Mahajan said with the coming forward of a large number of senior civil and police officers as well as the healthcare workers, the myths and misgivings in the minds of people would clear and the vaccination drive would get a greater push. She added that the data of Punjab frontline workers whose offices are situated in Chandigarh be migrated at earliest so that they may also be quickly vaccinated by the state government. 5,487 get vaccinated A total of 5487 members of the priority group (1,517 health workers and 3970 frontline workers) received the first dose of the vaccine on Wednesday in Punjab. So far, 91,707 people have been vaccinated in Punjab of which 72,574 are health workers and remaining 19,133 are frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/senior-officials-in-pb-get-jabbed-to-ally-vaccine-apprehensions/articleshow/80803175.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Bareilly||Days after Covid jab, govt doctor tests positive in UP’s Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 52-year-old government doctor, who had received the first jab of Covid-19 vaccine on January 22, has tested positive along with his wife in UP’s Bareilly district. They have been now admitted to level-3 Covid facility at SRMS hospital. On Wednesday, Bareilly CMO Dr Sudheer Kumar Garg told TOI, “The immunity develops only after the second phase of vaccination. Maybe, they did not follow the Covid guidelines after vaccination. We have admitted them to the level-3 facility due to their medical conditions." The doctor is currently deployed in the pathology department. The CMO further said, “The doctor fell ill the day after vaccination. The symptoms were clear but we waited for a day before going for the Covid-19 test. And he was found positive. His wife was then tested too, and was found positive." Epidemiologist Dr Meesam Abbas Rizwi told TOI, “The first jab doesn’t give 100% immunity. One should be very careful, wear a mask, maintain distance and sanitize regularly until the second dose is administered. Someone testing positive is not a negative sign and doesn’t indicate any problem with the vaccine.” As many as 4,623 frontline workers, including the district magistrate and divisional commissioner, are expected to be vaccinated in Bareilly on Thursday. Over 15,000 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the district so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/days-after-covid-jab-govt-doc-tests-positive-in-ups-bareilly/articleshow/80795409.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 11, 2021||Shimla||15 deaths, 394 new Covid cases in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: The north region that covers Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh reported 15 Covid-19 deaths and 394 new cases on Wednesday. Punjab reported 14 deaths and 234 new positive cases. The tally of the infected is now 1,75,252 and the death count 5,675. In the last 24 hours, five patients died in Gurdaspur, three in Jalandhar, and one each in Faridkot, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Patiala, and Ropar. Of the new cases, 35 are in Ludhiana, 31 each in Jalandhar and Mohali, 20 in Nawanshahr, 19 each in Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur, seven in Fatehgarh Sahib, six Tarn Taran, three each in Pathankot, Muktsar, Moga, Mansa, and Bathinda, two each in Sangrur, Kapurthala, Faridkot, and Fazilka, and one in Ropar. Haryana reported 77 new patients and seven zero-case districts. It also vaccinated 2,966 people, including the healthcare workers, and reported 107 recoveries and no death. The overall count is 2,68,677 cases, 3,033 deaths, 2,64,820 recoveries, and 824 active cases. The vaccination tally is 1,88,868 against 1,87 lakh healthcare workers. Himachal Pradesh reported 83 cases and one death, while 49 patients recovered. Of the new cases, 30 are Palampur nursing students. The state has 58,076 positive cases, of which 488 are active, 56,600 cured, and 976 dead. The vaccination coverage is 59.6% (4,825 of 8098 on Wednesday in 11 districts). The drive has covered 66,114 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/15-deaths-394-new-covid-cases-in-punjab-hry-hp/articleshow/80837752.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Smooth talk, rough passage: Road repair raj||AHMEDABAD: Between the ‘Vikas gando’ memes of 2017 going bonkers and the spine-rattling roads of Ahmedabad, lies the civic body’s smooth ‘resurfaced’ talk. Despite several assurances to the high court for including new technologies to construct durable roads the civic body has been struggling to keep its promise. In a budget meeting held in February 2020, a senior AMC official declared that the city requires 411km of new roads to accommodate existing traffic. But instead of constructing new roads, the AMC has spent its money on resurfacing 460km of existing roads in past three years. “We call this the ‘road repair raj’ of the AMC . It’s an unholy nexus of local politicians and contractors. The AMC pays contractors Rs 1,385 per square metre for filling potholes of minimum 75mm depth,” says a senior AMC official who did not wish to be quoted. In 2017, when AMC drew the HC’s ire, some 44.89km of roads were repaired. AMC spends an average 11.75% of its annual budget expenditure for road, street and footpath, cleaning and resurfacing of roads. With expansion of city, the expenditure has also increased from Rs 618 crore in 2015-16 to Rs 962.59 crore in 2020-21. Surprisingly, the expenditure for resurfacing the roads has also increased each year. “In 2015-16 the AMC spent Rs 159.92 crore, which had declined in the subsequent years but the expenditure for resurfacing suddenly jumped to Rs 241.91 crore in just one year which was 2020-21,” says Mahender Jethmalani of the Patehya budget centre, which analyses municipal budget spending. AMC’s expenditure on resurfacing roads is about 25% of the total expenses on road construction and maintenance. “A large portion of roads in city get washed away during heavy rain,” admits a senior AMC official. It’s worth recalling that the AMC had assured the HC in 2019 that if contractors are caught for malpractice or found laying poor roads, they will be debarred or blacklisted permanently. Another assurance given was that the AMC will use nanotechnology and organosilane compound (anti-stripping agent) for road construction. But the reality is visible in the amount of bitumen that is going into road repairs this year till February 2021— it’s worth 559 crore!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/smooth-talk-rough-passage-road-repair-raj/articleshow/80799429.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||State staring at its highest revenue deficit & borrowing||Mumbai: The pandemic-struck state government faces the highest revenue deficit and annual borrowing in its history. While the revenue deficit - or gap between income and expenditure - is set to touch Rs 1.13 lakh crore in 2020-21, annual borrowings are expected to hit Rs 1.08 lakh crore by the end of the financial year. Meanwhile, the state still awaits GST compensation worth Rs 26,000 crore from the Centre which would help in reducing the deficit. These were among the figures shared by the state finance department’s presentation to the cabinet on Wednesday. Officials told the cabinet the state has no room to boost spending in the last two months of the financial year, as is the usual pattern. “The government will have to tightly control its spending given its financial position. Departments will have to keep their demands to a minimum,” said a senior official. The MVA government’s second budget will be tabled in March. The cash-strapped state already faced a debt projection of Rs 5.2 lakh crore in March 2020. Through 2020-21, revenues were severely hit as a result of lowered economic activity and tax collections on account of the lockdown. By the end of January, the state’s income was just 54% of its target for the financial year. Maharashtra had generated Rs 1.88 lakh crore of revenue till the end of January, while the revenue target for 2020-21 had been set at Rs 3.47 lakh crore. The state’s expenditure this financial year is expected to reach Rs 2.8 lakh crore. Of this, Rs 40,000 crore will go into debt servicing and another Rs 1.4 lakh crore into the payment of salaries and pensions. “In fact, roughly two-thirds of the expenditure is on debt servicing and the payment of salaries and pensions,” said a senior officer. The government is also facing a financial setback owing to dip in payments from the Centre. The state’s pending GST compensation due from the Centre amounts to Rs 26,000 crore, officials said. The Centre has cut tax transfers to the state by more than 30%over budgeted estimates. Maharashtra will now receive Rs 14,758 crore less than originally budgeted in Central tax transfers. “The state’s financial position will improve and deficit will reduce if it receives GST compensation,” officials said. Lowering of economic activity and consumption during the pandemic resulted in a major shortfall in tax collections. By the end of January, the state had collected 53.6% of its target for major tax revenue and 47.3% of its target for non-tax revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-staring-at-its-highest-revenue-deficit-borrowing/articleshow/80803240.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
February 11, 2021||Kochi||Kerala high court respite for Sunny Leone||KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Wednesday asked the police to refrain from arresting Bollywood actor Sunny Leone and two others on a complaint filed by an event management company, alleging the actor had failed to attend a function here in 2019 after accepting advance payment of around Rs 29 lakh. Single bench judge Justice Ashok Menon issued the interim order while hearing an anticipatory bail plea moved by Sunny Leone alias Karenjt Kaur Vohra, her husband Daniel Weber, and Sunil Rajani, chief executive officer, Sun City Media Entertainment. The court directed the crime branch not to arrest the petitioners until they are served notice as per CrPC 41 (A)(notice for appearance before police). The court admitted the petition and issued notice to Shiyaz, who had filed the complaint. Leone, who was questioned by Kochi crime branch officials on February 3, 2021, at Thiruvananthapuram, stated that it was then she realised that an FIR had been registered against them under various sections of IPC including 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) . Leone submitted that they have fully cooperated with the officers and appraised them of the true facts and circumstances, handed over documents substantiating the transactions that transpired between them and the complainant. It was also submitted that the complainant had demanded Rs 2 crore as compensation from them, had tried to “exploit and cheat the petitioners by compelling them to participate in shows prepared by him without paying the agreed consideration”. While the event management organizers had maintained that the former Big Boss contestant had not turned up for their function, Leone stated that she had come twice and the event was not held. Though the function had to be postponed several times, it was finally scheduled to be held at Adlux International Convention Center at Angamaly near Kochi. She in turn stated that the organizers rescheduled the programme several times and it was not due to her inconvenience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/high-court-respite-for-sunny-leone/articleshow/80799311.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Bhopal||No differences in BJP over excise policy, says medical education minister Vishvas Sarang||BHOPAL: Refuting any differences between BJP leaders over the sale of liquor in the state, medical education minister Vishvas Sarang on Wednesday rejected the reports that new excise policy to be implemented by April this year has been kept on hold till July due to upcoming civic elections in the state. He said the government is yet to take a decision on the excise policy. The Congress alleged that BJP leaders are upset over new liquor policy and the decision to put on hold the excise policy was to save the party's image during the upcoming civic polls. Sources in Mantralaya disclosed that after party leader Uma Bharti announced to launch an awareness campaign for ‘Nasha Mukti', the government decided to put on hold the new excise policy which was proposed to be released in April this year and aims at providing liquor to the customers online apart from, adopting new measures to increase the sale. Normally, the excise department completes the tender process of the excise by March 15 every year, this time the decision to launch a campaign against alcohol addiction has perplexed the officials and it was decided to hold on the excise policy till July this year, added sources. Sources further disclosed that even though chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced to launch a ‘Nasha Mukti' (deaddiction) campaign in the state, the party is cautious not to give any fodder to the main opposition Congress ahead of civic polls. “All the BJP leaders including chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Uma Bharti, Narottam Mishra and even me are in favour of running a ‘Nasha Mukti' campaign to make the public aware about alcohol abuse and other addictions," said Sarang. "Even during Narmada Seva Yatra launched by Shivraj ji, we had appealed to the people in villages and towns to resolve to stay away from drugs. It is a social campaign and there was no politics involved," said Sarang. Amid row over liquor policy and so called proposals to increase liquor shops, BJP leader Uma Bharti had recently announced to launch a `Nasha Mukti' drive in the state from March 8, the International Women's Day. "The state BJP leaders is divided over liquor policy. Uma Bharti's announcement to launch a de-addiction drive from March 8 has upset the state government. Now the policy has been put on hold due to upcoming civic polls as several BJP leaders have come out against increasing liquor shops in the state. BJP is doing this exercise only to avoid controversy during the forthcoming civic polls," said BJP state media coordinator, Narendra Saluja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-differences-in-bjp-over-excise-policy-says-sarang/articleshow/80806424.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC mayor poll: Aspirants huddle as race to mayor on last stretch||HYDERABAD: With just a few hours left before elections are held for the first citizen of the city, aspirants have intensified their efforts to grab the opportunity to wear the black gown. Though half a dozen names for the mayor post are doing the rounds, other aspirants are also making last-ditch efforts, including minority candidates. Some corporators have even held small group meetings separately on how to reach the leadership to get a chance. Interestingly, the mayor candidates have spurred a caste war within the TRS. Some Reddy MLAs and elected representatives, especially from Ranga Reddy district, are opposing giving mayor post to a BC candidate as the post is reserved for a women (general) candidate. They argue that if the post is reserved for BCs and other communities on rotation basis, a general category candidate will not get the opportunity later. “Some Reddy leaders reportedly informed the TRS leadership that the mayor candidate should be from the general category and that they would not mind who the candidate is and from which part of the city,” a senior leader of TRS said. In party and political circles, TRS corporators Gadwal Vijaya Lakshmi (Banjara Hills), Bonthu Sridevi (Cherlpally), P Vijaya Reddy (Khairatabad), Sindhu Adarsh Reddy (Bharathi Nagar), Manne Kavitha Reddy (Venkateshwar Nagar) and Chintala Shanthi (Alwal) are the front runners. The party may spring a surprise by bringing new candidates, preferably young. The TRS party leadership, which is expected to secure the mayor post without any major hitches, has decided to announce the name of the mayoral candidate in a sealed cover, and all the corporators and ex-officio members have to obey the orders of the party leadership. Since BJP decided to field its candidate, the TRS decided to issue whip now and ensure full attendance. “Some members do not want to take oath on Thursday with it being an inauspicious day. Keeping mayor elections in view, the party asked all members to take oath and attend election. Without taking oath, members are not allowed to vote,” a senior party leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aspirants-huddle-as-race-to-mayor-on-last-stretch/articleshow/80799294.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 11, 2021||Bhopal||Disburse loans to street vendors, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan tells banks||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that banks should promptly disburse the amount of loan sanctioned for street vendors. He was talking to chief general manager of State Bank of India (SBI), Umesh Pandey, who called on him on Wednesday. The chief minister discussed with Pandey in detail the implementation of the "Swanidhi Scheme" for street vendors, also known as the "Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors Atmanirbhar Nidhi". Along with this, talks were also held about the approval of the loan under the "Chief Minister Rural Street Vendor Scheme" and the implementation of the scheme. Chouhan said that the status of disbursement of the amount under the scheme will be reviewed in detail in the next meeting of the state-level bankers' committee. Chouhan said that this is a scheme for the welfare of the poor.  Small traders, who do small-scale trade in cities and villages on roadside by setting up kiosks or by handcart, should be given easy loan assistance; efforts should be made to increase this. At present, complaints of delay in approval of such cases have been received from some districts. The needy people doing small-scale business should get the loan amount easily, this effort should be made at the branch level. Along with this, joint efforts should be made at the government and bank level so that the loan given to these beneficiaries is also repaid. This will make the task of re-lending to such beneficiaries easier. Chouhan further said that small scale traders are generally not aware of the technical aspects of bank loan, hence their difficulties should be resolved at the bank level. Pandey assured the chief minister that it would be ensured that this work is not delayed. All the bank branches have been directed by the State Bank of India headquarters for immediate approval of small business loan schemes. State Bank of India is committed to the welfare of the poor. Rajesh Saxena, General Manager of State Bank of India, was also present during the meeting. Madhya Pradesh is ahead of all the states in the country in the implementation of the "PM Swanidhi Loan Scheme". Similarly, efforts are being made to achieve good results in the "Chief Minister Rural Street Vendor Scheme". Under the scheme, small street vendors in the rural areas like sellers of fruits, vegetables, ice cream, bread, biscuit, shoes-slippers, broom-sellers, bicycle repairers, carpenters, potters, weavers, washermen and tailors are provided interest-free loan of Rs 10,000 each for upgrading their work. credit guarantee is given by the state. Also, there is no stamp duty. Under this scheme, a rural trader from 18 to 55 years of age can avail benefits, said an official spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/disburse-loans-to-street-vendors-cm-tells-banks/articleshow/80806380.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Suspected LeT militants get bail from HC||Chandigarh: Failure of the investigating agency to present challan within stipulated time has led to the release of three Jammu and Kashmir-based suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants, who were arrested in June last year by the Punjab Police when they were trying to smuggle weapons into Kashmir for carrying out terror attacks. “The state counsel has not been able to dispute the legal position set forth in the aforestated judgment to the effect that it is the special court only which is competent to exercise powers under Section 43(D)(2)(b). Since the illaqa magistrate was not competent to extend the period as has been ordered vide order dated September 7, 2020, therefore, this court is left with no option but to hold that the challan, which was presented on November 27, 2020, was presented beyond the period of 90 days without there being any valid extension of the said period,” observed the HC while allowing bail to the accused. Amir Hussain Wani and Wasim Hussain Bhatt were arrested on June 11, 2020, while Javed Ahmed Bhatt was apprehended on June 12. They were booked at police station Sadar, Pathankot, under various sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The allegations on them were that they had entered into a conspiracy for taking weapons and explosive substances from Amritsar to Anantnag (J&K). The state police had also seized arms and ammunition at the time of their arrest. They were also charged under the Arms Act and Explosive Substance Amendment Act. Ordinarily the investigating agency was expected to complete its investigation and file a challan under Section 173 criminal procedure code (CrPc) within a period of 90 days that, in case of the accused, expired on September 10 and 11, 2020. However, the illaqa magistrate in a purported exercise of powers under Section 43-D(2) of Unlawful Activities Act, extended the period of presenting challan from 90 days to 180 days. If the challan is not presented against an accused within 90 days (unless period is extended by the court), the accused are entitled to be released on bail. In this case, the HC has held that the period of 90 days was extended to 180 days by the illaqa magistrate. However, it should have been extended by the special court as the cases against the accused are scheduled offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/suspected-let-militants-get-bail-from-hc/articleshow/80803176.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chennai||11,800 get C jab in TN; Chennai logs zero deaths||Chennai: The state added 479 new cases and five deaths to the state Covid-19 registry on Wednesday, when 11,815 people walked into the vaccination centres to take the shot. While the number of cases went up from 469 on Tuesday and 464 cases on Monday, there was a marginal increase in the number of vaccine recipients from 10,550 on Tuesday and 8,619 on Monday. The day’s vaccine drive took the recipient tally in the state to 1,97,114. On Wednesday, the state had 4,309 people still under treatment for the viral infection. While there were no deaths reported from the city, five districts – Chengalpet, Coimbatore, Theni, Tirupur and Trichy — reported one death each. Ariyalur was the only district to report zero cases. While Chennai topped the cases list with 149 new cases, Coimbatore followed with 62. All other districts in the state reported less than 40 new cases, and 27 districts reported cases in single digit. After discharging 493 people, recoveries in TN touched 8.26 lakh. There were less than 20 active cases in six districts. With seven people under treatment, Perambalur had the least, followed by Ramanathapuram (9), Kallakurichi (11), Ariyalur (12), Tuticorin (16) and Krishnagiri (18). On Wednesday, 7,860 health workers, 2,039 frontline workers and 1,916 police personnel took the vaccine. “There is a marginal improvement in the numbers as more police personnel and frontline workers are coming forward to take the vaccine,” health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In the past 24 days, 1.78 lakh healthcare workers have taken the vaccine against the state’s capacity of vaccinating 6.7 lakh healthcare workers. Besides healthcare workers, 13,685 frontline workers and 4,838 policemen have taken the vaccine. The state, which started vaccinating frontline workers on February 3, had the capacity to inoculate 1,43,136 frontline workers and 30,950 policemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/11800-get-c-jab-in-tn-chennai-logs-zero-deaths/articleshow/80799323.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||15 deaths, 394 new Covid cases in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: The north region that covers Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh reported 15 Covid-19 deaths and 394 new cases on Wednesday. Punjab reported 14 deaths and 234 new positive cases. The tally of the infected is now 1,75,252 and the death count 5,675. In the last 24 hours, five patients died in Gurdaspur, three in Jalandhar, and one each in Faridkot, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Patiala, and Ropar. Of the new cases, 35 are in Ludhiana, 31 each in Jalandhar and Mohali, 20 in Nawanshahr, 19 each in Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur, seven in Fatehgarh Sahib, six Tarn Taran, three each in Pathankot, Muktsar, Moga, Mansa, and Bathinda, two each in Sangrur, Kapurthala, Faridkot, and Fazilka, and one in Ropar. Haryana reported 77 new patients and seven zero-case districts. It also vaccinated 2,966 people, including the healthcare workers, and reported 107 recoveries and no death. The overall count is 2,68,677 cases, 3,033 deaths, 2,64,820 recoveries, and 824 active cases. The vaccination tally is 1,88,868 against 1,87 lakh healthcare workers. Himachal Pradesh reported 83 cases and one death, while 49 patients recovered. Of the new cases, 30 are Palampur nursing students. The state has 58,076 positive cases, of which 488 are active, 56,600 cured, and 976 dead. The vaccination coverage is 59.6% (4,825 of 8098 on Wednesday in 11 districts). The drive has covered 66,114 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/15-deaths-394-new-covid-cases-in-punjab-hry-hp/articleshow/80803179.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Naidu inaugurates Covid-19 makeshift hospitals in Solan, Kangra||Shimla: Vice-President of India M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday inaugurated Covid-19 makeshift hospitals at Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College Tanda in Kangra district and civil hospital Nalagarh in Solan district through video conferencing on the occasion of platinum jubilee foundation day function of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), Roorkee Addressing a gathering, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said Covid-19 makeshift hospitals were built in collaboration with CSIR-CBRI and Rs 3.44 crore had been spent on infrastructure development of the 66-bedded Covid-19 hospital at Tanda and Rs 2.36 crore on the 45-bedded Covid-19 makeshift hospital, Nalagarh. He added that an 18-bedded makeshift hospital at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, has already been made functional by spending Rs 1.37 crore and a 100-bedded makeshift hospital was being constructed at Nerchowk in Mandi district at a cost of Rs 6.11 crore. The CM said that now with sharp decrease in number of active cases of corona virus cases in Himachal Pradesh, the state government had decided to convert the makeshift hospital at IGMC Shimla as medicine intensive care unit, the one at Tanda as communicable diseases ward, the one at Nalagarh as trauma care centre and the makeshift hospital at Nerchowk in Mandi district as super speciality ward to facilitate the people. He added that these makeshift hospitals constructed by CSIR-CBRI were not only built in very short time, but had all modern facilities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/naidu-inaugurates-covid-19-makeshift-hospitals-in-solan-kangra/articleshow/80803180.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Paper ballot: HC seeks SEC reply by Feb 15||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday granted time till February 15 to the State Election Commission (SEC) to file an affidavit in response to a PIL seeking to hold civic elections with ballot papers because the commission does not have VVPAT machines to be attached with the EVMs. Petitioner Imtiyazkhan Pathan, who is a candidate in AMC polls, has sought elections to be conducted through paper ballot because SEC revealed in a reply under RTI provisions that it does not have Voter Verified Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machines to be attached with EVMs. His advocate K R Koshti argued that a 2017 judgment by the Supreme Court mandates commission to use VVPAT, if polls are conducted through EVMs. The SEC’s advocate sought time for at least a week to file reply to the PIL, but the petitioner’s advocate objected to long adjournment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paper-ballot-hc-seeks-sec-reply-by-feb-15/articleshow/80799376.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Jind MC employee held for graft||Jind: A state vigilance bureau team on Wednesday arrested a Jind municipal committee employee for taking a bribe of Rs 10,000 to issue a plot ID. The complainant, Sunil Sharma, said, “I had applied for an ID for a plot in December 2020 with the municipal committee. Thereafter, I have been running from pillar to post to get the document, but vain. An employee identified as Suresh Kumar demanded Rs 10,000 to issue the ID following which paid him to Rs 7,500, but the latter forced me to visit the municipal committee continuously despite paying him. I finally lodged a complaint against the accused seeking action into the matter,” he added. Jind vigilance in-charge Balwan Singh said, “We formed a team led by a duty magistrate and conducted the raid at the spot. We nabbed the accused red handed while taking Rs 2,500 as bribe and lodged a case against him under relevant section of IPC and started the investigation. Reportedly, the deal was done in Rs 10,000 and the accused has received Rs 7,500 in advance and the remaining amount has to be paid on Wednesday ,but we arrested him from the spot,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jind-mc-employee-held-for-graft/articleshow/80803201.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Bareilly||Man lures woman with job in anganwadi, rapes her at gunpoint||Bareilly: Lured by a job in anganwadi, a woman was allegedly raped at gunpoint in UP’s Moradabad district. The rape survivor in her complaint to police alleged that she came in contact with the accused, Kailash Sagar, when she was employed at a private hospital. The complainant told police that the accused, a resident of Bagadpur Madhaiya under Pakhwada police station, again met her when she was on her way home from the workplace on January 31 and offered her a lift, saying he wanted her to meet his mother who had contacts with higher-ups for getting her a job in anganwadi. The accused then later took her into the fields in Pakhwada and raped her at gunpoint, alleged the woman, adding that he even threatened to kill her if she disclosed the crime to anyone. Pakhwada police station SHO Rajni Dwivedi said based on the complaint, an FIR was registered against the accused under sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 503 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused is at large.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-lures-woman-with-job-in-anganwadi-rapes-her-at-gunpoint/articleshow/80795510.cms||Maria Khan
February 11, 2021||Goa||Activists warn of Uttarakhand-type tragedy if Mollem projects not cancelled||Panaji: Goencho Ekvott and Goencho Avaaz have asked the state government to consider the disaster in Uttarakhand as a “wake-up call” and stop being insensitive towards the preservation and protection of the environment. “We want to tell the elected representatives to take precautions and stop destroying fields and the environment in the name of development,” Captain Viriato Fernandes said, adding that similar tragedies were seen in Kerala two years ago and in Canacona in 2009 and could hit Goa again if deforestation continues. Activists criticised the government for its refusal to reconsider the destructive projects passing through the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park in the Western Ghats and alleged that this showed the insensitivity on the part of chief minister Pramod Sawant to consider the people’s plea. Fernandes hit out at BJP for supporting the three linear projects to allegedly establish a coal corridor and said the chief minister has no support within his own cabinet. Swapnesh Sherlekar from Bicholim said the Centre wants to silence the people with the Rs 300 crore it has promised in the Budget. Activist Vikas Bhagat hit out at the chief minister for supporting the Prime Minister’s ‘andolanjivi’ slogan. He said activists were being defamed and being called anti-national. The country got independence and freedom because of andolans, he added. Going ahead with projects in Goa against the people is like a slap on their face, he said. “For the next election, we will form small groups and go door to door to tell people what the government is doing to destroy Goa,” he added.  Jose Cabral of Goecho Avaaz said that if the government had nothing to hide they shouldn’t have deployed police to stop protesters outside MPT. Fernandes said all activist groups will be meeting and strategically devising a way to influence people for the municipality elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/activists-warn-of-uttarakhand-type-tragedy-if-mollem-projects-not-cancelled/articleshow/80803413.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Groundwater table takes a dip in January||CHENNAI: The groundwater table in most parts of the city recorded a slight dip in January this year over December 2020. Metrowater authorities attribute this to the absence of rain and marginal increase in groundwater extraction in areas not connected by piped supply. The monthly readings taken in Metrowater’s observation wells in various parts showed a reduction ranging from 1ft to 1.25ft, said an official. The highest reduction was recorded in Teynampet at 0.88 metres followed by Thiruvottiyur at 0.79 metres and Adyar at 0.77 metres, he said. Perungudi recorded the lowest reduction of 0.27 metres followed by Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar with 0.34 metres and Ambattur with 0.35 metres. The northeast monsoon, which accounts for more than 60% of the city’s annual rainfall, was above normal last year. While October had 28cm of rain, there was a slight dip with November only getting 14cm, but there was 21cm of rain in December and the groundwater table increased across all the 15 zones of the corporation. However, the rainfall began reducing in January and since then, several residents, especially those without Metrowater’s piped supply both in the core and added areas, have begun extracting groundwater for their daily use. Bore well operator I Annadurai said the demand for sinking new bore wells are received by them from some of the new construction projects in the city. So far, there are no calls from residents from the city and its added areas, asking him to sink the new bore well due to depletion of groundwater table, he said. Hydrogeologist J Saravanan said the groundwater table in the city had recorded a marginal dip in January, which was normal. The recharge of the table was high during the rainy months in October, November and December, he said. In many residential areas, borewells that had gone dry recouped well after the bountiful monsoon. “Only during the peak of summer, when most resources will be exploited to the core, can we get a clear picture of depletion in the groundwater table across the city,” he said. Experts, however, say there is not likely to be much of a problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/groundwater-table-takes-a-dip-in-jan/articleshow/80799366.cms||P Oppili
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Housing society polls to mirror general elections||MUMBAI: Like in a parliamentary election, the polls conducted in your housing society may become an elaborate affair from March, with a month or more devoted to preparation of the voter list, filing of nominations, campaigning, withdrawal of candidates’ names, voting, counting, announcement of results, and filing of appeals in case of objections. Candidates will be allotted symbols and voting will be through secret ballot. An independent society member, if appointed as the returning officer (RO), will need to undergo election training at a designated institute. A contestant will have to be seconded by two members. There will also be a deposit. These are among the changes declared in the draft rules issued by the state cooperatives department for elections in cooperative housing societies with up to 250 members. The rules were awaited for over two years as a majority of the around one lakh housing societies in the state — 85% of them from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region alone — were being run in the absence of elected members. “Either RO can be appointed by the management committee (MC) from the independent panel of ROs formed by state cooperative elections authority, or a member who is not a seconder, auditor or existing committee member can be selected for the RO training. Also, the electoral roll will have to be ready sixty days before the election,” the draft states. A voter is allowed to not cast the votes for posts where he feels the candidates are not up to his expectations. This is akin to NOTA (none of the above). A draw of lots will decide the winner in case of a tie. Earlier, the polls would be held in a single general body meeting with a show of hands or a voice vote being among the methods adopted to elect the management committee members. Now, the provisional list of voters will have to be ready before the appointment of the returning officer, who will scrutinise it before sending it to the office of the deputy registrar. Nominations will be verified at the level of the RO and the deputy registrar. The draft suggests allowing 30% of the total contesting candidates to come together to form a panel and get a single symbol. Polling staff will be appointed by the RO for every election process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/housing-society-polls-to-mirror-general-elections/articleshow/80803587.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP ‘seals’ candidates, party to test waters||Hyderabad: The BJP has gone the TRS way in declaring the mayor and deputy mayor candidates in a sealed cover. After having a meeting with newly-elected councillors, the party issued a whip for them to be present and vote for mayor and deputy mayor candidates. “We are a national party. Whatever may be the outcome we will contest. The candidates will be announced on Thursday morning,” NVSS Prabhakar, party vice president said. The comments came in the light of the party having its highest numbers yet in the GHMC. Sources in the party said the BJP wanted to see how AIMIM and TRS respond to its foray. The party also wants to establish the fact that it does not have any hidden alliance. “The original idea was to see if any dissidents from TRS would come out if election plan is announced,” a top leader said. Sources said since BJP has almost nil chances, many candidates are showing interest in being the floor leader. Nearly 20 candidates have approached top leadership to become floor leader. “The party is of the view that BC candidate can become the floor leader. However, a ward member from either Musheerabad assembly segment or Secunderabad segment is likely to be floor leader,” a party leader said. For the mayor candidate, party is looking at a BC woman candidate also. Musheerabad was earlier represented in assembly by Dr K Laxman and Union minister of home affairs G Kishan Reddy is represented Secunderabad parliament seat. For a change, the councilors will visit the goddess Durga temple in Basheerbagh instead of Bhagya Lakhsmi temple in Charminar. After visiting the temple they will go the GHMC office. Senior leaders like N Ramchander Rao will be present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-seals-candidates-party-to-test-waters/articleshow/80799336.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Undercover cops nab cybercrook in Bihar||Ahmedabad: About a week after a city firm discovered that its email id had been hacked and over Rs 94 lakh had been siphoned off from its bank account, cybercrime officers arrested one person from Bihar in connection with the incident. A team of cops spent a week undercover in Murgiachak village of Gaya district to nab Gulshan Kanaksingh, The money had been withdrawn from Trident India Pvt Ltd’s accounts with the Law Garden branch of Nutan Nagrik Sahkari Bank in December. ACP (cybercrime) J M Yadav said, “The accused is a member of a large gang. They hack a company’s email account and send an email to the telecom company seeking a fresh SIM card of the company’s phone number authorized for bank transactions. They would then transfer the money into various bank accounts.” He said that their team got a lead when one of the several cellphone numbers and IMEI numbers that they were watching became active in Bihar. “We recovered one mobile phone and eight SIM cards along with a written script for phone fraud from the accused. He has been involved in cyber fraud for 2-3 years, “ Yadav said. The accused, who was brought here on transit remand, has been remanded to four days in police custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/undercover-cops-nab-cybercrook-in-bihar/articleshow/80799363.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Vegetable prices double, vendors blame fuel rates||HYDERABAD: Rising fuel rates and transportation charges have triggered a 30% to 50% rise in vegetable prices in retail markets across the city. Prices of vegetables arriving from neighbouring states such as Maharashtra and Karnataka have seen a steep rise in the last one month. The price of a litre of petrol and diesel in the city were Rs 90.78 and Rs 84.52 respectively on Tuesday. This increased to Rs 91.09 and Rs 84.79 on Wednesday. This week, almost 38% to 40% vegetables arrived from other states. In neighbouring states such as Maharashtra and Karnataka, petrol prices have touched Rs 93 mark and diesel is between Rs 82 to Rs 84. This has substantially increased the transportation charges resulting in rise in vegetable prices as well. “Earlier, a lorry of 25 tonnes from Karnataka to Hyderabad cost Rs 40,000. In the last one month, brokers have been charging an additional Rs 10,000 citing rise in fuel prices,” said Rajender Reddy, working president of Telangana Lorry Owners’ Association. Vegetable vendors too claim that wholesale traders have been charging more citing rise transportation cost. “We have to recover the burden of additional charges by passing it on to the consumers. There is very little profit that we make,” said Anand, a vegetable vendor in Sainikpuri. Rising price of vegetables has dented the monthly budget of families who are already struggling to cope up with financial crisis triggered by the pandemic. Vegetable prices that had come down in December following heavy rains are now creeping back up in the city. “Only a month back, I was purchasing regular vegetables such as lady finger and brinjal at a much lower price. Within a month, this increased drastically. I am now turning to alternatives such as sprouts and lentils,” said Nirupama M, a homemaker. Officials said that the prices of vegetables arriving from neighbouring states are only set to increase. “When we have local arrivals, the prices are stable. But when the arrivals are from neighbouring states, the prices increase. While we receive onions from Maharashtra, vegetables such as lady finger and Dondakai arrive from Karnataka,” said L Srinivas, secretary, Bowenpally marketyard, adding that prices of vegetables such as tomatoes and potatoes are less as they are being procured locally from districts such as Siddipet and Nalgonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vegetable-prices-double-vendors-blame-fuel-rates/articleshow/80799370.cms||Preeti Biswas
February 11, 2021||World||Biden orders sanctions against Myanmar after military coup||WASHINGTON: President Joe Biden on Wednesday ordered new sanctions against the military regime in Myanmar, taking action after the military this month staged a coup in the Southeast Asian country and arrested de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi and other senior politicians. Biden said he was issuing an executive order that will prevent Myanmar's generals from accessing $1 billion in assets in the United States. Biden added that more measures are to come. “The military must relinquish power it seized and demonstrate respect for the will of the people of Burma,” Biden said. Biden said the new sanctions will allow his administration to freeze US assets that benefit Myanmar's military leaders while maintaining support for health care programs, civil society groups and other areas that benefit the country's people. He said the administration planned to identify specific targets of the sanctions later this week. “The people of Burma are making their voices heard, and the world is watching,” Biden said, using an alternate name for Myanmar. “We'll be ready to impose additional measures and we'll continue to work with our international partners to urge other nations to join us in these efforts.” Before Biden spoke from the White House, large crowds demonstrating against the military takeover again took to the streets in Myanmar, even after security forces ratcheted up the use of force against them and raided the headquarters of Suu Kyi's political party. It remains to be seen what, if any, impact the US action will have on Myanmar's military regime. Many of the military leaders are already under sanctions because of attacks against the Muslim Rohingya minority. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a supporter of Suu Kyi, said he appreciated Biden's "ongoing engagement with Congress on prompt and practical steps to restore democracy in Burma. I hope all nations that respect democracy and the rule of law will join the US in imposing meaningful costs and accountability on the junta.” White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters shortly before Biden's announcement that “there's certainly a recognition that this will need to be a coordinated effort” with the international community to press change in Myanmar. The UN Human Rights Council was set to hold a special session on Myanmar on Wednesday. The protesters in Myanmar are demanding that power be restored to Suu Kyi's deposed civilian government. They're also seeking freedom for her and other governing party members detained by the military after it blocked the new session of Parliament on Feb. 1. Witnesses estimated that tens of thousands of protesters, if not more, turned out Wednesday in Yangon and Mandalay, the country's biggest cities. Rallies also took place in the capital, Naypyitaw, and elsewhere. The military cited the government's failure to act on unsubstantiated allegations of widespread voter fraud as part of the reason for the takeover and declaration of a one-year state of emergency. The generals maintain the actions are legally justified, and have cited an article in the constitution that allows the military to take over in times of emergency. Suu Kyi's party has said it's effectively a coup. The Biden administration also was quick to officially determine the takeover was a coup, setting the stage for Wednesday's announcement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-orders-sanctions-against-myanmar-after-military-coup/articleshow/80811801.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Cops generate awareness on legal remedies for women in case of distress||JAIPUR: Various police districts of Jaipur police through their DCPs have begun a campaign to educate women and girls on the laws and legislations that can safeguard them. Though poster campaign AWAZ (Action Against Women-related Crimes and Awareness for Justice) is getting popular the girls and woman in school and colleges, senior officers are reaching out to girls and women to make them aware of various laws related to outraging of modesty, eve teasing and even rape. Senior police officers are visiting schools, colleges and localities where officers brief gatherings mainly consisting of women and girls on the laws and legislations. “It has been very successful. The idea is to educate girls and women about their rights especially laws and legislations which they can use in case of distress. We are also pasting various posters with the help of all our four police districts in various police station areas,” said Richa Tomar, DCP (Metro), who is monitoring the campaign on Tuesday. She added that the campaign was also aimed at gender sensitisation and on other issues. “We are also educating the girls and women on how they can be safe while using their social networking accounts. What kind of precautions they should take? Also, we are inviting boys and men in these camps to urge them to be respectful towards women,” she added. The tagline of the campaign is ‘Sashakt Naari Surakshit Naari’ which is advocating on the need of empowering woman to make them safe. “The campaign was launched on February 1 and till February 15 we will visit various schools, localities and colleges to make more and more women and girls educated towards their rights and laws available in case of distress,” said Abhijeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (East). In the posters, there are caricatures of boys getting into eve-teasing and a message stating eve-teasing is a crime. “We are not just saying outraging modesty of a girl is a crime, we are also pasting the punishment that deals with outraging modesty,” said a senior officer. Also, police have distributed posters with helpline number 1090 for women who are being harassed through social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-generate-awareness-on-legal-remedies-for-women-in-case-of-distress/articleshow/80799388.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||DPCC seeks action plans for using treated water in parks||New Delhi: Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has sought action plans from land-owning authorities of all parks for using treated water from Delhi Jal Board (DJB). National Green Tribunal had directed that all parks should take treated water through effluent or sewage treatment plants installed by DJB. Delhi has more than 17,000 parks and most of them are using water from borewells, said officials. “We have sought action plans from MCD, DDA, PWD and CPWD to submit action plans specifying their daily requirement of treated water in million gallons per day (MGD) and the number of water tanks from DJB they would need every day,” said a DPCC official. “DJB currently generates around 600MGD treated water and about 100MGD is used daily. Hence, nearly 500MGD treated water can be used by parks for maintenance. The action plans would help us in better monitoring,” the official added. DPCC has also asked the land-owning bodies to lay pipelines for connecting the parks to DJB’s sewage treatment plants if the STP is located within 5km. The remaining parks will have to hire water tankers from DJB. According to another official, the urban development department had sent a list of borewells in the parks to the district magistrates concerned last year, requesting them to seal them. “We will again take up this matter with the authorities to ensure all such borewells are sealed. Some maintenance agencies prefer water from borewells as it is free while they have to pay Delhi Jal Board for using their water tanks. Using water from borewells puts pressure on the already depleting groundwater level,” the official pointed out. DPCC said there was no official record about the number of parks which were currently using treated water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dpcc-seeks-action-plans-for-using-treated-water-in-parks/articleshow/80869054.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||With 88 human deaths, 2020 saw worst-ever wildlife conflict||Nagpur: With 88 human deaths, Maharashtra witnessed the worst-ever human-animal conflict in 2020 indicating significant consequences for the economy, human health, safety and welfare, and ecosystem. According to information received under RTI by activist Abhay Kolarkar, most human deaths were in leopard and tiger attacks. The details sought for calendar years 2017 to 2020, show that conflict almost doubled in the period. In 2017, 54 humans were killed with the state paying Rs 4.32 crore as compensation. In 2020, the figure had risen to 88 humans for which the state government paid Rs 12.75 crore compensation. These deaths include 32 in attacks by leopards and 38 in attacks by tigers. Most of the tiger attack cases were from Chandrapur district. In the same period, there is also a drastic increase in cattle kills from 5,961 in 2017 to 9,258 in 2020. “Human deaths in tiger attacks are more in 2020, compared to previous years. That is really worrying as most of these deaths have been reported in Vidarbha. Similar is the case with the attack by leopards but most of these are out of Vidarbha,” said Kishor Rithe, state wildlife board member. Kolarkar blamed shrinking habitats due to encroachments and deforestation main reason for human-animal conflict. Besides, Maharashtra has recorded an increase in both, tiger and leopard populations leading to conflict. “Yet, no effort is being made to remove encroachments leading to the frequent interface of people with animals. Despite crores being spent on joint forest management (JFM) and eco-development committees (EDCs) conflict is increasing. Lack of proactive steps is leading to revenge killing of tigers and leopards,” he said. As per the All India Tiger and Leopard Estimation-2018, tiger number has increased from 190 in 2014 to 312 in 2018 and to 350 now. Similarly, leopard numbers have increased to 1,690, which is the third-largest in the country. State wildlife board member Bandu Dhotre said, “Despite several measures like subsidized LPG distribution and solar fencing, exploitation of natural resources, grazing, collection of firewood, etc continued unabated bringing people into conflict with wildlife, both directly and indirectly.” Dhotre said, “High rates of human or wild animal population growth increases the number of encounters. Chandrapur thermal power plant area alone has nine tigers including cubs. There are tigers on overburden created by mining and in spaces where we never expected them to be. Their numbers are growing beyond the carrying capacity of protected area, causing individuals and groups to spill over into human-dominated areas and agriculture lands.” THE NUMBER GAME Year Deaths Compensation (in Rs cr) 2017 54 4.32 2018 33 3.12 2019 39 5.85 2020 88 12.75 CATTLE KILLS 2017: 5,961 2018: 6,909 2019: 8,311 2020: 9,258||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-88-human-deaths-2020-saw-worst-ever-wildlife-conflict/articleshow/80803330.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 11, 2021||Vijayawada||High court reserves order on colour of ration vehicles||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Wednesday reserved judgment in the petition moved by the government challenging the order of the SEC to change the colours of ration delivery vehicles. The government had moved the court after SEC, noting that the colour scheme of the vehicles is akin to the flag colours of YSRC, asked the government to change the colours and also directed it not to use the vehicles in poll-bound rural areas as it could have an influence on the electorate. The government argued that delivery of ration was announced much before and was implemented even before the elections were notified. As the programme is intended to supply nutritious food to the poor and the panchayat elections are being held without party affiliations, the scheme should be allowed to continue, it said. The SEC, on the other hand, stated that they have not stopped the supply of ration but only sought an explanation after receiving complaints over the colours of the vehicles and had only asked the government to change the colour scheme to politically neutral colours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-reserves-order-on-colour-of-ration-vehicles/articleshow/80795267.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Panchayat elections: Phase II polls on February 13, 539 unanimous winners||VIJAYAWADA: The state election commission (SEC) strengthened arrangements for the second phase of panchayat elections to be held on Saturday. Altogether 3,328 gram panchayats in 18 revenue divisions will go for polls in the second phase. The SEC on Wednesday announced that 539 gram panchayats were declared unanimously and the remaining 2,786 will go to the polls in the second phase. Of the 33,570 wards notified for election in the second phase, 12,605 wards were declared unanimously while the remaining 20,796 wards will go for polls on Saturday. A total of 44,879 candidates are in the race to become ward members. The SEC directed district collectors to make necessary arrangements to conduct the polls peacefully. Panchayat raj authorities and police are focusing on identifying high-risk areas. Krishna district police have kept special focus on Kailakulur and Gudivada assembly constituencies. Police have bound over persons with crime records. Meanwhile, various political parties are keen on victory for candidates supported by them. While YSRC is trying to continue its winning momentum, TDP is making efforts to win majority of the seats. All candidates have intensified campaigns to woo voters. SEC Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar thanked voters for their response. Despite Covid-19 so far 81% voters have made their way to polling booths, which is not a small thing, Ramesh Kumar said. The SEC thanked the authorities who participated in the polling process. “Employees and police personnel have played a significant role in conducting the elections. We appreciate their services. I hope the remaining phases will also complete peacefully,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/phase-ii-polls-on-feb-13-539-unanimous-winners/articleshow/80794925.cms||Venu Lanka
February 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||In first political run, Speaker’s wife to contest for sarpanch||VISAKHAPATNAM: Assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram’s wife Tammineni Vanisri has filed her nomination for sarpanch post in their native village of Thogaram in Amadalavalasa mandal of Srikakulam district. Polling for the village is set to be held on February 17. Speaking to TOI, 55-year-old Vanisri said wanted to establish a ‘veda patasala’ (vedic school) in her village, which is located on the bank of river Nagavali. “I have already shared my plans with Sri Tridandi Chinna Jeeyar Swamy, who has assured his guidance. I want to make Thogaram a model village and make every woman an entrepreneur by setting up small scale units,” Vanisri said. Vanisri filed her nominations on Monday in support of YSRC. Interestingly, her opponent is her relative Tammineni Bharatamma, who supports TDP. Unlike her husband Sitaram, a six-time MLA with over 20 years of years of political experience, Vanisri has not been directly involved in politics so far. “It is the first time she is directly involved in politics and has support from villagers. There is no involvement from my side,” the Speaker told TOI. Thogaram village has a population of close to 2,000 with around 1,500 voters. The Kanlinga community (BC-A) constitutes a sizeable chunk of the population followed by handloom weavers. Locals here are mostly dependent on agriculture but a growing number of youth from the village are now opting to become teachers, lawyers, engineers, and doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-1st-political-run-speakers-wife-to-contest-for-sarpanch/articleshow/80794835.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Phase I sees narrow wins, zero-vote candidate||AMARAVATI: Counting of votes for panchayat elections held on Tuesday went on till the early hours of Wednesday in several villages as vote margins were so narrow that rival candidates insisted on several re-counts. With results changing in most spells of counting, officials too were compelled to hold more counts before declaring results. Several villages reported at least three to four rounds of counts due to objections from the candidates. In Guntur district, a candidate for sarpanch in Chavavaripalem village of Tenali division polled zero votes leaving the officials surprised. While there was no difficulty in declaring the result as there were four more candidates, officials were puzzled over how the candidate who got no votes even failed to cast a vote for herself. In one instance, officials filed a case against YSRC supporters at Kandarada village under Pithapuram mandal for taking away a ballot box from the counting centre. In Kadapa’s Tummalapalli village under B Koduru mandal, YSRC supporter B Ramasubbareddy was declared victorious after four rounds of counting. The candidate secured a margin of three votes in the first spell of counting and a two-vote margin in the second spell. As rival candidates objected, officials counted the votes again which resulted in the margin being reduced to one vote. With rival candidates still not conceding, officials counted the votes for a fourth time and declared the result. Two rival groups of the YSRC clashed with each other at Kurnuthala village under Vatticherukuru mandal in Guntur district on Wednesday. At least two people who were injured in the incident were rushed to Government General Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/phase-i-sees-narrow-wins-zero-vote-candidate/articleshow/80794454.cms||Samdani MN
February 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Peddireddy cleared by HC to speak to media but with riders||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Wednesday gave relief to panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy from the refraining orders of the state election commission with riders. As Peddireddy submitted an undertaking stating he will not make any utterances with regard to the ongoing elections or the SEC, the court granted him relief to speak to the media. The SEC, taking note of the comments made by Peddireddy at a press conference on February 5, had directed the DGP to restrain him to his house and not allow him to speak to media. Challenging the order, Peddireddy moved a house motion petition the next day. The HC gave him partial relief by allowing him to travel but upheld the SEC’s order, refraining him from speaking to the media observing that right to freedom of expression was not absolute. Peddireddy appealed against the single-judge order before the division bench, arguing it is essential for him to speak to the media about programs of the government to disseminate information to the public. The minister also gave an undertaking that he will not speak about the ongoing election process or the state election commissioner. The high court bench headed by Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C Praveen Kumar allowed his petition and directed him to comply with the undertaking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/peddireddy-cleared-by-hc-to-speak-to-media-but-with-riders/articleshow/80795162.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 11, 2021||Amaravati||YSRC’s wins in panchayats strengthen capitals stance||AMARAVATI: In a significant development, YSRC bagged nearly 85% panchayats in Guntur and Krishna districts despite TDP making a strong pitch about the relocation of the capital city from Amaravati. With elections in the core capital city area in Thullur postponed due to court cases, YSRC and TDP approached the elections in the neighbouring areas a prestige issue. Charging that the development in both Krishna and Guntur districts was stalled by the YSRC government, TDP launched an aggressive campaign in the panchayat elections. It made a fervent appeal to voters that victory in gram panchayat elections would at least work as an eye-opener to the government and resume development in the region. At one stage, YSRC legislators too feared that the results might damage their reputation with the party leadership and worked overtime to win the elections. However, TDP’s aggressive campaign on Amaravati seemed to have not worked well as people in most villages decided to go with YSRC. Duggirala village, once a TDP stronghold, was won by YSRC’s Banavath Khushi Bai with majority of 1,179 votes. The margin of over 1,000 votes was not expected even by YSRC. The party supported candidates won 14 out of 18 wards in the village. “The result showed that YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is in people’s hearts and it can’t be erased so easily with a vicious campaign,” said local legislator Alla Ramakrishna Reddy. He said the party could clinch victory despite TDP spending huge monies. YSRC bagged 263 sarpanch posts out of 337 that went to polls in the first phase in Guntur district. TDP supporters won 69 villages which around 20% of the total villages. Tenali division in Guntur neighbours Amaravati and witnessed real estate boom during the TDP regime. However, TDP did not make gains as it expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ysrcs-wins-in-panchayats-strengthen-capitals-stance/articleshow/80823611.cms||Samdani MN
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Ajoy Mehta is chosen head of MahaRera||Mumbai: The chief minister’s principal adviser Ajoy Mehta will be the new chairman of the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRera). The former chief secretary replaces veteran bureaucrat Gautam Chaterjee, whose term expired last month. An IAS officer of the 1984 batch, Mehta retired on June 25 and was appointed principal adviser to the CM. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar and former additional chief secretary Satish Gavai were also in the race for the MahaRera chairman’s post. The chairman is selected by a high-level panel headed by Justice S S Shinde. Both Mehta and Kumar had also applied for the post of chairman of the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ajoy-mehta-is-chosen-head-of-maharera/articleshow/80799414.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Vadodara||Clinching proof threw MLA’s son out of fray||Vadodara: Dipak Shrivastava, son of heavyweight BJP Waghodiya MLA Madhu Shrivastava, may consider himself a victim of the scheming by BJP to keep him out of polls, but it was strong evidence dug up by rivals that actually led to his ouster from the poll fray owing to the two-child norm. Political circles were already abuzz with rumours that Shrivastav had three children in the run up to the ticket distribution. But few would have imagined that his MLA father had adopted one of his three children. Dipak kept denying that he was a father of three children on the ground that he legally had only two children. Dipak now says that he was saying that he had only two children as his name was used as the father in the case of only two. “I stated this in my nomination papers too,” he said. Dipak has now decided that he will not get involved with the electioneering in ward 15 from where he was seeking a ticket. “I will work for BJP candidates in other constituencies,” he said. He had filed nomination as an independent after BJP denied him a ticket in line with the policy of not giving tickets to relatives of party leaders. The adoption agreement between Dipak and his wife on one side and Madhu and his wife on the other reveals that it was Dipak’s second child –a daughter – that was adopted by Madhu by performing rituals on May 8, 2018 and was staying with Madhu since the same day. The adoption agreement was made on July 15, 2020 and registered with the Bapod sub-registrar on July 18, 2020. The order cancelling nomination mentions that he had become the father of a boy on October 22, 2020. The boy was Dipak’s third child. On paper, Dipak is the father of a daughter born in 2012 and the son. Sources said even if he had been granted a ticket by the BJP, rivals would have raised the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/clinching-proof-threw-mlas-son-out-of-fray/articleshow/80793008.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Vijayawada||YSRC’s wins in panchayats strengthen capitals stance||AMARAVATI: In a significant development, YSRC bagged nearly 85% panchayats in Guntur and Krishna districts despite TDP making a strong pitch about the relocation of the capital city from Amaravati. With elections in the core capital city area in Thullur postponed due to court cases, YSRC and TDP approached the elections in the neighbouring areas a prestige issue. Charging that the development in both Krishna and Guntur districts was stalled by the YSRC government, TDP launched an aggressive campaign in the panchayat elections. It made a fervent appeal to voters that victory in gram panchayat elections would at least work as an eye-opener to the government and resume development in the region. At one stage, YSRC legislators too feared that the results might damage their reputation with the party leadership and worked overtime to win the elections. However, TDP’s aggressive campaign on Amaravati seemed to have not worked well as people in most villages decided to go with YSRC. Duggirala village, once a TDP stronghold, was won by YSRC’s Banavath Khushi Bai with majority of 1,179 votes. The margin of over 1,000 votes was not expected even by YSRC. The party supported candidates won 14 out of 18 wards in the village. “The result showed that YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is in people’s hearts and it can’t be erased so easily with a vicious campaign,” said local legislator Alla Ramakrishna Reddy. He said the party could clinch victory despite TDP spending huge monies. YSRC bagged 263 sarpanch posts out of 337 that went to polls in the first phase in Guntur district. TDP supporters won 69 villages which around 20% of the total villages. Tenali division in Guntur neighbours Amaravati and witnessed real estate boom during the TDP regime. However, TDP did not make gains as it expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrcs-wins-in-panchayats-strengthen-capitals-stance/articleshow/80794269.cms||Samdani MN
February 11, 2021||Chennai||Injured suspect escapes from govt hospital||Chennai: Prabhakaran, who escaped the hospital he was being treated in after a retaliatory attack by an AIADMK functionary at Ayapakkam, surrendered in a court in Ambattur on Wednesday. On Monday, M M Murthy, an AIADMK functionary and a former councillor, had fought off four armed men including Prabakaran. Murthy snatched a machete from one of them and attacked Prabhakaran. CCTV camera footage of the incident went viral on social media. Prabhakaran was admitted to Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital where he was undergoing treatment for injuries. On Tuesday, he pretended to be going to the bathroom and escaped from the hospital. Police said Prabakaran could have escaped fearing attack from Murthy’s men. Police said the gang members led by Prabhakaran had hatched a plan to kill Murthy after he bailed out one of the suspects who attacked Prabakaran a few months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/injured-suspect-escapes-from-govt-hospital/articleshow/80799457.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh sees lowest daily Covid-19 count in 8 months||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 50 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the lowest single-day count in eight months after the state registered 47 cases on May 23. The cumulative caseload has gone up to 8,88,605, while the toll increased to 7,161 as one more patient succumbed to the novel coronavirus in Nellore district. Altogether, 121 patients were discharged from various hospitals. There are currently 845 active cases with 8,80,599 cumulative recoveries and 7,161 deaths. Chittoor reported 13 new infections, while West Godavari, for the fourth consecutive day, and Kurnool, for the second straight day, have not recorded any new cases of coronavirus infections. The remaining 10 districts registered single-digit case numbers. The active caseload dropped below the 100-mark in East Godavari, which leads the table with nearly 1.24 lakh cumulative cases, while it reached single-digit figure in Srikakulam (8 active cases). Only Chittoor and Krishna have an active caseload of more than 100 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-sees-lowest-daily-covid-19-count-in-8-mths/articleshow/80795342.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Bareilly||SI booked for attempted rape, suspended||Pilibhit: A sub-inspector (SI) with Barkhera police station was booked for allegedly attempting to rape a 29-year-old complainant, whose parental home is under the same police station, following orders of superintendent of police (SP) Jai Prakash Yadav. The woman has alleged the accused had already been harassing her with obscene comments over the phone for days, before the incident. The SP has suspended the SI with immediate effect and attached him to the reserve police lines. The woman had filed a written complaint with the SP on February 3. The FIR was lodged on February 5, but police kept it concealed from the media. The complainant alleged that after her parents passed away 15 years ago, she was married to a man with whom she has been living in a village under Gajraula police station. Sometime ago, realising that her parents had willed their agricultural land in the name of her mentally impaired brother, her elder sister had forcibly taken away the brother to live with her in Bisalpur city, hoping to usurp the land. About a month ago, she had filed a written complaint against her sister with Barkhera police station, from which the accused SI, Ramgopal, had got hold of her cell phone number. Following this, the SI started making obscene phone calls to her after 10PM almost every night. Then one day, he suggested she should accompany him to Bisalpur to bring her brother back from her elder sister’s house, she said. To save the agricultural land and her brother’s future, she consented. After reaching Bisalpur on February 2, he asked her to accompany him to a flat in Patel Nagar, to write a complaint that would be filed at Bisalpur Kotwali police station, she alleged. When they reached the flat, the SI closed the door from inside, grabbed her and attempted to molest her. Using all her strength, she managed to run away. When the SI then threatened to implicate both the complainant and her husband in a false criminal case if she disclosed the matter to anyone, she told the entire story to her husband and straightaway filed a complaint with the SP, she said. Barkhera SHO Viresh Kumar said Ramgopal was booked under Section 354A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures) of IPC. The SP, Jai Prakash Yadav, said Ramgopal would remain suspended until the end of investigation. In case allegations leveled against him were found to be false, his suspension would be withdrawn. But if a chargesheet was filed against him, the suspension would continue till the court’s judgment, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/si-booked-for-attempted-rape-suspended/articleshow/80795584.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||All set, parties appoint whips, plan arrival at council||Hyderabad: Gearing up for the mayoral elections to be held on Thursday, political parties have appointed their representatives as whips. TRS appointed MLC MS Prabhakar; AIMIM has appointed MLA from Yakutpura assembly segment, who is also AIMIM general secretary, Ahmed Pasha Quadri; and BJP has appointed corporator from Gudimalkapur ward D Karunakar. Congress did not appoint any representative. In 2016, AIMIM did not appoint any representative to issue a whip. If any elected member on behalf of a recognised political party disobeys the party whip, he or she could send a written report to the presiding officer within three days from the date of election. If the elected member cast his or her vote in disobedience of the party whip, he or she would cease to hold office in the manner prescribed. However, the vote cast by that member would be valid. Arrangements for Thursday morning have also been put in place by political parties. TRS corporators and ex-officio members have decided to reach the council by bus. “We have been asked to assemble at Telangana Bhavan at 8am. We will be briefed about the elections. MLC Prabhakar will be handed over the sealed cover and all corporators and ex-officio members together will reach GHMC council by 10:30am,” a TRS corporator said, adding, “unlike last time, we did not have exclusive three-day training session for corporators.” BJP corporators have planned to visit the ‘Ammavari Temple’ located at Basheerbagh and come to GHMC council. AIMIM corporators too would assemble at Darusalam in the morning before heading to the council. Expressing confidence, animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav said, “Mayor as well as deputy mayor positions will be bagged by TRS. In a democracy, any political party has the right to contest, but we have the numbers. Tomorrow, after a meeting in Telangana Bhavan, we will go to GHMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/all-set-parties-appoint-whips-plan-arrival-at-council/articleshow/80799392.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||After SC order, Jaipur schools start sending notices for updated fee||JAIPUR: A day after the Supreme Court order, private schools in the city have started sending messages to parents regarding the payment of fees. Seedling Public School has sent a letter on Wednesday to parents stating that schools will charge the fees for 2020-21 session similar to the session of 2019-20. Parents have been asked to submit the fees according to the order i.e. in six installments. The school has mentioned that any parent who will submit the fees in one go will be given 10% rebate. Taking into consideration the financial problem during pandemic, Seedling Public School has asked parents to show documents of unemployment or ITR for the last three years based on which some relaxations will be granted to parents. Maharaja Sawai Man Singh Vidyalay has decided to continue with 25% concession in fees for 2020-2021 session claiming to maintain a healthier relationship with parents. Damodar Goyal, board member of SMS School, said that they didn’t find it appropriate to revert the decision of concession given the fact that parents have suffered during the pandemic. “We have decided not to take back the fee reduction that we announced last year even before the order of the government. We understand the situation of parents and will always be considerate for them.” Schools that come under Minority School Shiksha Parivar have sent a letter to the parents saying that 60% concession given earlier will continue. Mohammad Ashar, principal of Royal Oxford School, said it is not possible for small schools to charge full fees. “Parents in our schools are usually behind deadline in fee submission. We have told the parents that the 60% concession will continue if they deposit the fee by February 28, after which the Supreme Court directive will be followed,” Ashar said. Other private schools told TOI that they are in a planning stage and will soon start the process of sending notices to parents. Parents have, however, found themselves to be in a difficult situation as after fighting for months over fee reduction, the Supreme Court order has left them disappointed. Abhishek Jain, secretary of Rajasthan Parents Association, said that within two days they will organise a street protest. “We will file a review petition in the court. In a few days a massive street protest will be held in the city to show our resentment against the powerful people. This is a one-sided order,” Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-sc-order-city-schools-start-sending-notices-for-updated-fee/articleshow/80799403.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Petitions challenging poll processes maintainable: HC||Ahmedabad: In an important order, the Gujarat high court on Wednesday held that it can entertain petitions for judicial review of election process and there is no bar in the Constitution that restrains the court from exercising its powers.The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora upheld the maintainability of petitions challenging election processes. However, the court rejected a batch of petitions that questioned the State Election Commission (SEC) and the state government’s decisions with regard to rotation in reservation for reserved seats in civic bodies.The petitions were alleging violation of statutory and constitutional mandate in some taluka panchayats in Tapi district, where seats for certain villages were reserved for women only for last three terms, thereby depriving an opportunity to a male candidate. The petitions insisted that the rationale for rotation is that the reservation of a seat should not permanently disable other segments for the community from participating in the democratic process. The rotation policy is a safeguard against the possibility of a particular seat being reserved in perpetuity.The high court rejected these petitions on the ground that the civic elections are around the corner and it would not like to interfere in the decisions on rotation in reservation at the last moment.The HC rejected SEC’s contention that the decision on rotation cannot be questioned in the high court because Article 243-O of the Constitution bars it. The court also rejected the authorities’ stand that once election process is initiated, it cannot be challenged.The HC further said that contesting an election is not a fundamental, but a constitutional right of a citizen. “The State which is vested with the power to implement the constitutional mandate of reservation and rotation and has put in place a legislative and executive measure to implement the mandate cannot be found to have objected judicial review so as to interfere the mandate under law and to ensure that the elections are not only conducted within the time prescribed but also in the manner as mandated under law,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/petitions-challenging-poll-processes-maintainable-hc/articleshow/80799448.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||DCP on night patrol catches six partying in public place||Nagpur: DCP Vinita Sahu caught six persons including two women partying in a public place in two cars in the wee hours of Wednesday. Spotting the police, one of the cars sped away, which was later seized by the Ambazari police. According to police, at around 1.30am, DCP Vinita Sahu was on night round. She spotted two cars parked near Law College Square having several persons inside them. Sensing foul play, the DCP started questioning the occupants. Police sources said they were partying inside the car. First the occupants tried to mislead the senior cop, while some also tried to make a joke of the latter, said Ambazari police. Angered by this, the DCP called the Ambazari police patrol team. On seeing additional police personnel, occupants in one of the cars sped away from the spot. The police detained occupants of the other car and took them to the Ambazari police station. The cops asked them to call their friends who had fled. Soon, they too returned. Police said most of them were in an inebriated state and were sent for blood test to the GMCH. Police said two were residents of Nagpur, while two were from Bhandara and Amgaon and the women were from Chandrapur. Police said all the six were well educated and running a startup. On the instructions of Sahu, the Ambazari police booked the six under relevant sections of the IPC, Motor Vehicles Act and Epidemic Disease Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dcp-on-night-patrol-catches-six-partying-in-public-place/articleshow/80803464.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Probe ordered as video of nurses dancing in ICU goes viral||ALWAR: A video has gone viral in which employees of government-run Rajiv Gandhi Hospital in Alwar are seen dancing to the tunes of songs in a surgical ICU. Taking action against the three hospital employees — two nursing staff and a contractual sanitation worker — who are seen dancing in the video, the hospital has terminated the service of the contractual employee, while the two nursing staff have been shifted to other departments from the surgical ICU. Music was playing loudly and the three staff who were wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) were dancing to its tunes. The surgical ICU was vacant at the time of filming the video. The video was shot on the intervening night of Monday-Tuesday. “We have terminated the services of the contractual sanitation worker and the two nursing staff have been shifted to other departments. An inquiry into the matter has been initiated,” said Dr Sunil Chauhan, principal medical officer, Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. The three-member committee looking into the matter comprises deputy controller, nursing superintendent and a physician. The committee has been asked to submit the report in 24 hours. The accused nursing staff were identified as Pradeep Kumar and Yogesh Yadav. One of them has been shifted to trauma centre and the other to medicine ward. The services of sanitation worker Ajay has been terminated. According to the hospital administration, the ICU was reserved for Covid-19 patients but as the number of Covid patients has gone down, they converted the ICU again into surgical ICU three days ago. Hospital’s deputy controller Dr Sushil Batra said that after the video went viral, principal medical officer Dr Chauhan constituted a committee. The committee will present its report after investigating into the matter. The motive behind recording such video will be investigated. It was a six-bedded Covid ICU but now it has been turned into 10-bedded surgical ICU after Covid cases went down. After recording the video, the persons seen purportedly dancing in the video, shared the video in nurses’ groups on a social networking online app. The nurses on the social group raised objection against the video following which the accused nurses apologised for their actions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/probe-ordered-as-video-of-nurses-dancing-in-icu-goes-viral/articleshow/80799435.cms||Rajendra sharma
February 11, 2021||Chennai||IIT-M team develops battery-run sweepers||CHENNAI: Conservancy workers brushing city streets with brooms amid a storm of dust kicking up is a common early morning sight. Studies have shown that a majority of them also suffer from multiple health problems due to the working conditions. Researchers at Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, have designed and developed a road dust collector that works like a lawn mower to make road cleaning a little less back-breaking. Researchers said the two-foot-tall, battery-operated prototype machine is equipped with rolling brushes, dust pans and suction fans to clear both fine and coarse particles off roads. It can also be run on solar energy. Professor Shiva Nagendra, department of civil engineering, said the dust collector is an improvised version and has been widely tested on various road surfaces in IIT-M campus. Besides two small rotating brushes, the machine has a rolling brush that pushes the dust particles on the road backwards. Coarse particles, stones and leaves get collected in a dustpan attached to the machine while the finer particles get kicked up in the air to be drawn in by small suction fans. The entire process happens as the machine, with a capacity of collecting 40 litres (or kg) of coarse debris and 14 litres of fine dust, is moved at 3km per hour. The research teams found the machine to be cleaning 70-90% of the dust on various surfaces in the institute campus. “With three batteries, the machine can work for eight hours. The machine consumes less power as only the brushes and suction fans, which are fans used in computer CPUs, require them,” said Dheeraj Alshetty V, a research scholar, who was involved in the project. Alshetty said they spent around Rs 50,000 to develop the prototype, but it will work out much cheaper when it is commercially manufactured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iit-m-team-develops-battery-run-sweepers/articleshow/80799524.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Team inspects NCDC sites||Hyderabad: A five-member team from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) visited Hyderabad on Wednesday and inspected three sites proposed by state for setting up a NCDC office. Among the locations visited was Pharma City. Team included Dr KL Ramesh, Dr Dhara Shah and Dr Shikha Vardhan from NCDC, Dr Pranay Verma from Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, Rajeev Kanaujia architect from Central Design Bureau, New Delhi. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/team-inspects-ncdc-sites/articleshow/80799539.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Goa||Replace pipeline, restore water to Betim, PWD told||Panaji: Observing that human rights have been violated by PWD by not restoring water connection to a mundarial house, the human rights commission has recommended it to restore the water connection to the house at Betim by replacing the damaged water pipeline. “The commission finds that the PWD is duty bound to restore water supply to the house of the late Pandurang Talaulikar as the NOC was already given by the original owner in 1979.” stated the commission in its inquiry report. The chairman of three member commission justice U V Bakre and its members Desmond D’Costa and Pramod V Kamat, agreed that no new pipeline will be installed but only repairs or replacement of the existing pipeline are to be done, for which NOC was given by the owner at the time of the release of the connection. The NOC was given in 1979 by the owner and the pipeline was laid in his property. For replacing the damaged pipeline, there is no provision of law that states that the fresh NOC from the present owner would be required for replacing the damaged pipeline, the commission stated. The owner stated that the PWD has no right to trespass into his property and stated that he has filed a civil suit against the complainant. He alleged that the complainant is not residing in the house and have separate residences in Salvador do Mundo and Caranzalem. After an inspection, it was found that most of the pipelines are very old and completly corroded and hence it is required to replace full length of pipeline, which is about 60 to 70m from the main tapping point to the meter point. The complainant stated that the owner of the property damaged the pipeline||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/replace-pipeline-restore-water-to-betim-pwd-told/articleshow/80803539.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 5 million get the jab in 26 days||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state gained momentum as over half a million population of healthcare workers and frontline workers received the jab in the last 26 days. The health department is going to start the process of giving second dose to healthcare workers from February 13. With 67,145 more people getting vaccinated on Wednesday, including 554 healthcare workers, the cumulative number in the state rose to 5,58,688 against the target of 8,09,171. Rajasthan is among the ten states which recorded highest number of vaccinations. The other leading states are Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Bihar. “Rajasthan is a leading state in vaccination in the country. The number of beneficiaries is over 5 lakh, thanks to our doctors, nursing staff, paramedics for doing the noble work,” said Dr Laxman Singh Ola, director, reproduction and child health, health department. Wednesday was the last chance for the frontline workers to get the first dose as the health department organized mop-up round for the frontline workers. District collector Antar Singh Nehra said that vaccination sessions will be organised on Thursday for left-out healthcare workers, which will be the last chance for them to get the jab. Since it was the last opportunity for frontline workers, rush was seen at the police headquarters where 900 police personnel got the jab from 9am to 6pm. ADGP Umesh Mishra was among the IPS officers who got the jab. DGP M L Lathar said five teams of health department camped for whole day at the police headquarters to vaccinate policemen. No case of adverse event following immunisation was reported from police headquarters. According to the health department report, 66,591 frontline workers including policemen, panchayati raj employees, local bodies’ employees got the jab against the target of 76,235 set for the day, achieving 87% target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-5-million-get-the-jab-in-26-days/articleshow/80799463.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Over 5 million get the jab in 26 days||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state gained momentum as over half a million population of healthcare workers and frontline workers received the jab in the last 26 days. The health department is going to start the process of giving second dose to healthcare workers from February 13. With 67,145 more people getting vaccinated on Wednesday, including 554 healthcare workers, the cumulative number in the state rose to 5,58,688 against the target of 8,09,171. Rajasthan is among the ten states which recorded highest number of vaccinations. The other leading states are Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Bihar. “Rajasthan is a leading state in vaccination in the country. The number of beneficiaries is over 5 lakh, thanks to our doctors, nursing staff, paramedics for doing the noble work,” said Dr Laxman Singh Ola, director, reproduction and child health, health department. Wednesday was the last chance for the frontline workers to get the first dose as the health department organized mop-up round for the frontline workers. District collector Antar Singh Nehra said that vaccination sessions will be organised on Thursday for left-out healthcare workers, which will be the last chance for them to get the jab. Since it was the last opportunity for frontline workers, rush was seen at the police headquarters where 900 police personnel got the jab from 9am to 6pm. ADGP Umesh Mishra was among the IPS officers who got the jab. DGP M L Lathar said five teams of health department camped for whole day at the police headquarters to vaccinate policemen. No case of adverse event following immunisation was reported from police headquarters. According to the health department report, 66,591 frontline workers including policemen, panchayati raj employees, local bodies’ employees got the jab against the target of 76,235 set for the day, achieving 87% target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/over-5-million-get-the-jab-in-26-days/articleshow/80843655.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Over 5 million get the jab in 26 days||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state gained momentum as over half a million population of healthcare workers and frontline workers received the jab in the last 26 days. The health department is going to start the process of giving second dose to healthcare workers from February 13. With 67,145 more people getting vaccinated on Wednesday, including 554 healthcare workers, the cumulative number in the state rose to 5,58,688 against the target of 8,09,171. Rajasthan is among the ten states which recorded highest number of vaccinations. The other leading states are Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Bihar. “Rajasthan is a leading state in vaccination in the country. The number of beneficiaries is over 5 lakh, thanks to our doctors, nursing staff, paramedics for doing the noble work,” said Dr Laxman Singh Ola, director, reproduction and child health, health department. Wednesday was the last chance for the frontline workers to get the first dose as the health department organized mop-up round for the frontline workers. District collector Antar Singh Nehra said that vaccination sessions will be organised on Thursday for left-out healthcare workers, which will be the last chance for them to get the jab. Since it was the last opportunity for frontline workers, rush was seen at the police headquarters where 900 police personnel got the jab from 9am to 6pm. ADGP Umesh Mishra was among the IPS officers who got the jab. DGP M L Lathar said five teams of health department camped for whole day at the police headquarters to vaccinate policemen. No case of adverse event following immunisation was reported from police headquarters. According to the health department report, 66,591 frontline workers including policemen, panchayati raj employees, local bodies’ employees got the jab against the target of 76,235 set for the day, achieving 87% target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/over-5-million-get-the-jab-in-26-days/articleshow/80843658.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Over 5 million get the jab in 26 days||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state gained momentum as over half a million population of healthcare workers and frontline workers received the jab in the last 26 days. The health department is going to start the process of giving second dose to healthcare workers from February 13. With 67,145 more people getting vaccinated on Wednesday, including 554 healthcare workers, the cumulative number in the state rose to 5,58,688 against the target of 8,09,171. Rajasthan is among the ten states which recorded highest number of vaccinations. The other leading states are Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Bihar. “Rajasthan is a leading state in vaccination in the country. The number of beneficiaries is over 5 lakh, thanks to our doctors, nursing staff, paramedics for doing the noble work,” said Dr Laxman Singh Ola, director, reproduction and child health, health department. Wednesday was the last chance for the frontline workers to get the first dose as the health department organized mop-up round for the frontline workers. District collector Antar Singh Nehra said that vaccination sessions will be organised on Thursday for left-out healthcare workers, which will be the last chance for them to get the jab. Since it was the last opportunity for frontline workers, rush was seen at the police headquarters where 900 police personnel got the jab from 9am to 6pm. ADGP Umesh Mishra was among the IPS officers who got the jab. DGP M L Lathar said five teams of health department camped for whole day at the police headquarters to vaccinate policemen. No case of adverse event following immunisation was reported from police headquarters. According to the health department report, 66,591 frontline workers including policemen, panchayati raj employees, local bodies’ employees got the jab against the target of 76,235 set for the day, achieving 87% target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/over-5-million-get-the-jab-in-26-days/articleshow/80843652.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Surat||Gavier wetland all set for conservation cover||Surat: There is some good news for the nature lovers in Surat. The forest department has zeroed in on the Gavier wetland on the Surat-Dumas road for the conservation of the local biodiversity in the city. At present, the Gavier Lake is managed by the city-based Nature Club Surat (NCS). The forest department will discuss with Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) authorities the plans for preservation and expansion of the wetland and how to develop more such wetlands in and around Surat city for increasing the biodiversity hotspots. Officials of the forest department led by chief conservator of forest (Surat Range), CK Sonawane and deputy conservator of forest (DCF) Puneet Nayyar had carried out the bird count and discussed the preservation plan of the wetland with the NCS volunteers. Talking with TOI, Nayyar said, “Gavier is the only wetland in Surat that is well-protected and preserved by NCS. But, we need to expand the area of the wetland to make it the biodiversity hotspot.” Nayyar added, “Gavier wetland comes under the jurisdiction of SMC. In the last few years, SMC has supported NCS in developing it. But, we want more such hotspots to come up in the city for bird lovers and common people.” The wetland conservation project started in 2003. Today, the Gavier wetland is home to about 130 bird species, 69 species of butterflies, 26 reptiles, seven species of amphibians, 74 spider species, 70 insects and about nine mammals. The wetland is home to about 2,000 migratory birds during the winter season. A gradual slope has been created for the birds like wadgers for landing. On another side of the lake, typha weeds are growing naturally, where the birds like purple moorhens, grey herons, pheasant-tailed jacana can breed. Snehal Patel of NCS told TOI, “The town planning (TP) scheme implementation in the area is posing a serious threat to the ecosystem and biodiversity of Gavier.” Patel added, “We are thankful to the civic authorities for not approving the road on the periphery of the lake, but serious efforts are still required to protect and conserve the wetland.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gavier-wetland-all-set-for-conservation-cover/articleshow/80792273.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||No. of women buying life cover dips: IRDAI||Hyderabad: The number of women putting a premium on their lives has declined in 2019-20. As per IRDAI’s latest annual report, in 2019-20, women accounted for only 32% of the new life insurance policies sold as compared to 36% in 2018-19. When it comes to the first-year premium too, women’s contribution declined to 34% in 2019-20 as compared to 37% in the year-ago period. Total number of life insurance policies sold in 2019-20 stood at 2.88 crore, with a first-year premium of Rs 1.02 lakh crore. Of these, women accounted for 93 lakh policies sold with a first-year premium of nearly Rs 34,737 crore. While most life insurers said they could not ascertain factors behind this drop, an industry expert said more number of working women are going beyond life insurance and looking at other products, mainly health insurance, as well as other investment tools such as mutual funds, as a result of which there could have been a slight dip in the numbers. However, it is important to note that India’s female labour force participation rate has been declining and stood at over 20% in 2019 as compared to over 30% in 2005. Out of the 93 lakh policies bought by women in 2019-20, nearly one-third were in three states — Maharashtra (11.98%), West Bengal (10.60%) and UP (9.87%). Similarly, out of Rs 34,737 crore first-year premium contributed by women, slightly more than one-third was from Maharashtra (17.05%), West Bengal (9.66%) and UP (8.66%). Interestingly, women accounted for 27% of all life policies sold by private insurers, whereas in the case of LIC, this number was 34%. With this decline in the number of life insurance policies bought by women, who constitute 49% of the total population of the country, their share in this segment has dropped to 2017-18 levels. In 2017-18 too, women accounted for 32% of the total life insurance policies sold. Besides, when it comes to the insurance sector, annual report stated that 6.15 lakh women are working as agents in life insurance industry, making it 27% of total individual agency force as on March 31, 2020. Of these, share of private life insurers was 55%, whereas share of LIC was 45%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-of-women-buying-life-cover-dips-irdai/articleshow/80799503.cms||Swati Rathor
February 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||AAP promises ‘Delhi model’||Ahmedabad: Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday released its manifesto, named “guarantee card”, promising to replicate the ‘Delhi model’ in the city. The eight-point “guarantee card” emphasized education, health, tax, parking and public transport, and public amenities among other areas. “AAP will do for the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, what it has done for Delhi in terms of health, education, women’s safety, sports, etc., as promised in our guarantee card,” Ahmedabad zone organizing secretary Hasmukh Patel said. He said a school will be set up in each ward of the AMC and more teachers will be recruited. AAP will also set up a mohalla clinic in every ward. The party’s “guarantee card” also promises adequate buses, setting up sports complexes in each zone, taking action against industrial units releasing pollutantsand ridding the city of stray cattle and dogs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aap-promises-delhi-model/articleshow/80799492.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||RAS Pinky Meena gets bail for marriage||JAIPUR: The high court on Wednesday granted interim bail to RAS officer Pinky Meena (SDM Bandikui) who was arrested by the ACB while accepting an illegal gratification of Rs 10 lakh from a road construction company. Meanwhile, the ACB court rejected the bail plea of IPS officer Manish Agarwal. The ACB had arrested Agarwal on charges of corruption during his tenure as Dausa SP. The single bench of Justice Indrajeet Singh passed the order following a prayer by Meena that she be released on an interim bail for 15 days for her marriage. The petitioner has been granted interim bail for 10 days as her marriage is to be solemnised on February 16, said the court. The court said additional advocate general and public prosecutor had no serious objection as marriage of the petitioner had already been fixed as was evident from the order passed by the trial court. The court granted bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with two sureties of Rs 25,000 and surrender before the jail authorities on February 21. Court reserves order on constable recruitmentThe HC has reserved it order on the result of constable recruitment exam 2019. The court had stayed the declaration of district-wise results of the exam on January 8 over alleged irregularity in district-wise merit list. The court issued the order on a petition by Jaheer Ahamad. The petitioner said the selection for the posts of constable was done by issuing a common advertisement for all districts. The vacancies for various districts are also mentioned in the advertisement and a common examination was conducted for all the candidates. But when the merit list was prepared, there was anolamy in the district-wise results as the cut-off marks for various categories are different in various districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ras-pinky-meena-gets-bail-for-marriage/articleshow/80799488.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||‘Avni’ shooters accuse vets of using zoo tigress urine ‘illegally’||Nagpur: In a twist to the 2019 shooting case of Pandharkawada tigress T1, popularly known as Avni, the men who shot her stated that the veterinarians had “illegally” sprinkled urine of a female tigress from Maharajbagh Zoo on the road to capture the tigress only “to make it more ferocious”. In an affidavit submitted before the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court through counsel Masood Shareef on Wednesday, shooters Shafath Ali Khan and Asghar Ali Khan blamed veterinarians Dr Chetan Patond and Dr Sunil Bawaskar for putting their and the villagers’ lives in peril. Avni, which was declared a problem tigress after allegedly turning man-eater was shot on November 2, 2018. Accusing the veterinarians of acting in a casual and irresponsible manner, the Hyderabad shooters prayed for dismissal of the PIL that they claimed was filed with ulterior motives and mala fide intentions. “Both doctors smuggled tigress urine from Maharajbagh zoo without the necessary authorization. Without notifying either the chief wildlife warden or any other senior officers, they used a pressure pump to clandestinely spray the alien tigress’s urine on the road between Borati to Warud. They then fogged the area and saturated it with the smell of the tigress scent.” Further, the Khans said their action had a direct bearing on the catastrophic chaos of the final encounter with T-1. “The tigress, already overwrought with hunger, had become livid as it believed that its cubs faced a threat in the form of an alien tigress in its territory. “The safety of the sub-adult cubs being T1’s topmost priority, it took to guarding the narrow stretch of road from Borati to Warud, leading to Ralegaon, putting the life of the villagers in danger. The strong, pungent scent of alien tigress urine had induced a ‘full-blown territorial aggression’. As a consequence, the lives of the many visitors to the market and our team would have lost,” they stated. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote then adjourned the hearing after petitioner’s counsel Sejal Lakhani, appearing on behalf of Shreerang Bhandarkar, sought time to file a rejoinder. On why the government did not make any further inquiry to fix accountability for certain mistakes, forest department counsel Kartik Shukul told the judges that he would seek instructions. Narrating the incident of the killing, the shooters said the tigress attacked the vehicle after being darted with a tranquiliser that takes 15-20 minutes to take effect. “Asghar in a reflex action purely in self-defence spontaneously fired one shot at her from the licensed rifle. The bullet hit the tigress on the left shoulder as she was charging towards the search light being used from the rear of the vehicle. She instantly fell down. Had it not been so, the lives of team members would have been endangered. The driver panicked and the vehicle went off the road towards the right side,” the affidavit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/avni-shooters-accuse-vets-of-using-zoo-tigress-urine-illegally/articleshow/80803677.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||IIM-Ahmedabad writes letter, no spirit say stakeholders||AHMEDABAD: The IIM-A Board of Governors (BoG) wrote to stakeholders on Wednesday assuring them of discussions on Louis Kahn’s iconic creations, but laid out no concrete plan — thus keeping the conservation issue burning. The BoG said that the institute will hold further consultations with international experts regarding the feasibility, safety, and sustainability of restoration and rehabilitation of the structures. The initial and ongoing costs will be taken into consideration, according to the letter.  Architects and IIM-A alumni are of the view that the latest communication from the BoG is high on promises but avoids committing to a firm action plan. The one-page letter titled ‘Statement from the Board of Governors on Campus Preservation’ is silent on the conservation of structures on the campus other than the dormitories. IIM-A authorities had in December revealed plans to level most of the student dormitories designed by Kahn. “There is no course correction to demonstrate at least love and intent to preserve the heritage campus,” said an alumnus who graduated two decades ago from the IIM-A. “There is no reference to the campus at all.” The campus is seen as part of the living heritage of Ahmedabad, which figures in the World Heritage Cities’ list of Unesco. “In the West, businesspersons and eminent personalities who wish to create a legacy are often associated with the preservation of heritage structures and things of great beauty,” said another alumnus. “In India, only a handful of businesspersons do that. Hopefully, things will change and India’s rich heritage will be protected by legacy builders.” The heritage campus at IIM-A is considered seminal in modern India, according to many alumni. Embodied in the campus is the spirit of sacrifice and triumph of the people of India, the alumni said. The institute put its plans for rebuilding the dorms on hold and decided to take a fresh view on the matter last month following a huge outcry from local and international organizations, architects, historians, and academicians. Announcing the maintenance of the status quo, the BoG had stated in a January 1 communication to all stakeholders that it will soon outline future plans after going through proposals and suggestions made by various stakeholders. “Our first priority as an educational institution is to the students who come to learn, the academic community, and the faculty who participate with them on that journey,” according to the BoG’s letter released on Wednesday. “Expert opinion does inform the core of our decisions, but we are also driven by the safety of those who utilize the buildings and are sensitive to the functional requirements of users of the space, their needs, as well as financial considerations.” The BoG, chaired by industrialist Kumar Mangalam Birla, said action will be planned “based on our desire to preserve our heritage and bearing in mind that our responsibility is to firmly keep in sight the safety of those who utilize the buildings.” There is no mention in Wednesday’s letter of the 25-year master plan envisioned by HCP Design for the Kahn-created campus. In 2001, HCP had been awarded the work to construct a new campus for the IIM-A spread over 39 acres of land. Later, in 2014, it proposed the master plan which envisaged the demolition of some of the old campus buildings including faculty and staff houses. Some of the staff houses have already been razed, said sources at the IIM-A. “As an architect, this IIM-A affair is already a great learning. That you can justify the demolition of a building in the name of ‘worshipping’ its architect is something new. A sad intellectual feat!” said Laurent Fournier, a Kolkata-based architect. “This throws strong light on the reality that heritage is anonymous, not by accident but in its very nature. Otherwise people who preserve it can’t own it. We must own heritage.” As matters stand now, Delhi-based ARCOP Associates Private Ltd “has been entrusted with the responsibilities of designing the new faculty, staff and student residential buildings,” according to the company’s website. “There needs to be a thorough investigation of the negligence in maintaining the campus by engineering and estate management over the past ten years,” said another alumnus who wanted to remain anonymous. “It seems the IIM-A authorities have little clue about managing heritage campus beyond fixing Band-Aid and floating tenders for concrete.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-writes-letter-no-spirit-say-stakeholders/articleshow/80800124.cms||Maulik Pathak
February 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Two brains listen to 1 song differently!||AHMEDABAD: American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow famously said ‘Music is the universal language of mankind’. A local research has found the brain of every person, however, listens to this language differently. A study ‘Guess the Music: Song Identification from EEG responses’ by a team from IIT Gandhinagar and Delft University, Netherlands, highlighted that brain of different participants stored sample songs in different manner – so much that researchers could identify songs just by a one-second sample with 85% accuracy. “We chose 12 tracks from different genres - from EDM (Concept 15 by Kodomo to Indian classical (Albela Sajan by Shankar Mahadevan), and rock (Red Suit by DJ David G) to New Age (Aurore by Claire David),” said Krishna Prasad Miyapuram, associate professor of computer science & engineering and coordinator of Centre for Cognitive and Brain Sciences at IIT-Gn. Music of the mind: Study explores how brain reacts to food of loveWhat if two persons, one initiated in Indian classical music and another having no knowledge of the discipline, listen to a track by a maestro? What’s different at the neurological level for the two? Experts can now answer with some confidence that the ‘song picture’ — a term used by a group of researchers at IIT-Gandhinagar and Delft University from the Netherlands — of the same piece are different for these two individuals! Recently, a paper titled ‘Guess the Music: Song Identification from EEG Responses’ was published. The authors are Dhananjay Sonawane and Bharatesh Rayappa, IIT-Gn students; Krishna Prasad Miyapuram, associate professor of computer science & engineering and coordinator of Centre for Cognitive and Brain Sciences at IITGn; and Derek J Lomas of Delft University. They released the results of EEG scans of 20 individuals who listened to 12 tracks of different genres. “The responses of the participants when they listened to different tracks were recorded through EEG (electroencephalography) by the128-channel electrodes cap,” said Prof Miyapuram. The songs were the same, but ‘Albela Sajan’, for example, created a different ‘song picture’ for different listeners. Once the EEG scans for all the songs were obtained, the researchers trained an artificial intelligence algorithm using one-second clips of the participants to see whether the dataset could reliably identify the same pattern. “The identification, even with that limited input, was surprisingly accurate,” said Prof Miyapuram. “In general parlance, we can say that each participant’s brain — based on history, taste, and interest — encoded and stored the music differently.” Why the difference? The paper says: “The possible reason could be people focus on a different tone, vocals during music entertainment, thereby reducing performance for cross-participant song identification tasks.” The researchers said that’s the reason why those with specific interest in music perceive music differently. “Our hypothesis is that deep learning neural networks will be able to pick up on the common frequency patterns in the brain and in music,” said Lomas. “However, machine learning algorithms seemed to identify other brain-based factors such as emotional associations or higher-order musical features.” What are the implications of the study? The researchers said that in its most basic premise, the study gives an insight into tastes and preferences of a person in an area like music, which can be extended to other stimuli such as pictures or food. The model developed through deep learning technology can also be applied to fields such as brain-computer interfaces, music therapy, or rehabilitation of persons with movement-related disorders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/music-of-the-mind-study-explores-how-brain-reacts-to-food-of-love/articleshow/80799737.cms||Parth Shastri
February 11, 2021||Agra||UP: Nine-year-old rescued from 80-foot-deep well after three days||AGRA: In a miraculous escape, a nine-year-old boy was recused from an 80-foot-deep dry well in Firozabad district on Wednesday. The child survived in the well for three days without any food and water. On getting information from villagers, police launched a recuse operation and the child was safely brought out of the well. He has been admitted at the community health centre in Tundla. A resident of village Chuhawali under Tundla police jurisdiction, Rohit Kumar, son of Vijay Singh, went missing on February 7 while playing outside his house. Rohit’s family lodged a missing complaint with the police and missing posters were also put up to search the child. On Wednesday morning, villagers heard loud cries from a defunct well. They immediately informed the police for the rescue as soon as they saw the child. Constable Shivkumar Gautam went inside the well and brought the child out of it amid loud cheer. The child told the police that he was thrown inside the well by a few unidentified men. Deputy superintendent of police Devendra Kumar said, “We were searching for Rohit who went missing on February 7. He was found in a defunct well near his home and was safely recused. Rohit suffered injuries and is being provided with treatment. He is out of danger. The child told us that he was thrown into the well by a few unidentified men. The matter is being investigated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/nine-year-old-rescued-from-80-foot-deep-well-after-three-days/articleshow/80795770.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 11, 2021||Chennai||Invalid insurance costs kin of accident victim 10% payout||Chennai: Invalid insurance cost a road accident victim’s family 10% of the compensation as a motor accident claims tribunal cited it as contributory negligence to the accident. The victim’s family was awarded Rs 15.25 lakh compensation at the end. S Saroja, mother of S Kuppusamy, moved the tribunal. In April 2017, Kuppusamy was riding a two-wheeler along the Melmaruvathur-Vandavasi Road off GST Road when a rashly driven tipper truck in front of him halted suddenly. Kuppusamy sustained fatal injuries after crashing into the truck and was declared dead on arrival at a hospital later. Saroja sought Rs 50 lakh compensation. The truck’s insurer, meanwhile, contended that the compensation sought was excessive and argued that Kuppusamy did not possess valid documents at the time of the accident. The tribunal, after perusing records, observed that evidence indicated that the truck driver was the accused and held that the insurer was liable to compensate. Since Kuppusamy did not possess a valid insurance, it fixed 10% of compensation for contributory negligence. After arriving at Rs 16.95 lakh as compensation, it cut Rs 1.69 lakh as contributory negligence and directed the insurer to pay Rs 15.25 lakh to Saroja within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/invalid-insurance-costs-kin-of-accident-victim-10-payout/articleshow/80799572.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Docs remove cricket ball sized tumour from woman’s brain||Hyderabad: Following a complex surgery, doctors at a private hospital in the city successfully removed a tumour — said to be bigger than the size of a cricket ball — from the brain of a 55-year old woman. According to the team attending to the patient, the tumour had adversely impacted Vijayalakshmi’s vision apart from making it difficult for her eat and walk. The tumour was extracted using trans-nasal endoscopy (an endoscopy procedure performed through the nose). Given the complications, this was the best option to remove the lesion, doctors said. “Apart from other issues, in the recent months before the surgery, even her voice had changed. An MRI revealed a skull-based lesion — clival chordomalesion — extending to both the sides involving the carotid arteries and lower cranial nerves. The latter had resulted in vocal cord nerve palsy, leading to a change in her voice and difficulty in swallowing,” said a doctor from the team. Speaking about the procedure, Dr Srikanth Reddy, consultant neurosurgeon at Medicover Hospitals said: “The patient recovered well on the first day, post-surgery, as the nasal packs were removed. Her voice started improving. She also started eating and walking.” He added: “Unfortunately, the surgery was performed on time. Had it been delayed, the tumour would have progressed further. Since it involved carotid arteries, a brain stroke could have been imminent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-remove-cricket-ball-sized-tumour-from-womans-brain/articleshow/80799582.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||AMC polls: Counting at Guj College, LD Engg College||Ahmedabad: Counting of votes for the AMC election will be taken up at Gujarat College and LD Engineering College with stringent anti-Covid measures, collector Sandip Sagale said on Wednesday. Voting for the election will take place on February 21 and counting will be on February 23. All persons involved in counting of votes will be tested and the entire area will be sanitized, the collector said. The State Election Commission had earlier said that additional manpower will be posted at counting centres as social distancing and other norms will have to be followed during counting of votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-polls-counting-at-guj-college-ld-engg-college/articleshow/80799742.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Tiger cub spotted at Ranthambore||JAIPUR: Tigress T-60 was spotted with a cub in a trap camera in Ranthambore recently. This is the third time it has given birth. T-60 aka Indu was spotted with the cub which is said to be couple of months old. “The tigress is around 7-year-old and previously had given birth to a total of four cubs. The cub and the mother appear to be healthy and were spotted in zone-2 of the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR) following which we have increased the monitoring”, said a forest official. The earlier born offspring are called T-97, T-98, T-99 and T-119. Out of these, two are males while the other two are females. Coincidentally T-119 was given the name on Tuesday, which is the same day when the tigress was spotted with the fifth cub. Though it was a good news, increasing tiger population in the reserve means that the space is decreasing for the big cats. The Ranthambore reserve has a core area of 392 sq-km with a buffer zone of 1,342 sq-km. Of the total area of a little over 1,700 sq-km in RTR, only 600 sq-km can be used by tigers. As per a rough estimate, a male tiger requires approximately 25 sq-km and a female about 15 sq-km. The tiger population has been steadily increasing in the state and prior to this, for the second time in three decades, Kailadevi Wildlife Sanctuary, located in Karauli district, recorded the birth of two tiger cubs from T-118 aka Devi, who was seen in a trap camera with the offspring who appeared to be around two-and-a half months old. Devi, who is around three-and-a-half years old, is the offspring of Sultan and T-92. The duo had migrated from Ranthambore to Kailadevi. Devi mated with Toofan aka T-80 to give birth to the cubs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tiger-cub-spotted-at-ranthambore/articleshow/80799535.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Papla’s aide held in Haryana, AK-47, arms seized||JAIPUR/ALWAR: The police on Wednesday arrested gangster Papla Gurjar’s aide who had helped him financially. The accused, identified as Mahipal Gujjar (35), was arrested from an isolated house situated at Ibrahimpur village near Bawal in Haryana. Police have seized AK-47, two foreign made sophisticated pistols and some live cartridges from the accused. So far, police have arrested 34 people for helping Papla in his escape. Both were known to each other from the days since Papla did not enter into the world of crime. The arrested accused has no past criminal records and is a white collar builder in Haryana. After Papla escaped from Behror police station in September in 2019, Gujjar hid arms used in firing to get him free from the police station. “The accused is a property dealer and has no criminal antecedents. But his intimacy with Papla can be seen in his phone calls he had made Papla since the latter escaped from Behror police station. Both used to talk to each other for more than three hours a day,” said Hawa Singh Ghumeria, inspector general of police, Jaipur Range. “He had transferred money to accounts given by Papla. It was found during probe that Papla had got nearly Rs 10 lakh transferred in bank accounts including of Jia and other women friends at Kolhapur in Maharastra,” Ghumeria added. Primary investigation suggested that Gujjar was known to Papla for more than 10 years since the days when Papla did not enter into the world of crime. “He used Papla’s name in getting various private contracts for building, road constructions and others in Haryana. They came in contact with Papla as Mahipal’s in-laws family lives in the native village of Papla. He had helped Papla always even prior to the Behror police station firing case in which Papla escaped,” Ghumeria added. After escape, Papla and his gang went to Gujjar to hide weapons. “Following the interrogation of Papla, we managed to get Gujjar and seized AK-47, two foreign made pistols and some live cartridges,” he added. Gujjar has been booked for harbouring criminal and also helping him by hiding arms used in crime. “Also the seizues of weapons which were used on the police station while Papla escaped with strengthen our case,” he said. Meanwhile, Papla would be presented before a local court in Alwar where police are likely to request for extension of his remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/paplas-aide-held-in-hry-ak-47-arms-seized/articleshow/80799567.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||SEC declares schedule for six city mayors||Gujarat state election commission on Wednesday declared the reservation schedule for mayors of six municipal corporations. According to the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporations (Reservation in the office of the Mayor) Amendment Rules, 2021,the city of Ahmedabad will get its next mayor from the scheduled caste (SC) councillors for first two and a half years. The city will get a woman mayor in the second two and a half years period. Surat city will get a woman mayor for the first two and a half years and a mayor from the general category in the next two and a half years. Vadodara will have a mayor from general category in the first two and half years and woman mayor in the next two and half years. Rajkot will get a mayor from other backward classes (OBC) for the first two and a half years and a woman mayor after that for the same period. Bhavnagar will have woman mayor in first half of the term and an OBC mayor in the second half while Jamnagar will have a woman mayor in the first half and a mayor from SC in the second half of the term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sec-declares-schedule-for-six-city-mayors/articleshow/80799706.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: CEO, senior executive of 2 ad agencies held in tree hacking case||MUMBAI: Police have arrested two senior executives of leading outdoor advertising agencies, including the CEO of one, for the illegal hacking of trees in south Mumbai last week. Police have now made six arrests in the case.  Atul Ashar, CEO of Orion Advertisers, was arrested on Tuesday for the hacking of a banyan at Girgaon Chowpatty. He was released on bail by a court on Wednesday. Rumi Filly Marawala, general manager of Selvel Publicity, was arrested on Wednesday for the hacking of a tree at Malabar Hill near Jindal Mansion and remanded to police custody. Ashar was arrested by Gamdevi police and Marawala by Malabar Hill cops. Ashar did not respond to calls or text messages from TOI. On Sunday, four men were held for hacking trees in south Mumbai, including a banyan at Girgaon Chowpatty, to clear the view for advertising hoardings. “The trees were cut to clear the view for hoardings that belonged to these firms on their instructions. The persons who cut the trees did it at the instance of these advertising companies. We have verified their call detail records. In fact, the companies also made payments to the hackers by bank transfers and cheques. There is clear evidence to show the trees were cut at the instance of the advertising companies,” said Rajeev Sawant, ACP, Gamdevi division. “They have been booked under sections of the IPC and Maharashtra Preservation of Trees Act. The four arrested last week are in judicial custody in the Gamdevi case and we will seek their police custody in the Malabar Hill case on Thursday,” he said. “The kingpins behind this act won’t be spared. I commend the Mumbai Police and BMC for the swift action. But this is also a strong message that the guilty won’t be spared for such acts,” tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ceo-senior-exec-of-2-ad-agencies-held-in-tree-hacking-case/articleshow/80795944.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 11, 2021||Goa||FIR filed for assault of disabled man||Ponda: Ponda police on Wednesday registered an FIR in the case of assault of wheelchair-bound Silvester Gracias. Police said that Gracias, a resident of Soncream, Shiroda, and his wife found authorities constructing a road near their home. Soon, a dispute over the roadworks broke out between the couple and their neighbours, who are also related to the complainant on Tuesday, police said. During the argument, Silvester, who is 100% disabled, was allegedly assaulted and thrown off his wheelchair, leaving him on the ground and rendering him helpless. He was later rushed for medical treatment. Photographs of Silvester lying on the ground with soiled clothes were shared on social media, with disability rights activists expressing anger over the incident. A case of trespass and causing hurt has been filed against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fir-filed-for-assault-of-disabled-man/articleshow/80803732.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Surat||SACON to carry out bird hazard mitigation study at Surat airport||Surat: The Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON) will carry out ‘bird hazard mitigation’ study to identify critical birds at the Surat airport and provide measures to thwart future incidents of bird hits.A meeting in this regard was held with the senior officials of the Aiport Authority of India (AAI) and other stakeholders where the SACON officials on Wednesday. SACON is an autonomous organisation established as a public-NGO partnership between Ministry of Environment and Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) and the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS).According to the AAI, about 14 bird hit incidents were reported in 2019-20 compared to seven bird-hits in 2018-19. About 275 bird-hit incidents were reported at 60 airports in the country during 2019-20 compared to 234 reported during 2018-19.Surat airport director Aman Saini said, “SACON will be carrying out bird hazard mitigation study at Surat. Today, the opening meeting was held and a sensitization session was conducted by Dr P Pramod of SACON, where they described how the study will be carried out.”Saini added, “Surat airport is surrounded by the shrimp farms and that it is a vulnerable spot for bird hit incidents. The bird hazard mitigation study will go a long way in providing measures to mitigate the bird issue.”Interestingly, there was a case where carcasses of two jackals were recovered from the runway in 2018-19. The jackals may have died after being hit by an aircraft during the take-off or landing at the runway.In the one year, about three jackals have already been caged from the operational area of the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sacon-to-carry-out-bird-hazard-mitigation-study-at-surat-airport/articleshow/80792411.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||‘Drunk’ motorist hits four 2-wheelers; 1 dead, 2 hurt||Navi Mumbai: A man from Panvel died on Thane-Belapur road, near Ghansoli station, after a car hit his scooter late Monday. The driver, Laxman Shinde (43), from Ghansoli, was allegedly drunk. He lost control and hit a scooter, fatally injuring rider Sachin More (35), said police sub-inspector Hanumant Ubale. The car then hit two bikes and another scooter. Two men on the scooter were hurt and are in hospital. Another man escaped unhurt.  A magistrate’s court released the accused on bail. –George Mendonca||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drunk-motorist-hits-four-2-wheelers-1-dead-2-hurt/articleshow/80803786.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Flaunting arms on social media can land you in jail in Sriganganagar||JAIPUR: Flaunting guns on your social networking profile pictures and sharing pictures of gangsters on social media can land you in jail in Sriganganagar district. Police have launched this campaign in Sriganganagar and later it will extend to other districts in the Bikaner Range. Alarmed with the recent trend where youngsters and teenagers are taking up arms after being inspired with gangsters like Papla Gujjar and Lawrence, Sriganganagar police has planned to take action against social networking accounts of youngsters who are posting pictures with arms and also using pictures of gangsters with arms as their profile pictures or sharing these pictures. Senior police officers of Bikaner range said that in the recent cases of loot, murder, attempt to murder, the accused arrested were first timers and in the interrogation they had admitted that they aspire to become gangsters. “It has been seen in the past that while gangster Anand Pal Singh was on the run, some people were running pages on various social networking platforms. During my stint as Jodhpur SP, we had arrested youngsters who claimed that they aspire to be like Lawrence Bishnoi. Thus, we are starting a campaign in which people who are either using their pictures with guns and are using pictures of gangsters with guns on their social media platforms would be booked under appropriate sections of Arms Act and IT Act,” said Rajan Dushyant, Sriganganagar SP. He said they would also ensure that immediately after a social networking account or a page showing a gangster comes to their notice, they will ask the user to close such accounts. “There are at least 200 social networking accounts in the name of Haryana’s gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. So with the help of cyber experts, we are going to trace the IP addresses and start lodging cases to curb this,” he added. Bikaner Range IG Prafful Kumar said, “Such crackdown is very necessary especially in our region where liquor smugglers don’t hesitate to open fire on police chasing them. In past three months, we had arrested first timers for loot, robbery, thefts, attempt to murder and carrying illegal weapon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/flaunting-arms-on-social-media-can-land-you-in-jail-in-sriganganagar/articleshow/80799630.cms||Ashish Mehta
February 11, 2021||Kochi||Trial in actor rape case to resume on Tuesday||Kochi: Trial in the actor rape case, which was stopped for the past two weeks after a counsel for the accused Dileep tested positive, will resume on Feb 16. The court held a session on Wednesday to decide the date for restarting the trial. It is learnt that advocate Philip Varghese who tested positive for Covid-19 recovered and was discharged from the hospital on Wednesday. However, senior advocate and counsel for Dileep, B Raman Pillai is likely to represent Dileep on Feb 16 as Varghese will still be following quarantine protocol. On Wednesday, the court directed the prosecution to summon the witnesses to appear for the trial. On Feb 16, the court will pass the order in a petition filed by the prosecution seeking to cancel the bail granted to Dileep for allegedly influencing the witnesses. In the trial which started in Jan 2020, around 82 witnesses have been examined and over 230 witnesses are waiting to be examined. The trial was affected due to the pandemic and subsequent lockdown. In the meantime, the prosecutor, who was initially handling the case, resigned. Apart from Dileep, 10 other accused persons are facing trial. The case pertains to the abduction and sexual assault of an actor in Feb 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/trial-in-actor-rape-case-to-resume-on-tuesday/articleshow/80795959.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Surat||Fifth Surat gang booked under GujCTOC||Surat: With the detention of five members of the Sajju Kothari gang, city police registered its fifth offence within three months under Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime (GujCTOC) Act on Tuesday, continuing its drive against organized crime in the city. The accused are involved in murder and attempt to murder cases registered in different police stations of the city. Sajju is notorious for running gambling activities around his home in Jamrukh Gali of Nanpura.Athwa police station registered the fifth case under the new Act and booked gang leader Sajid alias Sajju Gulam Mohammad Kothari, his brother Yunis, Samir Salim Shaikh, Javid Gulam Hussain, Mohammad Arif alias Popat Shaikh, Arif Abdul Rehman Shaikh, Mohommad Kamil Ali and Hasnain Tahir Kokawala. The accused were booked under various sections of GujCTOC Act. Of the accused police detained Yunis, Javid, Arif Popat, Kamil and Arif Shaikh.In 2018, the gang had thrashed a police sub-inspector in Nanpura when cops went to ask them to turn off the loud music system late in the night. “Majority of Sajju gang’s victims do not come to the police fearing backlash. The gang keeps people under threat to continue their illegal activities,” said a police officer in Athwa police station. Sajju’s brother Arif Kothari is wanted for running a gambling den in Rander area. A major gambling den of Arif was busted by State Monitoring Cell recently. “Police will finish criminal gangs who are trying to project themselves as above the law. Police will effectively enforce the law against such criminals,” asserted city police commissioner Ajay Tomar. Along with the drive against drugs city police are identifying major gangs and started registering offences against them under GujCTOC. So far, gangs of Asif Tameta, Lalu Jalim, Ashraf Nagori, Vipul Gajipara and Altaf have been booked and arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fifth-surat-gang-booked-under-gujctoc/articleshow/80792485.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Schools plan readjustment days to bring on-campus discipline back||Kolkata: With less than 24 hours left before city schools re-open tomorrow, principals and teachers have decided to keep some buffer days when children are expected to readjust and return to the routine and discipline of physical classes. According to teachers, the main challenge was to re-inculcate the habit of attending physical classes and bring back the concentration required for it. Studying from home for 11 months allowed students to switch off the camera while the lessons progressed. Some even chatted or surfed the net without being noticed. So as a first step, many schools are starting with nse lab sessions and writing classes. “We will go easy for the first few days, taking kids by the finger (not literally) into the new sanitizing, distancing mode that community life demands now. We are expecting issues with concentration and with writing. So we will have a graded approach so that they start concentrating on textbooks and blackboard for an entire period or writing for that long,” said DPS Ruby Park vice principal, Indrani Chattopadhyay. The regular breaks that students have got used to will continue to perform eye, neck and breathing exercises. “Yoga is the best option. We will start with that. Kids have been away from physical exercises and that habit has to be brought back immediately,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal of Loreto Convent Entally. South Point, too, is reopening with intense practical and written work, as it is going to be revision time. “We will keep pace with the children and not the other way. We have to remember we are dealing with crucial board-year kids,” said Sonali Sen, principal of DPS Newtown. “Meditation classes are starting, followed by art, physical education and music sessions to rejuvenate the kids and bring their concentration back to the level required by physical classrooms,” said Richard Gasper, head of St Augustine Schools group in the city. Psychiatrists agreed that children were psychologically out of sync with campus life and guiding classes were required. “But this is a welcome change and we are dealing with bigger children now. So with practical classes and writing sessions, boredom can be warded off. Face-to-face classes are always more immersive and so, things will be normal after the first few days,” said psychiatrist J R Ram. While schools are keeping their canteens closed to avoid crowding, most fear children might flock to the food vendors outside the gates. But teachers and security staff will keep an eye. “We will keep a strict watch on this. Children will also have to take some responsibility,” said Surana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-plan-readjustment-days-to-bring-on-campus-discipline-back/articleshow/80799777.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 11, 2021||Agra||Former ward member shot dead in Mathura||Agra: A former ward member from Vrindavan was allegedly shot dead by two unidentified bike-borne assailants while she was on her way back home after shopping in Mathura’s Dampiar Nagar on Wednesday. Meera Thakur, 48, was with her relative and a driver, when the assailants shot her on the back around 5:45pm. She was immediately taken to a hospital, where she succumbed during treatment. Meera’s brother Leeladhar Thakur is presently a councillor at the municipal corporation. Police said as per preliminary investigation, the deceased had some property dispute with her relatives. Her daughter-in-law was estranged and her son was living separately, the police added. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover told TOI that her family members have given a complaint and an FIR will be registered on the basis of it. The CCTV footage of the area is being scanned and the attackers will be arrested soon. “All angles are being looked into,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/former-ward-member-shot-dead-in-mathura/articleshow/80795952.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Fees likely to be revised in the new session||Kolkata: Several schools are holding meetings to decide whether to go back to charging 100% fees or not for classes that are re-opening on campuses. They have, however, decided to revise fees after March 31 to make up for the losses they made in the pandemic financial year. The Calcutta High Court order on October 13, 2020, directed schools to stick to the 2019 fee structure and not increase the amounts till physical classes resumed. Currently, going by the HC order, schools have waived 20% tuition fees. But the administrations pointed out that according to the court order, they could return to 100% fees after classes resumed on campus. “The idea was that children were not using school facilities and so, required the concession. But now that they are coming back to school, why should we continue to give them the concession? The court has permitted us to go back to our full fees upon re-opening,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of the La Martiniere schools. Both the schools will go back to 100% fees for all classes returning to campus. The court hearing slated for February is expected to bring in greater clarity. Birla High School and Sushila Birla Girls’ High School plan to revise fees from April 2021. “The HC order said we could make up for our losses over the next two years. We will do that because we are stuck with 80% of the 2019 fees now, which is a huge loss,” said Brigadier V N Chaturvedi, spokesperson for the two schools. Shri Shikshayatan will soon take stock of all the payments it received till January 31 and then decide on whether to go back to charging 100% fees for on-campus classes or not.  “There is a hearing on February 23 and that will offer greater clarity. But the high court order said that once physical re-opening happens, schools can start charging 100% fees and stop giving the concession that we are giving now,” said spokesperson Bratati Bhattacharya. The school has decided to revise fees in the new financial year. “Look at the sanitisation and other new-normal measures we have brought in at a huge expense. How will we afford that unless we revise fees?” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fees-likely-to-be-revised-in-the-new-session/articleshow/80799910.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 11, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Alcoholic man strangles four sons, hangs self in Banswara||UDAIPUR: In a gruesome incident, a 40-year-old man strangled his four sons, aged between two and eight years, to death using a wire and later committed suicide by hanging from a tree in Kushalgarh block of Banswara district on late Tuesday night. The incident came to light on Wednesday morning after someone noticed the hanging body and informed the police. When the cops went to the man’s home, they were shocked to see the bodies of four young children on the ground. The bodies have been shifted to the hospital as the police are waiting for the deceased’s wife, who is said to be working in Gujarat, to arrive. An FSL team collected samples from the crime spot. The shocking incident took place at Dunglapani village of Kushalgarh area. The deceased, identified as Babulal (40), was an alcoholic and frequently quarrelled with his wife. Recently, the couple had a big fight and Babulal drove his wife away from the house. The woman lived with her parents for a few days and later went to Gujarat for work. Babulal was living with his four sons Ganesh (2), Vikram (4), Mangilal (6) and Rakesh (8), who were strangled to death. Police said it appears that the kids were strangled using some wire. The village sarpanch Parsingh told the police that the financial condition of the family was very poor as Babulal didn’t have much work and spent all the money he earned on alcohol. The villagers said that he was the only son of his parents. However, after the death of his father some years back, he started misbehaving and even thrashed his mother. His mother too left him because of his addiction and abusive behaviour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/alcoholic-man-strangles-four-sons-hangs-self-in-banswara/articleshow/80824153.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Agra||UP: Day after cop’s killing, 1 accused slain in gunfight||AGRA: A day after the brutal murder of a UP police constable and his superior officer by the liquor mafia in Kasganj, cops shot dead one of the accused in an early morning "encounter" on Wednesday. While constable Devendra Singh, 26, stripped and beaten to death with rods, by members of the illicit alcohol-making unit, couldn’t survive the attack, his senior, sub-inspector Ashok Kumar Singh, is battling for life with punctured lungs, fractured bones and several other injuries in an Aligarh hospital. The two policemen had gone to Kasganj’s Nagla Dhimar area for a raid at the hooch factory when they were waylaid, dragged to a field nearby and thrashed mercilessly on Tuesday night by the group led by main accused Moti Dhimar. TOI had reported the incident in its late edition. The entire village of constable Devendra Singh was in a state of shock and mourning. Son of a marginal farmer in Kasganj, Devendra had joined service in 2015. He got married in 2017 and was father to two daughters, one 3 years old, the other just four months. His family said Devendra was preparing for the marriage of his younger sister, Preeti, on May 2. Father Mahaveer Singh said, “Devendra was all we had. I request chief minister Yogi Adityanath to ensure stringent action against the illicit liquor makers.” The attack evoked memories of the Kanpur killings of July 2 when a gang led by dreaded criminal Vikas Dubey shot and killed eight policemen including a deputy superintendent of police. Taking note of the Kasganj attack, Yogi Adityanath has asked officials to act against those involved in the assault under the National Security Act (NSA). He also announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh and a government job for a family member of the dead constable. By Wednesday morning, police teams had traced one of the accused, Elkar Singh, the younger brother of Dhimar. “Elkar and some others were surrounded by a police team on the banks of the Kali river. In an exchange of fire, he was injured. He died later at a community health center in Sidhpura, Kasganj,” superintendent of police of Kasganj, Manoj Kumar Sonkar, said. Later in the evening, police in Lucknow said they have “zeroed in on the absconding prime accused”. ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar told TOI that raids were being conducted at all possible hideouts. Additional director general of police Ajay Anand said, “Moti Dhimar is a history-sheeter and has at least 11 criminal cases registered against him. His brother Elkar was also facing six criminal cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cop-killed-by-liquor-mafia-was-preparing-for-wedding-of-sis/articleshow/80795975.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Alcoholic man strangles four sons, hangs self in Banswara||UDAIPUR: In a gruesome incident, a 40-year-old man strangled his four sons, aged between two and eight years, to death using a wire and later committed suicide by hanging from a tree in Kushalgarh block of Banswara district on late Tuesday night. The incident came to light on Wednesday morning after someone noticed the hanging body and informed the police. When the cops went to the man’s home, they were shocked to see the bodies of four young children on the ground. The bodies have been shifted to the hospital as the police are waiting for the deceased’s wife, who is said to be working in Gujarat, to arrive. An FSL team collected samples from the crime spot. The shocking incident took place at Dunglapani village of Kushalgarh area. The deceased, identified as Babulal (40), was an alcoholic and frequently quarrelled with his wife. Recently, the couple had a big fight and Babulal drove his wife away from the house. The woman lived with her parents for a few days and later went to Gujarat for work. Babulal was living with his four sons Ganesh (2), Vikram (4), Mangilal (6) and Rakesh (8), who were strangled to death. Police said it appears that the kids were strangled using some wire. The village sarpanch Parsingh told the police that the financial condition of the family was very poor as Babulal didn’t have much work and spent all the money he earned on alcohol. The villagers said that he was the only son of his parents. However, after the death of his father some years back, he started misbehaving and even thrashed his mother. His mother too left him because of his addiction and abusive behaviour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alcoholic-man-strangles-four-sons-hangs-self-in-banswara/articleshow/80803843.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||In a first, Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao campaigns in a bypoll, targets Congress||HYDERABAD: After ignoring to campaign for the party candidates in by-elections in the last six years after coming to power in 2014, TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday went to Nagarjuna Sagar where the bypolls are due. This is the first time that KCR is canvassing for the party in a by-election in the state which has seen 5-6 bypolls in the last six years. Though he was worried over the reverses the party had suffered in Dubbak bypolls and GHMC elections at the hands of the BJP, the TRS chief took up campaigning in Nagarjuna Sagar mainly to target Congress, which has a strong presence in the assembly constituency. At a public meeting in Halia which falls under Nagarjuna Sagar constituency, the CM attacked Congress and its leaders for the ‘gross injustice’ meted out to Telangana and said the grand old party does not have a right to even utter the word ‘Telangana’. While urging the people to think about the unique schemes being implemented by his government, the CM said people should vote for his party only if they are convinced with its work. “Even if there is a single lie in what we say, defeat us in the election. If our schemes and promises are true, make sure that the opposition parties do not even get a deposit.” KCR hit the campaign trail in Nagarjuna Sagar even before the Election Commission announces the poll date. In Dubbak, he did not campaign, while in Huzurnagar, he attended a victory rally after the poll outcome. He was supposed to address a rally in Huzurnagar in October 2019 but cancelled at the last minute following heavy rains. In Palair bypoll in 2016 too, he did not campaign. In his about one-hour long speech, the CM said TRS has every right to seek votes considering the backwardness of the region. Congress is likely to field former minister and veteran party leader K Jana Reddy. TRS is yet to decide on its candidate. The bypoll is necessitated following the death of sitting TRS legislator Nomula Narsimhaiah. Interestingly, except once in his speech, the TRS chief did not criticise the BJP and talk about farm laws. “Both Congress and BJP leaders are talking nonsense. The parties are testing our patience with loose talk. There is a limit to what we can tolerate. We are not going to sit idle. We will pay back in the same coin. We will crush them,” KCR warned. He said TRS government is not a ‘Delhi-nominated’ but a government elected by people, taking a dig at Congress high command for selecting CMs sitting in Delhi. “We said we would not seek votes in 2018 elections if Mission Bhagiratha scheme was not completed. But we have proved our commitment,” the CM said. Taking exception to Congress’s ‘Polam bata-poru bata,’ he wondered: “Are you (Congress) protesting as TRS government is implementing Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bima, Mission Kakatiya or for producing record paddy.” He said: “Some Congress leaders are saying Mission Kakatiya is Commission Kakatiya. Did Congress leaders get kickbacks when Nagarjuna Sagar was constructed,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-a-first-kcr-campaigns-in-a-bypoll-targets-congress/articleshow/80799882.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Come clean on KCR-Modi meet: Uttam||Hyderabad: TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said people of Telangana were disappointed with no mention of Kazipet rail coach factory and other assurances made in AP Reorganization Act in the President’s address. Uttam said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, after meeting PM Modi and Union home minister Shah, announced closing down of all IKP and PAC centres. “The BJP government at the Centre should come clean on what transpired between Modi and KCR,” Uttam said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/come-clean-on-kcr-modi-meet-uttam/articleshow/80799835.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Underground chamber to drain Mumbai's Gandhi Market||MUMBAI: To alleviate flooding woes on a heavy rain day at the low-lying Gandhi Market located on the arterial Dr B A Road in Sion, the BMC plans to build an underground inlet chamber where excess rainwater can be stored and later pumped out via a stormwater drain (SWD) line to a nullah nearby. The Rs 14-crore proposal was cleared by the civic standing committee on Monday. Officials from the civic SWD department said that they plan to work immediately and complete it before the onset of rains. Every monsoon, high-capacity dewatering pumps are placed at Gandhi Market to drain out excess rainwater. Earlier, it took three to four hours for the accumulated water to recede, but last monsoon, it took almost eight hours, said civic officials. The BMC’s plan will be carried out in two phases. First, chambers and culverts will be constructed and a 900mm capacity SWD line will be laid to carry out the excess rainwater up to the Bharat Nagar railway nullah near King Circle. In the second phase, floodgates will be built at the nullah to ensure that the high-tide water does not enter during heavy rain. The BMC has implemented a similar project in Bandra’s Kalanagar area wherein inlet drains were built and pumps set within it with a capacity to pump out 49,800 litres of water per minute. Six floodgates were also built at outfalls nearby to drain out rainwater into the sea. Corporators, however, are sceptical about the Gandhi Market plan. Sion corporator Rajeshshree Shirwadkar claimed that the proposal was tabled at the standing committee “without any clarity on what will be actually done”. “If there is a plan to lay such a large SWD line, what if there is an obstruction? I have asked for a detailed presentation before the stormwater department starts work,” she said. Ravi Raja, Congress corporator from F-North ward which includes Sion, concurred. “Large sums of money are being spent, but there is no guarantee on whether it would help in resolving the flooding issue.” Gajanan Bellale, assistant municipal commissioner of F-North ward, said a meeting is being planned with SWD officials before work starts. Activist Nikhil Desai said as King Circle has a saucer-shaped topography, it would be difficult to ensure no flooding at all. “This plan of building underground chambers and culverts should have been done back, especially after the 2005 deluge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/underground-chamber-to-drain-gandhi-market/articleshow/80799958.cms||Richa Pinto
February 11, 2021||Goa||Navy commandos save woman from Mandovi||Panaji: The Indian Navy’s largest war game, the biennial Theatre-level Operational Readiness Exercise (TROPEX 21), currently under way in Goa saw the marine commandos (MARCOS) in action as they rescued a woman who fell off the bridge across the Mandovi. The MARCOS, who were on a high-speed boat on the Mandovi, saw the woman falling into the river. “The boat was immediately diverted to the scene and a commando dived into the river to rescue the lady,” said a naval official. The woman was handed over to local authorities by the Navy commandos, said naval officials. “She was given first aid and after medical examination she was found to be in good health,” the Navy said in a brief statement. Over the past few days, MARCOS, based at INS Mandovi, have been conducting helicopter insertion operations, rappelling down onto rooftops and boats as part of the Navy’s efforts to test its combat readiness. Though aimed at enhancing national security, the naval personnel also managed to save a life. TROPEX-21 is currently underway with participation of all operational units of Indian Navy along with units of the Indian Army, Indian Air Force and Coast Guard. The nationwide exercises, which included firing of anti-ship missiles from long range maritime aircraft deployed at INS Hansa and marine commandos based at INS Mandovi, will culminate in the third week of February. TROPEX-21 commenced in early January with the coastal defence exercise Sea Vigil along the entire coastline and island territories of the country before transitioning to a largescale tri-service amphibious exercise AMPHEX-21, which was conducted in the Andaman and Nicobar group of islands. The third phase of TROPEX-21 will see the Navy going through several war scenarios to test combat readiness and evaluate battle strategies. The naval fleet has been deployed across the Indian Ocean Region, the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal to simulate conflict scenarios, hone warfighting skills and safeguard maritime security. Aircraft from INS Hansa, particularly the maritime patrol aircraft Dornier and the long-range maritime patrol aircraft IL 38SD, were deployed off the west coast for TROPEX. The IL-38SD from the INAS 315 squadron successfully fired an anti-ship missile, the Kh35E, which hit and sank the target, said a Navy officer. “This reaffirms the Navy’s capability to carry out long-range maritime strikes in the Indian Ocean Region, a capability that is central to meeting operational challenges and ensuring safe seas and secure coasts,” said the Navy in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navy-commandos-save-woman-from-mandovi/articleshow/80803849.cms||Newton Sequeira
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||If rules followed, parents need not worry: Doctors||KOLKATA: Allaying parents’ fears about children contracting the novel coronavirus as they return to school from Friday, healthcare experts said there was not much to worry about provided the kids wore masks properly, washed their hands regularly and adhered to physical distancing. “With the number of positive cases dropping, parents need not worry over sending their children to school. In fact it is high time for students to return to physical classrooms. But they must remember to wear masks properly, avoid touching surfaces and sanitise their hands periodically,” said paediatrician Apurba Ghosh, director at Institute of Child Health (ICH), Kolkata. Doctors pointed out that though children were less vulnerable to Covid-19 they must be taught to take all precautionary measures to minimise the risk. “Parents should not be paranoid. But they as well as the school authorities should watch out for any type of symptoms. During the season change, many may catch the common flu. But because of the pandemic, we should not dismiss the symptoms as that of common cold and cough. Instead, professionals should be consulted and such kids should not be sent to schools until diagnosis is done,” said Prabhas Prasun Giri, associate professor at ICH. Giri also pointed out schools should space out students in several classrooms to maintain physical distancing. “Schools can afford to put students in small groups in different classrooms as not all classes are re-opening right now. Also, schools should ideally start by taking up only important classes so that students spend fewer hours at school. This will allow them some time to acclimatize to the new normal,” said Giri. Doctors said a combination of physical and online classes, at least for initial days, would help students migrate to the new-normal easily. “Classrooms should be sanitised periodically, while children be taught to comply with all Covid-19 preventive norms. If possible, they should be allowed to carry only a few books so that they can do away with school bags, minimizing the surface of contamination. But parents should not get worked up,” said Anirban Dalui, public health expert with the health department. Doctors said physical classes would get kids the much-needed social contact they had been missing. “This is going to be a new kind of school culture, where children will be asked not to share things and to keep physical distance from friends. While this might cause anxiety to some kids, they will soon get used to it,” said Sanjay Garg, mental health and behavioural sciences specialist at Fortis Hospital, Anandapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/if-rules-followed-parents-need-not-worry-docs/articleshow/80800133.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 11, 2021||Agra||Bail plea of 2 Hathras gangrape accused dismissed||Agra: A special SC/ST court on Wednesday dismissed the bail petition of two of the four accused in the Hathrasgangrape and murder case of the 19-year-old girl. Talking to TOI, victim’s lawyer Bhagerath Singh said that Ravi and Lovekush had moved a bail application in the court and the same has been dismissed by the court of special judge (SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act) Hathras, BD Bharti. Last month, the court had dismissed the bail application of accused Ramu after hearing the arguments, he added. The CBI had filed a chargesheet in the court in Hathras and invoked charges against four accused — Sandeep, Ravi, Ramu and Lovekush. They have been charged under sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape), 376A (punishment for causing death resulting in persistent vegetative state of victim) and 376D (gang rape) of the IPC, and under Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act (offence punishable with imprisonment for a term of 10 years or more against a person on the grounds that the person belongs to an SC or ST community). The CBI had registered the case on October 11 and started investigating two days after that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bail-plea-of-2-hathras-gangrape-accused-dismissed/articleshow/80796056.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Patna||Bihar industrial policy to be modified: Shahnawaz Hussain||PATNA: The infrastructure is ready for Bihar to take off on the industrialization runway soon, said Syed Shahnawaz Hussain after taking charge as Bihar's industries minister on Wednesday. Speaking exclusively to TOI, Shahnawaz further said he would study the policies of other states to make relevant changes in the Bihar Industrial Investment Promotion Policy 2016. He appealed to the businessmen from Bihar running industries across the country and abroad to come and invest in their home state. “Come and invest in Bihar, which has a stable government, ready infrastructure, better power, road and water facilities and an excellent chief minister in Nitish Kumar,” appealed Shahnawaz, the BJP national spokesman, who has been brought to Bihar to deliver on the promises made during the 2020 assembly polls. He added, “It is the dream of PM Narendra Modi to see Bihar as an industrialized state, and I have been assigned this challenging task to realise it under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar.” Asked about BJP’s poll promise of generating 19 lakh employment opportunities, Shahnawaz said it would be delivered by setting up industries in the state, adding, the most talked-about issue during the Covid times included how to generate employment by increasing the resources. “The coronavirus-induced lockdown followed by the return of our workers allowed us to map their skills. We have skilled workers in abundance. There is tremendous scope for textiles, ethanol and agro-based industries in Bihar. We have sufficient BIADA land but negligible industries,” Shahnawaz said. He added, “I had long discussions with the department officials and I can assure our 14 crore people that the days are not far when Bihar will be among the top industrialised states in the country. We will focus on manufacturing things used in Bihar, including cars and other vehicles.” The BJP national spokesman skirted a question on why all efforts made so far failed to bring industries and hummed an old Hindi number “chhodo kal ki baaten, kal ki baat puraani, naye daur mein likhenge milkar nai kahani…” from film Hum Hindustani. To a question on a road map for Bihar, the former Union textiles minister said it’s too early to say anything. “But one thing is sure that we will bring industries to the same level as had been during the period of first CM Shri Krishna Babu in Bihar. I will also utilize my old contacts to revive industries. We want to show the world that Bihar is not only a consumer market but a manufacturing hub as well,” he said. Shahnawaz also said Bihar emporiums and haats would be opened in all big cities in the country and even abroad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-industrial-policy-to-be-modified-shahnawaz/articleshow/80800040.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||A2 changes path, outwits scouring forest staff||Hyderabad: A suspected ‘man-eater’ tiger, A2, which killed two people in quick succession last year in Kumuram Bheem Asifabad district, remains elusive even after three months of combing operations by forest department officials. Giving sleepless night to the residents of around 11 villages, situated on the district border, the tiger seems to have learnt multiple ways to skilfully avoid not just the trap cages with baits set up at different locations in the forest, but also outfox the special teams that swung into action on the very next day after a 22-year-old tribal man was mauled to death near Deegada village of the district’s Dahegaon mandal in November last. This week, the ‘’man-eater’ struck again in Bejjur forest range making two cattle kills, but not before changing its path in the forest range that was being tracked by a team of 120 members from all possible sides of the forest. This sudden change of path, that the tiger has been walking on since it entered Asifabad district recently after spending a few weeks on the Maharashtra side of its territory, had forced the forest officials to halt the operation to tranquilise and capture A2 for time being. Speaking to TOI, Asifabad district forest officer (DFO) S Shantaram said, “The tiger has entered Telangana and it made cattle kills near Bejjur range. It now seems comfortable with cattle kills but our tracking team is monitoring its movement. The capture operation, however, has been halted for a short time because it has changed its track, which also means that it is moving fast. It has to maintain the track at least for a week for us to track its movement for successful tranquilisation.” In their bid to see through the tricks of the wily tiger that has eluded capture for nearly three months, the forest officials are now waiting patiently for the big cat to come back to its original track and slow down its pace so that they can once again resume the operation to capture the animal. “We are waiting for the tiger to come back to its original path so that we can call the veterinary team from Tadoba,” Shantaram added. Meanwhile, in a separate incident on Sunday, the forest officials informed that two buffaloes were killed by a tiger while they were grazing in a forest at Khajipalli village in Mancherial. The big cat, however, left the spot without feeding on the kill when the shepherd noticed the attack and raised an alarm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/a2-changes-path-outwits-scouring-forest-staff/articleshow/80799981.cms||Moulika.KV
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||CM abuses shouting men||Hyderabad: CM KCR got furious when a group of four to five persons tried to disrupt his speech at the Halia public meeting. Soon after he began his speech, some people tried to rush towards the dais. When they started raising slogans and tried to cross the barricades and climb them, KCR stopped his speech midway. He said: “Stop this nonsense and leave the place. There are many like you and we are not going to be distracted with your actions.” He finally asked the cops to shift them from the venue. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-abuses-shouting-men/articleshow/80799917.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Surat||No bribe, no salary hike: Principal trapped by ACB in Gujarat||SURAT: Lady principal of an ashram shala (residential school) was caught taking Rs 20,000 bribe from an employee in Borkuva village of Tapi district on Wednesday. The principal, Damyanti Chauhan, had demanded bribe to complete formalities as per norms which made the employee eligible for a hike in salary.  The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths caught Chauhan red-handed accepting money on Vyara-Unai Road where she had asked the complainant to come with the cash. ACB police inspector SH Chaudhary laid the trap under supervision of NP Gohil, assistant director, ACB, Surat. According to government rules, the employee could get a salary hike only after the approval from the principal. He was also requesting Chauhan to get his service book scanned, but she refused to do it without money.  Chauhan’s monthly salary is Rs 43,000 and she was appointed in this school in 2004. The complainant’s salary is Rs 34,700 and his salary hike got delayed due to the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/no-bribe-no-salary-hike-principal-trapped-by-acb/articleshow/80792608.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Citizens segregating waste at source to get 5-kg organic fertilizer||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), in order to motivate people for segregating the waste at source, has announced to give five-kg organic fertilizer to the citizens who hand over dry and wet waste separately on a regular basis. AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey has asked each sanitation inspector to identify 100 citizens in their jurisdiction and give them a letter of appreciation besides free distribution of fertilizer. “The sanitation inspectors and other ground-level staff involved in daily collection of waste must pay attention to segregation of garbage at source. The citizens handing over mixed waste must be counselled properly so that they can realise the importance of segregation at source in the overall management of garbage,” he said. Stating that the acute garbage issue faced by the city couple of years ago has been resolved to a considerable extent, Pandey said three out of four solid waste processing units have been successfully commissioned in Aurangabad. “One such unit proposed at Harsul is expected to get ready in next four months. The city is looking more clean as compared to the past few years. The participation of citizens is essential for keeping the city clean and segregation of waste at source is one of the responsibilities people must shoulder,” he said. Pandey also said that all AMC staff involved in the solid waste management have been told to ensure that dry-waste collected from different parts of the city must reach the sorting centre set up each at Ram Nagar, Central Naka and Kanchanwadi. Earlier in March 2018, the local civic body had announced collection of dry garbage from homes only twice-a-week besides daily collection of wet waste, in order to ensure the segregation of waste at source. The innovative measure could not last for long due to poor response from citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/citizens-segregating-waste-at-source-to-get-5-kg-organic-fertilizer/articleshow/80796098.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Business||CII, EEPC laud Centre’s exports push||Kolkata: CII and EEPC have lauded initiatives taken by Union commerce ministry following rebound of the country’s exports. CII National Committee on EXIM chairman Sanjay Budhia has said that with strong measures taken by the Union commerce and industry ministry to restrict the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on exports, India’s exports are seeing a pick-up in January 2021 over the previous year and this is likely to continue. Monthly merchandise exports in January 2021 are estimated to be 5.3% higher than in January 2020 as per preliminary data released by the ministry of commerce and industry, with engineering exports alone picking up by 18.7%. EEPC has said that displaying a remarkable turnaround, Indian engineering exports have increased during January 2021. “With exporters expressing optimism about external demand in the remaining months of the current financial year,” EEPC India chairman Mahesh Desai has said. Budhia pointed out that uncertainties in the global markets are trending down as countries move out of lockdowns and vaccine rollout gains pace. The significant promotional efforts for exports by the Indian Government sync well with this recovery process and position the country’s exports prominently in global markets. Indian exports that have done well in January 2021 include agri products, electronic goods, engineering goods, pharma, ores and minerals, observed Budhia. According to an assessment done by the EEPC India which has 60% of its members from the MSME sector, past few months have shown a robust recovery in the external demand in the major markets of the US and Europe besides several key Asian economies. “Buoyed by the production-linked incentives (PLI) scheme of the government under the Atmanirbhar Bharat programme, the engineering exporters are planning to add new value-added items in their external portfolio,” Desai said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cii-eepc-laud-centres-exports-push/articleshow/80799929.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Business||Spl scheme for tea staff to be tabled||Kolkata: The Tea Board of India in consultations with the Union ministry of commerce is evolving the details of the Rs 1,000cr special scheme for the welfare of tea workers especially women and their children in Assam and West Bengal as proposed in the Union Budget this year, the city-based agro-industry regulator said in a release on Wednesday. The board will be submitting the details of the scheme before the department of commerce for implementation soon. Assam and West Bengal contribute a total of 81 % to total tea production with contributions of 52% by Assam and 29% by West Bengal. There are 4.17 lakh women workers in Assam and 2 lakh women workers in West Bengal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/spl-scheme-for-tea-staff-to-be-tabled/articleshow/80800046.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: In a freak accident, 4 drown in IG Canal in Hanumangarh district||JAIPUR: In a freak accident, four people, including a family of three, were killed after their car rolled down a slope near a bridge and fell into the Indira Gandhi Canal near Lakhuwali village under Town police station area of Hanumangarh district late on Tuesday night. The driver of the car, who got down to attend nature's call, forgot to put the handbrake of the vehicle which was on a slope above the canal, leading to the bizarre accident. Police retrieved all the four bodies found inside the drowned car on Wednesday morning. The deceased are Vinod Arora (45), his wife Renu Arora (42), daughter Ishita Arora (15) along with one Sunita (40). They were returning from Sikar after dropping their daughter at a coaching institute. While drowning, the deceased Sunita had called her husband and pleaded with him for help. However, her mobile went dead after drowning. This was confirmed by her husband. The driver of the car is under shock after the accident and undergoing treatment at a hospital. According to police, the incident took place at 11.45pm on Tuesday when the driver of the vehicle parked the car on the side of the road. “He went looking for a place to attend nature’s call and forget to apply the parking brake. As it was dark, the vehicle slid down the slope where it must have been parked and fell into the canal,” said Hanumangarh superintendent of police Preeti Jain to TOI. The driver, identified as Ramesh (52), was about 100 metres away from the vehicle when it started moving and failed to stop it. “During preliminary investigation, it was found that since two women and a girl were inside the car, the driver preferred to go little away to attend nature's call. While giving his statement, he fell unconscious and is in a state of shock,” said a senior police officer. Soon after the mishap, Ramesh alerted the police control room. A team of senior police officers and a rescue team comprising divers with ropes, cranes and other equipment rushed to the spot. “The bodies were retrieved by the divers at 1.30pm on Wednesday,” said an officer with the Town police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-a-freak-accident-4-drown-inig-canal-in-hanumangarh-dist/articleshow/80803887.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Can’t cancel performance license without specific breach of condition: HC||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has held that a performance license once granted by an authority to a place of amusement cannot be suspended/cancelled without specifically pointing out any breach of terms and conditions mentioned in the license. Justice Vibha Kankanwadi of the HC on Tuesday quashed and set aside the Ahmednagar district collector’s order of November 29, 2019 which had canceled the performance licenses of two Sanskritik Kala Kendras (cultural performing arts centers) at Moha in Jamkhed taluka of Ahmednagar district in the wake of protests by local villagers alleging that illegal activities were carried out at the two centers. The bench referred to the SC judgments cited on behalf of the petitioner Kala Kendras and ruled: “The above said catena of judgments relied by the petitioners would support the view of this court that the licence cannot be cancelled on some other ground than the breach of terms of licence.” Three days after the licenses of the two centers were renewed on February 11, 2019, the gram sabha of Moha gram panchayat had resolved in favour of the shut down of these centers and representations were made to the tehsildar and superintendent of police (SP), besides a hunger strike was staged on February 23, 2019. The collector’s impugned (under challenge) order was sought to be justified on the grounds of a law and order situation and four FIRs. The HC, however, held that the FIRs were related to other people and no evidence, directly linking the two centers with any illegal activity, was placed. The licenses were granted under the Rules for Licensing and Controlling Places of Public Amusements (Other Than Cinemas) and Performances for Public Amusement, including cabaret performances, discotheque, games, pool game parlours, amusement parlours, providing computer games, virtual reality games, cyber cafes, games with net connectivity, bowling alleys, card rooms, social clubs, sports clubs, melas and tamashas Rules, 1960. The HC observed that the gram panchayat took objection after the licenses of the Kala Kendras were renewed. The show cause notices issued to the Kala Kendra on February 26, 2019 referred to four issues as the basis of objection. The first issue being a resolution passed by the Gram Sabha. The HC noted that the counsel for the Gram Panchayat did not point out under which provisions of law such a decision was taken. “The Kala Kendras are run on the premises of the property owned by the petitioners. They have every Constitutional right to carry out business of their choice. No doubt it is not an unfettered right, it comes with restrictions and in view of those restrictions, they had applied to the competent authority for the license and the renewal thereof subsequently. Therefore, Gram Sabha cannot have any such unfettered right to resolve that they would close such businesses,” the bench said. On other three issues i.e. illegal activities; offences under Prevention of Immoral Traffic Act lodged on the Kala Kendra owners and a law and order situation, the bench said, “The copies of the four FIRs...would show that the petitioner Kala Kendras are not involved. Though in one matter it appears that the place in front of (not belonging to the petitioners) appears to be the place of offence. Therefore, when it has not been pointed out which illegal activity is going on in the petitioner’s Kala Kendra and what kind of law and order situation has arisen, we cannot say that there was any substance in those points/grounds raised.” The bench further noted that at the time of renewal and even after the show cause notices were issued, the SP had recommended renewal of licenses by putting additional conditions like installation of CCTVs and taking entry of persons visiting the Kala Kendras. Similarly, it referred to an affidavit by the Naib Tehsildar and observed that the state was not in favour of revoking the order of suspension of license. Advocate Jeetendra Patil and senior lawyer PR Katneshwarkar, who represented the two Kendra, unanimously said, "Following the HC orders, the renewed licences that were cancelled by the authorities, stand reinstated." On getting the orders, the two Kala Kendras that remained closed since cancellation of licences, have started taking steps to restart their Kendra's, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cant-cancel-performance-license-without-specific-breach-of-condition-hc/articleshow/80796170.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Soon, women can report crimes at 6 divisional offices||Mumbai: In an effort to speed up action in crimes against women across Maharashtra, the state commission for women will set up offices at the divisional level where complaints can be registered and, with the help of the respective police superintendent, immediate steps would be taken. Currently, there is only one office in Mumbai which handles all such complaints and forwards instructions to the respective divisional office after submitting a review, which is a time-consuming process. The new system hopes to change that. On Wednesday, the state issued a government resolution to the effect. On an average, the women’s commission receives over 10,000 complaints annually. The state has six divisions —Pune, Konkan, Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati and Nagpur. Women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur told TOI each division will have four members of the women’s commission who will handle such cases, which would ensure speedy justice. During Thakur’s term as a member of the commission, she had realised that women in the interior parts of Maharashtra find it difficult to travel to Mumbai to register complaints. “This step would be helpful for these women to get justice,” Thakur said, adding, “Some committee members will be legal experts who will coordinate with the police superintendent.” While social activist and advocate Varsha Deshpande welcomed the decision, she said the panels should not be biased. “The government should consider appointing legal experts who are honest and not politically biased. The state should also consider setting up panels at the district level,” she said. Thakur said, “I don’t think anybody from the panel would be politically biased and we will not tolerate it. Now, we have decided to start offices at the divisional level and will decide on the district level after taking a review a year later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/soon-women-can-report-crimes-at-6-divisional-offices/articleshow/80796333.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 11, 2021||Salem||Siddha practitioner dies||Salem: Dr Sivaraj Sivakumar, 78, a famous siddha practitioner, died of age related ailments at a hospital in the city on Wednesday. He is survived by his wife Mallika, 70, son Sivaraj Sanjay and daughter Sivaraj Kalpana. Sivakumar became the head of the famous Sivaraj Siddha Vaidya Salai in the city about 50 years ago. He became famous after he started writing articles on male fertility in 1980s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/siddha-practitioner-dies/articleshow/80800150.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Goa||GoaMiles under transport dept soon: Mauvin||Panaji: The GoaMiles taxi service will soon come under the purview of the transport department, transport minister Mauvin Godinho said on Wednesday. The decision comes days after three GoaMiles drivers were allegedly assaulted by private taxi owners. “We are speaking on a one-on-one basis with different stakeholders and the file to transfer the counters from the tourism to transport department is moving. Once it comes to me, I am responsible for it,” Godinho said. The minister said that there is confusion about GoaMiles because half of its matters are being controlled by the tourism department and the other half by him. “Rightly, it is a transport problem, but how can I be held responsible when it has not been transferred to me? I have raised the matter with the chief minister. I expect him to do the needful at the earliest. I want to set things right, but I will be able to deal with the matter only after it comes on my table,” Godinho said. Two GoaMiles drivers, Suresh Naik and Mohammed Nadaf had lodged complaints with Calangute police of being assaulted by a taxi group when they had come to pick up and drop passengers in Calangute on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, last week. The police arrested Yogesh Govekar, a taxi owner from Anjuna, for the assault of the drivers and later released him on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goamiles-under-transport-dept-soon-mauvin/articleshow/80803962.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Budget to be presented in House on February 24||The state Budget for 2021-22 will be presented in the assembly on February 24, according to sources. The business advisory committee (BAC) meeting of the assembly, which met on Wednesday, decided that the assembly will discuss having the governor’s address for two days on February 11 and 12, followed by the chief minister’s reply on February 15. There will be no sitting of the House from February 16-23 in preparation for the Budget. It will resume on February 24 for the presentation of the Budget, sources said. The CM had already held consultations with a cross section of the society, including farmer leaders, industry, NGOs and civil society. The Budget is expected to provide some relief for people who had to bear the brunt of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-budget-tobe-presented-inhouse-on-feb-24/articleshow/80803993.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Nashik||Cantt board increases water tax by 70p for 1,000L||Nashik: The Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) has increased the water tax by 70 paise for every 1,000 litre consumed in order to cover up the losses it has to bear for the water supply. A decision to this effect was taken at the general body meeting (GBM) that took place on Tuesday. This meeting was the last GBM of the elected representatives on the cantonment board as their tenure ended on February 10. Two years ago, the water tax was Rs 4.21 for every 1,000 litre consumed. The board had decided to charge Rs 100 per house/flat, instead of issuing water bills as per consumption reading on the water meter, six months ago. This was done with an expectation that it would generate additional Rs 50 lakh per annum. However, at Tuesday’s GBM, this billing system was rolled back and it was decided to increase the water tax to Rs 4.90 per 1,000 litre. Thus, once again the water charges would be as per the meter reading. The reversal of the Rs 100 per house/flat per month would lead to a drop in revenue of Rs 25 to 30 lakh per annum. Meanwhile, the CBD incurs an expenditure of Rs 12 for the supply of every 1,000 litre. Among other things, the board sanctioned various developmental works including setting up CCTV cameras in various parts of Deolali Camp, fire brigade, pending underground sewage works and improving facilities at the Cantonment Board Hospital among others. It has also been decided to set up an Anganwadi at Shigve Bahula ward no. 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cantt-board-increases-water-tax-by-70p-for-1000l/articleshow/80792713.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Former MP’s confidante loses Rs 49k in cyber attack||Aurangabad: A former MP from Parbhani district’s confidante has turned out to be the latest victim of cyber crime after he was cheated of Rs 49,000 through a suspicious mobile-based application. The offence has been registered under IPC section for cheating and relevant sections of Information and Technology Act after a complaint in ths regard was filed by former MP Adv Tukaram Renge. Nanalpeth police station inspector Kundan Kumar Waghmare told TOI, “We have registered the offence on the basis of complaint filed by former MP Adv Tukaram Renge. In his complaint, the former MP has stated that he first received a message informing that his cellphone has been hacked and so as to unlock it, he was asked to install a mobile phone application.” He initially ignored the message, but he soon received a phone call from an unidentified number asking him to follow the instructions for unlocking the phone. On installation of the application, Renge was asked to transfer a sum of Rs 10 to the bank account number given by the suspect caller. Even after multiple attempts,when he couldn’t transfer the amount, the caller asked him to try from another cellphone, following which Renge took his confidante’s mobile phone and installed the application. Within minutes of transferring Rs 10 to the given bank account number, the unidentified suspects got an amount of Rs 49, 000 transferred to their bank accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/former-mps-confidante-loses-rs-49k-in-cyber-attack/articleshow/80796273.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ED conducts search at house of actor Armaan Jain||MUMBAI: Enforcement Directorate (ED) searched the house of actor Armaan Jain, grandson of Raj Kapoor, on Tuesday and summoned him for questioning in a money laundering case connected with Tops Grup—a private security firm—and Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik. Armaan lives with his mother Reema Jain (daughter of Raj Kapoor and sister of Randhir Kapoor) at Peddar Road in south Mumbai. The ED raided his house early Tuesday and after some time the family got a call about the demise of Rajiv Kapoor (Reema’s brother). The ED allowed Reema to attend the funeral and concluded the raid within a couple of hours, allowing Armaan to join his mother. Armaan is a close friend of Sarnaik’s son Vehang, who is also facing investigation in the case. Sources stated there were some messages exchanged between Armaan and Vehang related to financial aspects and business transactions. A source said the ED wanted to question Armaan about the commission amount generated through Tops Grup and the MMRDA deal. Armaan’s manager was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-conducts-search-at-house-of-actor-armaan-jain/articleshow/80800234.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||NOC from competitors? No need, HC tells NGU||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court said that there cannot be the pre-condition of obtaining an NOC from a competitor college within a 25-km radius to start an educational institution in the same discipline. With this observation, the bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice Gita Gopi said that the provision of Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University can be dispensed with by which it grants affiliation to an education institute only after it obtains an NOC from another institute imparting education in the same discipline within a 25-km radius. The issue involved Swamy Vivekanand Education Trust, which wanted to start a college in Kadi in 2013 and requested the university for affiliation. The university received an opinion from its local inspection committee and granted affiliation to the trust. But another institute being run by MP Shah Education Society objected and moved the HC claiming that its NOC was not obtained. A single-judge bench held that the new college should have obtained an NOC from the nearby existing institute. The issue reached to the division bench, which expressed its “dismay” at the existence of such a system in NGU. The judges observed, “On an overview of the situation also and with the rapid increase in the population and number of students increasing ever, we cannot even appreciate the restrictions put about the existence of more than one or more educational institutions to provide such education and these variety of factors which may be relevant to determine the need for setting up of more of such educational institutions, which is ever changing and therefore, no static criteria or yardsticks can be fixed even by the competent bodies under the Act of 1986.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/noc-from-competitors-no-need-hc-tells-ngu/articleshow/80800210.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Salem||Four of family take poison in suicide pact, couple die||Salem: In a suicide pact, four members of a family took poison near Attur in the district on Tuesday night. While two of them died, another two are battling for lives in hospitals. The Attur police identified the deceased as P Velmurugan, 37, of Pungavadi village, and his wife Sathya, 33. Their children - 13-year-old Abinaya and 11-year-old Sanjay - are hospitalized. A police source said Velmurugan, a driver, was out of job for the past few months. “His mother Dhanalakshmi used to scold his wife. When he intervened in their fight on Tuesday night, his mother scolded him also badly.” Upset, the couple, along with their children, came out of the house at night. “Velmurugan decided to commit suicide and Sathya supported his plan. He subsequently poured poison into their ears. He also tried to feed the poison to the children forcibly, but they managed to escape and alerted the villagers,” the officer said. According to the officer, Velmurugan and Sathya had died by the time the villagers reached the spot. When alerted, the Attur police sent the bodies to the nearby government for postmortem. “The boy, whose condition is critical, is admitted to a private hospital, while the girl is undergoing treatment in the government hospital in Attur,” the officer said. Police have registered a case and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/four-of-family-take-poison-in-suicide-pact-couple-die/articleshow/80800193.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Surat||‘Miffed PAAS mulls supporting AAP’||Surat: The PAAS leaders have convened an urgent meeting of the leaders of the Patidar community to discuss the further course of action and their political stand in the upcoming municipal corporation elections on Wednesday. The PAAS leaders are upset with the Congress leadership for ignoring the prospective candidates from the Patidar community for contesting the elections from the wards dominated by the Patidar community. Sources said that the PAAS may extend their support to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to settle their scores with the Congress and the BJP. “We have invited Patidar community leaders for an open discussion on the next course of action. Three Congress candidates from ward number 3 have withdrawn their candidatures in support of the Patidar community. PAAS leaders, who worked hard in the previous civic election in favour of Congress, have been ditched by the party leadership,” said PAAS leader, Alpesh Kathiriya. Sources in the PAAS said that the AAP leaders are in constant touch with the PAAS leaders over the political development. It is believed that the PAAS leaders will indirectly support AAP candidates in the seven Patidar dominated wards. “If PAAS is not supporting Congress in the Patidar dominated ward, our candidates have a fair chance of getting the votes from the Patidar voters. We have kept all our options open for the PAAS leaders,” said a senior AAP leader. Asked if PAAS leader Hardik Patel has been invited in the meeting, Kathiriya said, “The meeting is for the Surat municipal election. We have not invited any leader from outside Surat. Only the Patidar leaders will meet and discuss about the future strategy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/miffed-paas-mulls-supporting-aap/articleshow/80792731.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Maharail to build Rs 10cr flyover at Sewri station||Mumbai: A road overbridge which will replace level crossing gates at Sewri railway station is expected to improve punctuality of suburban services on harbour line and also ease the traffic woes of motorists. Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (Maharail) has decided to construct a single pier flyover for which tenders have been floated. The project cost is pegged at Rs10crore. Currently, there are three level crossing gates on the harbour line. Besides the one at Sewri for movement of traffic from west of the station to east, Chunabhatti and Kurla also have level crossing gates. Explaining the coordination required to ensure train schedules are maintained, a senior railway official said, “A total of 17 trains run every day on the harbour line. Even the slightest delay in closing the gate has a huge impact on the harbour line time-table.”According to central railway estimates of the 45 lakh passengers on its suburban network, nearly 13-15 lakh travel by the harbour line. The official said an average of 1,000 passengers travel by the harbour line per minute. “The gate is kept open for six to eight minutes. But, sometimes the gate has to be kept open for 10 minutes due to bumper-to-bumper traffic, resulting in delay in running of trains.” Maharail has signed an MoU with Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority to build the ROB, along with the ones at Elphinstone-Parel. The ROB will also provide smooth access to the road that connects Mumbai Trans Harbour Link Road (MTHL). According to estimates, 50,000-60,000 vehicles are expected to use the MTHL in the first five years with an increase of 5% every year. “Even if we estimate 20% of this traffic will come via Sewri, it would have been total chaos. Delay in closing the gates due to increased traffic would have impacted the train time-table on the harbour line corridor,” a railway official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharail-to-build-rs-10cr-flyover-at-sewri-station/articleshow/80804130.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Experts say Y S Sharmila is likely to dent Congress vote share in Telangana||HYDERABAD: What would be the impact of former chief minister YS Rajashekar Reddy’s daughter YS Sharmila’s political moves in Telangana? Which party will bear the brunt if her proposed party takes off and who is backing her? Political pundits say that post bifurcation, Telangana Congress has failed to cash in on YSR’s image in Telangana. This has already cost the party dearly in the elections so far. YSR’s daughter and AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s sister’s entry into Telangana politics would make it tougher for Congress, and the grand old party’s vote share will further shrink, they say. However, with no support of Jagan in Telangana, Sharmila’s success is wholly dependant on how seriously she strategizes and works in the party. Political analyst and former MLC Professor K Nageshwar says, “Currently there are multiple theories on whose creation is Sharmila’s proposed party. It can be TRS or BJP, or she is on her own. Presently, it is all volatile. But as of now, it looks like Congress will be weakened if at all her party makes some impact.” So far, YSRC Telangana state general secretary Konda Raghava Reddy, Sharmila’s husband Anil Kumar, and Anil’s friend Satish from Nalgonda have been organising the activity. Konda Raghava Reddy told TOI, “Party name and other details will be announced only after April 10. In Telangana, all YSRC district presidents and mandal presidents have joined Sharmila. YSRC leader Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy’s statement that the party would not be continued in Telangana is an indication that the party is closed in Telangana. So we need not resign. Two families are the same. If there are differences between Jagan and Sharmila, why would she set up the party in Telangana instead of Andhra?” TRS social media convenor Manne Krishank said, “TRS government is doing far better than what is happening in so-called Rajanna Rajyam. We don’t see any vacuum for her to come into politics. Revanth Reddy has lost his mind in commenting that she entered politics as per TRS plan. Why would a popular CM’s daughter join politics to split votes? She looks serious. We would take it as an attack on Telangana.” BJP leader Gudur Narayana Reddy alleged that it is KCR’s plan to split anti-incumbency vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-say-ys-sharmila-is-likely-to-dent-congress-vote-share-in-state/articleshow/80800279.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 11, 2021||Nashik||Pregnant woman weighing 146kg delivers baby||Nashik: A woman, who weighed 146kg, successfully delivered a baby at a city-based hospital through C-section. Both the mother and the baby are safe and have been discharged from the hospital. Doctors said the delivery was “very complicated” as the expecting mother weighed 146 kgs and had some other medical conditions. Moreover, the baby was in a transverse position (lying sideways in the womb). The team felt that a normal delivery was out of question because of the woman’s medical parameters — high blood pressure, diabetes, thyroid and body swelling. Pranita Sanghvi, consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist at the Ashoka Medicover Hospitals, said, “The chances of the patient getting convulsions during the normal delivery were more and the position of the baby in the womb would have made it difficult,” she said. “The team of expert doctors, including physicians, paediatrician, neonatologist, cardiologist and having the equipment needed for the procedure gave us the confidence to undertake the cesarean delivery,” Sanghvi said. A C-section delivery usually takes about an hour, but this surgery lasted over two hours. The surgery was successful, and the mother and the child are both safe. Doctors explained that a team of doctors had to keep the upper section of the stomach lifted all the time until the baby was removed from the mother’s womb. It was also an uphill task to put stitches on the womb after the baby was removed given the fat deposit in the woman’s stomach area. The surgery was performed on January 25. For three days, the woman and her baby, who had also developed swelling, were kept in the ICU. The mother and the child were both discharged after a week and they are safe, said Sanghvi. Sanghvi said that the generally in overweight women, more bleeding is noticed after the C-section delivery. She was also given physiotherapy for her legs as she could have developed deep vein thrombosis, which are blood clots, in the legs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pregnant-woman-weighing-146kg-delivers-baby/articleshow/80792739.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Covid vaccination for police, bureaucrats from today||Aurangabad: After covering majority of frontline health workers during ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive, the health authorities will now be focussing on police personnel and bureaucrats for necessary immunization beginning from Thursday. Aurangabad district health officer Sudhakar Shelke said that the number of vaccination sessions is slated to get increased from Thursday and would incorporate police personnel and senior government officials as well along with remaining frontline health workers. “The vaccination drive, since it’s launching on January 16, has been getting gradually increased response. While a section of target beneficiaries was initially reluctant to take necessary jabs out of apprehensions, such resistance has withered away over a period of last few weeks,” he said. Shelke said that the formal registration of police personnel and bureaucrats to get vaccinated will be done on CoWIN App along with other target groups. As per official data, total 14,703 frontline health workers from Aurangabad district have received the first dose of vaccine on February 9, including workforce of 8,840 from municipal limits and 5,863 from rural areas. AMC health officer Nita Padalkar said that the rest of the frontline health workers would get covered under vaccination latest by the end of February. “Barring a couple of cases, we have not reported any major Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) among beneficiaries which speaks of volumes about the safety of the vaccine. The vaccine is not only safe and but also effective against Covid-19,” she said. Earlier, a day before Covid vaccination drive, Aurangabad divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar took the jab on Wednesday. Speaking on the occasion, Kendrekar said that every target beneficiary from the revenue department must take the vaccine without any fear. Meanwhile, the graph of fresh cases of Covid-19 reported a spike with 68 new cases being registered on Tuesday. The total number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 has reached 47,348, including 45,873 recovered patients and 1,241 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-vaccination-for-police-bureaucrats-from-today/articleshow/80796320.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||CM’s Halia claim is all wrong: Bandi||Hyderabad: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s claim at a public meeting in Nalgonda’s Halia village amounts to lying. He said the CM’s claim that he would not ask for people’s vote if he does not deliver what he had promised is utterly wrong. “The CM has promised many things in the past but had never delivered them for that matter,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cms-halia-claim-is-all-wrong-bandi/articleshow/80800260.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Patna||Kashmir mein kamal khilaya, ab Bengal ki bari hai: Syed Shahnawaz Hussain||PATNA: BJP national spokesman and newly appointed state industries minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain on Wednesday threw a challenge at West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee saying the people of the state are fed up with her rule and want a change. The former Union minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, who has been brought by BJP to Bihar politics as its Muslim face and inducted in the Nitish Kumar cabinet, said he will campaign for his party in the West Bengal election due in April this year. “Didi, main araha hoon. Kashmir mein kamal (BJP symbol lotus) khilaya, ab Bengal ki bari hai (Didi, I am coming to your state. The lotus bloomed in Jammu & Kashmir, and the same will happen in West Bengal),” Shahnawaz told TOI. Shahnawaz was referring to his stint in Kashmir Valley where he had stayed and campaigned for more than 30 days for the Jammu and Kashmir District Development Council election held in December last year. BJP opened its account in the Kashmir Valley for the first time and won three seats. Overall, the saffron party emerged the single largest party with 75 seats and 38% votes in the 280 constituencies. Shahnawaz, who represented Kishanganj Lok Sabha constituency bordering West Bengal in 1999, said people were angry with the Mamata rule and wanted peace and development in their state. He said Mamata has already seen the preview of state assembly election when BJP won 18 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal in the 2019 general election. “This time we will win more than 200 of the 294 assembly seats in West Bengal,” said Shahnawaz, adding the violent behaviour of Trinamool Congress workers and leaders shows their nervousness ahead of the state elections. “Ma, manush aur maati ki baat karne wali didi ab goli bandook ki baat karti hai. West Bengal mein parivartan tai hai,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kashmir-mein-kamal-khilaya-ab-bengal-ki-bari-hai-shahnawaz/articleshow/80800295.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
February 11, 2021||Surat||Sparkle-2021 exhibition to start from Feb 20||Surat: The gems and jewellery exhibition ‘Sparkle-2021’organised by the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) will have 150 exhibitors displaying their products including loose diamonds, jewellery and diamond machinery. The three-day long exhibition will begin from February 20. SGCCI office bearers said, more than 30 exhibitors from the lab-grown diamond industry are participating for the first time in the gems and jewellery exhibition. Majority of them are dealing in the diamond jewellery segment followed by loose diamonds and diamond machinery. Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI said, “This is first time that we have got 150 exhibitors at the Sparkle event. This exhibition will be purely based on the B2B model. We are expecting buyers from across the country.”Jayanti Savaliya, chairman of SGCCI gems and jewellery committee said, “In the union budget 2021-22, the lab grown diamond industry has been promoted by the central government with increase in customs duty from 7.5% to15% on synthetic polished diamond imports.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sparkle-2021-exhibition-to-start-from-feb-20/articleshow/80792761.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Darted with sedatives, tusker runs into forest||Udhagamandalam: The mission to capture the man-killer tusker, Shankar, entered the fifth day on Wednesday, when luck evaded the Gudalur forest division officers for the second consecutive day. While the task force, which missed the target on Tuesday, managed to dart the elephant with sedatives on the day, the animal walked into Cherambadi forest as if nothing had happened to it.  Omkaram Kommu, district forest officer, Gudalur division, said, “The tusker was found in the company of other elephants. Yet, we managed to successfully dart the tusker with sedatives. However, that wasn’t enough to tranquilize the animal, which rain into deep forest and disappeared with the herd.” He said a team has been trying to track the elephant by following the animal’s route. “Our plan was to dart the tusker with another dose of sedatives today (Wednesday) itself. But we couldn’t track the elephant until evening.” Five kumkis - four from Theppakadu elephant camp in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and one from the Anamalai Tiger Reserve - have been stationed in Cherambadi area for the operation. “Safety of the elephant, forest staff, operation teams and the general public are important. It is a very delicate operation that we are handling. We cannot rush things. The operation will continue on Thursday,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/darted-with-sedatives-tusker-runs-into-forest/articleshow/80800251.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Erode||Gang hacks 2 rowdies to death in Erode||Erode: In what could be a case of revenge killing, a four-member gang hacked two rowdies to death in broad daylight at Veerappanchatram in the city on Wednesday while they were consuming alcohol. Police identified the deceased as M Kalaiselvan, 31, and his friend K Gunasekaran, 29, both residents of Karungalpalayam. An investigation officer said the two were facing several cases, including that of murder and robbery, at various police stations in the city. District superintendent of police (SP) P Thangadurai said the two had appeared before the judicial magistrate of district court at Sampath Nagar on the day in connection with a murder case that was reported in 2019. “After that, they started to consume alcohol on roadside at Veerappanchatram area. Suddenly, the gang rounded them up and hacked them with sickles and knives, killing them on the spot,” the SP said. After visiting the crime scene, the SP has formed three special teams to nab the accused. The Erode North police, who have registered a case and initiated inquiry, have taken possession of the sickles and knives that the gang had left behind after murdering the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/gang-hacks-2-rowdies-to-death-in-erode/articleshow/80800276.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||HC notice to cops on Ravi Prakash passport issue||Hyderabad: Justice G Sri Devi of Telangana high court on Wednesday issued a notice to Hyderabad police, asking them to explain their stand on a petition filed by V Ravi Prakash, former CEO of TV9 news channel, seeking restoration of his passport. According to Ravi Prakash’s counsel Pradyumna Kumar Reddy, he was sacked from TV9 by its new management two years ago and was not given sufficient time to collect his personal belongings from his office room in the channel’s main office. “His passport was lying there but he was denied entry into the office. He tried to obtain a fresh passport stating these facts, but the passport officials were insisting that the same should be informed to the court that granted him bail and obtain necessary permission for the same,” the counsel said. At this, the judge asked the cops to clarify on the petition of Ravi Prakash, who is seeking his passport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-cops-on-ravi-prakash-passport-issue/articleshow/80800273.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Nashik||2 detained under MPDA Act in Nashik||Nashik: The Nashik city police have detained two history-sheeters under the stringent Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act. The two criminals have been identified as Vinayak alias Zagdya alias Deepak Laate (27), a resident of Patharvat Galli, Pratap Chowk in Panchavati, and Govinda Sanjay Sable (20), a resident of Bhormala, old Saikheda Road, Nashik Road. The strict action against the two men has been taken in a bid to stop a gang-war and incidents of property and body offences in the city. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey had issued instructions on February 2 to detain Laate. Meanwhile, the detention orders of Sable were issued on February 9. Sable was involved in looting and beating up people and also spreading fear among them in the Aringle Mala, Sinnar Phata, Khandu Gaikwad Mala, Gorewadi, Nashik Road railway station and the surrounding areas. He has cases like attempt to murder, voluntarily causing hurt, rioting and violating the conditions of externment against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-detained-under-mpda-act-in-nashik/articleshow/80792732.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Nashik||Industries found polluting Godavari||Nashik: A joint team of officials from the NMC, MPCB and the MIDC recently inspected six locations in Satpur and Ambad industrial estates and found some industries discharging effluents into nullahs that end up polluting the Godavari river. The officials collected samples from nullahs and sent them to laboratories to find the toxicity of the water discharged by the industries. The inspection followed a directive by divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game, who is the chairman of the high court-appointed committee on Godavari river pollution. “The team of officials inspected around six locations of nullahs in Satpur and Ambad industrial estates and discharge of effluent was seen at some locations,” said a senior official from the civic environment department. Amar Durgule, regional officer of MPCB, Nashik division, said, “We also found one industrial unit releasing effluents into a nullah and started the process for legal action against the company. We have informed our head office and are waiting for further instructions.” Durgule said there are illegal pipelines in the ‘F’ sector of the industrial estate that carry sewage. We have directed MIDC and NMC to remove them at the earliest. RajeshPandit, a petitioner in the Godavari pollution case in the Bombay high court, said that some residents had complained to the divisional commissioner about the discharge of chemical effluents from industries into nullahs. The issue had also come up during a meeting of the divisional commissioner-led committee of Godavari pollution. “A common effluent treatment plant has been proposed there by the MIDC, MPCB and industrial units, but the project has been delayed by two years,” said Pandit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/industries-found-polluting-godavari/articleshow/80792756.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 11, 2021||Salem||Sasi’s entry into TN politics won’t affect BJP’s alliance with AIADMK, says H Raja||Salem: The entry of former chief minister Jayalalithaa’s aide V K Sasikala into Tamil Nadu politics will not affect our alliance with the AIADMK in the state, national secretary of BJP H Raja said in the city on Wednesday. After participating in a meeting with the members of the weaver’s wing of the party, Raja told reporters that the saffron party would not mediate between Sasikala and the AIADMK to reunite, as Sasikala has her own party. On the green corridor expressway road project, Raja said the eight-lane road project is the need of the hour. “Road facilities should be there if a tractor, a doctor or an actor wanted to go to anywhere including villages,” he said. Raja appreciated the Tamil Nadu government for giving good governance in the state. “I will give 100 out of 100 to Palaniswami's government,” he said. Lashing out at the DMK, Raja said no one is eligible in that party to talk about scams. He said two MP constituencies in the state will fall vacant on March 15 as the Supreme Court will give its judgement on the 2G spectrum scam on that day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/sasis-entry-into-tn-politics-wont-affect-bjps-alliance-with-aiadmk-says-h-raja/articleshow/80800285.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Covid positivity too drops below 1%||BHOPAL: A total of 141 new positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state on Wednesday taking count of positive cases to 256899. Two deaths were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state has reached 3,827. These deaths of Covid-19 patients were reported from one each from Bhopal and Alirajpur districts. On Wednesday, new cases were reported only from 30 of the 52 districts of the state. The districts where no new cases were reported on Wednesday include Panna, Hoshangabad, Shivpuri, Vidisha, Narsinghpur, Morena, Shahdol, Khanddwa, Katni, Sidhi, Singrauli, Shajapur, Guna, Bhind, Umaria, Tikamgarh,Alirajpur, Mandla, Ashok Nagar, Dindori, Burhanpur, Niwari and Agar Malwa districts. On the brighter side, 175 people recovered from the disease. With these new recoveries, count of total people who have recovered so far in the state reached 251121. A total of 14442 samples were tested on Wednesday of which 141 tested positive, thus the positive rate for Wednesday stood at 0.9%. As on February 10, there were 1951 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-covid-positivity-too-drops-below-1/articleshow/80800292.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Surat||Bus crushes school teacher to death on Puna road||Surat: A 32-year-old primary school teacher in Kedkui village of Tapi district was crushed to death under a bus near Kangaroo Circle in Puna area on Wednesday. Deceased Bharat Ladumor was waiting to catch a bus to go to Vyara when the bus knocked him after it hit a tempo. In the accident, two more persons who were in the tempo suffered injuries. The bus hit a parked auto-rickshaw as well. Puna police booked Arvind Solanki, driver of the bus, who fled the spot after the accident.Rashida Shaikh and Rafiq Shaikh, vegetable vendors, residents of Bhestan area who had gone to buy vegetables and were returning in the tempo of Arif Maniyar, suffered minor injuries after their tempo overturned in the impact. After knocking the tempo and rickshaw, the bus knocked down Ladumor, who was waiting on the roadside. Ladumor, a native of Sanosari village in Gir-Somnath district, was working as a primary school teacher for past nine years in a village near Vyara. A resident of Godadara area of the city, the deceased used to travel daily by bus to his workplace. He is survived by his wife and two sons. BOX College student dies in accident Harsh Prajapati (20) a college student, died on the spot on Wednesday after he lost control of his bike which first knocked a car before it crashed into the road divider on Gaurav Path. Due to the impact of the crash, deceased’s head got smashed killing him on the spot. His friend Pravin, who was pillion riding, too suffered injuries and was shifted to a private hospital. Police started investigation to find out exactly how the accident happened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bus-crushes-school-teacher-to-death-on-puna-road/articleshow/80792863.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu elephant deaths: Madras high court orders CBI probe||MADURAI: Citing a Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) report that Tamil Nadu elephants were being poached by culprits from other states and that no action was being taken against middlemen and kingpins, Madras high court has ordered a CBI probe into all elephant poaching cases in the state. The central agency is to submit a status report before the court after three months. The court had also directed the WCCB to assist the CBI in the probe. The court passed the order while hearing a batch of public interest writ petitions before the Madurai bench in 2018, seeking to prevent poaching and electrocution of elephants in Tamil Nadu. A division bench of Justice MM Sundresh and Justice N Sathish Kumar said the WCCB revealed transactions including transfer of money through banks, and added: "Poaching activities are not done merely for livelihood but for international trade and sadistic pleasure in creating art with other living beings. The greed of man could be seen from the transactions that had happened." Citing the recent death of at least eight elephants and recovery of 300kg ivory from the possession of criminals, the judges asked how come only male elephants got ‘electrocuted’ and how such deaths happened despite the presence of a large number of field level forest personnel and their watchful eyes. The judges said that the crime which had been happening in Tamil Nadu forests prior to 2015 extended not only to other states but beyond the national borders now, and added: “We are not dealing with a case of mere poaching. Demand has been created by unknown customers, whose name would come out only after the investigation.” The judges also observed that though the WCCB report was also sent to higher officials in 2019, they have not dealt with the specifics given in the report nor had taken action against middlemen or kingpins. The judges said there are two types of cases – those where no complaint was filed under the Wildlife Protection Act; and cases where no action was taken despite availability of information. Noting that a cross-border investigation was necessary, they then directed the CBI to take over the investigation in the pending cases. The judges said that WCCB could render their assistance to the CBI in these cases as the issue came to light only after their investigation. The judges observed that the WCCB had submitted a separate report giving several recommendations to prevent the electrocution of elephants due to overhead transmission lines and illegal solar powered fencing by private persons. Though the State had stated that they had accepted the suggestion of WCCB and the work is in progress, the judges noted that such works are only done in the Megamalai forest areas in Theni district. They directed the government to give effect to the WCCB report in all the forest areas across the state and submit a compliance report. The cases were then adjourned to June 10 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-cbi-probe-into-elephant-deaths/articleshow/80804113.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 11, 2021||Coimbatore||15 govt schools to get online education facilities soon, thanks to two NGOs||Coimbatore: City-based Aram Foundation, along with HCL Foundation, will equip 15 government schools with online education facilities. The move, which comes close on the heels of reports on students’ hesitation to take board exams because of lack of confidence after they lost direct rapport with teachers, would benefit more than 1,150 students of classes X, XI and XII. Aram and HCL Foundation hope the online education facilities would help students gain more confidence to take the exams. Under the initiative, each school would be provided with Samsung Galaxy A21s mobile phones, a sim card with one-year net facility, a tripod with light, collar mike for teachers, white board, duster, marker and nails for hanging. It will help teachers conduct live classes as per their timetable from 9am to 12pm or from 10am to 1pm daily. Students would be able to access the lessons on laptops. “The idea is to help reach children, who have lost direct rapport with their school and teachers,” said a press statement from the organizations. “There would also be teacher training sessions till the end of board exams by professionals.” Both the organizations would also provide 10 litres of hand sanitizer, two containers, two sanitizer stands, nails for hanging sanitizers, one funnel and hand wash liquid to 38 government schools and 27 corporation schools. It would benefit 56,500 students. In addition, motivational sessions will be conducted once a month for the students and teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/15-govt-schools-to-get-online-education-facilities-soon-thanks-to-two-ngos/articleshow/80800328.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Madurai||Socrates title for Periyar in Class IX text book is false information, says petition in high court||Madurai: The The Madras high court on Wednesday directed the state government to consider a representation which sought to remove the false information in the Class IX Tamil Samacheer Kalvi book stating that UNESCO had bestowed the ‘Socrates of South Asia’ title on Periyar E V Ramasamy. The special government pleader appearing for the state informed that this is an issue which has to be considered by a committee in the education department. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi directed the state government to consider the representation by I Mohammed Razvi, a resident of Madurai district, and pass appropriate orders in accordance with law. The petitioner had stated that the DMK during its rule had spread false information stating that UNESCO had awarded the title to Periyar. This false information has been printed in the Class IX Tamil textbook in the state and also in college textbooks. He stated that such false information would lead to confusion among the students. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/socrates-title-for-periyar-in-class-ix-text-book-is-false-information-says-petition-in-high-court/articleshow/80804164.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Kanimozhi: CM ‘mortgaging’ rights of TN||Tirupur: DMK MP M K Kanimozhi lashed out at chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami accusing him of ‘mortgaging’ the rights of Tamil Nadu for the survival of his government. Campaigning across Udumalpet assembly constituency in Tirupur district on Wednesday, Kanimozhi took a jibe at EPS for stating that he has successfully completed four years in office proving wrong the speculations by DMK president M K Stalin that his government would fall. “EPS has been boasting that he has completed the entire term and that DMK has failed in its bid to oust his government. But I would like to ask him, what kind of an achievement was it to mortgage the rights of Tamil Nadu to the Centre, give up self-respect and function under the grip of BJP. Is this the way a government is run?” Kanimozhi asked. Kanimozhi said that there were complaints from the poor and downtrodden that they are not getting the essential commodities in ration shops. “Is this an achievement?” she asked and assured that once DMK comes to power steps would be taken to ensure adequate supply of ration products. She said that education loans would also be waived by DMK and the problems faced by weavers would be sorted out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kanimozhi-cm-mortgaging-rights-of-tn/articleshow/80800402.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Nashik||NMC seeks guidance about revision of 200 building plans||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to seek guidance from the state urban development department about the revision of the old buildings plans as per the new unified Development Control Promotion & Regulations(DCPR). A section of builders, who had already received approval for the building plans from the town planning department of NMC and completed constructions up to plinth, have now submitted their revised plans as per the new norms to the town planning department for its approval . Government has given more FSI and premium benefits in unified DCPR as compared to the old one. Hence, some builders have submitted revised plans to the NMC. The new unified DCPR was introduced by the state government with effect from December 2 last year. “There is no clarity about the revision of the old building plans, which were already approved by the civic body. Hence, we have put on hold all such 200 proposals,” said Rajendra Aher, executive engineer of the town planning department of NMC. “We have sought the guidance from the state government in this connection. We will take decision on the issue after we receive communication from the state government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-seeks-guidance-about-revision-of-200-building-plans/articleshow/80792900.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 11, 2021||Bhopal||Day 2: Vaccine for 4,000+ in Bhopal, 17,000 shielded from Covid so far||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh director general of police Vivek Johri was among 4204 frontline workers who were administered vaccination against Covid-19 here on Wednesday. Johri was administered the vaccine at police hospital in the state capital. Overall, 76 Covid-19 vaccination sessions were conducted across Bhopal. It was the second day of vaccination for frontline workers which includes, police, revenue and urban administration department. In two days of vaccination half of the 17695 have been covered, according to health department estimates. Covishield was administered in 41 sessions sites while Co-Vaxin was administered at 34 locations. Police control room recorded 1208 vaccinations on Wednesday. Till 9 am, there were zero vaccinations in the 20 session sites of the PHQ. Later officials attributed it to a database error. By afternoon the location was buzzing with policemen queuing up for getting the jab. A huge number of policemen were amongst the Covid-19 positive cases in the state capital. Their services during the pandemic, have been appreciated by one and all across the state capital. More than 900 BMC employees got the jab on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/day-2-vac-for-4k-in-bhopal-17k-shielded-from-covid-so-far/articleshow/80800405.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Farmers prepare to beat the heat||New Delhi: With summer approaching and temperature rising during the afternoon, the farmers protesting at the borders have started making arrangements for a large number of fans and coolers. The farmer leaders at Singhu border said, since the government was not showing any interest in repealing the three laws, it was difficult to ascertain how long their movement would continue. Therefore, preparations were on full swing in advance, they said. Jitender Singh Sheena, state Punjab press secretary, Kirti Kisan Union, said, “We are getting offers at cash collection points for supply of fans and coolers, just the way we got offers for geysers during peak winters.” Claiming that there was no dearth of supply for anything at the borders, Sheena added that, once the arrangements were made, the appliances would be installed at various camps, depending on demand and requirement. He, however, asserted that the farmers were tough enough to beat any difficulty, including the scorching heat. Meanwhile, some farmers were planning to get fans, cots from their villages soon. “For now, the weather is quite pleasant and we are comfortable. For summer, we are making sufficient arrangements,” said Balbir Singh, a farmer at Singhu border. Balram Singh, a farmer of Danoda Kalan, who has been protesting at Tikri border for the past 10 days said, “As soon as we visit our village, we plan to get fans and cots in sufficient numbers, as it is not feasible to sleep on roads. Also, the mosquito menace is increasing and we need to make arrangements to sit here for longer term.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-prepare-to-beat-the-heat/articleshow/80869303.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 11, 2021||Madurai||Chain-snatchers shift base to small temples as vigil tightens||Madurai: With police having stepped up vigilance at prominent temple festivals to prevent snatching incidents, criminals have now set their sights on festivals and kumbabishekams of obscure temples, where there will be less focus.A police officer from Madurai city said that organized chain-snatching gangs are now targeting smaller temples. They get information about the events from local sources, who rely on posters and advertisements in newspapers. “Earlier, chain-snatchings used to take place in reputed events such as the Chithirai festival and the celestial wedding of Meenakshi Sundareswarar, but such incidents have become a thing of the past as various efforts helped bring down the crimes,” he said.A higher official said the biggest difficulty faced by the police while dealing with such organized chain-snatchers is the recovery of stolen jewellery.“They do not confess their real names. Lawyers representing them would reach out to the police station concerned in no time and they will have to send them for judicial custody in 24 hours. It is difficult to pick them up from their houses as they have installed CCTV, which clearly records the time they are picked up for inquiry. While the law states that criminals need to be produced in court within 24 hours, hardly any recovery can be done in that time,” he added.“We have now turned our focus to small temple festivals too and monitoring all crowded places to prevent such incidents. People should be more careful when they are in a crowd,” the official said. Madurai city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha said that the number of chain-snatching incidents has come down in the city. “There is hardly any bike-borne snatching as the city has got CCTV cameras installed in all important roads. Moreover, most of the habitual criminals are behind bars now,” Sinha said and urged the people to install more CCTV cameras to make the city safer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/chain-snatchers-shift-base-to-small-temples-as-vigil-tightens/articleshow/80804199.cms||V Devanathan
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||NSUI starts ‘Give Job or Take Degree Back’ campaign||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand unit of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) has started with the “Naukri Do Ya Degree Wapas Lo” (Give Job or Take Degree Back) in Dehradun on Wednesday. The campaign has been launched to address the growing population of unemployed youth. “The unemployment rate has reached its highest point since Independence. The country has never witnessed such a high number of youths being unemployed. The government had promised to provide 2 crore jobs every year but it has failed to do so primarily due to its bad policies. Therefore, it is high time for us to protest against the government with such innovative campaigns,” said Mohan Bhandari, state president of the NSUI. Bhandari added, “The youngsters can join our campaign by simply giving a miss call at 7290800850.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nsui-starts-give-job-or-take-degree-back-campaign/articleshow/80796441.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 11, 2021||Nashik||Bird flu confirmed in eight more poultry farms of Nandurbar||NASHIK: The samples from eight more poultry farms in Nandurbar have tested positive for avian influenza, taking the number of birds likely to be culled to around nine lakh, district guardian minister K C Padvi said. He was in Nashik on Wednesday to attend a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. Speaking to the reporters after the meeting, Padvi said the major challenge was to minimize the loss to the poultry owners. “Currently, all the poultry farms where samples have been found positive are in the vicinity of each other. There are around 9.8 lakh birds in the vicinity, which will have to be culled. The exact number is being worked out,” Padvi said. The samples from four poultry farms in Navapur taluka of Nandurbar were found positive on February 6 for the H5N8 – a strain of bird flu. The exercise of culling the birds is being carried out since then. Animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh had also been to Nandurbar to monitor the process of the culling the birds and he asked the officers to continue sending samples of birds to laboratories for early detection of the virus. Since these affected poultries are in the vicinity of each other, the one-km radius culling zone, has been slightly extended. The poultry farmers in the district have been informed to carry out all the biosecurity measures to ensure the virus does not spread. “We are monitoring the developments closely. The panchanama of each of the birds culled and the eggs destroyed along with the quantity of feed to be destroyed is being carried out and the government will compensate the same,” Padvi said. As many as 104 rapid reaction teams trained in culling exercise have been deployed at the poultries and are carrying out the exercise in scientific manner. District collector Rajendra Bharud also visited the places to monitor the culling of birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bird-flu-confirmed-in-8-more-poultry-farms-of-nandurbar/articleshow/80792980.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 11, 2021||Madurai||Cops, officials motivate kids’ home inmates||Madurai: The Madurai rural police along with officials from various departments have been reaching out to children’s homes in the district to engage and motivate the inmates there. The team led by additional superintendent of police, S Vanitha has so far visited eight children homes out of 26 homes in rural areas. Officials said that the rest of the homes will be covered in another one month. The members visited two children homes in Usilampatti area on Wednesday. Officials from departments like revenue, child welfare committee (CWC) and Madurai district child protection unit along with the police jointly visit the homes. During the visits children are made to exhibit their talents through cultural events, essay writing and elocution. The children are presented with gifts such as clothes and footwear depending on the requirement. Officials said that the visits give an opportunity for the students to interact with higher officials from various departments. B Pandiaraja, member, CWC said that most of the children staying here are from poor backgrounds and either have single parents or no parents at all. As officials from revenue department also visit these homes, parents of few children approach officials to get done with social security measures provided by the government, which they could not obtain so far. “Children also get an opportunity to air grievances if any to officials concerned. During the visits, safety and security of the homes are discussed by officials and if there are any issues they are resolved immediately by the local police. Such visits also keep the people who run the homes in check,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-officials-motivate-kids-home-inmates/articleshow/80804248.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Nashik||NMC waives Jan-March period penalty for regular taxpayers||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has waived monthly penalty of 2% for three months between January and March for the regular taxpayers during the current financial year to boost the property tax collection.As per the norms, taxpayers have to pay their annual property tax payment by December 31 every year. Thereafter, the civic body levies a penalty of 2% on the tax amount every month on dues. “But to increase the property tax collection, we have decided not to levy penalty to the taxpayers if they pay their property tax for the current financial year by March 31. This is a part of our measure to give opportunities to the regular taxpayers to pay their property tax for the current financial year,” said Manoj Sangamnere, the assistant superintendent (tax) of the NMC.NMC has set the property tax collection target of Rs 360 crore for 2020-21, including current demand of Rs 128 crore and remaining Rs 232 crore tax dues. So far, the civic body has earned revenue of Rs 97 crore through property tax, including around 75% of the amount from current demand and the remaining 25% as tax dues.In the corresponding period last year, the civic body had collected property tax of Rs 135 crore. There has been a drop of 28% in the property tax collection by November 9 of the current financial year against the property tax collection during the same period last year.The civic body has already introduced an amnesty scheme for the property tax defaulter. As per the amnesty scheme, the property tax defaulters will get 50% rebate on penalty of tax dues if they pay tax dues between January 16 and February 15. The defaulters will get 25% rebate if they pay all tax dues between February 16 and 28.The NMC administration has warned of action against the tax defaulters in March if they fail to clear their property tax dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-waives-jan-march-period-penalty-for-regular-taxpayers/articleshow/80792939.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 11, 2021||Vadodara||Leopard sighting panics villagers||Vadodara: The video of a leopard spotted near the Muvaliavillage near Dahod has led to fear in the area. Forest officials, however, said that the animal had been residing in the area for quite some time now but has probably been recorded for the first time. Forest officials claim, the wild cat has not harmed anyone so far. It fell in a well last summer and had to be rescued. It has also been spotted in the CCTV footage of a college in the area. The video that seems to have been recorded in the headlight of a vehicle shows the leopard walking in a dry rivulet or storm water drain before it climbs a bridge and disappearing in the dark. An official said that it was important that the animal was not disturbed. “It has stayed in the area with its family for a long time and has not attacked anyone so far. It should be best left alone,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-sighting-panics-villagers/articleshow/80793491.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Rajkot||Sub-postmasters siphon off Rs 35 lakh||Rajkot: Bhuj police booked four persons including two sub-postmasters on Wednesday for allegedly siphoning off Rs 34 lakh from a post office in Bhuj town of Kutch district. They had allegedly forged the signature and stamp to commit the fraud, said Bhuj A division police officials. They have siphoned off Rs 34.58 lakh of government money through their fraudulent activity, cops added. According to police, the accused include Bipin Rathod and Batuk Vaishnav, who are working as sub-postmaster in Ravalvadi sub-post office of Bhuj. The other accused are Pragna Thakkar, an agent in the same post office along with her husband, Sachin. All the four accused worked hands in glove to open closed recurring account with big amounts using user ID and password. Thereafter they would close the accounts and siphoned off the money. According to the complaint, the accused used bogus signature of post master Vinay Dave on the account opening and closing form and made bogus stamp of post office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sub-postmasters-siphon-off-rs-35-lakh/articleshow/80794530.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Reflective pain: Birds die fighting own image on windows||NEW DELHI: Reflective glass panes may up the style of a building, but it is dangerous for birds, especially for non-urban avian species. For one, their own reflection in the window confuses the birds and causes them to peck aggressively at the glass to attack the ‘enemy’ bird, particularly during nesting season. The birds injure themselves, even die at times. Ornithologists say this phenomenon is becoming common as more buildings now use reflective windows that allow one-way view of the outside. Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in charge at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said that many birds perceive the reflections in the windows as hostile birds. “At the Biodiversity Park itself, we see a lot of babblers pecking at their own reflections in the windows,” said Khudsar. “However, more than regular windows, reflective windows and those using glass films pose a higher risk to the birds.” A 2014 study established that one billion birds died from window strikes every year in the United States. The study had analysed the behaviour of the golden-winged warbler, painted bunting, Canada warbler, wood thrush and the Kentucky warbler. Experts explained that birds establishing their territory or nesting show these aggressive characteristics, and mistake their own reflections for other avians that need to be driven away from the spot. Dr Surya Prakash, zoologist at Jawaharlal Nehru University, pointed out that while birds like pigeons and crows are less affected by the reflections, species living in denser forested patches adjoining urban settlements often mistake the images for enemy birds. “This is often the case with jungle babblers, woodpeckers and drongos. In some cases, they have died trying to defend their territory,” said Prakash. “They are especially territorial during the nesting season. Males are protective of their territory and defend the female and the chicks from the presumed male in the reflection. Similarly, female birds may think it’s another female bird trying to harm the chicks.” The capacity to adapt varies from species to species. “We have seen a peregrine falcon nesting atop a reflective building near Okhla Bird Sanctuary for several years,” revealed Prakash. Nadeem Shehzad, who runs a veterinary hospital for raptors in Wazirabad, north Delhi, disclosed having received many birds injured in head-on collisions with glass panes. “It used to be common abroad, but with more people installing reflective windows, cases are rising here too,” said Shehzad. “Shikras, in particular, fly low and often injure themselves in this manner. Birds can actually die from the head-on collisions.” The bird activist also pointed out that birds are seen getting injured flying from one tree to another, which, in reality, is only a reflection. “A possible solution is not to use reflective windows or mirrors on building exteriors,” suggested Shehzad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reflective-pain-birds-die-fighting-own-image-on-windows/articleshow/80800692.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 11, 2021||Nashik||‘State govt to allocate funds for Nashik Neo-Metro’||Nashik: The state government will allocate funds for Nashik Neo-Metro and Nashik-Pune Semi High-Speed rail project in the next financial year, said deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday.Pawar was in Nashik city to hold meetings with the guardian ministers and authorities of the five districts of Nashik division to decide on the allocation of funds that each district will be getting for the next financial year through the general plan.He told the media, “ Although the quantum of funds’ allocation is was yet to be decided, the state government will surely provide funds for these projects. All matching grants, whatever percentage has been decided by the central and the state governments, will be allotted in the next financial year.”“As Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) will ensure the mention of matching grant for the railway and metro projects including Nashik in the state budget,” said deputy chief ministerThe central government has announced the budgetary allocation of Rs 2,092 crore for the Neo-Metro rail project in Nashik city. The project will have 32 km main and 24 km feeder routes. The elevated corridor of 10 km from Gangapur to Mumbai Naka via Ashok Stambh and 22 km from Gangapur via Satpur to Nashik through Dwarka. There are feeder routes from Dwarka to Satpur via Garware Point. The second route will be from Shivajir Nagar to Nashik Road via Nandur Naka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-govt-to-allocate-funds-for-nashik-neo-metro/articleshow/80793059.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||It will take a year for river ecosystem to regenerate: Experts||Dehradun: Sunday's flash flood in Chamoli has not only sucked away human lives and destroyed hydel projects but also has shaken the river ecology immensely, so much so that it will take a year's break from human interference to regenerate, say experts. The riverbed of the Rishiganga and the Dhauliganga up to Srinagar -- nearly 100km -- has been completely disturbed due to siltation, according to scientists. The macrobenthos (organisms that live at the bottom of a water column and are visible to the naked eye) and insects, which are also known as aquatic ‘ecosystem managers’ of the rivers are all gone with the disaster. They will take at least a year to come back again. Also, downstream of the Dhauliganga Pipalkoti onwards, scores of fish species have perished as the river was flooded by silt, sediments and the water had high turbidity. To get the original population of fishes back, it will take at least ‘two to three years’, according to scientists. The damage to river Ganga can be assessed from the fact that the Rishiganga further merges with the Dhauliganga, which merges with the Alaknanada at Srinagar in Pauri. Till Srinagar, it is silt-laden and totally disturbing the aquatic ecology. Devprayag is the confluence of the Bhagirathi and Alaknanda merge and officially form the 2,525km-long Ganga river. It is the Alaknanda that contributes the maximum flow to the Ganga stream which gives clean drinkable and irrigation water to 11 states of the country, including national capital Delhi. “The stretch from Rishiganga to Alaknanda, which is around 100 km, needs to be left free for at least one year, which is the full cycle of all seasons – winter, spring, summer and monsoon. This will help the macrobenthos of the impacted zone such as Corydali, Hydropsy, Brachyce, Gomphida, Elmidae, Letocer etc to come back in the stretches again. The river biodiversity in the deluge-hit stretches has undergone changes. This 100km stretch needs healing and thus they be left free of pollution, construction and any other human activities for the aquatic ecosystem to revive,” said K Sivakumar, senior scientist at the Wildlife Institute of India. Meanwhile, speaking to TOI, Himanshu Thakkar, coordinator of South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People (SANDARP) who has worked on river ecology and dams for more than 30 years, said, “To save the ecology of rivers in the higher reaches of the Himalayas, the Uttarakhand government should not repair or re-commission the Rishiganga and Tapovan-Vishnugad hydroelectric plants. Hydroelectric power plant operations have the potential to multiply disasters in those landscapes.” Explaining how the riverine ecology gets impacted by hydroelectric projects, Thakkar said, “Setting up a hydroelectric plant would require building a tunnel, a dam, a road, a township, dumping site and blasting using explosives. When all such activities take place in and around a stretch of river, the area's ecosystem gets adversely impacted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/it-will-take-a-year-for-river-ecosystem-to-regenerate-experts/articleshow/80796534.cms||Shivani Azad
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Med management rates irk pvt hosps||Kolkata: Private hospitals in Kolkata have decided to seek a revision of the Swasthya Sathi rates for medical management of patients announced at Nabanna on Tuesday. Even though the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) — the nodal body of private health establishments in Bengal — will not be seeking a formal rate revision immediately, it expects a response from the government to its ‘dissatisfaction’ over the charges announced on Tuesday. Pointing out that that rates were too low, hospitals said they were waiting for a meeting with health officials to review the charges announced. While rates for the scheme under 105 packages have been raised by 10%-20%, the hike in medical management charges have been hiked by just Rs 300. The daily ceiling for non-critical patients has been raised to Rs 1,800 from Rs 1,500 and that for critical patients has been increased to Rs 3,300 from Rs 3,000. Hospitals had sought a separation of charges for medical management under the heads of bed charges, medicines, doctors’ fees, investigation expenses and consumables which was turned down. “We are disappointed with the medical management rates since we had sought a separation of the charges under various heads. It was not done and remains a consolidated amount that is grossly inadequate,” said AHEI president Rupak Barua. He added that the six-member committee of private hospitals formed last month had advised the charge to be broken up under major heads. “Our displeasure has been conveyed to the health department,” added Barua. “The actual charges are about 10 times that of the rate announced. It is unfair to put a daily ceiling of just Rs 3,300 for ICU treatment since patients may need investigations and doctors’ consultations that incur much more costs. The bed charges, for instance, can be fixed at Rs 1,000 but other expenses like consumables and investigations must be taken into consideration separately. Or else, it will be difficult for us to admit patients under Swasthya Sathi,” said Barua. Rates for 105 commonly used packages under five disciplines were increased by 10%-20% on Tuesday. The increase will lead to an additional expenditure of Rs 200 crore per year for the state. Private hospitals said they has accepted the hiked package rates ‘for the time being’. But the raise is too small to make the scheme sustainable in the long run, pointed out a hospital head who is a member of the expert committee formed to advise the government on rate revision. “Considering the social necessity of the scheme and the fact that the elections are round the corner, we have accepted the rates for the present. They are not adequate to cover even one-third of our costs. But the medical management rates are not feasible at all,” said the hospital head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-management-rates-irk-pvt-hosps/articleshow/80796528.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 11, 2021||Goa||RBI tells banks to support credit needs of customers||Panaji: The Reserve Bank of India urged private and public sector banks in Goa to act as agents of social change, while supporting the financial needs of retail customers and entrepreneurs. Banks must be sensitive to the needs of borrowers, RBI general manager N J Nampoothiri said at the start of the Financial Literacy Week. “Credit discipline and timely repayment by borrowers are beneficial to both banks and borrowers,” he said. “Over the years, the dependence of borrowers on informal financial institutions has reduced, but a lot more needs to be done to include all under the formal financial sector.” The financial literacy week, which will conclude on February 12, aims to promote on time repayment, positive credit score and formal sector borrowing. Nampoothiri said he hopes that banks will undertake activities to redress some of the issues regarding repayment of loans, responsible borrowing and support for entrepreneurs. RBI along with the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) will hold a workshop for entrepreneurs regarding borrowing opportunities, the importance of a good credit rating and the importance of taking loans from financial institutions. “In order to get a good credit rating and good terms from the Bank, it is necessary to understand how the CIBIL score and other credit ratings can be improved. Participation in the camp will help the participants understand this concept better,”said director general of GCCI R S Kamat. Also present were chairman MSME National Council of Assocham Manguirish Pai Raikar, chairman of CII’s Goa council Blaise Costabir and president of Goa State Industries Association Damodar Kochkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rbi-tells-banks-to-support-credit-needs-of-customers/articleshow/80804394.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Will drop case, seek to regularise merged flats: Kangana Ranaut||MUMBAI: Actor Kangana Ranaut on Wednesday informed the Bombay high court that she would drop her appeal and the suit filed against a civic notice for the alleged illegal merging of her three residential flats in the Khar building D B Breeze, and apply for regularisation. Her counsel Birendra Saraf submitted before Justice P K Chavan that Ranaut wished to drop her legal cases and accept the notice issued by the BMC in 2018, and apply for regularisation. Justice Chavan allowed her to withdraw her appeal against a December 2020 order of a lower court, gave her 30 days to make the application and further time to BMC to take a decision, which if it goes against her, will not be enforced for a couple of weeks. BMC counsel Aspi Chinoy and Anil Sakhare had on the last hearing date submitted that if Ranaut wished to seek regularisation of the alterations, she would need to accept the notice issued under the MRTP Act and withdraw the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kangana-will-drop-case-seek-to-regularise-merged-flats/articleshow/80804385.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Three more arrested for Republic Day violence, identity ascertained from facial software||NEW DELHI: Three more people have been arrested in connection with the violence that rocked the city on Republic Day after identifying them through facial recognition system. The accused are Gurprakash from Mahavir Nagar and Rajender Singh and Gurjeet Singh from Gurunanak colony in Bhalswa Dairy. Police have seized a bike and a scooter and their mobile handsets. They were allegedly a part of the violence that took place in Burari in north Delhi. A group of people had been stopped at a barricade on January 26 while trying to head towards Red Fort after which they attacked the policemen deployed on Burari flyover. At least 30 personnel from paramilitary and other forces were injured in the attack. Earlier, police had arrested eight people for the R-Day violence after filing an FIR under the IPC sections of rioting and assaulting police personnel on duty. The total number of arrests have now risen to 11. The accused are being questioned about the identity of their associates. Meanwhile, the manhunt for gangster Lakha Sidhana has been intensified and multiple raids are being conducted in Haryana by Special Cell based on information given by arrested Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu. Sidhana is accused of leading a mob that unfurled the Nishan Sahib on Red Fort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-more-arrested-for-r-day-violence-identity-ascertained-from-facial-software/articleshow/80869315.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Madurai||Madurai Malli season begins, traders push for organic flowers||Madurai: With the winter receding, the Madurai flower market has come alive again with mounds of jasmines in view. Traders expect good supply of the flower as more than two tonnes has arrived in the last two days. Madurai Mattuthavani flower market, the biggest flower market in the state, receives not less than two tonnes of Madurai Malli daily during the season between February and August. From November to January this year, the market received less than half-a-tonne of jasmines daily resulting in the price soaring to Rs 2,000 /kg. Co-ordinator of Flower Markets Associations S Ramachandran said that the market was receiving two tonnes of jasmines in the last two days. “Now farmers have shifted towards inorganic methods of cultivation, which is resulting in the plants flowering in off season. But they lack the exotic fragrance,” he said. For the past one week, Ramachandran has been visiting farmers in Valayankulam and Valayapatti talking to them on the importance of being organic. “It would be better if the agriculture department took measures to ensure this,” he said. Farmers who want to make a quick buck resort to inorganic farming methods, as they get more than Rs 3,000/kg in December and January, but the plants also die fast. “Organic farming results in long standing plants producing very good flowers,” said N Chandran, a farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-malli-season-begins-traders-push-for-organic-flowers/articleshow/80804287.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Madurai||Goat buyer alleges cheating at weekly market in Madurai||Madurai: A man created a stir at the Madurai district collectorate on Tuesday when he brought with him two dead goats he bought from the Thirumangalam municipality goat market. He said the traders forced the animals to drink water to increase the weight so that they sell for more, but this resulted in the death of the animals.R K Jeyaraman of Thirumangalam said he had purchased eight goats weighing about 10 kilograms each for Rs 40,000 and two kid goats for Rs 1,000 each from the market on February 5. But the animals were inactive when they were taken to his house and started dying one after another — seven by Monday and a kid. He took the remaining goat, which also appeared sick, and the kid to the Tallakulam polyclinic. The animals were treated but they died on the way home. Hence, he took them to the collectorate seeking justice.Next only to the Pollachi market, Thirumangalam municipality goat market is the biggest in the region where about 2,000 to 5,000 goats are brought to the weekly market day on Fridays. ``Goats brought to the market are forcibly made to drink water beyond their intake capacity. Pipes are sent down their throats and water from taps made to flow into the animals,’’ said Jeyaraman. This inhuman act makes the animals sluggish and they become sick and die.When contacted, Thirumangalam municipality commissioner K Vinayagam said they did not have anything to do with the market directly as it was leased out to the Sengulam panchayat. ``However I will ask the local sub inspector to check this on Friday,’’ he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/goat-buyer-alleges-cheating-at-weekly-market-in-madurai/articleshow/80804316.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||Lessons learned from Kedarnath tragedy help in better, prompt response: State govt||Dehradun: After the Kedarnath tragedy, Uttarakhand government had created a State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) - where units of fit police personnel were included - to tackle any disaster-like situation and help in rescue operations. Availability of choppers, preparation of food and essential commodities packets, swift response to disaster and planned rescue operations have helped the state in saving many lives, according to officials. In contrast, the absence of a specialised force and lack of awareness on rescue operations had delayed the rescue proceedings in the mid-June 2013 Kedarnath tragedy. While the duration of Kedarnath flash floods was longer, the water level in Alaknanda river receded in a few hours. At the same time, there was incessant rain in June 2013, which was a major stumbling block in rescue operations. However, the efforts at Raini were better planned and coordinated. Within a few hours of the tragedy, the SDRF team reached the spot and started the rescue operations and were soon joined by the Army and ITBP teams. Besides, the state teams were prepared with food and essential commodities kit, the distribution of which was started from the first day of the rescue operations. Choppers of the Army, Indian Air Force and private companies were stationed at Chamoli for an immediate rescue or dropping of food packets in nearby villages. Urban development minister Madan Kaushik said that being a hill state, the possibilities of disaster were more in Uttarakhand. “In our budget we had made provisions to strengthen our preparations. Training for relief and rescue works was given to locals,” he said. Kaushik pointed out that trained staff and deployment of SDRF personnel at key points helped in starting the rescue operations early. The minister further mentioned that the developments are being closely monitored by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. “The rescue operations are on and best possible efforts are underway to save as many lives as possible,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lessons-learned-from-kedarnath-tragedy-help-in-better-prompt-response-state-govt/articleshow/80796542.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 11, 2021||Nashik||Ajit Pawar: Nashik dist to get Rs 470cr, must make most of it||Nashik: State finance minister Ajit Pawar has assured higher allocation of funds for Nashik district in the general plan 2021-22. Pawar was in Nashik on Wednesday to finalise the general plans of all the five districts in the division. An outlay of Rs 470 crore has been sanctioned for Nashik district by Pawar, who is also the deputy chief minister, while Ahmednagar district has been sanctioned Rs 510 crore, Dhule district (Rs 210 crore), Jalgaon (Rs 400 crore) and Nandurbar (Rs 130 crore). “Nashik, Dhule and Nandurbar get separate allocation under the tribal sub-plan and it has been planned by tribal development minister KC Padavi. This is the general plan outlay and I appeal to the guardian ministers and the district collectors to ensure that they use the funds to the maximum,” said Pawar. On river-linking projects, he said that the government was keen to complete the projects as they have been designed to bring more land under irrigation. The government would announce funds in the budget. Pawar announced allocation of Rs 25 crore for celebration of 151st year of the formation of Nashik district. The sum of Rs 5 crore separately will also be made available for the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hall at Nashik. The construction of Rs 12-crore memorial has an auditorium is near completion and additional cost of Rs 5 crore was required and it will be allotted by the state government. Dhule to get Rs 20 crore for MRI machine Dhule district will get special fund of Rs 20 crore for MRI machine. The proposal was mooted by district guardian minister Abdul Sattar. The MRI machine will help in better diagnosis and treatment of people from the tribal areas of Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon districts. Provision for solar power in Ahmednagar Pawar has asked the Ahmednagar district administration to make provision for a 2 megawatt solar power project of Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation and also for the new building for Balasaheb Deshpande Hospital in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ajit-pawar-nashik-dist-to-get-rs-470cr-must-make-most-of-it/articleshow/80793015.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||US company links malware to other ‘high-profile cases’ too||Mumbai: Rona Wilson, one of the accused in the Elgar Parishad case, cited a US-based forensic lab’s report that indicated planting of evidence on his laptop. Mark Stevens, president of Arsenal Consulting, in a 16-page report, said Wilson’s was “one of the most serious cases involving evidence tampering’’ that the firm had encountered. The report said, “The hidden documents…and the top 10 incriminating documents…were delivered to Wilson’s computer by NetWire (a malware) and not by any other means.’’ It said Wilson’s computer “was first compromised on June 13, 2016 after a series of suspicious emails with someone using co-accused Varavara Rao’s email account”. ASG Anil Singh, who appeared for NIA against the bail pleas of several accused, told TOI on Wednesday that he has not seen the forensic report but questioned its value at this juncture, saying “if at all, it can be tested or gone into during trial”. Wilson’s petition described the report as “independent and unimpeachable expert analysis’’ and sought orders for an SIT to “probe to ascertain person/s behind such planting of fabricated documents in his electronic devices, to implicate him’’ and then prosecute those persons. He also sought “monetary compensation’’ for “mental agony and harassment, violation of fundamental rights, loss to reputation” and a stay on all proceedings in the case and release on bail as interim relief. The NIA has submitted a chargesheet against Wilson alleging Maoist links, a conspiracy to disrupt communal peace, waging war against the nation and several terror offences under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Wilson had sent cloned copies of the digital evidence “recovered’’ by police against him and others alleged to be Maoists for forensic analysis to the US firm last July. Police had cited “letters’’ found embedded in computers of some accused, including Wilson, as evidence. Arsenal’s report said, “The attacker responsible for compromising Mr Wilson’s computer had extensive resources (including time) and it is obvious that their primary goals were surveillance and incriminating document delivery.’’ It said it “has connected the same attacker to a significant malware infrastructure which has been deployed over the course of approximately four years to not only attack and compromise Wilson’s computer for 22 months but also to attack his co-defendants… and other defendants in other high-profile Indian cases as well”.  The Washington Post in a report said it had asked “three experts on malware and digital forensics in North America to review Arsenal’s report and they said its findings were sound”. The newspaper said Arsenal “has performed digital forensics analysis in other high-profile cases, including the Boston Marathon bombing”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/us-company-links-malware-to-other-high-profile-cases-too/articleshow/80800746.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Birth cert backlog to be cleared offline as KMC launches portal||Kolkata: Even as Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) birth certificate application goes online, the pending 20,000 birth certificate applications received in the last eight months are likely to be cleared in the existing offline mode. Senior KMC officials said the hybrid online-offline mode will continue till the entire backlog is cleared. Senior officers acknowledged a huge number of applications for obtaining birth certificates had piled up after the civic body invited citizens to apply for the services (birth and death certificates). According to a KMC health department official the civic body’s birth certificate wing will need to clear over 20,000 applications for birth certificates that were submitted at the civic body’s headquarters and borough offices in the past eight months. “This will be done offline,” an officer said. A source in the KMC health department conceded that the officials in the civic body’s birth wing were yet to issue birth certificates that are pending for over three-four months. A special helpdesk may be opened for the applicants who are yet to receive birth certificates. Anindya Bose, a retired state government employee, has been running from pillar to post to obtain a birth certificate for his grandson for the past two months. Bose said he could have secured the birth certificate at a premium but he refused to pay extra to a tout. “I decided not to give in to the tout raj. Now I know how difficult it is to obtain a certificate just by submitting valid documents and requisite fees,” Bose said. One of the reasons for the backlog was attributed to acute shortage of manpower in the birth certificate wing. Added to this, the decision to accept all applications through a dropbox system led to an abnormal delay in examining documents. “Lack of trained staffers and Covid-19 protocol led to introduction of drop boxes. We are struggling to scan documents of over 50 applicants that were being submitted in the drop boxes every day since July,” a KMC health department official said. This apart, the KMC health department may need to bring back some of the efficient sub-registers in the birth wing who were transferred to another wing of the department during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/birth-cert-backlog-to-be-cleared-offline-as-kmc-launches-portal/articleshow/80796559.cms||Saikat Ray
February 11, 2021||Madurai||Special trains to Rameswaram for Thai Amavasai||Madurai: Southern Railway will run special trains between Madurai and Rameswaram in view of the Thai Amavasai festival (in Rameswaram). Train No. 06097 Madurai - Rameswaram special express will leave Madurai at 6.45am on Thursday (February 11) and reach Rameswaram at 10am. Trian No. 06092 Rameswaram - Madurai special express will leave Rameswaram at 10am on Thursday (February 11) and reach Madurai at 1.15pm. Train No. 06098 Rameswaram - Madurai special express will leave Rameswaram on Thursday at 4.30pm and reach Madurai at 7.30pm. These trains will halt at Madurai East, Manamadurai, Paramakudi, Ramanathapuram and Pamban railway stations. These trains are reserved special and advance reservation of tickets is essential to travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/special-trains-to-rameswaram-for-thai-amavasai/articleshow/80804355.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 11, 2021||Nashik||Police ban gathering of people||Nashik: The city police have issued prohibitory orders— including ban on gathering of five or more people, organising processions and conducting public meetings— given the upcoming events and celebrations that will take place in the next two weeks. The prohibitory orders issued under Section 37(1) (3) of the Maharashtra Police Act 1951 are in place from February 10 to 24. The assembly of people, under the prohibitory orders, will not be applicable for weddings, religious functions, funeral processions and in cinema halls. Considering events like Valentine’s Day celebration on February 14, the death anniversary of Krantiveer Lahuji Salve on February 17, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Jayanti celebration on February 17, the death anniversary of Govind Pansare on February 20 and World Mother Tongue. on February 21, the police issued the prohibitory orders. Since various political parties are also staging agitations for their demands and the Nashik Municipal Corporation will be conducting anti-encroachment drives over the next couple of weeks, issues of law and order can be created. In the prohibitory orders, carrying explosive material, stones, arms have been banned. Further, exhibiting or burning effigies of political leaders has also been banned and the use of music systems making loud noise has been prohibited among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-ban-gathering-of-people/articleshow/80793106.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Fine, licence seizure for stopping bikes on flyovers to take calls||Kolkata: The Kolkata traffic police has asked all sergeants to take action against bikers and motorists who are found parking their vehicles on flyovers or near important crossings to answer phone calls. The fine will be steep too — Rs 1,000 for the first offence and seizure of licences for repeat offenders. Two recent unconnected incidents — a health worker flung off Maa flyover when he had stopped his bike to attend to a call and the death of a young man who jumped from Vidyasagar Setu to shoot a video — have led cops to take a tough stand. “The decision is not new. The provisions existed earlier and the fines are regularly collected. We have merely emphasized that this be followed more intensely,” said an ACP from central Kolkata. The fine of Rs 1,000 will be under section 218 (clause II) and section 184 of the MV Act. “Use of earphones/mobile phones while driving is banned under these sections. Additionally, section 177 (causing obstruction to movement) and even 190 (2) of MV Act can be slapped for parking illegally under violation of standards prescribed for road safety, control of noise and air pollution,” said an officer. Police said that residents of the city have started sending videos of violators who regularly flout the rules on flyovers. “On Wednesday, we received two such videos — one from Maa flyover and the other from AJC Bose Road flyover — of such violations. We are using CCTV footage for prosecutions but we are trying to use a more intense bike patrolling system in the coming days. We can assure citizens that all the clippings they send will be looked into and action taken accordingly,” said an IPS officer. Meanwhile, two accidents on two simultaneous days on Maa flyover have led Tiljala and East traffic guards to set up a joint programme through their respective CCTV monitoring centres to monitor peak-hour traffic on the flyover. The guards are keeping officers posted on top of the flyover in the peak hours to streamline traffic movement and prosecute motorists breaking laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fine-licence-seizure-for-stopping-bikes-on-flyovers-to-take-calls/articleshow/80796594.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||First find people, build bridge later: Kin of missing workers||RAINI: Hundreds of family members searching for the workers and engineers of the Rishi Ganga power project gathered at the site on Wednesday morning and alleged that officials of the Army, Border Roads Organization (BRO) and NDRF are only concentrating on re-constructing the bridge that had collapsed due to Sunday's flash floods and that rescue operations have taken a back seat. They urged the administration to first rescue those trapped in the tunnel and locate the over 100 bodies that are presumed to have been buried under the debris. The bridge construction can be done later, they said. The family members, who have come from various parts of the country, also stopped the construction work of the bridge, demanding that those missing be located first. Ankit Kumar, who has come from Saharanpur searching for his brother Vicky Kumar, said, “The officials here are only giving priority to construction of the bridge and rescue operations have taken a back seat. If rescue operation goes at a snail's pace, the trapped people who might be still alive will also die.” The family members claimed that locals in the area had told the Army and the NDRF about the specific locations where the workers were buried, but efforts were not made to locate them. The teams had recovered three bodies along the river at the Rishi Ganga power plant on Tuesday. Ravi Kishore from Punjab said, “My nephew, Jugal Kishore, was working on the project and his phone was active till Wednesday morning. We are waiting for the rescue teams to find him out as soon as possible. Time is running out.” Colonel Brijendra S Soni, who is managing the work at Rishiganga project site, told the distressed family members that the teams will work on priority to remove the debris and rescue the people trapped inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/first-find-people-build-bridge-later-kin-of-missing-workers/articleshow/80796622.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Bhopal||Misrod most accident-prone in Bhopal, Habibganj next||Bhopal: Hoshangabad Road in Misrod has emerged as the most accident-prone zone in the city. As many as 131 road accidents were reported in Misrod in 2020, in which 14 people lost their lives while 69 were injured. It is followed by the busy Habibganj area in which 129 road accidents were reported last year, resulting in 11 deaths and injuries to 92 people. Apart from Misrod and Habibganj, a high number of road accidents were reported at MP Nagar, Jehangirabad, Bag Sewania, TT Nagar and Govindpura areas of the New City or South Zone. A senior police officer said that in Misrod, the stretch of Hoshangabad Road from Samardha-Gyarah Meel-Misrod has become an accident-prone zone. The construction of highway and bridges is ongoing and the diversions meet the main roads at many spots. He said that in Habibganj area 5-Number Square, Ganesh Mandir turning near Habibganj Naka, Rajiv Gandhi Square and the main road in front of Habibganj police station have become mishap-prone. The officer further said that traffic problems in Kolar area are enormous due to unplanned development and high traffic flow. The roads in North Zone or on the Old City outskirts, including Berasia, Eintkheri, Khajuri and Sukhi Sewania, have emerged as the deadliest areas as most fatal road accidents have taken place there. In Berasia, 26 people lost their lives in 120 road accidents reported last year while 122 people were injured. Similarly, in Eintkheri, 25 casualties were reported while 97 people were injured in 104 road accidents. In Khajuri, 20 people died in 73 road accidents last year while 64 were injured. In Sukhi Sewania, 54 road accidents were reported in 2020 in which 17 people died while 63 were injured. Last year, a total 2,295 road accidents took place in the city, killing 237 people and injuring 1,807. The figure of casualties in road accidents may be less than previous years, but if we compare keeping in mind 81 days of lockdown, including 71 days from March 22 to May 31 and ten days of lockdown since July 24, it is quite high. Speaking on the high casualty rate in road accidents in Berasia and other rural areas, SDOP, Berasia, KK Verma, said that the roads connecting villages, mostly highways, are in better condition. Most of the people, including villagers, commute to the city daily on their two-wheelers and most of them indulge in overspeeding. They do not drive in controllable speed and take sudden turns at various village roads connecting the highways, without showing any indicator. Most of them do not follow traffic rules. As a result, these two-wheelers often collide with heavy vehicles or cars/SUVs. Verma said that most of the accidents were reported on the Bhopal-Berasia Road, Shamshabad Road in Berasia and Golkheri Road in Eintkheri. He said that it is not that the people in these areas are not aware of traffic rules, but they just do not follow them. They spend so much on the safety of their expensive mobile phones — covering them with screen guard and back cover — but do not purchase a good helmet for the safety of their head or other safety measures. ASP (Traffic) Sandeep Dixit said that overspeeding was the main cause in most of the accidents reported on the city outskirts and rural areas. When people drive fast, intense collisions take place and precious human lives are lost. In city areas, people do not get much chance to over speed due to traffic flow being high and other reasons, so even if accidents take place, they are not fatal. Also, heavy vehicles ply on highways, so accidents are more fatal there while in city areas the entry of heavy vehicles remains prohibited during day time. ASP Dixit said that he himself inspected Misrod area near Samardha where recently two fatal accidents took place and found out that accidents happen due to that traffic coming from diversions directly on the main road. Rectification measures were being taken, he added. ASP Dixit also said that traffic police — along with the police station concerned — inspects accident spots, analyses and classifies them under black spots, vulnerable spots and hot spots. If any road engineering defects are found at these spots, the concerned agencies are informed to rectify and take measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/misrod-most-accident-prone-in-bhopal-habibganj-next/articleshow/80796568.cms||Sudeept Mishra
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Govt seeks details of all liquor vends||New Delhi: Delhi excise department has directed private individuals and government agencies to provide details of their liquor vends that are located in the assembly constituencies and at Indira Gandhi International Airport. In a letter issued on Wednesday, deputy commissioner Sanjeev Kumar directed all the licensees of private and government liquor shops to submit the details by Friday. The letter said non-compliance by licensees of private vends would be viewed seriously. The move comes nearly a month after an excise committee had suggested minimising the presence of Delhi government in retail liquor business and increasing private participation. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-seeks-details-of-all-liquor-vends/articleshow/80869347.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Rajkot||IG ‘deletes’ his fake FB profile||Rajkot: An attempt was made to create a fake Facebook profile of Rajkot range IG Sandeep Singh. However, timely acton by the top cop saved people from getting cheated through it after he informed Facebook authorities about the attempt and asked them to delete the fake profile.Talking to TOI, Singh said: “My friend accepted a request from the profile and the creator asked him for money. My friend asked him on chat to call him up when the fraud instantly blocked him. Getting suspicious, my friend called me up and informed me. I understood the situation and immediately posted a message on my wall alerting everybody about the fraud attempt of the fake profile.” No sooner had Singh posted the warning message on his wall, the fraud deleted the fake profile. Meanwhile, the cyber cell intimated FB to delete the account. “My friend also intimated FB and I too got a confirmation mail,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ig-deletes-his-fake-fb-profile/articleshow/80793360.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Madurai||Tejas Express to stop at Dindigul from April 2||Madurai: The Railways has announced that the Chennai-Madurai Tejas Express train will stop at Dindigul junction from April 2 for six months on an experimental basis, heeding a long-time demand of rail users. The train has stops at Trichy and Kodai Road, on all days except Thursdays. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan and the Chambers of Commerce had asked the authorities to allow stoppage for the train in Dindigul, as the number of passengers from Kodai Road was less than that of Dindigul. Su Venkatesan has welcomed the announcement. He had also made a representation to resume train services between Madurai and Rameswaram in view of Thai Amavasai and the Railways has introduced three express trains. Another demand of the MP was the restoration of Train No 66018/66017 as a workman special to cater to the people of Katpadi, Mukundarayapuram, Walajah Road and Sholinghur. He has been informed that Train no 06090 Jolarpettai- Chennai Intercity introduced on February 1 would stop at the above mentioned stops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tejas-express-to-stop-at-dindigul-from-april-2/articleshow/80804406.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Y S Sharmila to tour Khammam on February 21||HYDERABAD: Continuing with her consultations with loyalists of former CM YS Rajasekhara Reddy from various districts, his daughter Sharmila will undertake her first district tour in Telangana on February 21. She will head to Khammam where she will meet loyalists of YSR and discuss the plans on her new party. “The consultations will continue with all district units’ leaders and activists till April 10. After that, we will assess the ground realities and take a decision on our future course of action,” Konda Raghava Reddy, who is coordinating Sharmila’s political activities, told TOI. Sources said Sharmila will complete her consultations with leaders of surrounding districts of Hyderabad. Her close associates told TOI that she will set up her own office for party activities and will stay in Hyderabad.  “Her style of functioning is akin to what her late father YSR used to do. She will interact more with people and grassroots workers,” Raghava Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sharmila-to-tour-khammam-on-feb-21/articleshow/80800759.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Doc victory over med council after 3-yr legal battle||Kolkata: Calcutta High Court on Tuesday dropped contempt proceedings against the Centre after the Union health ministry acted on the National Medical Commission recommendations that two medical specialisation degrees in paediatric surgeries in Germany should be recognized in India. The Centre had informed the West Bengal Medical Council (WBMC) on January 29 to recognise these paediatric specialisation degrees from Germany. The Centre’s decision ends a three-year legal battle for paediatric specialist Biswajit Bhaduri, whose employer — CMRI — was penalized Rs 10 lakh by the state health commission for engaging him as a specialist. The state panel was hearing a medico-legal complaint on the death of a newborn in the hospital. The penalty order was based on a recommendation by the Medical Council of India (MCI), which refused to recognise these degrees in India. Bhaduri had then moved court. In a statement, Bhaduri said that he had to face hostile fellow practitioners brought up in the British system of medicine who were unfamiliar with the German system of medical training and often labelled his degrees as “fake” and even threatened. He also referred to the HC order as “vindication” of his “lone fight for justice and lost prestige”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doc-victory-over-med-council-after-3-yr-legal-battle/articleshow/80796661.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
February 11, 2021||Nagpur||Pay pending salaries of contractual workers in 3 weeks, GMCH Chanda told||Chandrapur: Assistant labour commissioner Nitin Patankar has directed the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here to pay the pending salaries of seven months to contractual workers of the college as per minimum wages within three weeks. The order comes in the wake of joint meeting held between the workers and GMCH officials at the office of the assistant labour commissioner. Around 500 contractual workers of GMCH, under the banner of Jan Vikas Kamgar Sangh, are staging dera (camping) agitation before the district collectorate with their families to press the demand for pending salaries of seven months and implementation of minimum wage sanctioned by the government two years ago. Patankar called an emergency meeting and summoned both the parties. President of Jan Vikas Kamgar Sangh, Pappu alias Pradeep Deshmukh pointed out that government had approved funds for the tender process according to the minimum wage rate. “But following corrupt practices in management of the medical college, 500 workers have been deprived of the minimum wage,” he said. Medical college representatives Dr Rajendra Surpam and administrative officer Sanjeev Rathod stated that a definite date could not be given for implementation of the directives as action on the issue of arrears and minimum wage is being taken at government level. Patankar said the explanation given by the GMCH officers were not satisfactory. “If GMCH fails to pay pending salaries in three weeks, the workers can file a plea with labour office for its recovery,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pay-pending-salaries-of-contractual-workers-in-3-weeks-gmch-chanda-told/articleshow/80860495.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Girl kidnapped by four, rescued||Hyderabad: An undergraduate student, while returning home from her college in Ghatkesar on Wednesday, was kidnapped by an auto driver and three others, before she was rescued from an isolated location in Yamnampet on the city’s suburbs. Rachakonda additional commissioner of police Sudheer Babu told TOI that after the victim alerted her family members, suspecting the auto driver’s ill-intentions, police could reach on time and rescue her. Rachakonda police said they are probing whether there was any sexual assault on the victim. The girl had hired the auto rickshaw in Ghatkesar. “The auto driver asked the girl to shift herself into another waiting van under some pretext after travelling some distance. When she was being taken in the van, the driver changed the route instead of taking the regular route. Then she immediately called her family, who alerted the police,” Sudheer Babu said. Police using her phone location traced her in one hour and she was found with a head injury as she was hit by a stick on her head. By the time police reached the isolated place in Yamnampet, the accused had fled away. The girl was immediately shifted to hospital, where she is undergoing treatment and is not totally conscious. “We have formed 12 teams to nab the accused. According to the information shared by the victim till now, it is only a case of kidnap and there is no information of sexual assault. Had the police not reached in time, the girl could have been in serious danger,” police said. The incident happened at 6.30pm, and Keesara inspector Narender Goud and his team traced her by 7.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/girl-kidnapped-by-four-rescued/articleshow/80800799.cms||Srinath Vudali
February 11, 2021||Kolhapur||5 ST buses catch fire in Satara||Kolhapur: A major fire mishap was averted at the Satara ST bus stand where five buses caught fire, but the quick action by the fire fighters brought the situation under control on time. The buses that caught fire had been parked at the bus stand. Police have detained two people and are investigating the case. According to the information, one of the buses caught fire around 5.15 pm. Soon, other the blaze spread to four other buses. The incident took place when the ST stand was crowded with passengers. The passengers ran to safety and informed the police and fire department. Within minutes, the fire tenders arrived at the spot and doused the flames. Satara city police inspector Annasaheb Manjre said they were looking into the cause of the fire. — With inputs from Atul Deshpande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/5-st-buses-catch-fire-in-satara/articleshow/80793169.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Bhopal||MP’s Chinki shoots to top spot in national selection trials||Bhopal: Tokyo Olympic quota holder shooter Chinki Yadav, who stood first in the finals of the fourth national shooting selection trials held in New Delhi on Wednesday, has proved beyond doubt that MP can produce international sports stars. With this, she is now poised to secure a place in the Indian team for the World Cup. Her performance is also important as established names like Saurabh Chaudhary and Manu Bhaker failed to make a mark on the first day of the trials. Chinki finished fourth with a score of 579 in the qualification round of the 25m sports pistol event, while finishing first in the final round with 37 points. She also performed well in the fourth selection trial and stood first with 384 points in the qualification round while 37 points in the final round.Praising her talent, sports minister Yashodhara Raje Scindia said, “While developing the shooting academy in Bhopal, our only objective was to produce the best talent of the international level. Shooters like Chinki have proved that the grooming of the shooters is being done here in the right manner.” She also praised the performances of Aishwarya Pratap Singh and Sunidhi Chauhan and congratulated them.Aishwarya Pratap Singh Tomar finished fifth in the men's 10m air rifle event in the fourth qualification round of the fourth selection trial. He performed brilliantly in the final round as finished second with a score of 252.6.Another academy shooter Sunidhi Chauhan finished first in the third trial qualification round by scoring 1170 points, but in the final round she scored 456 and earned second place. Sunidhi finished fifth with 420.4 points in the final of the fourth selection trial played today. These shooters are being trained in MP shooting academy under former Olympian Jaspal Rana, Suma Suroor, Sunita Lakhan, Jayawardhan Singh, Vaibhav Sharma, Oshin Tawani and Aparajita Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mps-chinki-shoots-to-top-spot-in-national-selection-trials/articleshow/80796689.cms||Ramendra Singh
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Cong padayatras in T aim at twin targets||Hyderabad: The Congress has taken to padayatras in Telangana with the main objective of standing by the farmers and fighting on their behalf against the BJP government at the Centre and TRS government in the state, seeking justice for them. The Congress leaders’ interaction with the peasants, coupled with the party’s demand to repeal the new central farm laws, revive the agriculture produce procurement centres in Telangana and also pass a resolution in the state assembly against central laws will go a long way in helping the Congress to check the rise of BJP and also corner the ruling TRS in Telangana, a political observer said. Congress top guns A Revanth Reddy and Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka have launched padayatras. Others, including T Jayaprakash Reddy, Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and V Hanumanth Rao, will soon follow suit. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, who launched his 13-day pada yatra ‘Rythulatho Mukha Mukhi’ (face to face with farmers) from Adilabad on Tuesday, is interacting with farmers in their agricultural fields, sharing his meals them and also speaking to them at market yards. Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy, who had planned to organise one-day-long ‘Rajiv Rythu Bharosa’ deekshas in every district, converted it into a 140-km pada yatra from Atchampet in Nagarkurnool district to Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-padayatras-in-t-aim-at-twin-targets/articleshow/80800791.cms||Roushan Ali
February 11, 2021||Goa||Decision on Gulal on Feb 15||Margao: Uncertainty prevails over the organisation of next month’s ‘Gulal’ at Zambaulim this year. While Shree Ramnath Devasthan temple committee, Zambaulim, is learnt to have announced that Gulal won’t be held this year , the Mathagramastha Hindu Sabha, the chief organisers of the festival, said that no decision was taken over the matter yet. “The annual meeting of Mathagramastha Hindu Sabha will be held on Feb 15. A decision over Gulal will be taken then,” Pandurang Naik, president of the Sabha told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/decision-on-gulal-on-feb-15/articleshow/80804503.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four hurt in cylinder blasts at ‘illegal’ godown in Versova||MUMBAI: A major fire broke out following a series of blasts at a LPG cylinder godown at Yari Road in Versova on Wednesday morning. Four men were injured in the incident, of which two suffered 60% burns. Versova police arrested the godown owner, Hati Wadilal (45), for operating the godown illegally in a residential area since eight years. Civic sources said earlier too action had been against the godown for illegally stockpiling cylinders. TimesViewIt is clear that stockpiling of a large number of cylinders in the godown was being done illegally. The BMC must carry out regular inspection of such sites to detect such blatant illegalities which could endanger lives. The BMC’s actions usually come post an incident, like its crackdown after the 2017 Kamala Mills tragedy. It would be best to prevent tragedies than just react to them.Local Anya Jagtiani, who lives off Yari Road, said that she began hearing explosions around 9.40am. “It sounded like loud Diwali firecrackers. Our windows began to vibrate. The explosions could be heard every few minutes till 10am.” The injured were rushed to Cooper Hospital even before civic officials and firefighters reached the site. While Rakesh Kadu (30) and Laxman Kumavat (24) suffered 40% burn injuries, Manjit Khan (20) and Mukesh Kumavat (30) have sustained 60% burn injuries. A fire officer at the spot told TOI: “The injured were taken to hospital even before our teams could arrive. Our priority is to complete the firefighting and cooling operations. We will investigate the cause of fire.” The blaze was doused around 1.30pm. Later, firemen released the LPG from the seized cylinders at Versova beach. Mayor Kishori Pednekar, who visited the site later in the day, said the incident will be investigated and action will be taken against the culprits. She also appealed to citizens to submit written applications regarding stockpiling of illegal gas cylinders and flammable substances. The Versova outlet located in a ground-plus-one structure near Anjuman School belongs to Supergas, a private LPG supplier based in Hyderabad. The company, affiliated to Dutch major SHV, supplies small 2-5kg cylinders to roadside hotels and vendors, and 12-17kg cylinders for hotel/ industrial use. Former corporator Devendra Amberkar said it seems that the incident took place when refilling gas from big to small size cylinders. “There is a school nearby and had it been open, it could have led to a major disaster.” Dhaval Shah of Andheri Lokhandwala Residents’ Association said the proposal for a fire station in the area has been lying idle for two decades. “The nearest fire station is Irla or Goregaon and they take time to reach here.” —Inputs by Bella Jaisinghani & V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-hurt-in-cylinder-blasts-at-illegal-godown-in-versova/articleshow/80801061.cms||Richa Pinto
February 11, 2021||Amritsar||Unions to escalate stir in February with rail roko, ‘free’ toll plazas||AMRITSAR: After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s invitation to the farmers for the next round of talks to end the stalemate on agri-marketing laws, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders have asked the government to first provide a “conducive atmosphere” by accepting some of their demands. While talking to TOI after attending a meeting of SKM on Wednesday, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha president Satnam Singh Ajnala said the front had decided to escalate the stir by holding protests at all toll plazas of Rajasthan on February 12 and observing a nationwide rail roko from noon to 4pm on February 18. Ajnala said a widespread sentiment among farmers’ leaders was that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should himself initiate the dialogue with them since agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had allegedly failed to even understand their issues. He added that they were also expecting the government to at least make a specific law on minimum support price (MSP) and announce the same before the next meeting. “This will be one big step by the Modi government to win the hearts of farmers and earn their confidence ahead of next round of discussions with the government,” he said. The government should also consider their demand of ending punishment for stubble burning and farmers’ objections on Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 before holding a meeting with SKM leaders to discuss on the controversial three laws, he added. While denying that SKM leaders had received any written invitation for the next round of talks, he said, “An official invitation is still awaited.” Reacting to the proposal of few farmer leaders to contemplate over Centre’s proposal of suspending the three laws for a year and a half and constituting a committee to mull over aspects of the three laws, he said, “A death sentence is a death sentence, whether it is delivered now or later. We want a complete repeal of all the three laws.” On the other hand, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee leader Gurbachan Singh Chaba said their organisation did not even want to consider the government’s proposal of temporary suspension of laws. “Farmers are in ‘chardi kala’ (positive, buoyant and optimistic). Our morcha is gaining strength with every passing day and the government has realised our power and is trying to allure us with offers but we will not settle for anything less than the complete repeal of three laws,” he said. Meanwhile, angry over Modi’s ‘andolanjivi’ jibe, farmers under the banner of the Border Area Sangharsh Committee burnt his effigy. ‘PM remark makes us feel govt not ready’ Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leader Darshan Pal too hit out at the Centre. “The way Prime Minister is speaking about farmers protest in the august house, it seems his government is not ready to hold talks with farmers, but only wants to mislead the nation. He is also finding fault in andolan and those in the andolan. The farmers are into andolan to raise voice for the rights of peasants of the country,” he said. (Inputs from Neel Kamal in Bathinda) Morcha revokes suspensionSanyukta Kisan Morcha has revoked suspension of Azad Kisan Committee Doaba president Harpal Singh Sangha. He and BKU (Krantikari) president Surjit Singh Phool were placed under suspension for not sticking to the route decided by SKM Action PlanTalking to TOI after a meeting of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha on Wednesday, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha president Satnam Singh Ajnala listed the morcha’s plan for the next eight days: February 12 Farm unions to close all toll plazas of Rajasthan February 14 Morcha to take out a candle march to pay homage to the martyrs of Pulwama attack and farmers who died during their agitation against farm laws February 16 Farmers tp celebrate Sir Chhotu Ram Jayanti February 18 Farmers to observe a nationwide rail roko from noon to 4pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/unions-to-escalate-stir-in-feb-with-rail-roko-free-toll-plazas/articleshow/80800804.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 11, 2021||Kolkata||Restart parking lots in added areas, cops urge civic body||Kolkata: The traffic police has decided to write to KMC to request them to restart a few parking lots in the added areas. They have also asked all traffic guards to provide a list of fee-parking zones that have either ceased to operate or have been replaced by illegal lots nearby. Sources in the DCP traffic-south office said they had written to the KMC parking department to immediately reintroduce fee parking at three sites on Diamond Harbour Road. Two of these used to allow parking earlier. A similar plan has been drawn up for Naktala Market too. Residents of both Behala and Naktala-Bansdroni have been repeatedly complaining about the lack of notified parking space in these extremely crowded zones. In Behala, locals alleged whatever space is available has been taken over by commercial vehicles. “At present, a 9.5km stretch of DH Road — between Taratala and Pailan — is out of bounds for parking except for a few specific commercial zones meant for auto, taxi and bus stands,” said an officer. DC (traffic-south) Atul V said plans were on to decongest and ensure proper parking around the markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/restart-parking-lots-in-added-areas-cops-urge-civic-body/articleshow/80796712.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||UP govt sets up control room to help families of those gone missing in Chamoli||Haridwar: The Uttar Pradesh government has established a control room in Haridwar to help the families of those gone missing in Chamoli disaster. The government has also issued three helpline numbers for people to get information regarding their missed kin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/up-govt-sets-up-control-room-to-help-families-of-those-gone-missing-in-chamoli/articleshow/80796801.cms||MS Nawaz
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Govt must listen, polls will come too: Charuni||Ambala/Yamunanagar: Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Wednesday said a government which did not listen to its people could not remain in power when elections come. Charuni was speaking while addressing gatherings of protesting farmers at toll plazas near Gadholi-Gadhola villages on National Highway (NH) 344 and at Devi Nagar on NH 44 in Ambala and Yamunanagar, respectively. The rallies were organiaed by BKU Haryana (Charuni) workers and farmers. “Efforts are being made to defame the agitation. But we want to tell them (the government) that elections will surely come and we will look at them at that time. We are seeing such gundaraj (lawlessness) for the first time. Instead of police, gundas (goons) are being sent to beat farmers with batons. Threats are being issued and our mobile numbers have been provided to IT cells,” he said. “Despite all this, the government is never above people, who are the most important.,” said Charuni. “Kisan andolan has been going on for over two and a half months, but the government is not changing its stand. ,” said Charuni, while talking to the media at toll plaza in Yamunanagar. In Yamunanagar, Charuni asked protesters to prepare the next strategy. “It has started to appear that the Haryana government will fall in the coming days. The agitation in Haryana is a success,” he said. When asked about BKU leaderRakesh Tikait giving the government up to October 2 to repeal the laws, Charuni said, “We do not agree to this deadline and neither is it a decision of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. It may be his own decision or he may have said it in a manner of speaking. We will stay and fight with the agitation.” Talking about the arrest of actor-activist Deep Sidhu, Charuni said, “If he (Deep) knows any secret about the kisan snion, if any union has done anything wrong in the agitation, he should reveal it. He (Deep) is not associated with any kisan union.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-must-listen-polls-will-come-too-charuni/articleshow/80800847.cms||JK Singh
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||Chilling video of workers of hydropower plant being washed away released by ITBP||DEHRADUN: In the first such visuals that show people being swept away in the flash floods that engulfed the Tapovan area of Chamoli on February 7, a video has been released by the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) that shows how a massive water tsunami at the barrage of the NTPC hydropower project at Tapovan sweeps away around eight to 10 labourers who are on the roof of the structure. The barrage consists of large gates that can be opened and shut to control the amount of water passing through. As intense waves of the angry Dhauliganga river strike the barrage, workers on the roof of the structure can be seen in the video running in panic but within seconds, they are engulfed by the dark muddy waters of the river — which is filled with debris — and swept away. The barrage structure lies barely 250 meters upstream of the tunnel where a massive rescue operation is currently underway to save 34 personnel of the hydropower project trapped inside. The reverse flood water force and slush is believed to have gone inside the tunnel, located downstream on the left side of the barrage, blocking its mouth, Rescue personnel have been trying to remove the slush since past four days, with little success. “We got this video on Wednesday morning. It was shot by a local at around 11 am on Sunday. The video shows the magnitude of the tragedy and how human lives were lost within seconds,” said Vivek Pandey, spokesperson of ITBP. He added that on the basis of the video, ITBP has now launched a special search operation around the Tapovan barrage area. “The search will be focussed at the spot where the plant’s workers can be seen falling off the roof. Sniffer dogs and digging machines are being deployed.” Watch Glacier burst: Fresh video of the deluge at Tapovan tunnel will send a chill down your spine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chilling-video-of-workers-of-hydropower-plant-being-washed-away-released-by-itbp/articleshow/80796730.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Bajwa: Shift Nodeep to jail in Punjab||Bathinda: Rajya Sabha member and Congress leader Pratap Singh Bajwa has written to Punjab and Haryana high court chief justice to get labourer rights activist Nodeep Kaur transferred to a jail in Punjab, pending investigations and to monitor investigations on her case to ensure that justice is meted out. Nodeep Kaur (23) belongs to Gandhar village in Muktsar district and had been in police custody for almost a month and her bail application was rejected by Sonipat district court on February 2. The family is approaching Punjab and Haryana high court for the bail. Nodeep, a member of Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan, was participating in the farm protest since November last year at Singhu border and was arrested by police on January 12. She was working in a factory at Kundli, but was sacked in December for participating in the farmer protest and mobilising labourers for the protest. Nodeep is facing case for attempt to murder, extortion for attack on police and demanding money from factory owners. Earlier, taking suo moto notice of TOI report about continued detention of labourer rights activist Nodeep, the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes on February 8 asked the additional chief secretary (home) to intervene in the matter to ensure relief of the victim at the earliest. The commission has also sought a report, in this regard by February 23, after initiating immediate requisite action. Commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur said the commission has taken the suo moto notice and in a communiqué to the additional chief secretary home affairs. The commission has written to intervene besides ensuring the relief to the victim, stating that it is an act of atrocity on a member of the Scheduled Caste community. Meanwhile, a national-level campaign has been launched for the release of Nodeep after US vice-president Kamala Harris’ niece Meena Harris raised concern for the continued detention of Nodeep in a tweet on Saturday. The democratic rights organisations, trade unions, farmer organisations and student activists are demanding her release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bajwa-shift-nodeep-to-jail-in-punjab/articleshow/80800896.cms||Neel Kamal
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Hesitancy leads to dip in Covid-19 vaccination coverage||HYDERABAD: Since the rollout of the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination in the state for frontline workers, the hesitancy towards the vaccine has gone up a notch up. As a result, the per day targeted coverage of beneficiaries has gone down from 45%-50% to 37% for frontline workers on Wednesday. The reason for the increased hesitancy, say health officials is a myth particularly circulating among police personnel that taking the vaccine would mean no consumption of alcohol for at least a couple of months. While the hesitancy has pulled down the overall coverage of targeted beneficiaries so far to around 49.7%, Telangana now stands 9th among states in terms of number of beneficiaries covered. In terms of percentage of the target met so far, Telangana is behind many states including Chhattisgarh, Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. These states have achieved better coverage ranging from 54% to 75% of their target so far (comparison up to Tuesday). The myth about the Covid vaccine sounding a death knell to alcohol consumption, however is not true. “Alcohol consumption is not a contraindication for vaccination. This is a myth largely circulating in social media and especially among police personnel. People can consume alcohol or any other food if they take the vaccine. We have only advised to stay away from alcohol on the day of vaccination,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana. In fact, even senior officials from various departments setting an example by taking the jab has not gone a long way, with the myth discouraging many beneficiaries. Meanwhile, a constable from Cyberabad developed seizures immediately after vaccination and was rushed to Gandhi Hospital. The constable was a known patient of epilepsy and is the only patient so far to have developed an immediately serious side effect. He is currently stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hesitancy-leads-to-dip-in-vax-coverage/articleshow/80800908.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 11, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal cops bust fake job racket, 2 held||BHOPAL: Nishatpura police on Wednesday busted a racket of fraudsters involved in duping unemployed men and women. Police arrested two accused, who were allegedly running the gang. The accused have been taken on remand and being interrogated. SP (North) Vijay Khatri said, police received information that some people were running an office at Shanti Nagar in Nishatpura and taking deposits of Rs 25000 from job-seekers on pretext of providing job as security guard at AIIMS. Cops in civil dress were deployed to verify the information; they found that accused Rajaram Yadav, 42, a resident of Shanti Nagar in Karond and Kanhaiyalal Kushwah, 37, who stays in Saket Nagar in Bag Sewania, were running the office in the name of a private company, which has contract for providing security at AIIMS. They were accepting application forms from jobseekers and taking Rs 25000 from the applicants, promising security guard’s job. Police raided the office and arrested both the accused and recovered around 60 application forms submitted by unemployed men and women. Police seized Rs 5.45 lakh cash, ATM cards and three bank passbooks along with other documents from the accused. Both the accused were presented before the court from where they were taken on police remand for further interrogation. SP Khatri said, till now eight applicants duped by the accused have filed complaints against them. During interrogation accused Rajaram told police that he worked as supervisor in a private security company. He lost his job during lockdown. One of the victims Shrikant Silawat, a resident of Ishwar Nagar in Habibganj, worked as a security guard under him and he too had lost his job during lockdown. Shrikant told police that a few days ago when he met Rajaram, he told him that he had started a new security company which has got security contract at AIIMS. He offered a job to Shrikant at a salary of Rs 20000 per month but said that he will have to pay Rs 25000 as security amount. He trusted him and submitted application along with Rs 25000. But when he did not get a job, he approached Nishatpura police and lodged a complaint. When police checked with the security company officials having real contract with AIIMS, they denied having authorised any such firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cops-bust-fake-job-racket-2-held/articleshow/80796796.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||CM announces new degree college for Mori in Uttarkashi||Dehradun: During his visit to Uttarkashi, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced a new degree college for the remote Mori area of the district. He directed authorities to start the degree college at the earliest. Besides, CM Rawat also inaugurated projects worth Rs 28 crore and laid the foundation stone for works worth Rs 17.45 crore in Mori. “Uttarkashi has performed the best among all the districts in MGNREGA. A total of 4,882 people of the district have completed 100 days of work. Our government has increased the working days from 100 days to 150 days under MGNREGA and I am confident that it would help the hard working people of the district,” the chief minister said. Meanwhile, the CM inaugurated a recently-constructed degree college and a computer lab at Tyuni. The degree college is worth Rs 7.11 crore and the computer lab has been made with an expense of Rs 2.01 crore. The degree college has been named after Pandit Shivram Sharma. He also announced the repair and reconstruction of important Meenas-Ataal road. While addressing the gathering, CM Rawat said that Uttarakhand has 97% faculty in its degree colleges and the Tyuni College has 100% faculty strength. “Uttarakhand is among the leading states in terms of literacy rate,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-announces-new-degree-college-for-mori-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/80796873.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Making no headway into tunnel, rescuers ready another plan||TAPOVAN/DEHRADUN: Hope is splintered in 40-second fragments here. Every time an excavator moves into Tunnel No. 1 of the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydropower project, inside which 34 people have been trapped, those waiting outside hold their breath. If the excavator manages to carry some of the debris out when it emerges, they are relieved. If not, they add another excruciating minute to their long wait for a breakthrough. For four days now, the 50-odd members of the rescue team have been trying to dredge away a passage to the men stranded inside. They work round the clock on the Sisyphean task, through the bone-chilling cold, but have only been able to make it about 100m through the 1.6-km tunnel. So, on Wednesday, there was a change of plan. “We have marked a spot 70m inside the main tunnel, where we will start digging. About 12m underground, there is a silt flushing tunnel (which carries sediment-laden waters out to the river in a dam). This is connected to the main tunnel at a point beyond the place where the slush and debris have blocked it. We hope the trapped workers have taken shelter in that auxiliary tunnel which, in turn, can be accessed through the flush tunnel,” ITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey said. Till Tuesday, the “180m-point” had been a catchphrase — it’s the point along the 1.6-km tunnel where it bifurcates and where the rescue team believes the swathe of muck may have stopped in its tracks. This was where they had initially thought they must get to. “But that bend has been difficult to reach. An alternative plan had to be made,” Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar told TOI. The entire might of the rescue operations has been pulled to this tunnel — Army, ITBP, NDRF. This is the only spot in the path of Sunday’s devastating floods where the government and rescue officials believe survivors could be found. In other parts, two more bodies were found on Wednesday, taking the toll to 34, of whom 10 have been identified. And 170 remain missing. As a TOI team watched the rescue operations through Tuesday night, the challenges had been evident — the lights keep going out, water keeps flowing inside and undoing all their work, iron rods built into the tunnel keep jutting out, and the temperature hovers around the sub-zero mark. “The conditions are unimaginable,” a senior official managing the night operations told TOI. “The more we dig in, the more the slush flows inside.” Outside the tunnel, an ITBP jawan held his phone up to try and grab a network signal. “Talking to my wife comforts me. I could speak to her last on Sunday. We were still preparing for the rescue op then,” he said, just as he was called in again. But the rescue team, the senior official overseeing the night ops said, is prepared for this. “What we are worried about,” he added, “are the men inside. They are workers, engineers. When the temperature drops at night, that is all I can think of.” While they keep working, relatives of those stuck inside take turns staying up. Locals help with food, water and solace. Most are too anxious to call it a night. Sharafat Ali, who has travelled nearly 400km from UP’s Saharanpur and is camping at Tapovan, was unwilling to leave the site at night. His son Sadiq is among the 32 men inside. “I keep looking at his photo, praying he is fine and will be out soon … I know the rescue team is doing all it can. Watching this unfold slowly is agonising. But so is going away. What if my son got out when I wasn’t here? I have to be here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/up-against-sub-zero-temp-weak-lights-no-headway-in-4-days-rescue-team-chalks-out-new-plan/articleshow/80796887.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Here’s why Yamuna stinks, literally||NEW DELHI: The Yamuna is literally full of shit. The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that total faecal coliform found in the river at Nizamuddin ranged between 66,000 and 1.1 crore mpn/100 ml as against the standard of less than 2,500 mpn/100 ml for potable drinking water. In an affidavit, the Centre cited data from testing of water samples by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) at various places and said dissolved oxygen, essential for aquatic life, ranged from below detection level to 5.6 mg/litre as against the standard of above 5 mg/litre. Surprisingly, the river regained its vitality by the time it reached Balua Ghat at Prayagraj just before merging with Ganga. The faecal coliform level here came down to between 300-2,100 mpn/100ml and dissolved oxygen level increased to between 7.3 to 11.5 mg/litre, which is better than the readings recorded at Paonta Sahib, Himachal Pradesh. The Centre, through additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, informed a bench headed by CJI S A Bobde that it had filed the affidavit in case taken up suo motu by the SC to clean up polluted rivers, starting with the Yamuna. It said, according to CPCB, the main reason for the high level of faecal coliform in the Yamuna during its journey through Delhi was the discharge of huge quantities of untreated sewage. “Gaps are identified in sewage generation and treatment capacities in cases of 60 cities/municipalities, including Delhi. For example, in case of Delhi, sewage generation is 3,273 MLD. But actual utilisation of STPs is only 2,432 MLD, of which 711 MLD comply with the discharge norms. This means the gap in sewage treatment capacity in case of Delhi is 2,562 MLD (3,273 MLD - 711 MLD),” the affidavit said. “Delhi and Haryana governments are required to execute approved action plans by June 30, 2021, under overall supervision and coordination of the principal environment secretary of the state concerned for rejuvenation of Yamuna river and bring all the polluted river stretches to be fit for at least bathing purpose,” it added.While there existed a huge gap between generation of sewage and its treatment capacity, the Centre said, “There is no gap in treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and industrial wastewater management” The affidavit came to be filed in the suo motu case taken up by the bench headed by the CJI for taking remedial steps to cure rivers of pollution, starting with Yamuna. On Bhati's request, the SC on Wednesday made the Jal Shakti ministry a party to the suo motu case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heres-why-yamuna-stinks-literally/articleshow/80800984.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||150 Covid cases, one death in state||Hyderabad: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 157 new cases of Covid-19 and one death, taking the total caseload in the state to 2,95,988 and death toll to 1,613. While the number of active cases has come down to 1,797, so far, 2,92,578 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state is currently 0.54% as against the country average of 1.4% while the recovery rate is nearly 99%. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/150-covid-cases-one-death-in-state/articleshow/80801020.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Goa||Last chance: Govt asks healthcare workers to get jab today, tomorrow||Panaji: The state government has given healthcare workers a final opportunity to receive the Covid-19 jab this Thursday and Friday (February 11 and 12), when vaccination for this category ends. They will be able to get the vaccine at any centre in their district. The government has appealed to the doctors, para-medical staff and other support personnel from the public and private sectors whose names are registered on the Co-Win portal to visit the facilities with their Aadhaar card and get the jab. More than 30 centres will be open for healthcare workers — the vaccine will be administered at district and sub district hospitals, and urban, community and primary health centres on these two days between 9am and 5pm. After the first phase of vaccination for healthcare workers ends on Friday, the focus will shift to other categories. A health official said that healthcare workers whose names are on the Co-Win portal but who rejected the vaccine now will have to wait till the end of the other phases before they are able to take it. “As long as one’s name is on the portal, they can get vaccinated at any government health facility within their district at their convenience on Thursday and Friday,” a health official said. “This is the right time to get vaccinated,” the official said, adding, “Healthcare workers have been given top priority because they are at high risk of contracting Covid-19. If at all we have a second wave, who will come forward if healthcare workers are not protected? We are trying to get healthcare workers vaccinated so that if there is a surge in Covid-19 cases again, we will be ready to tackle the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/last-chance-govt-asks-healthcare-workers-to-get-jab-today-tomorrow/articleshow/80804515.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Employee can’t dictate terms of place of posting, says Punjab and Haryana HC||CHANDIGARH: Dismissing the plea filed by Ravi Prakash Gupta, a visually impaired IAS officer, alleging that he has been deliberately denied field work by the Haryana government, the Punjab and Haryana high court has held that no statutory rule or the order of any court has been violated by the state regarding his transfers. Observing that an employee cannot dictate terms with regard to his place of posting, the HC held, “The said power is vested in the employer, who is to exercise the said powers as per the administrative exigencies keeping in view the public interest unless it involves any adverse impact on the career or further prospects.” “The exercise of power of transfer in the present case cannot be said to be not in accordance with law, which would call for any interference by this court in exercise of its powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, especially under the power of judicial review,” observed the court. A division bench comprising Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma has passed these orders while dismissing the petition filed by Gupta upholding the order dated June 3, 2020, passed by the Chandigarh bench of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT). The CAT had dismissed his plea challenging the transfer order dated May 18, 2020, from the post of deputy commissioner (DC), Fatehabad, to the post of director, Swarna Jayanti Haryana Institute for Fiscal Management. The HC has also held that it could not find any violation of statutory rule, any order of any court, including the SC, and has also not found any mala fide in the transfer orders of Gupta passed by then chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora. On the petitioner’s contention that he would not be empaneled for central deputation unless he has not served field posting in his service tenure, the HC found that his field experience comes out to be 36 months 11 days after including his two tenures as DC in Kaithal, Fatehabad, and three tenures as SDM, ADC in his erstwhile cadre Chhattisgarh before his shifting to Haryana cadre. “A perusal of the reply, which has been filed by the respondents, would show that the petitioner has completed the requisite three years field experience on the post specified i.e. field posting, which would make him eligible for consideration for central deputation at the level of the deputy secretary,” observed the HC. Gupta has been alleging that he has been deliberately denied field work by the state. His grievance was that all his juniors were assigned field work as DC of districts, which was not considered for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/employee-cant-dictate-terms-of-place-of-posting-says-hc/articleshow/80800997.cms||Ajay Sura
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Over Rs 3 lakh crore for works in Maha in budget, says Fadnavis||Mumbai: The Centre has provided over Rs 3 lakh crore for various development works in Maharashtra in the Union budget 2021-22, said ex-CM Devendra Fadnavis. Terming the criticism that Maharashtra has been given nothing as a “lie,” Fadnavis said MVA leaders had not read the budget and were issuing statements. He read out the various heads under which funds have been provided for the state. “The allocation has been at least five to seven times higher for the last 5-6 years as compared to 2009-2014,” he said. Fadnavis said over Rs 1 lakh crore has been budgeted for 328 road projects spread over 10,000 km. Besides, funds have been provided for Mumbai Metro, Pune Metro, and 16 new railway lines sanctioned for 2,000 km, he said. He also cited other projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/over-rs-3-lakh-crore-for-works-in-maha-in-budget-says-fadnavis/articleshow/80801139.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||Traders, hoteliers unhappy with Kumbh SOPs issued by U’khand govt||Haridwar/Dehradun: A day after the Uttarakhand government issued SOPs for the Kumbh Mela and for the bathing festivals during it, local traders, hoteliers, and travel agents on Wednesday expressed their displeasure over making negative RT-PCR Covid-19 report mandatory for pilgrims. “According to the SOPs, the local market will be shut on the bathing festival dates during the Kumbh. If the government wants to implement these guidelines, it must give us compensation for two months. Election rallies and other political events are being held without any restriction but all the rules and guidelines are being imposed for the Kumbh Mela. This cannot be tolerated. We will protest against the SOPs,” Sunil Sethi, a local trader, told TOI. Similarly, Ganga Sabha, the apex body of Haridwar’s Teerth Purohits, are also unhappy with the new guidelines. Tanmay Vashishta, general secretary of the Ganga Sabha, told TOI, “SOPs should be imposed only during the bathing festivals of the Kumbh Mela but it cannot be put in place for the entire Kumbh period. Ganga Sabha will oppose this decision.” Vibhas Mishra, president of Hoteliers’ Association of Haridwar, told TOI, “We were hoping that the state government would give us some relaxation after the Centre made the Covid-19 test mandatory for the Kumbh Mela but the state government introduced a few more regulations. We are still reeling under economic losses due to Covid-19 lockdown. The SOP has made us more clueless as to how we will survive the situation.” However, DM Haridwar C Ravishankar told TOI that negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test report and registration are not mandatory for pilgrims who wish to come to the two bathing festivals on February 11 and 16. “We have requested the pilgrims to bring the RT-PCR negative test report for the bathing festivals of Mauni Amavasya and Bsant Panchami but it is not mandatory. Nonetheless, the pilgrims must follow social distancing and other guidelines during the bathing festival,” he added. Earlier on Tuesday evening, the Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority issued the SOP to be followed during the Kumbh. According to the guidelines, an individual would be given 20 minute time to take a dip in the Ganga. Also, RT-PCR Covid-19 negative report – within 72 hours of arrival — has been made mandatory for the devotees. Besides, registration is essential and no “bhandra and mass bhajan-katha” will be allowed. A devotee coming to Haridwar via train would only be permitted to go out only after producing a RT-PCR report. At the time of his/her entry in Haridwar, an entry pass would be given to visitors and a mark would be made on their hand with indelible ink. The SOP asks the authorities to put a blanket ban on bhajan-katha and bhandara. Entry in a hotel, ashram or dharamshala would only be given to visitors after they produce their online registration confirmation and also, the indelible ink mark. Hotels, dharamshalas and ashrams would have to maintain documents related to the visitors staying there. Two-yard distance between two persons has been made mandatory in temples and all devotees coming for to Kumbh need to have the Aarogya Setu app installed in their mobile phone handsets. A group of people entering a particular ghat would be given a time of 20 minutes to take dip in the river. Following which, the police and security staff at the ghat would ask the group to leave the ghat and allow the second group inside. To ensure social distancing norms, police, volunteers, government employees would be deployed at the ghats. On spotting symptoms of Covid-19 in any passenger, it would be the responsibility of the bus driver to inform the police or nearest health centre. No vehicle or individual would be allowed without prior registration. Shops and other commercial establishments will also have screening facilities. If a person above the age of 65 years or less than 10 years comes to Kumbh, they would be discouraged to go to ghats and other crowded places. Dustbins would be kept to dump the used masks and gloves. Making food in parking lots has also been banned and wearing of masks has been made mandatory for all pilgrims. On the key bathing days, only the restaurants, dhabas, dairy, medical stores, and the shops selling pooja material and those selling blankets would be allowed to open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/traders-hoteliers-unhappy-with-kumbh-sops-issued-by-ukhand-govt/articleshow/80797020.cms||MS Nawaz
February 11, 2021||Delhi||No fee for using toilets in slums: South Delhi Municipal Corporation clarifies||NEW DELHI: Toilet and urinal blocks in slums and JJ clusters will not charge any fee for usage, South Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Anamika clarified on Wednesday. The mayor said that SDMC, on the recommendation of the standing committee, had passed a resolution in the House on November 17, 2020. The resolution clearly states that “no charges will be levied on the users of the toilet and urinal blocks in J J colonies in SDMC.” Anamika said that if the private agency ensuring upkeep and maintenance of the toilet/urinal blocks is found guilty of charging money from users in slums and J J clusters, strict action will be taken against them. The contract can be revoked as well if failed to comply with the resolution, she added. The mayor claimed that Aam Aadmi Party and Congress were creating confusion in the regard in view of the upcoming municipal elections, even though SDMC has ensured toilet services for free. She said that both the parties are maligning the image of the civic agency by leveling false and baseless allegations. The controversy started after the residents of Indira Camp, a slum cluster in south Delhi’s Andrews Ganj, were aghast to find the maintaining agency was demanding Rs 5 per use from them. The issue was flagged by the area councillor Abhishek Dutt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-clarifies-no-fee-for-using-toilets-in-slums/articleshow/80801069.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Now, demand for mini secretariat at Pkl IT Park||Chandigarh: In what appears to be yet another aftereffect of Covid-19 lockdown, the Panchkula IT Park Entrepreneurs Association on Wednesday urged the state government to setup a mini-secretariat in Panchkula. The entrepreneurs of Panchkula demanded this in a memorandum submitted to the chief minister office (CMO) here . Panchkula IT Park was established in 2007, but has been requiring attention ever since, they said. Nearly a dozen and half companies had started operations at the park, but most office spaces are vacant as companies are falling back on work from home. Entrepreneurs claimed that HSIIDC and entrepreneurs have sufficient space to shift departmental headquarters. This will not only unburden thousands of persons entering Chandigarh, but also create an activity in IT Park. “Government has taken a lot of buildings on rent in Chandigarh and Panchkula. You take the case of 30 bays building only. Due to lack of space, offices are in bad condition. Here, we have several lakh square feet of area which could be used as green building offices,” said Arun Sethi, general secretary of the association. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-demand-for-mini-secretariat-at-pkl-it-park/articleshow/80801033.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||SEC okays BBIL nasal vaccine Phase I trials||Hyderabad: The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) that advises the Indian drugs regulator has given its nod to Phase I trials of Bharat Biotech’s chimpanzee adenovirus vectored Covid-19 intranasal vaccine, codenamed BBV154. The recommendation was given by the expert panel during its meeting on February 3, 2021, the minutes of which were uploaded recently. The SEC, had, during its meeting on January 19, 2021, asked the company to submit a revised proposal for conducting Phase I trials on 75 volunteers to ascertain the intranasal vaccine’s safety and immunogenicity before seeking approval for Phase II trials. This was after the company presented the animal toxicity and immunogenicity as well as CMC (chemistry, manufacturing and control) data along with protocol to conduct Phase I/II clinical trials of the vaccine candidate during the expert panel’s meeting on January 19. The company had initially applied to the drug regulator for a Phase I/II clinical trials approval for the single-dose vaccine candidate that it is developing in collaboration with the University of Washington School of Medicine at St Louis (WashU). The latest development comes even as Bharat Biotech’s whole virion Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, has already been rolled out under Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) in clinical trial mode. The Phase III efficacy trials of Covaxin are underway on 26,000 volunteers at 25 sites in India. Bharat Biotech plans to produce 1 billion doses of the intranasal vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-okays-bbil-nasal-vaccine-phase-i-trials/articleshow/80801077.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||DNA samples of unidentified bodies from Chamoli tragedy to be preserved||Nainital: The Uttarakhand government has announced that it will preserve the DNA samples of unidentified bodies of the Chamoli flash flood victims. The decision comes even as after three days of the tragedy, just eight of the 33 bodies recovered could be identified and chances of over 170 people surviving the disaster look slim. Uttarakhand director general of police (DGP), Ashok Kumar, told TOI that the DNAs of the 25 unidentified bodies found so far and of all those that the rescue teams retrieve in the coming days will be preserved so that their families can claim them later. “Our forensic team will collect the DNAs of all the unidentified bodies. This is important since only a few of the bodies retrieved so far could be identified. We want the families of the missing persons to know what happened to their loved ones and DNA sampling will be done so that the families can claim their remains,” Kumar said. The experience from the Kedarnath flash floods of 2013, however, gives little hope to the affected families. After almost eight years since the floods a little over 30 of around 700 DNA samples collected so far have been matched. This is despite the fact that over 970 families had deposited their samples with the authorities. “It is estimated that over 3,800 people went missing in the 2013 tragedy. But, only a handful of samples could be matched. Several expeditions were carried out and even today a panel headed by Garhwal IG is trying to recover the other bodies,” said Ajay Gautam, a Delhi based activist who has filed several PILs in the Uttarakhand HC after the Kedarnath tragedy. Police officials, however, said the conditions in Chamoli make it easier for families to come forward and claim the remains. “In Kedarnath, we had little knowledge of the victims as there was no proper documentation. But, in Chamoli, we know the details of those who are missing or even perished. So, it is easier to get in touch with their families and take their DNA samples so that they can be matched with those of the bodies," Kumar said. "Therefore, our forensic teams will collect the samples of each unidentified body and all efforts will be made to provide them a proper burial,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dna-samples-of-unidentified-bodies-from-chamoli-tragedy-to-be-preserved/articleshow/80797053.cms||Prashant Jha
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||Satellite images suggest choking of Trishuliganga instead of Rishiganga, says HNBGU geology prof||Dehradun: Contrary to the popular opinion that the choking of the Rishiganga river has led to Sunday’s destruction of the hydropower projects in Joshimath, Chamoli, as per the satellite images, some geologists believe that it was the choking of the tributary of the Rishiganga river, Trishuliganga, which led to the disaster. Senior geologist, professor YP Sundriyal of the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University (HNBGU) told TOI that according to the satellite images, the choking of the Trishuliganga is quite possible, but the confirmation will be done only after a spot visit by his team. “The Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve has seven major glaciers out of which there are two south-facing hanging glaciers which are apt for an avalanche too. Also, the south-facing glaciers face the highest solar insulation. The Rishiganga river has a large catchment area and had it been choked, the site workers would have noticed the slowdown of the river’s water flow. If the Rishiganga river had been choked due to the falling of the glacier, then there would have been much more destruction,” Sundriyal said. He further said, “I believe that it is the tributary of the Rishiganga named Trishuliganga, 4 km far from Raini village, which got choked due to the falling of the south-facing hanging glacier. As of now, I am yet to confirm anything and will do so only after my team files its report on it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/satellite-images-suggest-choking-of-trishuliganga-instead-of-rishiganga-says-hnbgu-geology-prof/articleshow/80797089.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Indian sailors stranded in China to return on Sun||Mumbai: Indian seafarers of merchant ship MV Anastasia, who had been stuck at a Chinese port for more than six months, will be returning to India on February 14. The vessel, which has 16 Indian nationals, was anchored at the Caofeidian port in China since September 2020. Though the Indian government had made several requests, China cited Covid-19 restrictions and did not allow the ship to either dock or go for a crew change for months. Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday announced the stranded seafarers will sign off from Japan today and will reach India on Sunday. The National Union of Seafarers of India and Maritime Union of India had taken up the matter of MV Jag Anand and MV Anastasia. The 23 Indian sailors onboard MV Jag Anand, who were stuck in China since June 13, reached India on January 14. — V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/indian-sailors-stranded-in-china-to-return-on-sun/articleshow/80804659.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand reports 35 new Covid cases, 1 death||Dehradun: Uttarakhand reported 35 new Covid cases on Wednesday taking the total number of coronavirus cases to 96,625 in the state. It has also vaccinated over 90,000 healthcare and frontline workers, including around 5,000 that were inoculated on Wednesday. According to the health department, over 22 lakh people have been tested in the state so far among which 96,625 tested positive for Covid-19. With one Covid death reported on Wednesday, the state has lost 1,674 people to the infection since March last year. “Dehradun, which has reported over 30% of the Covid cases of the state alone, is left with 82 active cases while Nainital and Haridwar have 112 and 123 active cases respectively. The total active cases have dropped to 707 with 110 recovering in the last 24 hours,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-35-new-covid-cases-1-death/articleshow/80797076.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 11, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Lioness checks into Junagadh hotel||RAJKOT: Owing to its proximity to the Girnar sanctuary, Junagadh frequently plays host to footloose wild animals including lions. But, the early morning adventure of a sub adult lioness at 5 am, which decided to check in at a luxurious 4-star hotel having 81 rooms and located right next to the Junagadh railway station, well within the municipal limits, left the city’s population of around five lakh edgy all day on Wednesday. The lioness spent good 12-15 minutes in the city before ending her jaunt with the brief hotel visit. Thanks to incessant barking by street dogs, people were informed about the presence of a lion in their neighbourhood. Meanwhile, CCTVs across the city captured the wild cat strolling in the streets, inspecting the hotel premises and residential societies. It was spotted jumping walls, finding its way through parked cars and walking on the roads unmindful of the vehicles plying close by. The same lioness was also captured in CCTV cameras of residential societies in Majevadi gate, Joshipara and Sardarpara area. Lions and leopards’ movement near Bhavnath Taleti is a common occurrence, but the sudden foraying of a lone cat as far as well into the urban areas created a huge sensation among the people. Alarmed, even the forest department urged the public to call up on their control room number to inform anything suspicious they spot to avoid animal-human conflict. The first visual was from the hotel where it is seen entering the premises from a boundary wall. However, it couldn’t find it’s way back and was moving inside the premises, while the CCTV shows a guard closely observing the animal’s movements from his cabin. Sanjay Koradia, a franchisee owner of the hotel said, “The lioness was in our hotel’s premises for a few seconds only. The security guard informed the forest department about the lion movement. It looks like it had come this far in search of prey.” Deputy conservator of forest, Junagadh, Sunil Berwal said, “It appears like the lioness actually lost its way and accidentally reached the city area. Such trips happen generally when the city area is desolate during night time. However, we would want to advise people to inform us first in such instances, rather than start recording on mobile cameras.” Member of state wildlife board, Bhushan Pandya said, “There is no buffer zone between Junagadh city and Girnar sanctuary. This makes the city vulnerable to jaunts from wild animals. Lions especially move at night and so, people are advised to be careful and keep safe distance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lioness-checks-into-junagadh-hotel/articleshow/80793640.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Rare feat: One hospital, 25 hours and four liver transplants in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Liver surgeons at a private hospital in Saket were prepping up for transplants on two patients on Monday when they were informed that the family of a 47-year-old brain-dead patient had consented to donate his organs. Since the brain-dead patient was healthy with no comorbidities, the surgeons decided to split his liver into two and use them to conduct two more transplants. But time was of the essence and the two fresh transplants had to be conducted without delay along with the planned surgeries scheduled between 7.30am and 7.30pm. These included a 43-year-old man with Hepatitis C infection-related liver failure and a 72-year-old man suffering from liver cancer. The donors in both the cases were family members. In a marathon exercise, which required coordinated efforts of over 30 doctors, including liver transplant surgeons, an anaesthetist and 22 medical staff, including specialised nurses, Max Super Specialty Hospital conducted the four liver transplants in 25 hours — from 7am on Monday to 8am on Tuesday. They used seven operation theatres, including those reserved for other departments. “All six patients (two donors and four recipients) are recovering well,” said Dr Subhash Gupta, chairman, Centre for Liver and Biliary Sciences, Max Saket. The split liver of the cadaver donor went to a 48-year-old man and a 64-year-old woman. “What makes this accomplishment commendable is the fact that the team split the liver into halves inside the body to reduce ischemia time (inadequate blood supply to an organ) and transplanted it into the bodies of two adults. The usual practice is to split a liver from a cadaveric donation and transplant it into an adult (right lobe) and paediatric (left lobe) recipient,” said Gupta. The splitting of the liver of the cadaver donor itself took close to eight hours against 2.5 hours in a normal retrieval procedure. The cadaver donor had been referred to the hospital on Saturday following a massive heart attack. He was declared brain-dead late on Sunday. His heart and lungs could not be retrieved. One of his kidneys was transplanted in a 56-year-old woman and the other into a 48-year-old man at Manipal Hospital, Dwarka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rare-feat-1-hosp-25-hours-and-4-liver-transplants/articleshow/80801175.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Tribal rights leader honoured||Hyderabad: An iconic personality, who fought for the political rights of tribal community, Sadguru Sevalal Maharaj, was honoured by the Telangana Postal Department, who released a special cover. On Wednesday, the special cover was released by the minister for tribal welfare, Satyavathi Rathod and chief postmaster general, Telangana Circle, S Rajendra Kumar at a programme held at Dak Sadan in Abids, on the occasion of commemorating 282nd birth anniversary of Sevalal Maharaj. He had stated 22 major principles of Banjara life, known as ‘Seva Bollies’. He is also referred to as a ‘revolutionary of India’ who fought for the first Independence war in India against Britishers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribal-rights-leader-honoured/articleshow/80801111.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Kochi||Speed up infra projects, officials told||Kochi: The high court has directed the authorities to expedite the infrastructure development projects in Goshree islands for improving road connectivity in the area. While considering two writ petitions, one filed by KCYM Pizhala Unit and the other by the State Legal Services Authority, a division bench consisting of chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly ordered the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA), Kerala Water Authority (KWA), the state government, and respective local bodies to expedite the construction of the bridges and other allied works for facilitating smooth and efficient traffic within the Goshree island areas. The State Legal Services Authority sought the intervention of the court to address drinking water problems and to provide adequate medical facilities and transport facilities to the inhabitants of the nine islands in the area. A new bridge, connecting Moolampilly with Pizhala and Cheriya Kadamakudy was opened in June 2020. However, smooth flow of traffic along the bridge has been hampered as the works on the approach roads are yet to be executed. It comes under the first phase of the Moolampilly-Chathanad Road project, and the work on the entire project is yet to be completed. Delay in acquiring land is cited as one key impediment to the speedy implementation of the project. Moreover, compensation and rehabilitation packages will have to be given to the residents who will be dislocated. The bench stated that the Pizhala Bridge has been opened for the public during the pendency of the writ petitions, and therefore it is clear that though the directions sought in the petitions have not been completed in its entirety, substantial progress has been achieved in the project implementation. “We are also of the opinion that the state has a duty and obligation to ensure that the fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution are extended to the inhabitants of the islands,” the bench said, adding that the related works required for securing the basic amenities of the islanders should be expedited on a war-footing. The government and respective agencies are also directed to find sufficient resources required to complete the projects envisaged for the development of the nine panchayats in the Goshree area, the bench said. The GIDA area includes Fort Vypeen part, Gundu Island and Thanthonni Thuruth, which fall under Kochi corporation and Kuzhuppilly, Pallipuram, Edavanakadu, Nayarambalam, Njarackkal, Elamkunnapuzha, Mulavukadu and Kadamakkudy panchayats. Though it is pointed out that the Water Metro will largely address the travel issues of the inhabitants, road network are ecpected to provide faster access to the city, especially during monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/speed-up-infra-projects-officials-told/articleshow/80797113.cms||---
February 11, 2021||India||New farm laws optional, don’t take away any provision: PM Narendra Modi||NEW DELHI: PM Modi once again urged agitating farmers to renew talks, saying the government was ready for a clause-by-clause discussion and could make changes to the farm laws but the time had come for the nation to move forward with confidence and determination. While praising the agitation by farm unions as “pure” and distinguishing it from issues being raised by “andolanjivis” (perpetual protestors), the PM more than once underlined that reforms will continue to be pursued while replying to the motion of thanks to the President’s address in Lok Sabha. He repeatedly underlined that the new farm laws were optional and did not take away any provision that existed prior to their being legislated. They gave more options to farmers and were not mandatory as the previous regime was still operational, he added. Modi was also a lot sharper on Congress in Lok Sabha with Rahul Gandhi on the opposition benches, pointing to the party’s different approaches in the two Houses. There was discussion in Rajya Sabha and disruption in Lok Sabha. “Such a party will be of no use to itself or the nation,” he said. After he was repeatedly interrupted by Congress’ Adhir Ranjan Chaudhury, the PM said the scenes in the House were an attempt to replicate disruptions outside. “This disruption is part of a well-thought conspiracy to spread lies,” he added. The PM made it clear that the term “andolanjivi” (words he had used in Rajya Sabha) was not for those who were agitating on Delhi borders but for those who he said were ruining the sanctity of the farm protests. “I consider farm agitations holy but there is a group of ‘andolanjivis’ which spoils the sanctity of the farm protests by demanding release of terrorists, Naxals and rioters. This is an insult to the farmers’ protest,” the PM said and added, “Not to allow toll plazas to function, damaging telephone towers is hurting the sanctity of the farmers’ agitation. Those indulging in acts of vandalism are not ‘andolankari’ but ‘andolanjivi’ from whom we should be careful.” However, like in Rajya Sabha, the PM stood by the need for reforms of the agri sector by saying that the need for changes had been felt. He quoted from the speeches of former PM Manmohan Singh and former agriculture minister Sharad Pawar, saying both leaders had advocated reforms which his government has ushered. Modi situated his pitch in the context of what he called the “new world order” likely to emerge in the wake of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-farm-laws-optional-dont-take-away-any-provision-pm/articleshow/80813276.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||NRI from London brings Thames water for Tikait||ROHTAK: Swayed by BKU leader Rakesh Tikait’s January 28 appeal which had gone viral, an NRI from the UK recently brought water from the Thames river of London to Ghazipur border of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Rohit Ahlawat, who is from Jhajjar’s Dadhlan village and has been living in London for 11 years, brought a botter of water to Tikait on February 7. “Ever since the agitation started by farmers in Haryana, I have been keeping a tab on the issue. For 75 days, farmers have been sitting around Delhi borders. I got moved on January 28, when Tikait was in tears and pledged to drink water only when it is brought to him by his fellow farmers,” Rohit added. He said he got his tickets done and landed at Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi on February 7. “I took my wife and four-year-old son directly to Ghazipur border to hand over the bottle to Tikait after crossing barricades set up by Delhi Police,” he said. “Since, I was living in London, I decided to bring water from there as an expression of solidarity from the NRI community,” he said. Rohit said he did not stop at Ghazipur and went ahead to meet farmers at Tikri and Singhu borders also. “We spent two days with farmers on a protest site to understand their sufferings and reasons for being on road against the three laws,” he added. He said he was appalled to witness the condition under which farmers had been sustaining the fight against the Centre. “The laws may not impact me directly, but it is my duty to stand with them because my family is still engaged in farming at Jhajjar. I cannot run away from my duty to support them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nri-from-london-brings-thames-water-for-tikait/articleshow/80801163.cms||Sat Singh
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Citizens group protests against pollution in Ulhas river which supply water to 45 lakh people||Kalyan:The different citizens group from Kalyan and Ulhasnagar sit on indefinite period protests in Ulhas river against pollution in Ulhas river which supplies drinking water to 45 lakh people in Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, and parts of Navi Mumbai. The citizens group claimed that due to untreated sewage water supply into river the water has got polluted. The group claimed that till administration did not stop supply of untreated water from three different nullahs passing from Kalyan and Ulhasnagar cities into river they will continue their protest. The protest was organized by NGO's like Mee Kalyankar, Ulhas Nadi Bachao Samiti and Valdhuni Jal Biradari. Nitin Nikam, an activist said, "The river supply drinking waters to around 45 lakh people but presently the river has got polluted because two nullah connected to river from Kalyan and one nullah from Ulhasnagar discharging untreated sewage water supply into river". Nikam said, "Due to pollution around one kilometer area of river have blanketed with water hyacinths, which grows in very dirty water indicating that the water has become seriously polluted". Nikam said earlier too when such water hyacinths was gown in river during time in 2016 he for 16 days had protested in river taking cognisance of same officials from Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation and Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation had assured to construct sewage treatment plants to treat polluted water discharging from city in to river. The Ulhas river flows through Khandala valley and interior Karjat. It then flows through Neral, Badlapur, Ambernath, Ulhasnagar and Kalyan before joining the Vasai creek. Earlier in 2020 acting on PIL filed by an NGO Vanshakti, the Supreme Court had pulled up state government and Polluttion control board for failing to address water pollution at Ulhas and another Waldhuni river. After SC's order, the state through local civic bodies of KDMC and Ulhasnagar are constructing sewage treatment plant in to city to treat water before discharging in to river and work of same is in to final stages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citizens-group-protests-against-pollution-in-ulhas-river-which-supply-water-to-45-lakh-people/articleshow/80804952.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 11, 2021||Mumbai||Kalyan woman duped of Rs 16L by ‘UK doctor’||Kalyan: A 33-year-old woman was allegedly duped of Rs 16 lakh by a “UK doctor” she met on a matrimonial app. She said she interacted with him from last November and he allegedly promised to marry her and settle down in India. The woman, who holds a senior position in a multinational firm in Navi Mumbai, said Prakash Sharma claimed he works at a private hospital. Police said Sharma recently told her that he was coming to India. Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kalyan-woman-duped-of-rs-16l-by-uk-doctor/articleshow/80801272.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 11, 2021||Meerut||Abduction bid on woman, brother attacked with rods||strap: Tension in Baghpat area as accused belong to different communityMeerut: Four youngsters have been booked by Baghpat police for an alleged attempt to abduct a 23-year-old woman and grievously injuring her brother. The incident occurred in Kashiram colony of Baghpat's Baraut division.Some right-wing groups got involved and took the injured man to hospital as the four youngsters belong to a different community.An FIR has been registered under half a dozen IPC sections. No one has been arrested so far.In her complaint, the woman stated, "I went out to buy some household products on Tuesday evening when four young men from the same locality first passed objectionable remarks and later tried to abduct me. Somehow, I managed to escape and told my brother. He, too, was brutally thrashed with iron rods and sticks when he confronted them. Later, they threatened us with dire consequences if we complained to police."Baraut circle officer Alok Singh said, "Both groups are neighbours. An FIR has been filed under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 354 (assault on woman with intention to outrage her modesty). Efforts are on to nab the culprits."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/abduction-bid-on-woman-brother-attacked-with-rods/articleshow/80797131.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 11, 2021||Meerut||Despite strict instructions by govt, Diksha app finds only a few takers||Strap: Inspection finds app has lesser downloads than projected Meerut: Despite strict instructions by the UP government, there are very few takers of Deeksha app, finds an inspection carried out by authorities. While several districts have shown the download numbers up to the mark, the inspection of the Diksha app’s dashboard had a different story to tell. TOI had reported that on finding that just 11% students of government schools had downloaded the app, the UP education department had in November set a target for teachers asking each one of them to download the app on the mobile phones of at least 10 students.The app, launched by NCERT in 2017, has lessons in videos and text. In the time of lockdown, when the schools are shut, remote learning through the app is the only way out for students across the country.“It was found during the inspection that despite the instructions to ensure all students in UP government schools had downloaded the Diksha app, the number of downloads continued to be considerably low,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, school education, UP.“All district authorities are instructed to ensure that the number of downloads of Diksha app increases and the target is met,” added Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/despite-strict-instructions-by-govt-diksha-app-finds-only-a-few-takers/articleshow/80797145.cms||Ishita Bhatia
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||SAD-BJP passed contract law in Punjab: Sunil Jakhar||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Wednesday accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of “shamelessly spreading canards” on the state assembly clearing the Punjab Contract Farming Act, saying that it was Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) led by Parkash Singh Badal that had passed the law in 2013 with support from BJP. “SAD-BJP government had dared to introduce a jail term for farmers in the budget session of 2013 after suspending nine Congress MLAs to throttle their voice against these measures,” Jakhar said, showing video clips of the session to media persons. Jakhar alleged that AAP was siding with the BJP on the sensitive issue of farmers welfare. “They have bartered their souls to political bosses in BJP and are only hellbent on defaming farmers for petty political gains,” he added. Commenting on Sukhbir’s absence from the ongoing Parliament session, Jakhar said, “He has chosen MC elections over going to Parliament for raising farmers concerns against his old partners.” Challenging the BJP, Jakhar said rather than making provocative statements, party leaders should come to Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana, for an open debate on three agriculture laws and make farmers understand about the benefits of these laws. He also appealed to the people of Punjab not to indulge in violence and protest peacefully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-bjp-passed-contract-law-in-pb-jakhar/articleshow/80801207.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Traitor’, ‘Liar’: Anurag, Bittu spar over farm laws in Lok Sabha||Ludhiana: The Lok Sabha saw a Monday-night verbal spat between local Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and BJP’s minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur on the issue of farm laws. Bittu started it by saying that hundreds of MPs had claimed to be farmers and the minister was one. Thakur interrupted to ask him to prove his statement that the new farm bills had a clause to scrap the mandis. “Where’s it written?” he said, which made Bittu burst out in Punjabi: “Ehi kuchh kisana nal kar rhe ho, taa hi juttian pai rhia ne. Je kisana de virudh bolda, lai li swad fir, tu Jalandhar da ho ke Punjab nal gaddari kar rea (You do this to the farmers, that’ why they kick you. Speak against the farmers and see what happens. Despite being from Jalandhar, you betray Punjab).” Thakur kept asking Bittu to show the written clause. He said: “Punjab ke sansad Punjab ke kisano ko gumrah kar ke aye pehle, aaj fir desh ko gumrah kar rahe hain. Ye abhi tak ye nahi bata paye ki kaha likha hai mandi band hogi. Inko apni chinta hai, apni rajniti ki chinta hai. Ye kisan ke kandhe par bandook rakh ke chala rahe hain (The Punjab MP misguided the Punjab farmers earlier and today he misguides the country. He still fails to explain where’s written that the mandis will be shut. He cares only about his politics and is shooting his gun from the farmers’ shoulder).” Later, Thakur tweeted a video of the spat, posting: “Congress MP caught lying in parliament, Fails to answer which clause…” Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar re-tweeted it with this message: “Bittu tried to misguide but his lies were exposed by our minister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/traitor-liar-anurag-bittu-spar-over-farm-laws-in-lok-sabha/articleshow/80801251.cms||Mohit Behl
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Plea to extend parole of aged inmates||New Delhi: A plea was filed in Delhi High Court on Wednesday seeking extension of emergency parole of prisoners who are above 65 years and prone to Covid-19 infection due to some ailments and medical conditions. The petition, which was filed by advocate and social activist Amit Sahni and mentioned through an online link, said that in the interest of inmates and jail administration, the aged prisoners be directed to surrender after all other prisoners. The plea is likely to be listed for hearing on February 12. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-to-extend-parole-of-aged-inmates/articleshow/80797245.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||Family of Kashmir engineer searches for him amidst the debris, hopes for a miracle||Dehradun: It’s been almost three days that Salik Zagar, a 24-year-old management graduate, has been searching for his father, Bashrat Ahmed Zargar, 53, an engineer with a private firm working at the Rishiganga project site. Since Monday, when he arrived at the spot after getting news of the disaster, Salik has been anxiously watching rescue personnel trying to breach the tunnel without much success, He leaves only late in the night for a few hours’ rest and is back at the spot before sunrise. His maternal and paternal uncles, too, have travelled all the way from Kashmir to be at his side as they await news of Salik’s father. The family is trying to do its own bit to trace Bashrat Ahmed. “I can feel it in my heart that he is alive. I keep telling the rescue personnel to deploy more JCBs to remove the debris quickly,” he says, voice quivering with emotion. Recalling the last few days that have been filled with anxiousness and trepidation, Salik says that he left from Delhi as soon as he got to know about the tragedy. “It took me and my two friends a 20-hour-long drive to reach the spot during which all kinds of thoughts kept crossing my mind. By the time we reached Chamoli, it was midnight and police stopped us from going to the accident site. But as soon as it was daybreak, we came here and have been here ever since then.” According to the family of the missing engineer, he was posted in the Delhi office of the firm and was sent to Tapovan in January last week for around 10 days. “Sunday was expected to be his last day at the site and he was all set to return home,” Salik says, voice quivering again. He adds that he keeps getting calls from his family, especially his mother and sister, asking for news of his father, but is at a loss on what to tell them. “The situation is so tense here. Often, the family members of the other people who are missing start crying. They say there is very little chance of anybody surviving out there. But I am not losing hope. After all, miracles do happen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/family-of-kashmir-engineer-searches-for-him-amidst-the-debris-hopes-for-a-miracle/articleshow/80797179.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 11, 2021||Meerut||Three killed as two cars collide head-on in Bijnor||Bijnor: Three persons were killed when two cars collided head-on at Sultanpur village under Seohara police station in Bijnor on Wednesday. A fourth person was injured and rushed to a health facility .According to Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh, the accident occurred early on Wednesday when a Scorpio collided with a Ritz. The Scorpio occupants identified as Namanpal, 28, from Banti Khera village in Shamli, and Sandeep, 30, from Tawali village in Muzaffarnagar district succumbed. Deepak, 25, from Bacchuar of Bihar's Siwan district was travelling in Ritz, and he also died in the accident.Ankit Kumar from Kishori in Meerut was travelling with Deepak. He sustained injuries, and is currently undergoing treatment.The SP said that the driver of Scorpio fled from the scene, abandoning the vehicle. The bodies were sent to district hospital for autopsy.The families of the deceased have been informed and a probe is on, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/three-killed-as-two-cars-collide-head-on-in-bijnor/articleshow/80797159.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 11, 2021||Meerut||'Three laws brought to scrap mandis & MSP, will scrap them after coming to power,' says Priyanka||Saharanpur: Kick-starting her party’s farmer outreach programme in western UP, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday afternoon latched on to the ongoing protests against the three agriculture laws to attack the BJP-led central government.Speaking at ‘kisan panchayat’ in Chilkhana area of Saharanpur, where at least 8,000 people had gathered despite prohibitory orders invoked by the administration a day earlier, Vadra said, “Everyone has seen the prime minister’s 56 inch chest. Inside his 56 inch chest, he has a small heart which only beats for his billionaire friends.”She promised to repeal the laws if Congress comes to power.“When the Congress comes to power again, we will immediately repeal these farm laws. We will also ensure MSPs for all farmers,” Vadra assured farmers.She said, “In 1955, Jawaharlal Nehru had come up with a law to stop hoarding. That law has now been changed. The new law is aimed at helping trillionaires. What price you will get for produce, how and when will you sell, everything will be decided by them (trillionaires).”“These three laws are designed to scrap government mandis and the MSP. It will encourage hoarding. This means farmers’ voices will be stifled, and trillionaires' voices will be listened,” Vadra claimed.The Congress leader also slammed the government over the sugarcane dues.“The Prime Minister had promised that his government will clear pending cane dues of Rs 15,000-crore with interest in 15 days. Instead, he purchased two airplanes for Rs 16,000-crore to roam around the world,” Vadra claimed.Earlier, the Congress leader, dressed in black, landed at Dehradun’s Jolly Grant airport and reached Behat area of Saharanpur via road to offer prayers at Shakumabri Mata temple and then at a mazaar.From there she reached the Chilkana to address the rally. She was flanked by Congress’ UP president Ajay Lallu, and other senior leaders including Rajiv Shukla and Pramod Krishnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/three-laws-brought-to-scrap-mandis-msp-will-scrap-them-after-coming-to-power-says-priyanka/articleshow/80797170.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Meerut||Brother killed Noida techie to frame kin of minor girl he was accused of raping||Bijnor: Two days after an MBA student, 24, was found brutally murdered -- with her faced smashed with a brick -- in UP’s Amroha district, police on Wednesday arrested her younger brother, 21, and claimed that he had killed her to frame the family of a minor girl he had been accused of raping. Police said that the accused, who was booked for rape on January 18, had hatched a conspiracy to kill his sister, an employee at a private firm in Noida, so that he could frame the family of the minor rape survivor in the murder case. A blood-stained brick, a bag containing two mobile phones and a voter ID card were found lying close to the body of the girl, Neha Chaudhary, who used to live in Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar. Amroha’s superintendent of police Suniti told TOI that police cracked the case with the help of CCTV footage.“In the footage, we saw the accused, Ankit Kumar, taking his sister to Peergarh area. They were going in the direction where the body was dumped. Police picked up Ankit and questioned him. He confessed to have killed his sister. The accused told police that he and his cousins were booked for raping a minor Dalit girl at Didauli police station of Amroha on January 18,” the SP said.“Facing imminent arrest, Ankit, who was on the run, hatched the conspiracy to frame the girl’s family. On Sunday afternoon, he hired a car and went to her sister’s house in Delhi. He told Neha Chaudhary that the rape survivor’s family had agreed for a compromise with him in her presence,” she said. “As Neha agreed, they reached Amroha on Monday evening. Ankit first strangled her. When she collapsed, he smashed her face with a brick and fled after disposing of his blood-stained clothes in bushes,” the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/brother-killed-noida-techie-to-frame-kin-of-minor-girl-he-was-accused-of-raping/articleshow/80797136.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 11, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Suchitwa Mission scrambles to use funds before they lapse||KOCHI: A whopping Rs 24 crore allocated by the World Bank to the district Suchitwa Mission remains unused even as the financial year comes to a close on March 31, 2021. Officials are pinning hopes on the central government providing an extension in view of the impending assembly elections in the state. The district Suchitwa Mission is running against time to at least kick off a few projects and make use of the funds before they lapse at the end of the current financial year. The fund has been allocated based on a “performance-based incentive grant” under the Swachh Bharat Mission. The district mission is planning to set up material collection facilities and resource recovery facilities at local bodies using the fund. It is also looking at setting up take-a-break facilities along highways and to spend on maintenance of toilets. The officials will have to prepare detailed project reports, call for tender and start the works in 40 days. In fact, the mission has been able to start the works on only around 55 toilets as against the approved 191. The maintenance of toilets in houses will be done using the remaining fund after setting up take-a-break facilities, material collection facilities and resource recovery facilities. As much as Rs 9,420 will be spent on the upkeep of each toilet. Of this, Rs 5,000 will be from World Bank’s aid and the rest from the local body. “If a local body gets 500 applications for maintenance of toilets, and the fund could cater only to 200 toilets, we will provide additional fund from the central finance commission grant or other central government grants the next year. We are planning to start the works on the projects before March 31 to make use of the fund before it lapses. The central government has asked us to complete the projects before the end of this financial year. Hope we can seek an extension citing the assembly elections,” said PH Shine, district programme officer of Suchitwa Mission. As many 237 take-a-break facilities are scheduled to be set up in Ernakulam in 2020– 21 financial year. Though Suchitwa Mission officials and Kochi corporation authorities held a meeting last year proposing to set up a sewage- treatment plant using Rs 16 crore from the fund, the proposal remains on paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/suchitwa-mission-scrambles-to-use-funds-before-they-lapse/articleshow/80797194.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||Once home to Chipko, residents of Raini village demand they be relocated to a safer place||Dehradun: Once lush with trees and paddy, the terrain surrounding Raini Chuksuvaai village is now a pale shadow of its former self. The locals -- most spending the night in forests, caves and tents—have now appealed to the state to rehabilitate them to a safer place. The fear of another deluge is haunting them. Chamoli’s Raini Chuksuvaai village was once home to iconic environmentalist Gaura Devi, a contemporary of Sunderlal Bahuguna who initiated the Chipko movement in the 1970s. But now, parts of it are covered in sludge and rocks. The locals who saw the raging waters of the nearby Rishiganga destroy the hydropower project and cause massive damage to the NTPC project at Tapovan downstream, don’t want to live there. The grandson of Gaurav Devi, Sohan Singh Rana, told TOI, “Raini will always be the land of Chipko. We will always be nature loving people, but the situation is such that we want rehabilitation for now as our houses are on a rock which might fall prey to another such disaster any moment. We are sleeping inside tents in open fields to protect ourselves.” Rana, with his two sons and a daughter, sleeps out in freezing cold now. Raini Chuksuvaai has around 52 families and about 180 voters. All of them are worried. The village is in the buffer zone Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve which is the UN World Heritage Site. Bhawan Singh Rana, pradhan of Raini Chuksuvaai, feels the changing weather and devastation to the environment has made the village prone to disaster. He said, “Earlier we used to fear monsoon. But now, it is happening even in the winters. We are really worried now.” The villagers want to reside in a place which is more secure and safe from disasters. “I lost my mother in front of my eyes, what could be more daunting. We don’t want others to perish, it will be good if the government thinks about us,” said Prem Singh. According to Gaura’s grandson, Rana, the hydroelectric plant caused damage to the area. “The hydroelectric power plant has caused massive damage to Raini. It has 600mtr long tunnel which itself spelt disaster for the village since day one. We had been raising our voices against it but nothing happened. Now it is the time that villagers be rehabilitated to a safer place,” Rana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/once-home-to-chipko-residents-of-raini-village-demand-they-be-relocated-to-a-safer-place/articleshow/80797214.cms||Shivani Azad
February 11, 2021||Goa||Chodankar’s father among two Covid casualties||Panaji: Goa reported two more covid casualties on Wednesday pushing its toll to 777. State Congress president Girish Chodankar’s father, Raya, succumbed to the virus at Goa Medical College. He had been under treatment in GMC since January 17. A 45-year-old male from Pajifond, Margao, suffering from alcoholic liver disease was brought dead to Hospicio. His subsequent swab test showed that he had contracted the virus. With 72 new cases and 64 recoveries, the active cases were at 697. There was no change in case positivity rate as well as the recovery rate, which have been at 4% and 97%, respectively. On Wednesday, 39 patients were hospitalised and 47 opted for home isolation. Panaji urban health centre reported a marginal rise and its tally rose to 59, and that of Porvorim primary health centre to 35. Margao urban health centre and Ponda primary health centre also reported a marginal rise. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chodankars-father-among-two-covid-casualties/articleshow/80805118.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Model of corruption in Delhi corporations: AAP||NEW DELHI: AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak on Wednesday slammed BJP over its governance of the three municipal corporations and said it had established a model of corruption in the civic bodies. “Delhi has two models of governance — Arvind Kejriwal model and BJP’s corruption one. The development work carried out by the Kejriwal government has established a new governance model and has become a talking point across the world,” Pathak said. Meanwhile, Deepak Mehra, independent councillor from Ghumanhera ward, which falls under SDMC, joined AAP. Delhi BJP spokesperson Virender Babbar said AAP has lost all the credibility and people know that it has developed a habit of making unfounded allegations against BJP. “We will win all the seats because people want to teach AAP a lesson for holding back the municipal funds and financially crippling BJP-run corporations,” said Babbar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-model-of-corruption-in-corporations/articleshow/80801360.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Your cuppa’s cost is steaming||AHMEDABAD: Enjoy your morning cup of chai before you read this. The rise in retail price of tea by 30 per cent due to drop in production and increased dependence on imports post-pandemic may just leave a slightly bitter taste in your mouth. During the lockdown, absence of migrant workers on tea estates meant that the leaves were not plucked on time, hampering production. Estimates by the Federation of All-India Tea Traders’ Association suggest that tea production went down by roughly 1.4 lakh tonne since April last year. This means a drop of roughly 10% in production. “Tea production went down from 13.9 lakh tonne in 2019 to 12.5 lakh tonne in 2020. Due to the pandemic, tea leaves grew too big as it was not plucked on time. As a consequence, the stock got wasted, denting total production of tea. This led to a 22% increase in wholesale price of tea, which stands at Rs 300 per kg,” said Viren Shah, chairman, FAITTA. According to the federation, tea auction prices in 2020 were about 35% higher compared to 2019 – around Rs 80 per kilo - as this was the result of a fair price discovery mechanism based on demand and supply. Retail tea prices rose by an average of Rs 60-70 per kilo during the year. Getting quality tea was a key challenge during lockdown, said Parag Desai, executive director of Wagh Bakri Group, commenting on the impact. “However, services are back to pre-Covid levels now. The hike in tea price has been passed on by traders to end customers, because other challenges for business such as rising fuel cost and that of transport containers has increased.” Despite the rise in prices, consumption of tea has not reduced. “In India, chai culture is very strong. Therefore, people have absorbed the hike prices. With increased preference for quality, branded tea is gaining better edge against non-branded tea,” said Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/your-cuppas-cost-is-steaming/articleshow/80797326.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Centre shying from MSP promise: Harsimrat Kaur Badal||CHANDIGARH: Taking on the Centre in the Lok Sabha, Shiromani Akali Dal MP and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said the government had not only shied of giving farmers a written assurance of minimum support price (MSP) for food grains but also planned to unbundle the Food Corporation of India (FCI). In her speech on the President’s address in Parliament on Tuesday, Harsimrat Kaur said that in 2011, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had as chairman of the working committee of chief ministers recommended a statutory provision to bar farmer-trader transactions below the MSP. “This is what the farmers now demand. What has changed and why isn’t the government repealing the farm laws, withdrawing cases against the farmers, youth, and social activists, and ending their torture,” she said. On the Republic Day violence, she said: “A lot was said about the insult to the national flag by a community that accounts for no less than 70% of the sacrifices during the freedom movement. But there was no talk of or probe into the intelligence failure. It is clear that the Centre had prior knowledge on January 25 that a group was ready to march to the Red Fort and yet did not close the route. The ‘kesari nishan’ was vilified, the same kesari nishan that the Prime Minister has sported on his head on many occasions.” The Bathinda MP accused the central government of being arrogant to the farmers and branding them ‘bicholiya’, naxals, and Khalistanis. She said: “They were also accused of sitting on the Delhi borders with AK-47 assault rifles. Who ploughs the fields with AK-47s?” They are peaceful protesters sitting in this biting cold, and the government didn’t send a single minister to ask about their well-being.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-shying-from-msp-promise-harsimrat/articleshow/80801292.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Dehradun||Shivling stolen from ASI-protected 11th century temple||Almora: Miscreants broke into a Bhairav temple built during the Katyuri regime in Dwarahat in the 11th century and stole the Shivling from there. The Shivling was found missing by the staff of the temple — under the protection of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) — on Wednesday morning. On getting information of the crime, police started an investigation. The initial police probe has revealed that the Shivling was broken during the crime. The police also scanned the footage of the CCTV installed in the temple premises and spotted a suspect, who is said to be in his mid-twenties. SSP Almora Pankaj Bhatt also reached the spot. “We have started a probe in the case. A suspect has been seen in the CCTV footage. All aspects are being investigated,” Bhatt told TOI. An SOG (Special Operations Group) team has also been deployed in the area. It has also been learnt that three employees of the archeology department have come under lens as they were present in the temple when the crime took place. However, their involvement hasn't been ascertained as yet. Meanwhile, the senior officials of the ASI have been apprised of the crime. Neeru Lohni, archaeological department memorial attendant, is also gathering all possible evidence to help the police in the case. Purohit Dhirendra Mathpal, a local, has demanded the police to disclose the matter soon. It is worth mentioning that the temple holds mythological significance. It is believed that Badrinath, Mahamrityunjaya, Gujradev, Maniyan, Ratanadeva, Banadev, and Kachari temple groups were constituted in Dwarahat by the Katyuri rulers in the 11th century.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shivling-stolen-from-asi-protected-11th-century-temple/articleshow/80797356.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Pune||MSME co-lending deal: BoM teams up with fintech co||Pune: Public sector Bank of Maharashtra (BoM) and the city-based fintech and online lending firm LoanTap have announced a co-lending platform primarily aimed at micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs), aiming to ease the liquidity crisis in non-banking financial companies.The guidelines for the co-lending model, where partners share liquidity and by extension, exposure to a particular borrower, were laid down late last year by the Reserve Bank of India. AS Rajeev, the managing director, BoM, said in a statement that the co-lending model could help NBFCs in easing their liquidity crisis, as well as help out both parties to reach out to more beneficiaries.According to the partners in the project, potential borrowers can access the line of credit through LoanTap’s existing platform on a specialised section. “This is being primarily aimed at helping shopkeepers and small business owners in their working capital requirements, or purchases. Currently, we are offering credit between Rs 50,000 and 3 lakh, but we want to expand it up to Rs 10 lakh in the future,” said Satyam Kumar, the CEO and co-founder of LoanTap.A senior BoM official said 80% of the business would come to teh bank, while the rest would go to LoanTap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msme-co-lending-deal-bom-teams-up-with-fintech-co/articleshow/80801464.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
February 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: ‘Natural antibodies may fade, there can be second wave’||CHANDIGARH: Since February 2, there have been daily deaths due to Covid-19 in the city. Experts fear the natural antibodies may go away soon and a second wave can come. Director, health services, (DHS) Dr Amandeep Kang, stressing the need for vaccination, said, “This is the time when positivity is low, may be due to herd immunity or something else, but the natural immunity will go soon. Now is the time to vaccinate and acquire protection against virus transmission.” Some international studies have shown that measles, mumps and some respiratory tract viruses killed millions of people annually across the globe despite long-term protective immunity against reinfection following an infection. Before vaccination against these diseases, immunity following natural infection allowed people to coexist with these viruses, but never eradicated them. The vaccines reduced the disease burden of these viruses by more than 99%.  “There are some who had the infection, but did not develop antibodies or even if they did, it did not last for long. So vaccination is significant to at least break the chain of transmission as it has done for many other diseases,” the DHS added. However, the health workers said as there was no data of vaccines’ efficacy, it was not possible to know for how long the protection would last. All the heads of the three major hospitals have got themselves vaccinated against Covid-19. Yet the number of healthcare workers coming for the jab has been declining. “There are no operational issues, but people are not coming forward due to a lot of misconceptions,” said the DHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/natural-antibodies-may-fade-there-can-be-second-wave/articleshow/80797340.cms||Shimona Kanwar
February 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Auction 2 properties of emu scam accused: TNPID court||Coimbatore: The special court for Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors Act (TNPID) has directed the state government to auction two properties of an accused involved in the emu scam.According to the economic offences wing, M Guru alias Gurusamy ran Susi Emu Farms India Private Limited in Erode in 2015 and cheated 3,304 depositors to the tune of Rs Rs 94 crore. He had collected Rs 1.5 lakh from each depositor promising to return the money at the end of two years, in addition to Rs 6,000 per month, plus Rs 10,000 annually for maintenance of three emu chicks.Gurusamy was booked after the scam was busted. The TNPID court hearing the case ordered the authorities to auction two properties of Gurusamy’s wife Mithra Devi with a guideline value of Rs 29 lakh. One of the properties was a land parcel while the other was a land with a multi-storeyed building. EOW authorities would approach the revenue officials to get the properties auctioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/auction-2-properties-of-emu-scam-accused-tnpid-court/articleshow/80801413.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Hyderabad||35-yr-old from Hyd working in Bahrain missing for a year||Hyderabad: A 35-year-old man from Golnaka, Amberpet in the city has reportedly gone missing in Bahrain where he had gone to work. Boddupalli Bheemaiah was employed with a construction company and has not been in touch with the family for the last one year. “We became worried as he stopped calling us since March last year. His number is not accessible and no one on his behalf called to say anything about where he was. We have no clue as to where he could be or what happened to him,” Bheemaiah’s wife Sara told TOI on Wednesday. MBT leader and social worker Amjed Ullah Khan has taken up the matter with the authorities, including external affairs minister S Jaishankar and the Indian embassy in Bahrain.Amjed Ullah Khan also released a video in which he shared a photograph of Bheemaiah, urging the Indian community in Bahrain to bring it to the notice of his family if he was found anywhere. Sara, a resident of Kamalanagar in Golnaka has urged the Ministry of External Affairs and Indian embassy in Bahrain to search for her husband and trace him. Bheemaiah had gone to work in Bahrain in 2017. He also used to send money every three months to his wife at home. The couple have a 12-year-old daughter and a nine-year-old son. Sara appealed to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to look into her plea and help the family. Laxman, brother of Sara, added Bheemaiah had said he would come back in a year but was not in touch. He said his sister’s family was going through difficult times due to lack of money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/35-yr-old-from-hyd-working-in-bahrain-missing-for-a-year/articleshow/80804989.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 11, 2021||Delhi||Covid Vaccination Turnout Peaks At 14,700||New Delhi: A special drive conducted to get police and paramilitary personnel vaccinated against the coronavirus pushed the turnout to its highest point on Wednesday. A total of 14,743 people turned up to get the shot, highest in a day since the vaccination began on January 16. The percentage, which turned 80.5%, was the fifth highest. Earlier, the percentage turnout was higher because the target of vaccination was low. Delhi government is going to further expand the network of vaccination centres so that more and more people can be vaccinated in a single day. From Thursday, the vaccination will be carried out at 265 locations. A total of 82 new locations will start giving Covid shots most of which are private hospitals. The new sites include Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital (Pusa Road), Max Hospital (South district), Metro Hospital (Lajpat Nagar), Apex City Hospital (West Vinod Nagar), Maharaja Agrasen Hospital (Narela), and Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital. The sites are spread across the capital so that people living in different localities do not face any inconvenience. The target of single-day vaccination will increase from 18,300 to 26,500. The sites will make the rollout of the second dose of vaccination, which is likely to start from February 13, smooth. In the first phase, vaccine will be given to 51 lakh people, including 2.5 lakh healthcare workers, 6 lakh frontline workers, and over 42 lakh people either above 50 years of age or below 50 but with comorbidities who have been kept in the priority group. Covid vaccination turnout significantly surged on Tuesday when it touched 69.1% and has further increased. The turnout figure includes both healthcare workers and frontline workers. As of now, the government has allowed only these workers to get inoculated. Only seven adverse events were reported and all of them were minor cases of reaction, which is common with almost all vaccines. Some of the districts reporting high increase in turnout were South West district (1,474 as against 896 a day before), East district (1,045 as against 638), central district (1,846 as against 1,582), and West district (1,880 as against 1,496 a day before). North East, Shahdara and South districts reported a slight decline in the total turnout. No adverse event was reported in five of the 11 districts while five districts reported only one adverse event each. South district reported two adverse events. The overall number of people—healthcare workers and frontline workers—who have been vaccinated against the coronavirus crossed 1.46 lakh on Wednesday. An official said that a large number of the total vaccinated people included frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-vaccination-turnout-peaks-at-14700/articleshow/80797507.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 11, 2021||Kochi||Court: Set up police units on campuses to curb drug menace||Kochi: The high court on Wednesday directed the state government to establish police units on campuses to curb drug use among students in educational institutions. The division bench of chief justice S Manikumar and justice A M Shaffique passed the judgement while hearing a plea filed by N Ramachandran, former district police chief, Kottayam, flagging the rise in drug-based crimes committed by youth and growing drug consumption among children and students. The bench directed the state to convene a meeting of all the key officials from the department of home affairs, excise, health, law, education and representatives from state mental health authority and department of social justice for chalking out a roadmap to ensure reduction in the incidence of substance abuse among teenagers and youths. The bench said that the directions be complied with strictly, in letter and spirit, and in accordance with law, within a period of three months. The educational institutions shall be provided with guidelines as a charter of duties and responsibilities, to make the campuses, drug-free. The court also directed the police to establish counselling and rehabilitation mechanisms for students who are already using drugs and added that they can seek the co-operation of university authorities, and parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-set-up-police-units-on-campuses-to-curb-drug-menace/articleshow/80797382.cms||---
February 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Man murdersbiz partner||Coimbatore: The Tirupur north police on Wednesday arrested a man for murdering his 55-year-old business partner.The arrested person was identified as A Aravind, 27, a native of Pudukottai and a resident of Ranganathapuram in Coimbatore city. The victim, K Moorthi, had invested Rs 1.5 lakh in the polymer company he had started with Aravind in the city a few years ago, a police officer said. “On Tuesday, an argument erupted between them regarding the money invested in the business, which turned into a fight. During the melee, Aravind slit Moorthi’s throat, killing him on the spot.”Aravind was booked under Section 302 (murder) of IPC and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-murdersbiz-partner/articleshow/80801471.cms||---
