February 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 10-year jail for youth who kidnapped, raped minor||BENGALURU: A special court for Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (Pocso) in Tumakuru on Tuesday held a 26-year-old man guilty of abducting and raping a 16-year-old girl in 2014 and awarded him 10-year rigorous imprisonment.  A Lakshmana, resident of Nelagunte village near Tumakuru, also has to pay a fine of Rs 40,000. Besides Lakshmana, police had arrested and chargesheeted six others, including his father and other close relatives on charges of illegal detention of the girl. However, the court acquitted them. Lakshmana, who was 20 and a first-year commerce degree student then, abducted the girl on April 3, 2014. He knew the girl for some time and had befriended her. At 6am, he kidnapped the girl when she came out of her uncle’s house. He took her to a close relative’s house, locked her up there for seven days and raped her. Police, who had registered a kidnap case, rescued the girl and arrested Lakshmana. “The girl’s parents had filed a complaint and based on their statement, we arrested Lakshmana. Later, based on the girl’s statement, we nabbed six others, including Lakshmana’s father. They knew the conspiracy and helped Lakshmana in illegally detaining the girl,” police said. The accused, except Lakshmana, got bail the same year. Lakshmana got conditional bail in 2015. “The judgment was announced at the 72nd hearing. Ten eyewitnesses, including police and doctors, deposed on behalf of the girl and the case was presented by public prosecutor Gayatri Raj,” police said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/10-yr-jail-for-youth-who-kidnapped-raped-minor/articleshow/80868299.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Audi sold by Shilpa Shetty’s husband involved in Bengaluru hit-and-run case||BENGALURU: Police on trail of an Audi R8 involved in a hit-and-run case in Bengaluru last Sunday were led to Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty’s businessman-husband Raj Kundra only to be told that he had sold off the vehicle to a car dealer two months earlier. The Audi R8 (MH-02-BP-0010) rammed an autorickshaw and two two-wheelers near a hotel close to St. Marks Road at 2.45pm. Before the passersby and others could react, the car zoomed off. The auto driver and motorists escaped with minor injuries, but their vehicles were damaged. A case was registered at Cubbon Park traffic police station. “We identified the owner through RTO officials in Mumbai as Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra. His manager told us that the car was sold in January to a car dealer in Bengaluru. The vehicle’s papers were still in Kundra’s name and were yet to be changed,” police said. Cops identified the dealer, Mohammed Sadab, 27, from BMT Layout, II Stage. It turned out that Sadab was at the wheel when the accident took place. “I was too afraid to stop at the spot. I shall pay for the damages caused to vehicles,” he told police. Sadab has been booked for reckless driving. “Sadab drove in such a rash manner that anything could have happened. We cannot subject him to a medical test for drunk driving now as it is too late,” police said. Sadab buys and sells used high-end cars and SUVs. “Sadab has contacts among Mumbai-based dealers and one such person tipped him last December about Kundra's Audi. He visited the house in Mumbai and purchased the vehicle,” an officer added. Watch Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra's sold car booked in a hit and run case in Bengaluru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/audi-sold-by-shilpa-shettys-husband-involved-in-bluru-hit-and-run-case/articleshow/80868314.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
February 12, 2021||World||UK PIO MPs push for debate on safety of farmer protesters and on press freedoms in India to take place in British Parliament||LONDON: Two Indian-origin MPs are pushing for a debate in the British Parliament on the safety of the farmer protesters and on press freedom in India. Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, whose family hail from Jalandhar, and Valerie Vaz, who has Goan roots, both Labour, on Thursday pressed Leader of the House of Commons Jacob Rees-Mogg for a debate to happen on the petition, which is on the UK government and parliament site with 115,000 signatures and calls for the UK government to urge India to ensure the safety of farm protesters and that press freedoms are maintained. The petition reached the 100,000 threshold on February 2, meaning a debate on it would be held in Westminster Hall, and a government minister would have to attend and respond. It was started on December 17 by Liberal Democrats Maidenhead councillor Gurch Singh, whose family is from Ludhiana. But on January 13 MPs agreed to temporarily suspend Westminster Hall debates owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. On Thursday, in the Commons chamber, Dhesi asked Rees-Mogg, who is responsible for scheduling business in the House, to make an exception and facilitate the debate in the main chamber as he said the “peaceful farmers’ protest in India” ongoing for some months now, is “currently the largest protest on the planet”. “Given our serious anxieties, more than 100 hon. members signed a letter to the prime minister seeking his intervention. Well over 100,000 constituents — incredibly, from every single one of the 650 UK constituencies — have signed an online petition. Given those facts, and given the arrest of journalists, peaceful protesters and human rights activists such as Nodeep Kaur, who, it is alleged, has been tortured and endured sexual assault while in police custody, will the Leader of the House please facilitate a debate on this important matter,” Dhesi asked. Rees-Mogg responded that the protests were a matter of concern across the House and across constituencies. “The right to peaceful protest is a fundamental one, along with freedom of speech and internet freedom. India is a very proud democracy and a country with which we have the strongest possible relations.” He said that over the next century Britain’s relationship with India “may well be our most important relationship with any country in the world”. “As India is our friend, it is only right that we make representations when we think that things are happening that are not in the interests of the reputation of the country of which we are a friend,” he said. He confirmed that the foreign secretary had discussed the farmers’ protest with his Indian counterpart in December and said the UK government will continue to follow the farmers’ protest closely and “continue to champion human rights globally”, but that agricultural reform “is a domestic policy issue for India”. Vaz also asked Rees-Mogg if he could find time for the debate, even if virtually. “Satyagraha is the Gandhian peaceful protest that is in the Indian DNA, but we have seen scenes of terrible violence against those who are protecting their livelihoods,” she said. Councillor Singh, whose family members are at the protest sites, told TOI he had written to the petitions committee putting pressure on them to hold the debate. “I am a proud Indian. I have nothing against the Modi government. I just want them to listen to farmers and come to a sensible resolution and prevent any further loss of life,” he said. Watch Farmers protest: UK MP calls for discussion in House of Commons||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-pio-mps-push-for-debate-on-safety-of-farmer-protesters-and-on-press-freedoms-in-india-to-take-place-in-british-parliament/articleshow/80869344.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 12, 2021||Thane||Distress calls in Thane dropped by over 1k last year than in 2019||THANE: Due to minimal movement of people after offices, industries and establishments shut down due to the pandemic last year, the complaints received by the regional disaster management cell (RDMC) in Thane dropped by over 1,000 in 2020, compared to 2019. It was seen that while 5,740 complaints were made to Thane RDMC in 2019, 33 per cent less calls were made in 2020 as 3,810 distress calls were reported. Most complaints last year pertained to fire outbreaks as 556 distress calls were made to the department last year. “The number of fire outbreaks were 28 per cent less last year as compared to 2019 as 556 fire calls were recorded against 894 (including 67 on short circuits) calls reported in 2019. This was due to the fact that no businesses or industries were functioning and people mostly remained at homes,” said Santosh Kadam, chief of Thane RDMC. The reports also showed that there were fewer complaints regarding water logging and stagnation last year, against 2019. This, too, was attributed to people staying indoors during the lockdown. “The water pipelines mostly get affected due to vehicular movements as they are old. But since there was not much commuting last year, the calls were less,” added Kadam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/distress-calls-in-city-dropped-by-over-1k-last-year-than-in-2019/articleshow/80870084.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
February 12, 2021||Thane||Thane cops book 86 riders for rash driving in single day||THANE: A special drive was conducted by the Traffic police in Thane police commissionerate area on Monday where the cops penalized over 20 percent motorists for speeding. Nearly 86 riders/drivers out of 422 law breakers were booked for dangerous driving (speeding) and fined Rs 1,000. It was seen that most of these offenders were from Kasarvadavli traffic unit and Wagle traffic unit. “Many bikers are seen violating speed limits and even jumping signals. We see most of this offence from Brahmand signal to Anand Nagar on Ghodbunder road,” said Manohar Avhad, inspector at the traffic department. While Ghodbunder had 19 law breakers of dangerous driving, Wagle Estate area, too, had a similar number of offenders. “Upvan area and the road from Birsa Munda chowk near Pokhran road no.2 to Hiranandani meadows junction, mostly youth are seen speeding, driving rashly as these roads don’t have much vehicular traffic. Due to our constant action against these offenders, the number of people stunting on the motorcycles at Upvan has stopped,” said Sachin Gawade, inspector at the traffic department. Action was also taken against 212 law breakers for driving on wrong side and 124 law breakers for entering into one way zones. “Vartak Nagar junction, near Singhania school and near Viviana mall, these three are the major points wherein people take their vehicles from opposite side traffic,” added Gawade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/cops-book-86-riders-for-rash-driving-in-single-day/articleshow/80870197.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
February 12, 2021||India||Indian troops on hill tops, we have edge in Ladakh: Rajnath||NEW DELHI: An agreement has been reached with China on disengagement on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso in east Ladakh, with identification of strategically important points and positioning of Indian troops on hilltops giving India the edge, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday. In a statement in the Rajya Sabha detailing the disengagement that started on Wednesday after an intense military faceoff that began last May, Singh said an agreement was reached after a well-thought-out approach and sustained talks with the Chinese side. “It has also been agreed that the next meeting of the senior commanders will be called within 48 hours after complete disengagement in the Pangong Lake area so as to address and resolve all other remaining issues,” he said. The breakthrough, sources said, was significant as Indian troops would currently remain on the heights they command the south bank until a verified de-escalation. The bold manoeuvre on the night of August 29-30 by Indian troops gave India control of heights on the south bank, including Rezang La and Rezin La, effectively neutralising the Chinese advances in the Finger (spurs) area of the north bank. "Many strategically important points were identified and our troops positioned themselves at those hilltops and at locations which were very important from our point of view. It is because of this great bravery of our armed forces in the face of harsh, adverse climatic conditions that we maintained the edge," the minister said. "The Chinese side will keep its troop presence on the north bank area to east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa post near Finger 3. A similar action would be taken on the south bank area by both sides," Singh said. Of all friction points, the Finger area was seen as the most difficult to resolve with the Chinese moving considerable troops, equipment and infrastructure into the area. It has been decided that as a temporary measure, pending resolution at the diplomatic levels, there will be no patrolling in the Finger area. Before the Chinese action, Indian troops would patrol up to Finger 8. However, massing of Chinese troops was intended to permanently alter the LAC and this has been reversed as per the agreement that requires them to withdraw to their original positions. The next round of military talks will aim to stabilise the situation in the Pangong area and discuss restoring status quo at other points of friction along the LAC where heavily armed Chinese and Indian troops are in close proximity. "I want to assure this House that in these talks, we have not conceded anything. The House should also know that there are still some outstanding issues with regard to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. These will be taken up in further discussions with the Chinese side though the focus will be in ensuring the current disengagement concludes successfully,” Singh said. The agreement will see Indian and Chinese troops ceasing their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner. As a first step, tanks and armoured vehicles have been moved back. Singh said the de-escalation, which comes almost 10 months since the neighbour amassed troops and armaments, will see the Chinese troop presence on the north bank restricted to east of Finger 8. Sources said the winter deployment was difficult for both sides, but Indian troops were better trained to handle the rigours given their operational experience in theatres like Siachen. The Chinese side also did not anticipate a prolonged mobilisation or the Indian economic actions, all which underlined that there could be no business as usual if the border was disturbed. It was pointed out that the minister and government were guided by the professional advice of the forces and assured them their full support. Singh added that as per the agreement reached with the Chinese side, any structures built by both sides since April 2020 in north and south bank areas will be removed and landforms restored. A temporary moratorium on military activities by both sides on the north bank has also been agreed upon, including suspension of patrolling to the traditional areas. “Our approach and strategy for negotiations with the Chinese side has been guided at the highest level by the prime minister’s resolve that we will not give even an inch of Indian territory. Our tenacity and approach during talks have yielded results,” Singh told Rajya Sabha. As per Singh, the Indian approach to engagement with China maintained three key principles: that both sides should strictly respect and observe the LAC, neither side should attempt to alter status quo unilaterally, and all agreements and understandings between the two sides must be fully abided by in their entirety. Recapitulating the situation on the ground, Singh said China had illegally occupied approximately 38,000 sq km in Ladakh, mainly during the 1962 conflict. In addition, under the Sino-Pakistan 'boundary agreement' of 1963, Pakistan illegally ceded 5,180 sq km of Indian territory in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir to China. Watch India, China agreed that complete disengagement to be done at the earliest: Rajnath Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-troops-on-hill-tops-we-have-edge-in-ladakh-rajnath/articleshow/80870537.cms||---
February 12, 2021||India||Centre nixes collegium’s 2-year extension for Justice Ganediwala, gives one year instead||NEW DELHI: The Union government on Thursday disagreed with the Supreme Court collegium’s recommendation for a two-year extension as an additional judge of the Bombay high court to Justice P V Ganediwala, who has been in the eye of a storm for her “insensitive” judgments acquitting people accused under the POCSO Act. The three-member collegium headed by CJI S A Bobde had on January 20 recommended to the Centre to appoint Justice Ganediwala as a permanent judge of the Bombay HC on expiry of her two-year additional judgeship on February 13. However, back-to-back controversial decisions relating to child sexual offences had forced the collegium to take the unprecedented step of withdrawing its recommendation. Withdrawal of the recommendation was preceded by the SC staying her January 19 judgment, which had acquitted a man of charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on the ground that there was no skin-to-skin contact between the accused and the minor girl child as the man had groped her over the dress. The stay was ordered by a bench headed by CJI Bobde on January 27 after attorney general K K Venugopal mentioned the issue and said, “It is a very disturbing judgment that sets a new rule that in the absence of skin-to-skin contact, that is groping a child without removing her clothes, would not amount to sexual assault under Section 8 of the POCSO Act. It sets a dangerous precedent. Please take suo motu cognisance of the judgment and stay its operation." Read AlsoSupreme Court stays Bombay HC's skin-to-skin order under Pocso ActThe Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the acquittal order of the accused in the case where Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court had said that groping a minor's breast without "skin to skin contact" can't be termed as sexual assault. The case dates back to February 2020 when a 39-year-old man in NagpurLater, the collegium met again and decided to recommend to the Centre to extend her additional judgeship tenure, which was coming to an end on February 13, by another two years. However, sources said law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad conveyed the Centre’s disagreement for a two-year extension to Justice Ganediwala while recording the government’s strong reservation towards insensitivity or leniency towards crimes against women and girl children. The law ministry on Thursday forwarded Justice Ganediwala’s file to the PMO after deciding to extend her additional judgeship by just one year, that is till February 13, 2022. The ministry also recorded that such “insensitive” decisions were rightly remedied by the SC after the AG recorded the government’s strong objection to it and its detrimental effect on efforts towards gender sensitisation and providing for stringent punishment to crimes against women, especially sexual assaults. Justice Ganediwala had stunned many with her January 19 judgment acquitting a 39-year-old man of the Section 6 offence under the POCSO Act on the ground that groping the breasts of a 12-year-old girl without removing her top did not entail skin-to-skin contact and hence was not an offence under the Act. A day later, the collegium headed by CJI Bobde, disregarding serious objections from two senior SC judges, approved the proposal to appoint Justice Ganediwala as a permanent judge of Bombay HC. The SC sent this approval to the law ministry. When the CJI was deliberating on the embarrassing move to recall the proposal that had already been sent to the Union government, it was Justice Ganediwala who made the CJI's task easier by giving a second controversial judgment on January 28, by which she acquitted a 50-year-old man by ruling that holding the hand of a five-year-old girl and unzipping his pants in front of her could not be categorised as a sexual offence under the POCSO Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-nixes-collegiums-2-year-extension-for-justice-ganediwala-gives-1-year-instead/articleshow/80870656.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 12, 2021||India||Blindness, disability no bar to being judge: SC||NEW DELHI: In a landmark judgment to enable the disabled live with dignity and compete with others on equal footing, the Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that a person's blindness or physical disabilities is no disqualification for appointment as Judge. In the process, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indira Banerjee and Sanjiv Khanna overruled a two-Judge SC bench ruling of 2019 upholding a ceiling of 40-50% visual/hearing impairment as the benchmark for a person's appointment as a civil judge (junior division) in Tamil Nadu and said persons with physical disability must be given all possible assistance, technological as also a scribe, for taking examination to compete with a real sense of equality. The court took exception to common societal reference to persons with disabilities as 'mentally ill' or 'divyangjan' and said, "Our discourse must be couched in terms that reflect the recognition of a human rights model to viewing disability. Insensitive language offends the human dignity of persons with disabilities." Referring to a UN Committee report on rights of disabled persons, the bench said, "In its concluding observations on India, the Committee notes with concern references to 'normal life' as opposed to the lives of persons with disabilities and derogatory terminology such as 'mentally ill' and 'divyangjan', which as it notes, remains controversial. It is our earnest hope that the paradigm-shifting conversation about the rights and status of the disabled, that the Committee has generated, will find a resonance in the language we use to refer to them." Writing the 62-page judgment that touched upon the misuse of facilities by candidates with disability in college admission tests, Justice Chandrachud said those who misuse an enabling facility are liable to face the rigour of law, but it does not mean the government or authorities can stop it altogether to deprive those who have the ability to compete with others on being provided reasonable assistance, as mandated in the Rights of Peoples with Disabilities Act, 2016. Hailing the 2016 Act, which replaced the 1995 Act, as a landmark legislation meeting the hopes and aspirations of persons with disability, the bench said, "The 2019 judgment was delivered by this Court after India became a party to the United Nations Convention on Rights of People with Disabilities (UNCRPD) and the RPwD Act 2016, came into force. The aforesaid view espoused by this Court is innocent of the principle of reasonable accommodation." "This Court did not consider whether the failure of the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commision to provide reasonable accommodation to a judge with a disability above the impugned ceiling was statutorily or constitutionally tenable. There is no reference in this Court’s judgment to whether the appellant would have been able to discharge the duties of a Civil Judge (Junior Division), after being provided the reasonable accommodations necessitated by his disability," Justice Chandrachud said. SC said the 2019 judgment, based on the 1995 Act, stood on a "legally vulnerable footing" and ruled that "it would not be a binding precedent, after enforcement of the RPwD Act 2016." The case in hand related to UPSC denying facility of scribe to a medical graduate suffering dysgraphia, commonly known as a Writer’s Cramp. Rejecting additional solicitor general Madhavi Divan's argument that providing a scribe could vitiate the purity of civil services examination, Justice Chandrachud-led bench said, "There can be no doubt about the need to preserve the purity of the examination. But the apprehension that the facility of a scribe should not be misused can furnish no valid ground to deprive the whole class of citizens – persons with disability who need a scribe – from the statutory entitlements which emanate from the provisions of the enactment, on the supposition that someone may misuse the provisions of the law." The SC said RPwD Act 2016 seeks to operationalize and give concrete shape to the promise of full and equal citizenship held out by the Constitution to the disabled and to execute its ethos of inclusion and acceptance. "The RPwD Act 2016 was a landmark legislation which repealed the 1995 Act and brought Indian legislation on disability in line with the UNCRPD, " it said. In what could make the NDA government happy, the SC said, "The RPwD Act 2016 has a more inclusive definition of 'persons with disability' evidencing a shift from a stigmatizing medical model of disability under the 1995 Act to a social model of disability which recognizes that it is the societal and physical constraint that are at the heart of exclusion of persons with disabilities from full and effective participation in society... It gives a powerful voice to the disabled people who, by dint of the way their impairment interacts with society, hitherto felt muted and silenced. The Act tells them that they belong, that they matter, that they are assets, not liabilities and that they make us stronger, not weaker." "There is a critical qualitative difference between the barriers faced by persons with disabilities and other marginalized groups. In order to enable persons with disabilities to lead a life of equal dignity and worth, it is not enough to mandate that discrimination against them is impermissible. That is necessary, but not sufficient. We must equally ensure, as a society, that we provide them the additional support and facilities that are necessary for them to offset the impact of their disability," the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/blindness-disability-no-bar-to-being-judge-sc/articleshow/80871072.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 12, 2021||India||Govt following ‘Hum Do, Humare Do’ policy: Rahul||NEW DELHI: Lok Sabha witnessed uproarious scenes on Thursday evening as Congress MP Rahul Gandhi sought to respond to PM Narendra Modi’s jibe a day earlier that the opposition was commenting on the colour of the three farm laws but not their “content and intent”, and said the laws were only intended to help the government’s “corporate friends”. In a 15-minute address amid strident protests by the treasury benches that he should speak on the budget, Rahul alleged the Modi government was following the decades-old “Hum Do, Humare Do” slogan popularised during the national family planning programme to promote “two corporate friends” who were steadily taking control of India’s Rs 40 lakh crore agriculture business and rendering farmers, small traders and labourers jobless. The farm laws had been discussed as part of the motion of thanks to the President's address, and BJP members insisted he speak on the budget. While he did not name the corporate houses, Rahul said everyone knew the “four people running the country”, and added that the intent of the three farm laws was to ensure that all purchase and storage of foodgrains in the country is monopolised by two corporate entities. Farmers, small traders and labourers would be robbed of their rights to move court when denied their due, Rahul said. He also alleged the new farm laws would end the ‘mandi’ system, destroy India’s food security, hurt the rural economy and stymie India’s ability to produce jobs. “The intent of these three laws is to allow industrialists to buy unlimited quantities of foodgrains and hoard them as much as they want. The PM said he has given options. Yes, he has given three options — hunger, unemployment, suicide. These are the three options he has given,” Rahul said. Despite interventions by parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi to speak on the budget, Rahul said he would only talk on the farmers' issue since the opposition’s request for a separate, structured debate on farmers’ issues was denied by the government. The former Congress chief added that the farmer-led ‘andolan’ would show the way to the rest of the country to rise against the “Hum Do Humare Do” culture and with farmers not moving back an inch, the government would be forced to repeal the laws. He also prompted Congress, TMC and DMK MPs to observe two minutes of silence to mourn the death of 200 farmers during the ongoing protests, claiming he was paying respect when the government failed in its duty to do so. Speaker Om Birla, however, was not impressed and said running the House was his responsibility and such conduct by a senior member was “inappropriate”. Intervening on behalf of the government, junior finance minister Anurag Thakur claimed Rahul spoke on farm laws because he was unprepared to speak on the budget. He said Rahul spent little time in the House and in India, adding that it was the Congress family that had practised the ‘Hum Do, Humare Do’ slogan in spirit, allowing one family to corral all benefits during Congress rule. Thakur also said though Rahul claimed to be speaking for the poor, it was PM Modi who had brought tangible development to the lives of the country’s poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-following-hum-do-humare-do-policy-rahul/articleshow/80871203.cms||---
February 12, 2021||India||43 years on, channel cleared for hilsa to reach Prayagraj||KOLKATA: Hilsa migration’s equivalent of the Berlin Wall — a faulty navigation lock on the Farakka barrage that straddles Bengal’s Murshidabad and Malda districts — is falling after 43 years of denying fish lovers their shimmering silvery catch from Bangladesh. Once found in abundance in Ganga till as far upstream as Prayagraj and Kanpur, the progress of the famous “Padmar ilish” beyond Farakka — where the Ganga splits into the Hooghly and the Padma — had been halted by the construction of the navigation lock in 1978. This unintentional wrong committed against the piscine palate will, however, be set right later this year, thanks to the planned revitalisation of a channel for passenger and goods vessels to Prayagraj via Kolkata, Farakka, Patna and Varanasi. The new lock, which is basically a structure meant to create a safe navigational passage between water pools at different levels, promises to be a boon not only for vessels but also those bemoaning the dearth of high-quality hilsa on this side of the riverine border. “It takes about two hours or more for a vessel to pass upstream or downstream from Farakka through the existing lock. The new lock will reduce the passage time to 38 minutes. If another vessel moves in the reverse direction, the travel time will be only 23 minutes,” said an official of L&T Geostructure, which is executing the project at a cost of Rs 359 crore. “What’s more, fish lovers in Bengal and beyond till Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh can look forward to enjoying fresh hilsa as the new lock will help the fish migrating from the Padma all the way upstream in the waters of the Ganga.” A marine fish found in the Bay of Bengal as well as the Arabian Sea, the hilsa swims upstream to breed in sweet river water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/43-years-on-channel-cleared-for-hilsa-to-reach-prayagraj/articleshow/80871279.cms||Subhro Niyogi
February 12, 2021||India||5 ministers to launch CNG tractor today||NEW DELHI: India’s first-ever converted compressed natural gas (CNG) tractor will be launched on Friday. The road transport ministry said this will help farmers save more than Rs 1 lakh annually on fuel costs. The tractor converted to run on CNG from diesel, which has been approved by a government-run vehicle testing facility, will be launched by Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari and four other Union ministers including Narendra Singh Tomar and Dharmendra Pradhan. The transport ministry said the test reports indicate that the retrofitted tractor produces more power or equal in comparison to the diesel-run engines. Moreover, overall emissions are reduced by 70% in such tractors as compared to the ones running on diesel. It will also help farmers to save 40-50% on the fuel cost, the ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5-ministers-to-launch-cng-tractor-today/articleshow/80871292.cms||---
February 12, 2021||India||23 cases in 23 days under MP’s new love jihad law||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh averaged one case a day under the Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020 — commonly called the ‘love-jihad’ law — in the first month of its inception. “Twenty-three cases were registered under the newly passed Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020 in January in Madhya Pradesh,” home minister Narottam Mishra said on Thursday. The ordinance came into force on January 9. Bhopal, with seven cases, tops the list, followed by five in Indore Range, four each in Jabalpur and Rewa and three in Gwalior. “We maintain that this is a serious issue and such forces are active across the country. An effort has been taken in Madhya Pradesh to stop them,” Mishra said. The first case under the new law was registered on January 17 in Palsud police station of Barwani district. A married man, Sohail Mansiri alias Sunny, was arrested for allegedly sexually abusing a girl of another community for four years by hiding his original name. Three days later, the state capital had its first ‘love jihad’ case, and clocked six more in the next 11 days. In Mandleshwar of Khargone district, a 21-year-old college girl complained that a man named Sahil Qureshi had posed as a Hindu and when his true identity was revealed, started pressuring her to change her religion. Sahil has since got bail. The majority of the complaints are by women who allege they were duped into a relationship, but a few are over alleged attempts at conversion through force or allure. In Indore on January 27, nine people were arrested on the complaint of a 25-year-old woman for allegedly forcing her to embrace Christianity at a mass prayer service held right behind a police station. Among those arrested are the woman’s parents. In the most recent case, a pastor and two others were booked in Seoni for allegedly luring villagers with Rs 10,000 to embrace Christianity. The FIR was registered on a complaint from a villager named Sumat Lal. The new ordinance — which will have to be approved by the MP assembly within six months — has jail terms ranging from 1-5 years with a minimum penalty of Rs 25,000. The maximum prison term rises to 10 years and the fine to Rs 50,000 if the victim is from an SC-ST community or is a minor. Only those related to the victim, such as parents and siblings, can register an FIR while all other complainants, including guardians, need to approach the district court, say officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/23-cases-in-23-days-under-mps-new-love-jihad-law/articleshow/80871278.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||SIM card racket busted after Salt Lake man loses Rs 11 lakh||Kolkata: A fake SIM card distribution racket — used by fraudsters to make calls and dupe hundreds of victims in Kolkata and Salt Lake of several lakhs — was busted by Bidhannagar police while probing into a bank fraud case this week. The revelation came during the course of the investigation of a fraud case reported by a Salt Lake businessman in which he alleged that on January 18, his father had received a call from a person who introduced himself as a representative of a telecom firm and said the phone number would be blocked instantly if he didn’t follow the instruction. “The caller sent a link on his father’s mobile, which was a link to a screen-sharing platform that got downloaded and the caller had instant access to his phone. The caller made online transactions and even had access to the OTP. Over the next few minutes, there were multiple transactions from the father’s bank account and Rs 11 lakh was siphoned,” said a police officer. Probing into the case, police first knocked on the door of a Burdwan resident, tracking the mobile number where from the call was made. But it was found that the man had no idea that the phone number was registered against his name. Tower location of the number confirmed his statement. Cops then began probing further and on January 25, they arrested a 25-year-old west Burdwan resident Asif Khan, who had used the number to make the call and had duped the elderly man. Cops found many fake SIM cards activated using forged Aadhaar cards and fake names of retailers. “Based on his statement, we arrested Santanu Pradhan (28), Sougata Barapanda (29) and Naba Kumar Patra (29) – all residents of Egra. While Patra and Barapanda are leading distributors of a telecom firm, Pradhan was a salesman who had primarily connected Asif with the distributors,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sim-card-racket-busted-after-salt-lake-man-loses-rs-11-lakh/articleshow/80868047.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Mentally disabled Bihar man rescued from airport||Kolkata: A mentally disabled engineer from Bihar who had strayed from his home last week was rescued by Bidhannagar cops from the airport premises and was handed over to his family on Wednesday. Police said the youth was found roaming aimlessly in the airport complex last Monday. When approached by a cop, the youth couldn’t say anything apart from the fact he was from Bhagalpur. “There were inconsistencies in whatever the youth was saying. He needed help and we brought him to our police station, fed him and made him comfortable. He then said his name was Manish Singh and he was from Bhagalpur in Bihar. However, he couldn’t recall his address or the phone number of any family member. He had no phone with him either,” said an officer. Officers of NSCBI police station contacted Bihar police and sought help. Bihar police got back to them later, confirming that a youth with similar description had gone missing from his home last week and that his family members had lodged a missing diary with Bhagalpur police.  The officers here got in touch with his family and his brother came to Kolkata and took him home on Thursday. “His brother said Manish had completed his engineering but recently developed mental trouble and was under treatment,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mentally-disabled-bihar-man-rescued-from-airport/articleshow/80868093.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Brace for diversions at Avishikta for 5 months||Kolkata: After conducting a three-day traffic diversion trial last week, Kolkata Police has blocked a part of the Avishikta crossing to facilitate construction of the New Garia-Airport Metro viaduct and two piers. DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar has issued an order to Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), saying the implementing agency must complete construction of two piers and the 120m viaduct within five months or face legal action. The steep deadline suits RVNL, which is desperate to complete this stretch and meet its December-2021 deadline of Phase I — Ruby crossing (Hemanta Mukherjee station) to New Garia (Kavi Subhas station) — section of the Metro corridor. Work will be on 24x7, so that the crossing can be freed exactly 150 days from now. The order regarding “Permission to road blockade along the section of EM Bypass at Avishikta crossing for construction of Metro piers 110 and 111 for viaduct work of New Garia-Airport Metro project” stipulates a host of dos and don’ts for the crossing at the Kalikapur stretch of EM Bypass, to allow hassle-free traffic movement even as a large part of the road will be barricaded for the Metro construction. For instance, only half the north- and south-bound old bridge is being cordoned off for the construction. And 4m of the road space from the northern side of the existing pillar (P-109) must be kept free for traffic movement. RVNL has been asked to put up a barricade all along Avishikta crossing in such a way that east-bound vehicles from Prince Anwar Shah Road connector going south of EM Bypass can move further north of the crossing and U-turn from there. On the other hand, south-bound vehicles intending to avail Prince Anwar Shah Road connector (west-bound from Avishikta crossing) will move further south and U-turn somewhere between Kalikapur and the Kalikapur crossing. “Now that the site is available and KMDA on Wednesday gave RVNL the pending NOC to go ahead with the construction, there’s no hurdle to fill the 120m viaduct gap at Avishikta crossing,” an RVNL official said. RVNL has already paid KMDA Rs 45.9 lakh for widening a stretch over a canal, near the crossing. Around 25m has been widened on the western side and 12m on the eastern side so that traffic could be diverted from these sides. The existing width of the Bypass is 26m. After the widening, the total width has become 63m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/brace-for-diversions-at-avishikta-for-5-months/articleshow/80867846.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 12, 2021||Allahabad||AIMIM enters student politics inUP, plans to contest AUSU polls||Prayagraj: After tasting success in recent Bihar elections and declaring its intent to contest 2022 assembly polls in UP, All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) has decided to enter student politics and has set up a students’ wing in Prayagraj. The local AIMIM leaders announced that the wing will contest Allahabad University Students’ Union elections this time. Aiming to increase its presence and influence among youths, AIMIM state president Shaukat Ali has appointed Mohammad Amir, a MA first year student of Allahabad University (AU), as the head of the students’ wing and has entrusted him the responsibility to constitute his team and launch a membership drive. “We will contest students’ union polls and will field our candidates on all posts in AU and constituent colleges. We are approaching students of all castes and communities for support and are assuring them all assistance in studies and difficulties,” Amir said. AIMIM has recently launched a door-to-door campaign in Prayagraj for membership. The party leaders said people have joined AIMIM in large numbers recently and have vowed to support us in panchayat, municipal and Vidhan Sabha elections. “This is the first students’ wing of AIMIM in the state which will actively participate in student union politics and will contest elections. We have full support of the party high command in Hyderabad,” said Zeeshan Rehmani, an office-bearer of the student’s wing. “We have 100 members, all students of AU and will grow to challenge the monopoly of students’ wings of other parties,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/aimim-enters-student-politics-inup-plans-to-contest-ausu-polls/articleshow/80869674.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Fake cops nabbed||Kolkata: Bidhannagar police intercepted seven men who were stopping a truck carrying cattle on New Town Main Arterial Road in the early hours of Thursday. The men allegedly tried to extort money from the driver after introducing themselves as officers from a fictitious organization called Crime Investigation Bureau (CIB). “A team from Eco Park police station approached them and the accused showed an identity card that had similarities with a central investigating agency’s ID card,” said an officer. The accused, all from Bongaon, were questioned till late on Thursday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fake-cops-nabbed/articleshow/80868131.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Allow to abort 22-wk foetus of retarded girl: Mom to HC||Nagpur: A woman from Gadchiroli district has moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court praying for permission to abort 22-week-old foetus of her 25-year-old mentally challenged daughter, under the provisions of Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971. A division bench comprising Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Avinash Gharote directed Maharashtra public health department’s principal secretary to constitute a team of experts to examine the pregnant girl. Before adjourning the hearing till February 12 at 10.30am, the judges directed the government to submit the report by that date. “As the pregnancy is 22 weeks old in the present case, it would be necessary for this court to examine all the questions affecting the medical termination. These questions would include not only health issues, but also social. Opinion in this regard can only be given by a team of experts,” the judges noted. The bench directed the registry to handover its order copy to the petitioner, respondent and also to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) dean here. The 25-year-old’s mother Vimalbai Meshram, a labourer from Tulsi village in Desaiganj Wadsa, was helped by NGO Tejas Justice Foundation in filing the petition. The NGO roped in lawyers Rajesh Nayak and Nitesh Gwalwansh to plead the case. Public prosecutor Nitin Patil represented the government. The 59-year-old mother has five children — three sons and two daughters. Both daughters are mentally retarded and used to roam in the village when their parents went out for work. Vimalbai came to know about her daughter’s pregnancy from Asha workers in the area. Her elder son then took the sister to a doctor, who confirmed the pregnancy. Vimalbai on February 3 lodged a complaint with Desaiganj police, under Section 376 of Indian Penal Code (IPC), against the unknown person who sexually exploited her mentally challenged daughter. The family members then took the survivor to a primary health centre in the locality for aborting the foetus, but were referred to GMCH on February 8. The GMCH doctors told Vimalbai to get orders from the high court as her daughter’s pregnancy was already over 22 weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/allow-to-abort-22-wk-foetus-of-retarded-girl-mom-to-hc/articleshow/80869747.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||UG girl ‘defames’ woman teacheron social media to exact revenge||Lucknow: Upset for being reprimanded before all students during online classes by her female teacher, a BCom girl student decided to seek revenge and created multiple accounts on social media to defame the teacher and her family. The teacher and her family sought the help of police following which the cyber cell started probe and the girl student’s crime was exposed. Her mobile has been seized by police. ACP, Cyber Cell, Vivek Ranjan Rai said, “A Gudamba resident woman is a teacher at a college in Barabanki. She used to reprimand the girl, a native of Barabanki, for not concentrating on her studies. “During lockdown, the woman teacher had pulled up the girl student in the online class for not paying attention to studies. The girl felt offended for being rebuked as other students were also attending the class and she decided to take revenge,” said Rai. The girl created more than 25 fake accounts on Instagram and other social media platforms in the name of the teacher and her family members and posted obscene comments to defame them. The posts went viral and came to the notice of the teacher and her family. They thought it was an act of some stalker and the teacher’s brother lodged a case at Gudamba. The case was transferred to cyber cell and the sleuths found the real culprit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ug-girl-defames-woman-teacheron-social-media-to-exact-revenge/articleshow/80870692.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Business||Aegon Life CFO promoted as MD & CEO||Mumbai: Aegon Life Insurance, a part of the Times Group, has elevated Satishwar Balakrishnan as managing director and CEO. Balakrishnan, who was earlier chief financial officer, will spearhead Aegon Life’s transformation into a digital-only life insurance company. Under the new strategy, which includes simplifying customer experience and digitising all processes, the company is set to become entirely contactless — from policy issuance to claims settlement and renewal. “We are pivoting our strategy towards the digital future, taking forward our focus on digitisation which started in 2016. We are transforming to become India’s first and leading digital-only life insurance provider and I am glad to be a part of this exciting phase of the company,” said Balakrishnan. “My focus will be on advancing our ‘Do-it-yourself’ insurance solutions and make them available at affordable costs and to make our entire insurance portfolio a one-click solution for our customers,” added Balakrishnan on his new role. Prior to joining Aegon Life, he had worked with IndiaFirst Life, Reliance Life and ICICI Prudential Life. He is a chartered accountant by qualification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aegon-life-cfo-promoted-as-md-ceo/articleshow/80869973.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Patna||Vulture conservation centre to be set up in Supaul: Neeraj Kumar Singh||PATNA: The new environment, forest and climate change minister, Neeraj Kumar Singh, has asked officials concerned to identify the site for setting up a vulture conservation centre in Supaul. Though considered as the best natural scavenger, the population of vulture is on decline in the state. However, a good number of these birds coming from the Himalayan areas frequently visit Supaul area throughout the year. Holding his first review meeting with the principal secretary of the department, Deepak Kumar Singh, and other officials on Wednesday, the minister also said a smog tower should be installed in the state capital on the lines of the one installed in New Delhi, as a pilot project to control air pollution. The minister said Ladugarh in Purnia should be developed as a habitat of migratory birds. The water body in Ladugarh attracts flocks of migratory birds. He asked the officials to devise ways to check the menace of monkeys and nilgais in several parts of the state. The minister said steps would be taken to promote cycling for control of carbon emissions. “Cycling tracks should be constructed on all important roads in various towns with the help of road construction and urban development departments,” he said. The principal secretary said after the minister’s instruction, a senior official of the forest department was sent to Purnia for identifying the site for developing park for the migratory birds. “The department will identity a park in the state capital and seek help of experts for installation of a smog tower,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vulture-conservation-centre-to-be-set-up-in-supaul-min/articleshow/80867720.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Business||Co-location scam: Sebi fines broker Rs 5 crore||MUMBAI: Sebi on Thursday imposed a monetary penalty of Rs 5.2 crore on OPG Securities, the broker at the centre of the NSE’s co-location scam, along with three directors of the broking house. This penalty is in addition to the Rs 15.6 crore unlawful gains that was disgorged through an earlier Sebi order. On Wednesday, Sebi had fined a total of Rs 1.5 crore on NSE and two of its former MDs in the same case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/co-lo-scam-sebi-fines-broker-rs-5cr/articleshow/80869907.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Patna||Bihar: SIT report confirms SHO’s role in burning minor victim’s body||MOTIHARI: The special investigation team (SIT) of East Champaran police headed by Sikrahana SDPO, Shivendra Kumar Anubhawi, has submitted its report to SP Naveen Chandra Jha in a sensational case of rape and murder of a Nepalese minor girl at Kundawa Chainpur market on January 21. Jha said all allegations levelled against Kundawa Chainpur police station SHO Sanjeev Kumar Ranjan, in this case, have been found true in the report submitted by the SIT on Wednesday. The SIT has found the SHO guilty for deliberately not lodging FIR of rape and murder of the girl and helping accused persons in disposing of the body of the victim. The SP has ordered the new SHO of Kundawa Chainpur police station, Mithlesh Kumar, to make the suspended SHO Sanjeev Kumar Ranjan an accused in the case. He has been booked under various sections of IPC on the destruction of evidence, dereliction of duty and conniving with an accused. The SP claimed that Ranjan is evading arrest after suspension and if he does not surrender before the police, his property will be attached. Another SIT headed by CID SP (weaker sections) Bina Kumar formed by the Bihar police headquarters reached Kundawa Chainpur on Wednesday with an FSL team and visited the room where the girl was raped and strangulated. The CID SP also visited the place where the victim was cremated, and FSL members collected some small bones and ashes. SP Bina Kumari also interrogated the police chowkidar Yogendra Rai of Chainpur market, and he confessed that he had informed the SHO Ranjan on January 21 about the killing of the victim. The East Champaran SP said he met the victim’s family and they narrated their ordeal to him naming 11 accused persons. The SP added that the video showing the body being burnt has been verified along with the audio of the conversation between SHO Ranjan and the accused. A 12-year-old Nepalese girl was gang-raped by four persons, including Vinay Sah, son of Siyaram Sah, and later she was strangulated to death and her body burnt on January 21 by the accused after keeping her parents hostage at Kundawa Chainpur market. The girl lived in a rented room with her father, who works as a night guard in the local market. He is native of Kurdure of Nepal. The FIR of this case was registered on February 3. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sit-report-confirms-shos-role-in-burning-minor-victims-body/articleshow/80867933.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
February 12, 2021||Rajkot||Hedgehog rescued from four poachers||Rajkot: A hedgehog was rescued from the clutches of poachers in Madhupur village of Dhari taluka in Amreli. Forest department officials also arrested four persons for hunting wild animals and booked them under different sections of the Wildlife Protection Act. According to forest officials, the prime accused Prashant Jayani from Madhupur village had captured a hedgehog and kept it at his house. The probe revealed that Jayani planned to sell it to somebody. Other arrested besides Jayani include Gogan Dafda, Bhikha Parmar and Mahesh Dafda, who are accomplices in the offence. They are residents of village near Madhupur in Dhari. Anshuman Sharma, deputy conservator of forest Gir (east division) said, “Primary investigation revealed that their motive was trafficking. It’s under investigation who are the buyers and who others are involved in the crime.” According to Sharma, the hedgehog is used for black magic rituals by many communities. He said that there was also a superstition that sacrificing hedgehog brings good luck. Hedgehog falls under scheduled IV of the Wildlife Protection Act. Sources also said that the hedgehog was also hunted for medicinal purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hedgehog-rescued-from-four-poachers/articleshow/80866881.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||‘It’s an end of an era of stalwarts...’||The giant of Indian geology with 60 years of contribution in various fields of geology and the man who dared to think differently in all scientific pursuits has left us. As his first regular research student to be awarded PhD, I had the privilege of knowing him very closely, a post read. Recalling the legacy of his teacher, Rai said, “He had the vision, perhaps a third eye, which made him solve several tangled and vexing problems of geology.” Known as the world-famous sedimentologist, he was no less an achiever in the fields of Precambrian (the earliest era of geologic history) to quaternary geology. No single contribution by him was less than extraordinary. With over 200 research publications and four books, his accomplishments have become immortal, like him. “Prof I B Singh changed the century-old stratigraphy of the Lesser Himalayas with his original model. His work on Karewa in Jammu & Kashmir is exemplary. Passing away of Prof Singh is like en end of a generation of stalwarts,” the post read. Doyens like Prof Singh never leave the earth. They leave the fragrance of knowledge through their scientific contributions and accomplished students, .wrote an emotional student. (From the Facebook wall of Prof Vidhuti Rai, who did his PhD under Prof Singh and is presently a faculty at the geology department of Lucknow University)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/its-an-end-of-an-era-of-stalwarts-/articleshow/80870693.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Business||Times Network, Airtel TV launch Zoom in Nigeria||Mumbai: Expanding its digital footprint in international markets, India’s premium broadcast network Times Network has announced a strategic partnership with Airtel TV to launch Zoom in Nigeria. Offering entertainment to its viewers for more than a decade, Zoom brings engaging, interactive and premium entertainment content through a widespread offering including Bollywood music, Bollywood news, original shows, trends, lifestyle, and fashion. Packing real, conversational and multi-lingual entertainment, the network caters to the content preferences of young Indian and South Asian viewers with the launch of Zoom in the region. The channel will be available to all the subscribers of Airtel Nigeria on Airtel TV app, which is available on iOS and Android. Times Network COO and executive president Jagdish Mulchandani said, “We are very excited for our maiden launch on Airtel Nigeria through Airtel TV. A pioneer in offering the best of Bollywood entertainment, Zoom is a legacy brand that has risen to become India’s one-stop youth entertainment destination. I am confident with this launch we will cater to the preferences of the young Indian diaspora in Africa and offer them an exclusive opportunity to experience the best-in-class Bollywood and Indian entertainment content.” Commenting on the partnership, Airtel Nigeria chief commercial officer Dinesh Balsingh said, “Airtel is committed to enriching and enhancing the Airtel TV platform so that it continues to deliver on its mandate of creating laughter, fun, happiness and excitement to our valued customers. This partnership with Times Network is yet another glowing testimony that we will not rest on our laurels even as we continue to implement our plans of making Airtel TV the one-stop platform for everything entertainment, sports and news in Nigeria.” Bringing an unlimited access to a diverse content library — including music videos, live TV, sports, news and more for its registered users — Airtel TV has over a million subscribers and is the fastest growing OTT platform in Africa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/times-network-airtel-tv-launch-zoom-in-nigeria/articleshow/80869938.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata, Andal to get new flights||KOLKATA: From February 19, SpiceJet will start two new flights from Kolkata — to Guwahati and Chennai. While the former will be a daily operation, the latter will be three days a week — Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The airline will also start a flight between Bengaluru and Kazi Nazrul Islam Airport at Andal from February 22, a SpiceJet official said. Union minister of state and local MP Babul Supriyo tweeted the news, terming it another fulfilled promise. During the state budget this year, CM Mamata Banerjee had also emphasised on the importance of the airport at Andal and outlined an investment of Rs 150 crore for its upgrade into an international airport. According to SpiceJet officials, the flight will initially operate three days a week. At present, the airline operates flights from KNIA to three destinations — Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-andal-to-get-new-flights/articleshow/80868002.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||CRS no to screen doors in Kolkata Metros||KOLKATA: Platform screen doors (PSDs) shouldn’t be installed in the city’s Metro lines, chief commissioner of railway safety (CCRS) Shailesh Kumar Pathak has observed while giving his approval for the Dakshineswar stretch. Any new Metro in India requires the nod from the commissioner of railway safety (CRS). The statements regarding PSDs is mentioned at the start of the observations made by the CCRS in the “sanction of introduction of commercial services” for the 4km extension of the north-south Metro. It has come at a time when PSDs are seen as the best solution to prevent suicides on Metro tracks. Kolkata’s Line 2, the East-West Metro, has PSDs. And RVNL, which is implementing most of the city’s other Metro projects, including the Dakshineswar line, has kept the provisions for platform screen doors in most of the corridors. The provision is not there for the Dakshineswar stretch, though, since it’s an extension of the north-south line, which is the country’s oldest Metro. The CCRS has observed: “It is learnt that PSD is being planned for Metro Railway. Provision of PSD increases the cost of signalling substantially apart from increasing maintenance requirement. In Metro networks, non-adherence to timetable is the cause of maximum inconvenience to passenger…so such cost-prohibitive equipment need not be deployed in Indian Metro systems and requirement of PSD should be critically reviewed on the basis of over life cycle cost, operations and maintenance issues and operational requirement of Metro.” Pathak has also pointed out that even in Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, which runs on advanced signalling technology, platform screen doors have not been planned or provided in major portions of the network, except for lines seven and eight. Asked if the critical statements has made the use of the new technology uncertain in the new Metro corridors in Kolkata, a senior RVNL official rued, “I would guess so. After all, the observations have come from the highest railway safety official.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crs-no-to-screen-doors-in-kol-metros/articleshow/80868118.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||E-attack: Actor loses 7 lakh Facebook followers; Insta user’s morphed pictures shared||KOLKATA: Two complaints of hacking of the social media accounts of an actor and a popular Instagram user have prompted cops to take notice as they had allegedly been done “to reduce their popularity” online. Actor Soham Chakraborty alleged that the follower count on his Facebook page had been brought down from 9 lakh to 2 lakh in one evening. He called it an attempt to sabotage his work. The actor from Behala approached both the local police and the cyber cell at Lalbazar. According to Chakraborty, his social media team first informed him on Wednesday that his likes and followers were hit by unknown hackers. “All my content — political, personal and those related to my films — posted over the past four months were deleted. I do not know who did this, but I request all my well-wishers to support me,” he stated during a Facebook Live session. The other complainant, a young Instagram user from Kolkata, claimed that her account had been hacked and her obscene photos circulated. The hacker wanted her to shut down her account, she claimed. The woman lodged a complaint with the Kolkata Police on Twitter. She shared screenshots of messages from the hacker threatening her. “Are girls safe at all in this world? I am facing blackmails on Instagram to share my private pics,” she wrote in her complaint. She said that the hacker had superimposed her face on some objectionable pictures as well. The police said that protecting social media accounts was an emerging challenge. TOI had earlier reported how celebrities were being targeted via phishing, an online attack meant to steal passwords and other user data. Scammers can target them with malware in e-mails and messages seemingly sent from a friend’s ID. It’s not easy to see the full link on a phone, so users are thrice as likely to click on it as on a computer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-attack-actor-loses-7l-fb-followers-insta-users-morphed-pics-shared/articleshow/80868078.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 12, 2021||Business||Government looks to net Rs 820 crore from RailTel’s listing||MUMBAI: The government aims to raise about Rs 820 crore by divesting part of its stake in RailTel Corp, a state-run, independent telecom infrastructure provider. RailTel’s IPO will remain open from February 16 to 18, at a price band of Rs 93-94 per share. RailTel is one of the largest neutral telecom infrastructure providers in the country, having nearly 59,100km optical fibre cable network, which has connected 5,929 railway stations across towns and cities in India, according to a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-looks-to-net-rs-820cr-from-railtels-listing/articleshow/80869814.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Allahabad||Verbal duel over PMC vice-chairman post||Prayagraj: Chaos prevailed on the campus of Prayagraj Municipal Corporation under the limits of Civil Lines police station on Friday after supporters of two working committee members were engaged in verbal duel over the election of PMC vice-chairperson. As many as 12 members of the working committee (karyakarni samiti), including eight of BJP, and two each of Samajwadi Party and Congress, arrived at PMC to file nomination for vice-chairperson post on Friday morning. Reports said BJP had announced corporator Akhilesh Singh as its official candidate for the vice-chairperson post and Singh was likely to be elected unopposed as both Congress and SP had not fielded any nominee. Trouble started when another BJP corporator from Naini came to file his nomination. It took no time for the supporters of the two corporators to clash with each other. Following the incident, PMC authorities cancelled the election. A senior cop said, “Police forces were rushed to site after receiving the, but no one has lodged any complaint till Friday evening.” Senior Congress corporator Mukund Tiwari said: “It’s an unfortunate incident. I demand strict action against the errant people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/verbal-duel-over-pmc-vice-chairman-post/articleshow/80886340.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Patna||Solo performances mark fresher’s parties at PWC||PATNA: With a view to welcoming the undergraduate students of the 2020-2023 academic session, Patna Women’s College (PWC) is organizing Fresher’s Day programmes for different streams. The series of events, which began on February 6, will continue till February 15. No such celebrations took place last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Joint general secretary (science) of PWC’s students’ council, Avantika Bhardawaj, told this newspaper on Thursday that fresher’s parties were being organized to motivate the first year students who had started their college lives. “In view of the restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we are only organizing solo activities like dance, poetry recitation, songs and skit,” Avantika added. First year students of geology, psychology and geography departments have already attended their fresher’s parties. “Our college decided not to celebrate fresher’s day on a large scale due to the pandemic,” vice-premier Shambhavi Ranjan said, adding that every programme began with a prayer dance. Meanwhile, freshers are excited that they are being given a warm welcome. Suhaima Feroz, a BCA student, exclaimed, “I will enact a drama based on women empowerment. I am looking forward to watching other solo performances.” BBA student Alisha Kumari said, “Many of my friends will perform in the fresher’s party. I am elated.” First year BCom student Muskan Kumari is also excited to attend her fresher’s party on Saturday. “As many as 20 classmates will take part in the programme. Watching them with my friends will be a delight,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/solo-performances-mark-freshers-parties-at-pwc/articleshow/80867080.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Vadodara||100-member Haryana gang ‘encashed’ on stolen FB IDs||Vadodara: Investigations into the fake Facebook account of Gujarat assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi has opened the Pandora’s Box. Cops dug out shocking revelations that the entire process was an organized racket by a 100-member strong gang from Haryana, of which two had been nabbed by crime branch sleuths on Wednesday.The duo identified as Bholaram Sharma (30) and Manmohan Kumar Gupta (34) spilled the beans on the online fraud and the modus operandi. “A gang of about 80 to 100 persons is involved in the online frauds. The gang also has roped in some juvenile members to take advantage of their age and escape law,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Members used to focus on different states and zero in on well-known persons including politicians, policemen and celebrities, he said.“They pick up photographs of prominent persons from their social media accounts for ogus accounts and target their acquaintances. The accused then contact people on the victim’s friend list and seek financial help,” Jadeja told TOI.The accused usually kept their demands below Rs 20,000 to ensure that the victims agree to pay quickly and also refrain from approaching the cops even if they realize the fraud, looking at the small amount. “The accused had opened various bank accounts by using identity cards of different persons who were promised commission on each transaction. When the money gets deposited in these bank accounts, the accused would withdraw it through ATMs,” Jadeja added.Cops discovered that a whopping Rs 46 lakh worth of transactions were carried out from a bank account in last one and half months from victims duped across the country.The gang also bought hundreds of SIM cards from Odisha which were used in Haryana. “The idea was to mislead investigators and lead cops to Odisha throw them off track,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/100-member-haryana-gang-encashed-on-stolen-fb-ids/articleshow/80866366.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Patna||ECR GM inspects progress of freight corridor project||PATNA: East Central Railway (ECR) general manager L C Trivedi on Wednesday inspected the progress of the eastern-western dedicated freight corridor (DFC) project stretching from Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya Junction to Sonenagar. The railways has set June 2022 deadline for the completion of the ambitious project which will enable faster movement of goods trains. Triverdi asked the officials concerned to expedite work and complete the project within the stipulated time. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said Trivedi made a window-trailing inspection to take stock of Ganj Khawaja-Jeonathpur route located on Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya Junction-Sonenagar section of the DFC, a stretch of about 137km. “In the Union Budget, Rs 2,959 crore was allocated for completion of the route between Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya Junction and Sonenagar in public-private partnership (PPP) mode. The freight corridor will open a new chapter in railways as far as movement of goods trains is concerned. The project is being executed with an estimated expenditure of Rs 12,000 crore in the eastern region linking Dankuni in West Bengal to Ludhiana in Punjab,” he said. The project, inaugurated by the then Congress president and UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi at Dehri-on-Sone in February 2009, is likely to give a boost to railway economy. The railways is laying 80% of the new alignments (tracks) for the DFC all along the Grand Chord tracks, sources said, adding about two-thirds of this corridor will pass through West Bengal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. “Goods traffic has been the mainstay of the railways as far as earning revenue is concerned. The DFC will be a boon for businessmen from West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar and Punjab as their goods will be carried to destination points without any disruption or halt,” a Railway Board official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-gm-inspects-progress-of-freight-corridor-project/articleshow/80867900.cms||Kumod Verma
February 12, 2021||Business||Gulf Oil Lubricants to co-invest in UK-based EV charger company||Chennai: Hinduja Group company Gulf Oil Lubricants India has entered into an agreement with Gulf Oil International to participate and co-invest in Indra Renewable Technologies. Gulf Oil International (GOI) is investing in this company along with the Clean Growth Fund (CGF). Indra Renewable Technologies is a UK based electric vehicle and smart energy technology company developing charging and energy storage solutions for home and commercial use. “With this investment, Gulf India will get access to an established technology in EV charging space to adopt the same for Indian conditions and leverage its wide distribution and brand strengths to extend Gulf Branded residential and commercial charging points as per the evolving needs of Indian consumers,” said the company statement. Gulf India will become a shareholder with GOI and CGF in Indra, alongside OVO Group, which had provided seed capital and technical support to Indra via Kaluza, its technology business. “We will look at opportunities where we can leverage and synergise the Indra technology with our brand, distribution, OEM/ infra-B2B customer relationships in India, to cater for the future market and consumer requirements,” said Ravi Chawla, MD & CEO, Gulf Oil Lubricants India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gulf-oil-lubricants-to-co-invest-in-uk-based-ev-charger-company/articleshow/80868517.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
February 12, 2021||Varanasi||Former block devpt council member shot in Azamgarh||Times News Network Varanasi: Mohd Alam, a former block development council member, who was physically challenged, was shot by some miscreants near a brick kiln when he was returning to home on his tricycle near a brick kiln under Jiyanpur police station area in Azamgarh district on Thursday afternoon. SP Azamgarh Sudhir Kumar Singh said that Alam was attacked when he was returning home and died on the spot. Following the initial investigation, some old enmity is suspected behind the killing, he said adding that the teams have been engaged for the early arrest of the killers. Alam, a native of Paigambarpur village under Jiyanpur police station area had gone to market on his tricycle to purchase some household articles. He was passing through Keshopur forest area when the miscreants opened indiscriminate fire on him near a brick kiln and fled the scene. Before the villagers could reach the site of the crime, the assailants managed to escape. The body of Alam was found lying in a pool of blood. Apart from Jiyanpur police station, police team from other police station areas also reached the spot while SP Azamgarh also took stock of the situation. He claimed that the killers would be nabbed very soon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/former-block-devpt-council-member-shot-in-azamgarh/articleshow/80869851.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Patna||Covid vaccination: Over 4.48 lakh inoculated in Bihar||PATNA: Bihar stands at eighth position in the country in terms of number of beneficiaries having received Covid vaccine shots since the launch of the exercise on January 16. As per a data released by the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), Uttar Pradesh, where 7,52,501 beneficiaries have so far received the first dose of the vaccine, tops the chart. In Bihar, 4,48,446 beneficiaries have so far been inoculated. Bihar tops in the country in terms of percentage of targeted healthcare beneficiaries getting vaccinated. A statement issued by the MoHFW on Wednesday stated that 13 states and union territories, which have vaccinated more than 65% of the registered healthcare workers include Bihar, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Lakshadweep, Kerala, Mizoram, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Rajasthan. State health department special secretary Manoj Kumar said more than 82% of the targeted healthcare beneficiaries have been administered the vaccine in Bihar so far. “From a rather slow start, the rate of vaccination has picked up gradually, thanks to increase in number of session sites,” Manoj said. On Thursday, 3,90,677 healthcare workers took the first dose of the vaccine in the state. “The vaccination for healthcare workers ended on February 9 and a final mop- up exercise for the leftout beneficiaries will be done on February 13,” Manoj said. Healthcare workers apart, the vaccination for frontline workers, including employees associated with home department, revenue, personnel, urban development and housing, district administration and panchayati raj institutions had started on February 6. Meanwhile, 57 fresh Covid cases were registered in the state on Thursday. With this, the state’s Covid tally has increased to 2,61,567. As per the health department, 113 people recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 99.13%. The state recorded just one Covid death in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vax-drive-over-4-48l-inoculated-in-bihar/articleshow/80867020.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 12, 2021||Patna||Is Bihar vulnerable to Chamoli-like disaster?||PATNA: With the large scale construction of embankments, dams and barrages, the seismologically-vulnerable region of Bihar runs the risk of repeating the Chamoli disaster sooner or later. The devastation caused by a breach in the Kosi embankment at Kusaha in 2008 is still fresh in people’s minds. According to experts, if any dam or barrage in north Bihar collapses due to an earthquake, it will wreak havoc on the entire region. The head of the geology department in Patna University, Atul Aditya Pandey, points out that an outburst of glacial lakes in the higher reaches of the Kosi, Gandak and Mahananda rivers in Nepal or China will play havoc with the lower reaches of Bihar. “If there is any damage to the embankments by a high-intensity earthquake, the entire northern part of the state will face unprecedented floods,” he says. Geological Survey of India (GSI) director Bishwapriya observes that higher dams cause more damage to life and property. “The people of north Bihar inhabiting the downstream areas are more vulnerable to floods caused by breaches in dams or release of huge amounts of water through the barrage in Nepal. However, there is no immediate danger to them from glacier bursts in far off areas in Nepal or China,” he claims. Environmentalist Mehta Nagendra Singh recalls that approximately 2.7 million people were affected when the Kosi broke its embankment at Kusaha in 2008, submerging several districts of Nepal and India. Former GSI director Narmadeshwar Dayal points out, “The embankment built on the Bagmati for the construction of a dam in Belwa area of Sheohar district was damaged in July, 2020 due to heavy water pressure. Consequently, water from the river gushed into many villages of Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga. Heavy water discharge from the Valmikinagar barrage at approximately the same time submerged low-lying farmlands in West Champaran and Gopalganj districts, causing great loss to the farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/is-state-vulnerable-to-chamoli-like-disaster/articleshow/80866956.cms||B K Mishra
February 12, 2021||Business||PSBs’ loans improved in Covid: Moody’s||MUMBAI: Rating agency Moody’s has said that the recovery in India’s economy has reduced a risk of deterioration in the asset quality of banks, but lenders would still require more capital. According to the rating agency, the asset quality of five of the large public sector banks (PSBs) it rates has improved during the pandemic. “Moody’s Investors Service expects that India’s economy will recover in 2021, reducing the likelihood of a sharp deterioration in asset quality at the country’s PSBs. However, banks’ capitalisation will remain insufficient to absorb unexpected shocks and support credit growth,” Moody’s Investors Service said of its expectations in a new report. “Various measures by the Indian government to support borrowers have helped curb growth in PSBs’ non-performing loans (NPLs), and the volume of restructured loans is not as large as we anticipated,” said Moody’s assistant vice-president and analyst Rebaca Tan. The banks which have seen an improvement in asset quality include State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Punjab National Bank, Canara Bank, and Union Bank of India. According to Moody’s, they have seen a mild improvement despite an economic contraction exacerbated by the pandemic. The gross NPL ratios of the five banks declined by an average of about 100 basis points (or 1 percentage point) as of the end of 2020 from a year earlier. This is even after including loans that have become delinquent since the end of August 2020 but are not formally classified as NPLs because of a pending case in the Supreme Court. The improvement in asset quality is a culmination of years of provisioning for stressed loans while focusing on retail for incremental credit. The capital shortfall, however, places Indian banks in a situation where they are vulnerable to any unexpected stress. The government had announced a Rs 20,000-crore capital infusion into banks in the Budget. Tan said while the government’s announcement will help banks meet Basel capital requirements, it will not boost credit growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/psbs-loans-improved-in-covid-moodys/articleshow/80869753.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Business||Salary hikes set to be muted in 2021: Study||Chennai: Salaries in India are projected to rise by an average of 6.4% in 2021— the lowest estimate in a decade — and only marginally higher than the actual increase of 5.9% in 2020, a survey said.India is among the top two APAC markets in terms of level of increments in 2021. Salary increases in Indonesia are projected at 6.5%, China at 6%, Philippines at 5%, Singapore at 3.5% and Hong Kong at 3%, the survey by Willis Towers Watson said. Pre-Covid, the agency projected a 9.8% hike but an analysis of 18,000 sets of responses in October-November 2020 suggests 2021 will be a sober year for pay hikes. “Our study shows that salary hikes will likely just cover for the inflation component in the economy while there was some premium beyond inflation that organisations offered in earlier years,” Rajul Mathur, consulting head – Talent and Rewards, Willis Towers Watson India, told TOI. However, optimism among businesses is returning, the survey noted. Of the surveyed Indian companies, 37% have projected a positive revenue outlook for the next 12 months, up from 18% in the third quarter of 2020.With salary increment budgets set to become tight during the year, companies will give higher emphasis on performance with almost one-fifth of the budget being used for top performers, the study showed. “For every Rs 1 allocated to an average performer, Rs 2.35 is allocated to a top performer and Rs 1.25 is allocated to an above average performer,” it said. “There is a definite trend we have seen towards a higher mix of variable pay and performance-linked pay in salary structures given the pandemic's impact. Organisations are saying that a major part of the salary hike budgets will be allocated to top performers and in a first this year we are also seeing higher allocation towards protecting ‘critical and high skilled’ talent,” Mathur said.Given that different sectors were impacted differently by Covid-19, there are wide gaps in the salary increase projections of various industries. While high tech, pharmaceuticals and consumer products & retail sectors project a median salary increase around 8%, the energy sector is expected to see the lowest increase of 4.6%.Salary hikes for top management in 2021 will not change much compared to 2020 as it is projected at 7% compared to 7.1% in the previous year. For middle management, the decline is set to be a bit more- they are estimated to get a hike of 7.3% in 2021 compared to 7.5 % in 2020 The employees in the band of production/ manual labour are expected to be hit the most as the study projects they will receive a salary increase of 7.2% as compared to 7.7% last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/salary-hikes-set-to-be-muted-in-2021-study/articleshow/80868623.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
February 12, 2021||Patna||Bihar BJP chief plays down ‘discord’ over cabinet expansion||PATNA: A day after BJP MLA from Barh Gyanendra Singh Gyanu expressed his displeasure about the recent cabinet expansion, state BJP chief Dr Sanjay Jaiswal played down the incident saying such things happen in a large family. “We all are members of a family. Such things do happen and will also settle down,” Jaiswal told media persons on Thursday. The state BJP chief said everybody wanted a ministerial berth in the cabinet, but the seats were limited. “Thoda bahut to idhar udhar hota hai, lekin sab mil jul kar chalayenge,” he added. He, however, evaded more questions on the contentious issue. Dr Jaiswal spoke to reporters on the occasion of 'bhumi pujan' of the Seva Sadan coming up at Keshav Nagar near AIIMS-Patna. The proposed Seva Sadan is being constructed by the Hedgewar Smarak Samiti. Earlier, Gyanu, who was denied a berth in the Nitish Kumar cabinet, said people with criminal antecedents were being made ministers. Accusing some state BJP leaders of keeping PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Sah in the dark, the Barh legislator claimed that the cabinet is filled mostly with leaders belonging to "certain castes". Moreover, he alleged that south Bihar has been deprived of its share of cabinet ministers. “I am not worried about not becoming a minister, but I am worried that while forming the cabinet, eligibility was not looked into,” he asserted. He said he would call on the PM and the Union home minister and apprise them of all the wrong deeds of the state leadership. “The decision of the state leadership will cost the party dearly,” he warned. On Wednesday, altogether 17 ministers were inducted in the Nitish Kumar cabinet. While nine of them belonged to BJP, eight were from the JD(U) quota. On November 16, 14 ministers, including CM Nitish Kumar, were sworn in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-bjp-chief-plays-down-discord-over-cabinet-expansion/articleshow/80867227.cms||Ramashankar
February 12, 2021||Business||Q3 net profit of MRF more thandoubles to Rs 512 cr||Chennai: Tyre maker MRF has seen its standalone net profit for the third quarter more than double to just under Rs 512 crore compared to Rs 236.6 crore in the third quarter of last fiscal. The PAT score is 27% higher than MRF’s Q2 profit of Rs 403 crore. The company’s board has approved second interim dividend of Rs 3 per share payable by February 19. The company has also announced non-convertible debentures on private placement basis worth Rs 1,000 crore in one or more tranches. MRF’s Q3 total revenue of Rs 4,566.8 crore was up 14%. The company’s stock crashed on the BSE losing more than 7% on Thursday to close at Rs 90,076.8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/q3-net-profit-of-mrf-more-thandoubles-to-rs-512-cr/articleshow/80868550.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Patna||Many gyms still reel from corona impact||PATNA: Gyms and fitness centres in the city are yet to recover from the impact of the prolonged lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic last year. While many gyms continue to witness poor footfalls, some claim that the situation is gradually improving. After five months of closure, gyms opened their doors on September 8 last year. The owner of a gym in Gardanibagh, Amit Kumar, told this newspaper that he continued to suffer huge losses due to low footfalls. “Only 5% of our members, who are mostly teenagers, come to the gym on a regular basis. Besides, only a handful of them have opted for membership renewal,” he said. Amit added, “Those, who visit the gym, prefer exercises like push-ups, jumping jack and high knees that can be done without any equipment.” The manager of a Kankarbagh-based gym, Ashish, however, claimed that the members began coming back after the announcement of the Covid vaccines. “We have set different timings for different members in order to avoid crowding. We also sanitize the gym frequently,” he added. Divyanshu Shekhar, the owner of a gym in Patliputra, said, “The Covid-19 pandemic has made people more health-conscious. We provide diet charts that help boost immunity.” Meanwhile, fitness enthusiasts evoked a mixed response. 23-year-old Harsh Shrivastava, who lives in Gardanibagh, has not started going to his gym due to Covid-19. Hence, he exercises at home with his trainer’s help over the phone. Boring Road resident Keshav Suman, who is a fitness enthusiast, said, “Covid has not vanished. I am, therefore, following all the safety norms and taking care of myself.” 35-year-old Ritu Jha is also taking all necessary precautions in her gym. She pointed out, “I use a sanitizer, wear a mask and maintain social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-gyms-still-reel-from-corona-impact/articleshow/80867000.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||Shooter Girdhari brought for grilling||Lucknow: Kanhaiya Vishwakarma alias Girdhari, the shooter allegedly involved in the murder of history-sheeter Ajit Singh in the city, was brought from Varanasi for questioning by Lucknow police and would be produced in a court on Thursday. Police will seek remand of Girdhari, who was arrested by Delhi Police on January 11. Sources in police said Girdhari had fired at Ajit Singh and had used the prohibited 9mm pistol in the attack. He is a close aide of a don from east UP who had planned to kill Ajit, they added. “Girdhari would be questioned on the motive for eliminating Ajit and the role of the east UP don in the case,” said a senior officer privy to the probe. “Girdhari changes his appearances during killings hence, in the criminal world, he is known as ‘doctor’, ‘lohar’ and ‘dangal’, said the police officer. On January 6, Ajit Singh (35) alias Ajit Langda of Mau, a history-sheeter with 19 cases externed from his native district, was shot dead at Kathauta crossing in Gomtinagar area. The next day, an FIR was lodged against six people, including Girdhari as one of the shooters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shooter-girdhari-brought-for-grilling/articleshow/80803918.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Sergeant helps retrieve lost bag||Kolkata: A traffic sergeant tracked down an app-cab driver after a woman approached him at a north Kolkata crossing on Wednesday night, complaining she had left behind a bag carrying her cellphone and a wallet containing more than Rs 20,000 in his car. Sergeant Krishnendu Das tracked the car owner and then the driver, retrieved the bag from him within an hour and returned it to the woman. The officer found out the mobile number of the car owner from the Kolkata police traffic database and called him to find the driver’s contact number. The driver came to the BT Road and returned the bag to the woman, Ruma Das.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sergeant-helps-retrieve-lost-bag/articleshow/80868164.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Business||Sun Pharma, Shanghvi & 6 others pay Rs 3cr to settle case with Sebi||Mumbai: Sun Pharma, its promoter Dilip Shanghvi and six board members of the company together paid nearly Rs 2.9 crore to Sebi to settle charges of non-disclosure of related party transactions. Shanghvi paid Rs 62 lakh, while Sun Pharma paid Rs 56 lakh and the boardmembers together paid the remaining Rs 1.7 crore, to settle the matter without admitting or denying any charges. In 2017, there were two whistleblower complaints against Sun Pharma and some of its directors that the company was siphoning money through a firm named Aditya Medisales. A Sebi-initiated forensic audit found this was an entity that had a close connection with the promoters of Sun Pharma. This made Aditya Medisales a ‘related party’. During the adjudication process, Shanghvi, the company and the six board members approached Sebi to settle the case, which was later accepted by the markets regulator. The eight entities have paid the money, Sebi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sun-pharma-shanghvi-6-others-pay-rs-3cr-to-settle-case-with-sebi/articleshow/80869868.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Business||Va Tech Wabag secures orders worth 100 mn euros||Chennai-headquartered VA Tech Wabag (Wabag), a pure play water technology enterprise said on Thursday it has secured multiple orders worth about 100 million euros from Switzerland, Tunisia and Libya. Wabag Swiss received its biggest order ever towards the design and build of a lake water treatment plant from ENERGIE SERVICE BIEL/BIENNE towards replacing the existing facility that is more than 50 years old. The plant will be built with a technology that purifies water using a multi-barrier treatment including reverse osmosis, Wabag said. The project will be executed over a period of five years. The company’s second order relates to design and building of a 30 MLD water treatment plant at Kasseb Dam in Tunisia — an order secured by Wabag in consortium with local civil partners from Societe Nationale D’exploitation Et De Distribution Des Eaux. The scope includes design, engineering, construction, supply, installation and commissioning of a WTP using advanced Lamella clarifier technology, and the project will be executed over a period of 20 months and includes operation & maintenance of the plant for a period of six months. Thirdly, Wabag Austria has signed a repeat contract with General Desalination Company of Libya to design and build three thermal seawater desalination plants in Bomba, Libya. This includes design, supply, construction, installation, commissioning, training of the client’s operating personnel and spare parts for 24 months plant operation. Wabag said this is the largest thermal desalination plant order in the company’s history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/va-tech-wabag-secures-orders-worth-100-mn-euros/articleshow/80868483.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
February 12, 2021||Patna||Now, robotic scavenger to keep sewers clean in Patna||PATNA: Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) is all set to switch to mechanised sewage cleaning from manual scavenging with the help of ‘Bandicoot’ robotic manhole-cleaning and other automated machines. The robotic scavenger will be launched by the civic body on Friday. The PMC has procured the machine at a cost of Rs 40 lakh, which has been funded by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited as part of its CSR initiative. Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the scavenging machine had reached Patna about a couple of days back and it would be formally launched on Friday at a joint event with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)-Bihar. “The mechanised way of removal of sludge from manholes will start from Bankipore circle, for which the UNFPA-Bihar will hire an expert agency to operate the cleaning bot as part of the memorandum of understanding that the civic body will sign with the UNFPA on Friday. The UNFPA-Bihar will start the bidding process soon to select the agency,” Himanshu said. Bandicoot has two interconnected structures. The control panel stays outside the manhole and the spider-like structure with an arm and four legs enters the manhole and clears the silt and blockages. The control panel helps in internal inspection with the help of infrared cameras. A PMC official said there are about 12,000 manholes across all circles in the city. These manholes have to be cleaned before the monsoon. The civic body will also purchase 21 more machines, including 12 suction-cum-jetting machines (each of 1,000-litre capacity) and nine septic tank cleaning machines. The PMC official said the UNFPA-Bihar will coordinate with the civic body to provide basic infrastructure in slum areas, eradicate social taboos and improve the lives of sanitary workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-robotic-scavenger-to-keep-sewers-clean-in-patna/articleshow/80866801.cms||Faryal Rumi
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Woman found dead in Kolkata's Behala lane||KOLKATA: A woman was found dead in Behala’s Jayshree Park area under mysterious circumstances on Thursday morning. The victim, Neela Bhattacharjee, 42, lived in the neighbouring Anandapally area with her husband Tanmay, 47, and their 21-year-old son. She left home sometime after Wednesday midnight and locals found her lying dead in a narrow lane in the morning. Cops said that though a post-mortem report is awaited, there are high chances she fell after a push or under the influence of alcohol and died due to excessive internal injuries in her head. There was a Swasthya Sathi drive planned in the locality and some youths had been up early to make arrangements. Around 6.15am, they found Bhattacharjee. “Locals claimed she was bleeding from her nose and there were small injuries on her head and face,” said an officer. She was brought to Vidyasagar Hospital by cops where arrangements were made for the post-mortem. “Local inquiry revealed Bhattacharjee habitually drank alcohol. A small cut was found on her forehead, as well as blood stains, which may have been the result of a fall. Prima facie, no foul play has been found and no complaint has been received yet,” said DC (Behala) Syed Waquar Raza. Cops said none of the members of the woman’s family have a steady source of income. “The woman had become an alcoholic. We are ascertaining the whereabouts of her husband and son and are asking if they had searched for her,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-found-dead-in-behala-lane/articleshow/80867882.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 12, 2021||Patna||IIM-Bodh Gaya students open school for children of daily wage workers||GAYA: Indian Institute of Management (IIM)-Bodh Gaya, in collaboration with central public works department (CPWD) has opened a school for children of daily wage workers engaged in construction work of the B-school campus at Bodh Gaya. The students of B-school will spend time with the children five days in a week and impart education under the programme named—‘Tarakki’. Students of B-school here have been active in social work and they have formed a ‘Pragati Club’, which participates in social activities. Under the banner of ‘Pragati Club’, IIM students have organised several programmes like providing consultancy to rural youths for higher education, distribution of crutches among differently abled, adopting five villages under the ‘Unnat Bharat Abhiyan’, redress basic problems of villagers, organizing blood donation camp at Officers’ Training Academy (OTA), Gaya, on the occasion of Republic Day etc. Pragati Club representative Himanshu Dandekar said, “Primary education will be provided to 50 children free of cost and five days in a week for two hours. Apart from primary education, emphasis will be on providing basic knowledge of Hindi and English.” The campus of B-school is coming up on 116 acre land allocated on the campus of Magadh University. The MU administration has made the land available at the initiative of state education department. Himanshu said, “Not only education, but arrangements have been made for extra curricular activities like games and sports, dance, music, yoga etc for the children. A team of 30 students has been formed for the purpose, who will spend time with the children five days in a week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/iim-bodh-gaya-students-open-schoolfor-children-of-daily-wage-workers/articleshow/80867796.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kanpur||HBTU student missing since Feb 8, FIR lodged||Kanpur:A 20-year-old student of the Harcourt Butler Technical University (HBTU) has been missing since February 8. His parents filed a complaint with the Nawabganj police on Friday. The student, Dheeraj Singh is basically a native of neighbouring Fatehpur district and is pursuing BTech second year in information technology. He was was last seen at the HBTU hostel on February 8. “The HBTU hostel authorities stated that he had gone to his native place on February 4. On February 8, though he returned at around 1 p.m., but after staying for 10 mins in the campus, he left again with a suitcase saying that he was going to his friend’s place,” said the police. His father is a contractual employee in power department in Fatehpur. “We have been trying to contact him on his mobile phone, but his phone is going constantly off,” his father Shyam Babu Singh said. Superintendent of police (West) Anil Kumar said they were doing their best to locate Dheeraj. “We have been scanning CDR of his mobile phone, besides also looking into his social media accounts, bank accounts and email IDs, and will soon find a clue. We are also scanning footages from CCTV cameras installed at bus depots and railway stations. Our investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/hbtu-student-missing-since-feb-8-fir-lodged/articleshow/80886376.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Patna||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Three from Bihar feared missing||PATNA/CHHAPRA: Thirty-year-old Ritesh Kumar, a resident of Kanta village under Gaighat block in Muzaffarpur district, is probably the third person from the state who went missing after the glacier burst in Uttarkhand’s Chamoli region on February 7. Earlier, two people hailing from Saran were feared missing in the tragedy. Unconfirmed reports, however, said one person from Bihta in Patna and another from Samastipur are also missing. Ramesh Thakur, elder brother of Ritesh, said the latter’s friend, who worked with him in Tapovan Vishugad Hydel Project, informed his (Ritesh’s) wife Gudia Devi about the incident on Wednesday. Ramesh said Gudia is currently staying in her parent’s house in Darbhanga with her two minor daughters. Ritesh had married Gudia only four years ago. Muzaffarpur DM Pranav Kumar said he has no information about Ritesh’s disappearance. “Neither Ritesh’s family nor the Uttarakhand officials have communicated anything to us,” he said. Apart from Ritesh, Munna Singh (47) and Sonu Kumar Yadav (22) are also missing. While Munna is a resident of Bangra village under Daudpur police station, Sonu hails from Afzalpur under Isuapur police station in the district. Saran DM Nilesh Ramchandra Deore said, “We have no information from Chamoli yet in this connection.” Munna had been working under a contractor as supervisor at Chamoli’s Tapovan Power Project. Some of his family members have rushed to Chamoli in his search. Sonu, on the other hand, worked as welder. Senior officials of the state disaster management department could not be contacted for comment despite repeated attempts by this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/glacier-burst-3-from-bihar-feared-missing/articleshow/80866981.cms||Ramashankar
February 12, 2021||Patna||Service to humanity should be done selflessly: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||PATNA: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Thursday performed ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the proposed ‘seva sadan’ (health centre) in Keshav Nagar near the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna under Phulwarisharif block in Patna district. Speaking on the occasion, Bhagwat said service to humanity should be done selflessly and without any discrimination. “India set an example of selfless service during the nationwide lockdown. Although nearly 3 crore people moved from one place to another, there was no report of any hunger death from any part of the country. This happened because of people’s selfless service,” he asserted. The RSS chief recalled that a similar sense of selfless service was witnessed in Patna during a plane crash about two decades ago. RSS volunteers from nearby localities had rushed to the site and started relief and rescue works immediately. Besides Jiar Swami Ji Maharaj and prant sanghchalak Sri Prakash Narain Singh alias Chhote Babu, a host of ministers and functionaries of the BJP were also present on the occasion. The ‘seva sadan’ will not only provide health facilities to the patients, but also accommodate their attendants. They will be served food and accommodation at cheap rates. In addition, transport facility to drop patients and their attendants to big hospitals in the state capital will also be available. The RSS chief is on a five-day visit to the state. He is scheduled to inaugurate the new office of the sangh at Kalambagh Chowk in Muzaffarpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/service-to-humanity-should-be-done-selflessly-bhagwat/articleshow/80867837.cms||Ramashankar
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Park Street parking sanity returns after KMC notice to agency||KOLKATA: Motorists got access to the parking lot on Park Street on Thursday after KMC slapped a show cause notice on the parking agency for irregularities, including denying parking space to cars and reserving the lot illegally for two-wheelers. In the past couple of weeks, TOI had twice highlighted irregularities in parking on Park Street and other roads in the vicinity that are controlled by the same agency. The most problematic area is the parking lot between Middleton Row and Russell Street, where three-fourth of the space has been illegally reserved by the attendants for parking two-wheelers. The KMC crackdown came after an on-the-ground survey of the problem areas highlighted by TOI. The KMC brass asked civic officials to slap a show-cause notice on Park Street Car Parking Society, the agency currently entrusted to collect parking fees from cars, for refusing space to motorists and blocking a lion’s share of the lot on Park Street for bikes and scooterettes. “We have received many complaints from motorists about parking attendants refusing to allow cars to be parked despite there being ample space. We had warned the agency regarding irregularities and harassment earlier, too. We have now show-caused them and asked them to respond why action should not be taken. If we fail to get a satisfactory response, we will blacklist the agency and appoint a fresh one,” said Debasis Kumar, a member of the KMC Board of Administrators (BoA) who is in charge of the car parking department. An official of the parking agency argued that with two-wheeler riders increasing manifold after the lockdown — since many commuters who earlier travelled by Metro or bus have now opted for personal transport to ensure safety — demand for slots to park two-wheelers has shot up. “When the Unlock happened, employees of many companies with offices in and around Park Street began using two-wheelers. They have entered into a monthly contract that we have to honour. Unless they again shift to public transport and vacate the slots they have reserved, how can we deny them space?” he asked. Another parking attendant, however, admitted that the entire space was not reserved for monthly parking and said the reason behind them denying cars was an economic one. “In the space that one car occupies, we can park six two-wheelers. Though the official parking rate for two-wheelers is Rs 5 an hour, we collect Rs 20 an hour. That translates to Rs 120 in place of Rs 10 that one would officially get from a motorist. Even if we collect Rs 30-Rs 50 from a motorist, it turns into a loss. After the loss suffered last year due to the lockdown, we have to earn money,” the attendant said. Kumar urged more motorists to step forward and lodge complaints with KMC, as well as with the local police station, if parking attendants fleece them. “Only then can we take appropriate steps against errant agencies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/park-st-parking-sanity-returns-after-kmc-notice-to-agency/articleshow/80867819.cms||Saikat Ray
February 12, 2021||Business||At 6.4%, average 2021 pay hike to beat last year’s 5.9%||MUMBAI: If you are an executive, your average salary increase is expected to see a marginal rise in 2021 — to 6.4% from previous year’s 5.9%. However, the median salary hike in 2021 is projected to be 7%, which will be marginally lower than the median actual increase of 7.5% in 2020. Lower down the hierarchy, this drop will only widen, according to a Willis Towers Watson report. At executive level, the projected increase in median salary is 7% in 2021, a slight decline from 7.1% in the previous year. For middle management, professional and support staff, a decrease to 7.3% in 2021 from 7.5 % in 2020 is projected. The employee group of production manual labour is also expected to receive a lower salary increase of 7.2% as compared to 7.7% last year. However, the survey has not explicitly covered the nuances of the new wage code, which is expected to impact salaries in the next fiscal, according to industry experts. Commenting on the survey, Willis Towers Watson India consulting head (talent & rewards) Rajul Mathur said, “Unprecedented change linked to an increasingly virtual work environment has brought to the fore the role of distributed leadership. Organisations should evolve structures to identify, recognise and reward leaders who have demonstrated the ability to lead change and positively impact engagement and productivity.” Among the companies surveyed, 37% have projected a positive business revenue outlook for the next 12 months — up from 18% in Q3 2020. However, despite a comparatively optimistic projected business outlook, recruitment is yet to pick up. The study shows that only 10% of organisations in India plan to add employees compared to 14% last quarter. High tech, pharmaceuticals and consumer products & retail see a median salary increase of around 8%, while the financial services and manufacturing sectors project a 7% increase in 2021. The salary increase in BPOs, on the other hand, is projected at 6%, while the energy sector is expected to see the lowest hike of 4.6%. “As companies in India respond to the economic implications of the Covid crisis, there is an increased optimism on business recovery, but it is yet to translate into the salary increment budget. With compensation budgets lower than previous years, companies are likely to prioritise allocation towards protecting critical and high-skilled talent. Through 2021, we can continue to expect greater emphasis on pay for performance and pay linked to business output,” said Mathur. The report said, on average, 20.6% of the salary increase budget is being allocated to top performers, which represent 10.3% of the employees in India. Willis Towers Watson India director (rewards) Arvind Usretay said, “All sectors witnessed varying levels of impact due to Covid. Some sectors such as hospitality, aviation, travel & tourism were hit harder than the others. Sectors such as pharma, FMCG, e-commerce and high tech have experienced growth and this is reflective in their hiring plans and salary budgets for 2021.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-6-4-avg-2021-pay-hike-to-beat-last-yrs-5-9/articleshow/80869407.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Patna||‘Irrigation, flood protection to be my foremost priorities’||PATNA: State water resources department minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, who took oath on Tuesday, shares the government’s priorities with TOI’s Sheezan Nezami. Excerpts: Now that the state cabinet has finally been expanded, what will be the priorities of the government? Nitish Kumar had chalked out this term’s key priorities in the form of Saat Nischay-2.0 much before assuming charge. Our thrust will be on empowerment of women and youth along with bridging the rural-urban gap. Industries, entrepreneurship development, IT and small manufacturing sectors will be the other areas of attention. Do you think the delay in cabinet expansion affected the functioning of the government? The new government’s administrative swiftness and diligent follow-up on all major development schemes have been there for everyone to see. CM Nitish Kumar has been leading from the front. With the NDA governments in power both at the Centre and in state, we are confident that people will see the benefits of ‘double-engine sarkar’. You have once again been given the charge of water resources department along with additional charge of IPRD. Which projects are on your priority list? Alongside timely execution of the CM’s visionary initiative to saturate the irrigation demand through the ‘Har-Khet-Ko-Pani’ scheme, we will utilise this tenure to pace up and complete major schemes like the Paschimi Kosi Yojana, interlinking of Kosi and Mechi rivers, rejuvenation of Falgu river at the Vishnupad temple site in Gaya and the Ganga Water Lift Scheme. CM Nitish Kumar is focusing on Jal-Jivan-Haryali scheme. What will be the contribution of your department? The JJH is a comprehensive mission-mode initiative capable of transforming Bihar’s ecological health and its carbon footprint. As a major stakeholder in this scheme, WRD has a clear role in strengthening the state’s road map to arrest the decline in groundwater levels, including through recharging of rivers and other surface water sources. Flood is an annual issue in Bihar. Can't there be a permanent solution to this problem? Bihar’s flood woes originate outside our boundaries, mostly in the catchment areas of Nepal. Any permanent solution to this will be based on efficient channelling of surplus waters in the catchment areas. For this, diplomatic deliberations between the two countries have been on since 1940s. Integrated command area development in north Bihar districts and building barrages for utilising surplus waters for irrigation are also being considered. Is JD(U), which has less number of MLAs than BJP, comfortable in the NDA? The NDA in Bihar has been a fully functional unit. It has already delivered on people’s aspirations. Equally important is the fact that people of Bihar have yet again voted for the NDA as a unit and Nitish Kumar as its face. Given his political stature in the larger NDA set up and a deeply mature understanding of the coalition dharma, Nitishji remains the strong nucleus for the Bihar NDA unit as always. Opposition parties believe the BJP has been treating Nitish like ‘chhota bhai’. The opposition knows it well that Nitishji is a political figure who has demonstrated and established his credential as a leader true to his word. ‘Bada bhai’ and ‘chhota bhai’ in politics are media-hyped phrases. The fact remains that NDA went to polls with Nitishji as its sole face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/irrigation-flood-protection-to-be-my-foremost-priorities/articleshow/80867204.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 12, 2021||Chennai||Cash seizure during Tamil Nadu polls: CEC unhappy with officers, seeks report||CHENNAI: Chief election commissioner Sunil Arora on Thursday expressed unhappiness over the performance of the state excise department and special director general (enforcement) on seizure of cash during polls. The issue was brought to the notice of chief secretary Rajeev Ranjan and the CEC has called for a special report from the additional chief secretary, home department, who takes care of prohibition and excise. The CEC is on a two-day visit to Tamil Nadu to discuss poll preparedness with state and central government agencies, regulatory bodies and political parties. “We were very disappointed. We were told that during enforcement in a particular seizure of almost Rs 2 crore, they have registered 23,000 to 27,000 cases, which means, small guys… in fact some drivers, carriers, foot soldiers were caught and not the big fish,” Arora told reporters in Chennai. In all the five poll-bound states, including TN, the Central Armed Police Forces coordinator shall be at the apex level of a panel that would be involved in deploying personnel, the CEC said. “When we had the meeting of the regulatory agencies, I must say we were quite unhappy with the overall performance of the state excise department as well as the Special DG enforcement. We have brought the relevant facts to the notice of the chief secretary,” Arora said. Since the state has excise revenue of Rs 34,000 crore, he said, “we felt that much more could have been done” on the kind of seizures carried out. “How many decimal points you have to put after the zero? The honourable excise commissioner was not even able to calculate it,” Arora said. The commission will look into the demand for single-phase poll and take into consideration all factors, including festivals, exams and intense heat, before announcing the election date, the CEC said. The CEC announced that the bypoll to Kanyakumari LS seat would be held along with the TN assembly polls. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the commission decided to extend polling time by an hour in the state, up to 6pm, and add up 25,000 more polling stations, taking the tally to 93,000, for the upcoming poll. “Wish you have a very robust, free, fair, transparent election After all, Tamil Nadu used to have one of the best administrative traditions. I am sure this election will vindicate that. And no Vellores or R K Nagars (where polls were rescinded in the recent years for cash for votes),” Arora said, while announcing the deployment of two special expenditure observers in the rank of retired secretaries to check inducement of voters in the state. The CEC dismissed the concerns of opposition parties on the introduction of postal ballots to voters above 80 years and persons with disabilities. “The election commission has not done this for Tamil Nadu (alone). This was done in the Delhi poll earlier. If you see the standing order of the ministry of home affairs, they say people above 65 years are vulnerable. We decided against it in Bihar and created 33,000 extra polling stations, just like in Tamil Nadu where we are creating 25,000 extra polling stations,” Arora said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ec-unhappy-with-quantum-of-cash-seized-in-tn-elections-seeks-report/articleshow/80868233.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 12, 2021||Patna||Civic body gives nod to land for plastic waste management centre||PATNA: In its meeting chaired by mayor Sita Sahu, the empowered standing committee of the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) gave its nod to make 35 acres of land available in the Ramachak Bairiya dumping yard for the construction of a plastic waste management centre. It will be set up by the CIPET at a cost of Rs 5 crore. The committee also gave its approval for opening up of ‘mohalla’ clinics at three different places for the PMC workers and their families. More such clinics will be set up at other places later. It was decided that toilets would be constructed at public places falling under the jurisdiction of the city civic body in PPP (public-private partnership) mode. The agencies roped in for building the toilets and maintaining them would pay royalty to the PMC. The committee also gave its nod to installation of CCTV cameras in the city and high-mast lights on the premises of the Sheetla Mata Temple in Agamkuan, near Uma Cinema and other places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civic-body-gives-nod-to-land-for-plastic-waste-management-centre/articleshow/80866894.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kanpur||Mother-daughter end life by jumping in front of train||Times News Network Kanpur: A mother-daughter committed suicide on Thursday by jumping in front of a speeding train in Khaga police area of Fatehpur district. The officials said that both the bodies were severed into pieces after being hit by the train. The police have shifted the bodies to morgue for autopsy. The deceased were identified as Rajrani (47) wife of Nanbudh and their daughter Puja (18), natives of Elai village. “They reached near Bheet Baba Devasthan West Cabin area and jumped before a fast approaching goods train. The two sustained grievous injuries and died on the spot. The deceased were natives of Elai village under the limits of Khaga Kotwali police station,” said circle officer Anshuman Mishra. The police said as no suicide note has been recovered, they were questioning the family members to ascertain the cause behind the extreme step. “However, preliminary investigations revealed that the woman, along with her daughter committed suicide, after her husband Nanbudh rejected her proposal of marrying their daughter to a man who used to frequent their place. However, further investigations are on and we awaiting autopsy report to ascertain the exact cause of their death,” said the police further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mother-daughter-end-life-by-jumping-in-front-of-train/articleshow/80870288.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kanpur||RPCB asked to withdraw permission to defaulter 37 tanneries||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: Ganga pollution control unit (GPCU) of jal nigam has asked the regional pollution control board (RPCB) to withdraw the permission given to 37 tanneries of Jajmau for hide processing. In a letter sent to the pollution control board on February 11, Mohd Ahsan, project manager, jal nigam, informed that some tanneries were not making payment of the bills raised against them for using 36 mld common effluent treatment plant (CETP) in Jajmau. Out of around 348 tanneries, which were operational at present, most of them were paying partial minimum payment against the raised bill due to which it became difficult to operate CETP, he said. The names of 37 tanneries were enclosed which were not paying any dues since June 2018 although notices had been served to them, he further said. The project manager while talking to TOI said, “I have sent a list of 13 tanneries which are not paying any dues. As per the agreement and the directions of the Apex Court, Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the tanneries of Jajmau have to bear 50 percent cost of operation of 36 mld CETP”. As per our record, the KMC has to pay Rs 14.36 crore while the tanneries Rs 16.71 crore. Neither the KMC nor the tanneries were paying their dues, and the jal nigam pollution unit used to bear operational cost of CETP to the tune of Rs 80 lakh per month. The unit had written a letter to the KMC warning it that operation of CETP would be closed if payments were not made by February 28, Ahsan further said. In 2007, the rate was Rs 5.40 per hide with a condition that every year it would be raised by 7 .25 percent, he said. As per 2018 norms, the rate became Rs 20.35 per hide and since then the tanneries have stopped making payments, he said. Tanneries Association had filed four cases in the court against increase made in the rates but no court has so far restrained jal nigam to collect the bills on the given rates. When the tanneries approached the divisional commissioner urging him to revise rates, he formed a committee under the chairmanship of the district magistrate and directed him to settle the issue. The tanneries association in a meeting held on October 29, 2020 demanded to calculate the rate on the basis of actual expenditure of 2017-18 for the year 2018-19, Ahsan said . “Jal Nigam is not in a position to disburse salaries to its employees for the couple of months and the CETPs operational cost of Rs. 80 lakh per month is an extra burden which it cannot bear. In these circumstances, jal nigam has no other alternative except to shut down the CETP”, Ahsan further said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rpcb-asked-to-withdraw-permission-to-defaulter-37-tanneries/articleshow/80886390.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Four killed in separate incidents in three districts||ARA/DARBHANGA/BIHARSHARIF: At least four people, including a JD(U) worker and a retired teacher, were killed by criminals in different incidents in Ara, Nalanda and Darbhanga on Thursday. JD(U) worker Dharmpal Ram (46) was murdered around12.30am by some unidentified miscreants when he was sleeping at his house at Lauhar Shripalpur village under the Barhara police station area in Bhojpur district. Dharmpal, who was shot at in his head, died on the spot. Angry over the murder, a large number of the locals, including women, blocked the Ara-Barhara main road for a couple of hours on Thursday morning. They burnt tyres and raised slogans, demanding immediate arrest of culprits and adequate compensation to the bereaved family. Traffic on Ara- Barhara road was brought to a standstill by the irate protesters for around five hours. Only after the intervention and assurance of Barhara SHO Awadhesh Kumar and local officials, the blockade was lifted by the protesters. In Darbhanga, a retired teacher Munilal Chaupal (70) of Rasiyari village under the Ghanshyampur police station area was killed by dacoits on Wednesday night. The incident happned in the house of Ganpati Jha (82), a retired horticulture officer. According to Biraul SDPO Dilip Kumar Jha, Chaupal used to take care of Jha living alone in the village. Dacoits entered the house around midnight. Meanwhile, one person was shot dead and another was hacked to death at Hargawan village under the Sare police station area in Nalanda district. Police sources said the deceased, Ramavtar Yadav and Chhote Yadav had an altercation on Thursday morning, after Ramavtar mocked Chhote for stealing wooden planks used in his bullock cart. Within minutes, relatives of both Ramavtar and Chhote joined them and someone from Ramavtar’s side shot Chhote. Enraged over this, relatives of Chhote attacked Ramavtar with bamboo sticks and thrashed him to death. Confirming the incident, Biharsharif sadar SDPO Shibli Nomani said, “Critically injured Ramavtar was taken to hospital by the police but he succumbed to his injuries.” He said seven persons from both the sides have been taken into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-killed-in-separate-incidents-in-3-districts/articleshow/80867754.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Heart Failure Conflux virtual seminar held||Thiruvananthapuram: Heart Failure Conflux, a virtual seminar, was organised by the centre for advanced research and excellence in heart failure, Sree Chitra Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology in association with the the Heart Failure Association of India, and International Academy of Cardiovascular Sciences on Thursday. The conference brought together delegates including clinicians, scientists, biomedical engineers, early career researchers and students from all over of the country to dwell on the major research areas of heart failure. Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, department of science and technology; Dr K Jayakumar, director of SCTIMST; and professor Chandrabhas Narayana, director of Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB), were the keynote speakers. Dr Harikrishnan, professor and principal investigator of the centre of excellence in heart failure at SCTIMST, explained the future vision of the centre and extended invitation to other delegates to collaborate with the multidisciplinary team to advance heart failure care in India. Dr Meenakshi Sharma of ICMR recommended building a multi-disciplinary task force on heart failure science at ICMR with mutual support and collaboration from ministry of health and family welfare and ministry of science and technology institutes. The conference discussed key topics related to heart failure genetics, transcriptomics, cell signalling, systems biology, cardiac regeneration, gene editing, pharmacogenomics, genetic counselling, chemotherapy, impact of Covid-19 and bio-banking in heart failure. It concluded with a brainstorming session where inputs from national experts in this field were discussed to bring out a consensus document on “how to integrate clinicaland basic research in heart failure in India”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/heart-failure-conflux-virtual-seminar-held/articleshow/80869778.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Goa||CM to give each panchayat Rs 50L from Centre’s L-Day bounty||Panaji: As part of Atmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goem program, which aims to make Goa self-reliant and sustainable, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that village panchayats which complete the Swayampurna Goem report and initiate innovative development works will get Rs 50 lakh as a grant in the first quarter of the next financial year. Sawant said that the funds will be disbursed from the Rs 300 crore sanctioned for Goa by the Centre to help the state as it prepares to celebrate 60 years of Liberation. However, Sawant made it clear that the funds will be disbursed only if village panchayats fulfil all the criteria and only once they take adequate steps to make their villages self-reliant. “Panchayats will not simply get Rs 50 lakh. They have to complete their report to show that Swayampurna Goem is implemented 100%, and secondly they have to initiate innovative programmes and, which is certified by the Swayampurna mitra, these panchayats will get Rs 50 lakh by April or May,” Sawant said. He said that the government will keep aside Rs 100 crore out of the Rs 300 crore allocated by the Centre for panchayats and municipalities. Sawant will hold a virtual meeting via video conferencing with all the 198 panchayats in the state to take stock of the Swayampurna Goa initiative and to encourage elected representatives at the village-level to work towards making Goa’s villages self-reliant. Sawant reviewed the implementation of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa programme on Wednesday where he directed IAS officers, department officials and Swayampurna mitras, who act as nodal officers for the programme, to focus on gathering information about several issues still plaguing the rural areas of the state. The chief minister has asked the officers to collate data on homes that lack power, water and sewerage connections by February end. In addition, the chief minister sought information on the number of disabled persons, senior citizens, families undertaking agriculture, people dependent on fisheries business and animal husbandry in each village panchayat. He asked the officials to get information on farmers who still do not have Krishi Card and Kisan Credit Card. Sawant said that this data has not been forthcoming from villages, which makes it difficult to implement the Centre’s schemes and policies. “I strictly told them that we want the data because some are giving the data and some are not submitting it. We have got information from around 163 gram panchayats and from the remaining ones we haven’t got the data. I have asked them to speed up the data collection,” he said. Officers informed Sawant that some panchayat representatives are not cooperative, which is why the process has been delayed. “There are some places where there is a lack of coordination between officers. They say that the level of cooperation that they require from the panch and sarpanch, they haven’t been getting that. Some could not report things properly so we have changed the reporting format a bit,” Sawant said. The government’s action plan focuses on promoting agriculture, animal husbandry, programmes for youth and adolescents, welfare schemes for senior citizens, women and self-help groups, tourism and fisheries in order to make Goa self-sustainable. Speaking about the present status of the program, Sawant said that the agriculture department has organised the most programmes, reaching out to 160 villages followed by the veterinary department. Among talukas, Bicholim has shown the best response while the response from Sanguem has been the most lethargic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-to-give-each-panchayat-rs-50l-from-centres-l-day-bounty/articleshow/80870575.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Goa||Goa: Cane farmer turns ‘swayampurna’, starts jaggery unit after Sanjivani factory shut||PANAJI: When most sugarcane farmers found themselves in the lurch following the suspension of operations at the Sanjivani sugar factory, 58-year-old Uday Prabhudesai decided to use the situation to his advantage. Donning an entrepreneurial hat in true ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) fashion, the Pernem-based sugarcane farmer set up his own jaggery unit in Korgao, on Tuesday. “I sent sugarcane to Sanjivani until a year-and-a-half ago, but after the factory shut down, my crop was going to waste. Other farmers are sending their crop to factories outside Goa. But, considering the slogan, ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat, Swayampurna Goa’, I decided to set up my own jaggery unit,” Prabhudesai told TOI. His daughter’s recent graduation from the agriculture college at Dapoli, Maharashtra, and his son’s keen interest in organic farming also helped boost Prabhudesai’s prospects. He now claims to be one of the few producers of organic jaggery in Goa. “The process of manufacturing jaggery is organic at most units in Goa, but the cultivation of sugarcane is not,” he said. “Over the past three years I have not used any chemicals in my fields to ensure that the sugarcane crop is organic. Therefore, organic jaggery is produced,” he said. The use of sulphur and other chemicals during processing makes the sugarcane juice lighter, resulting in the jaggery taking on a yellowish hue. Sugarcane jaggery that is made without chemicals is usually a darker colour. Prabhudesai said he doesn’t use any chemicals in the growing of his cane or in the processing of the jaggery. The finished product is not absolutely black; its colour is merely darker than regular sugarcane jaggery. Prabhudesai is in the process of sending samples of the jaggery to laboratories to give the break-up of the ingredients and to obtain a certificate proving it is 100% organic. He has also applied for an FSSAI permit to sell the product on a commercial level. “I am not interested in selling the jaggery through middlemen and grocery shops as this results in higher costs. Buyers who are interested will have to come to the unit and purchase it directly,” he said. The private unit took Prabhudesai approximately Rs 15 lakh to build. It currently produces jaggery blocks and syrup. A kilogram of solid jaggery is being sold for Rs 150, and the syrup is priced the same as well. Prabhudesai intends to produce jaggery powder too, and sell it for Rs 200 per kilogram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cane-farmer-turns-swayampurna-starts-jaggery-unit-after-sanjivani-factory-shut/articleshow/80870290.cms||Nida Sayed
February 12, 2021||Bhopal||2,444 abducted girls rescued in MP in January||BHOPAL: An intense crackdown is on across Madhya Pradesh by multiple law enforcement wings, on the instructions of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, to establish good governance, officials said on Thursday. Tough legal action is being taken against chit fund companies, encroachers, and people involved in the illicit liquor business, black-marketing of food items and fraudsters. The chief minister is holding regular review meetings on this to keep tabs on the crackdown and visiting the field. “Our aim is that those who commit crime should not be spared, but the general public should not be harassed,” the CM has said. One of the most heart-touching missions was to find and rescue girls missing from MP. As many as 2,444 abducted girls were recovered in January — the highest number of girls (175) were found in Indore, followed by 144 in Sagar, 115 in Dhar, 107 in Rewa and 102 in Chhatarpur. In the wake of the hooch deaths in Ujjain and Morena, the CM has ordered a statewide crackdown leading to a whopping 20,835 cases and seizure of illicit liquor worth Rs 11 crore — Rs 6.9 crore of it in January alone. As many as 20,393 people have been arrested, the majority of them (12,387) in January. Action was taken against 695 land mafia, goons, miscreants and illegal encroachers in January. As many as 37 of them have been booked under National Security Act. Officials said 137 illegal constructions were pulled down, land worth Rs 1,394 crore freed and Rs 19 crore deposited. A statewide anti-encroachment drive has freed 1,089 acres of land, worth Rs 1,025 crore. CM Chouhan has ordered officials to ensure that the poor and those who follow the law are not troubled in the action against mafia. An anti-adulteration campaign is on in all districts, leading 204 FIRs. Twenty-eight suspects have been booked under NSA. As many as 94 food establishments were sealed, 78 licenses cancelled and six illegal factories were razed in January. Ration worth nearly Rs 8 crore was recovered. Action is also being taken against chit fund companies, and Rs 24.4 crore has been returned to 14,600 investors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2444-abducted-girls-rescued-in-mp-in-jan/articleshow/80869777.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||Ram temple trust coffers brimming with Rs 1,000 crore in less than 30 days of crowdfunding||AYODHYA: The Ram temple Trust coffers are brimming with Rs 1,000 crore in less than 30 days since the nationwide funds-raising drive was launched by Vishwa Hindu Parishad on Makar Sankranti last month. Trust members attribute the successful crowdfunding campaign to overwhelming support from all communities across India for construction of Ram temple. Talking to TOI, secretary of the Trust, Champat Rai, said, “People of the country have generously donated for the temple. Bank accounts of Sriram Janambhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust in three nationalised banks have a current balance of more than Rs 1,000 crore.” At least 1.5 lakh small groups of VHP functionaries have fanned out across the country and are going door to door to raise funds for the temple. “We received funds from residents of remote villages of the country. Thirty-seven VHP cadre have been deputed to deposit donations in banks and we are getting full cooperation from banks for depositing cheques and cash. People of all communities are supporting the funds-raising campaign that was launched on January 15,” said Rai. The Ram Mandir Trust has opened accounts in three nationalised banks — State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and Bank of Baroda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-temple-trust-coffers-brimming-with-rs1000cr-in-less-than-30days-of-crowdfunding/articleshow/80870673.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
February 12, 2021||Aurangabad||‘Satara-Kanchanwadi range a reserve forest only on paper’||Aurangabad: In the wake of Satara-Kanchanwadi mountain range reporting fifth major fire incident in less than three months, nature experts have alleged that the biodiversity-rich hilly area has remained a reserve forest only on paper. Located on the city outskirts, a large portion of mountain range behind WALMI reported a massive fire on Wednesday night, causing yet another damage to the local flora and fauna. Bird researcher Pankaj Shakkarwar said despite the tag of reserve forest to Satara-Kanchanwadi mountain range, the local biodiversity was getting perished in a rapid manner. “The Satara-Kanchanwadi mountain range has already witnessed irrevocable damage due large scale digging for constructing the Solapur-Dhule national highway among other roads. The repeated incidents of fire are threatening the remaining flora and fauna. The tag of reserve forest is failing to protect the biodiversity of the mountain range,” he said. Referring to a series of fire incidents, environmentalist Milind Giridhari said the forest department should at least increase vigil. The mountain range of Satara-Kanchanwadi is known to be home to different creatures, including different types of chinkara, nilgai,jungle cat, monkeys, langurs, leopard cat, barking deer, hare, fox, jackal,bats, wild boar and wolf among other animals besides a range of birds, reptiles and amphibians. Deputy conservator of forest Arun Patil said more manpower was deployed at Satara-Kanchanwadi mountain range to ensure proper vigil. “The mountain range is a mix of forest land and Gairan area. As per reports, some miscreants deliberately set up the fire. The increased vigil is expected to put a check on such incidents,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/satara-kanchanwadi-range-a-reserve-forest-only-on-paper/articleshow/80869765.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farm leaders make pitch for more mobilisation||Bathinda: Farmers were urged to intensify the protest against the contentious agri-laws passed by the Narendra Modi-led Centre at the first Kisan Mahapanchayat organised in Punjab on Thursday. Slogans of ‘jittange zaroor, jaari jung rakhio’ (will surely win, let continue the fight) and ‘ladange, jittange” (will fight and win) rang out as farmer leaders solicited support. All farm groups came together to mobilise peasants and said that the movement now focused not only on the Modi government but also on World Trade Organization (WTO), International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank. They alleged that these entities are mainly responsible for framing of “anti-farmer” policies and the Modi government is only implementing the policies in accordance with their instructions. Sources said farm leaders felt the need for greater mobilization from Punjab as Haryana seemed to have taken the lead after the incidents of January 26. The growing stature of Rakesh Tikait also made supporters of Balbir Singh Rajewal uneasy, sources said. Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal and BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan tried to assure people that the protest has not weakened after January 26 but is still vibrant. They underlined the need for greater mobilization to keep the movement strong. In a statement issued later in the day, Samyukta Kisan Morcha accused the Prime Minister of making anti-farmer statements and imposing laws which were not demanded by farmers. The morcha stated that the government is not serious about genuine demands of farmers, including of debt waiver and full price for produce. The Morcha declared that kisan mahapanchayats would be organised all over the country in the coming days. It was stated that teams of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha are planning state-wise mahapanchayats. Mahapanchayats will be held on February 12 at Bilari, Moradabad, on February 13 at PDM College Bahadurgarh Bypass, on February 18 at Raisingh Nagar, Sri Ganganagar Rajasthan, on February 19 at Hanumangarh, Rajasthan and on February 23 at Sikar, Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-farm-leaders-make-pitch-for-more-mobilisation/articleshow/80869768.cms||Neel Kamal
February 12, 2021||Goa||Soon, subsidy to exchange old petrol bike for electric one: Cabral||Panaji: Minister for environment and new and renewable energy Nilesh Cabral on Thursday said that citizens buying electric vehicles (EVs) will be offered a slew of incentives. There will be a cash incentive in the form of a buy-back programme, where they will be able to exchange their petrol consuming two-wheelers for electric bikes, he said. It is proposed to waive the registration fees to bring down the cost of the EV by 5%, besides a subsidy will also make the electric vehicles affordable and accessible. “We have close to a million two-wheelers in Goa comprising almost 70% of the state’s vehicle population. These will be converted into electric two-wheelers,” Cabral said.  “They run purely on electricity, don’t cause emissions and are therefore environment friendly,” the minister said. The electric two-wheelers takes around three to four hours to get fully charged and can travel up to 100km on a single charge. The government is installing public charging stations in the state. There are currently three high-capacity combo EV chargers 122-150kW, type 2 AC standards installed in Goa, which can charge long-range EVs, including Hyundai Kona, Tata Nexon and Maurice Garage. Installation of Bharat Standard DC001 EV chargers is being planned adjacent to the existing chargers for recharging moderate range EVs such as Tata Tigor and Mahindra eVerito, which are expected to be readied this month. As part of the green initiatives by the government of India, the clean mobility scheme is being implemented by Convergence Energy Services Ltd (CESL), a government of India company, which is also working on making solar power chargers for these two-wheelers. CESL has been anchoring the EV ecosystem development in India, undertaking demand aggregation for procuring EVs, supporting the transition in bringing innovative business models, and providing the implementation wherewithal for accelerated roll-out of EV charging units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-subsidy-to-exchange-old-petrol-bike-for-electric-one-cabral/articleshow/80870513.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||DTC goes online to recruit bus drivers||New Delhi: Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has started a web-based application software for recruitment of contractual bus drivers to make the process faster and hassle-free. In a statement, DTC said that the web-based application for engagement of contractual drivers started working from Wednesday. It said that those who want to work as drivers can apply online on the website www.http:/dtcdriver-rp.com and upload the soft copies of the required certificates and documents. The details of minimum requirements, wages/incentives, medical standards etc. are also available on the website. It said that the applicant will also be informed through SMS. After verification of documents and other details, the candidate will be called to appear physically for documents verification. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dtc-goes-online-to-recruit-bus-drivers/articleshow/80868236.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: ‘Can’t tweet, but will still set hashtag trends’||CHANDIGARH: Despite being blocked by Twitter, a key social media group that supports the farmers’ agitation said its hashtags will continue to trend. This time, the microblogging site has targeted sympathisers’ accounts and not community handles. Engineer Manik Goyal from Punjab, who is part of the core social media team of the farmers’ protest, said: “For the second time, Twitter has blocked my account and the message from it says that it’s done on the request from the Indian government as the content violated Indian law. Last time they hit prominent handles of the campaign and faced outrage, so they suspended personal accounts this time. A dozen members of my team have suffered.” The team declared its hashtag for the day from some of these accounts, including Goyal’s. For the first time, a pro-farmer hashtag had trended last month. The campaign has moved to Telegram for the time being and the group has asked Twitter for restoration of the accounts. Goyal said: “The last resort will be to create new accounts and get in touch with key followers.” On Wednesday, Twitter said it had suspended more than 500 accounts and reduced the visibility of some hashtags in India after New Delhi threatened legal action. On Thursday, hashtags #BanTwitter and #BJPGovtDictatingTwitter were still trending after suspension of the accounts. Goyal’s teammate Param also lost his account for the second time. He said: “These pressure tactics will not work as the farmers’ agitation has a big appeal on the social media.” A Patiala-based social media activist said: “There is no war-room-like setup of political campaigns. Scattered across the state, we put out facts and counter the government propaganda from our basic mobile phones and laptops. Unique hashtags start a trend. Telegram is our popular backup tool for sharing content and our group has 1 lakh members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cant-tweet-but-will-still-set-hashtag-trends/articleshow/80869743.cms||Vibhor Mohan
February 12, 2021||Pune||4 youths held for spate of robberies||Pune: The Hinjewadi police on Wednesday arrested four youths for their involvement in a series of robberies at Pimpri, Hinjewadi, Wakad and Sangvi on February 13 and recovered booty worth Rs1.2 lakh from them. The robberies took place in the early hours of February 13. The suspects, Salman Shaikh (21), Shubham Jadhav (19), Prem Potdar (19) and Lalit Karotiya (22), all from Kalewadi, robbed cab driver, food delivery person, two pedestrians and an employee of a private company returning home from work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-youths-held-for-spate-of-robberies/articleshow/81097121.cms||Mihir Tanksale
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Most students want 50% marks for board exams based on internal assessment: Survey||Mumbai: With schools yet to reopen in Mumbai metropolitan region, 83% students want the education department to award 50% marks for class X board exams on the basis of internal assessment, a recent survey found. Conducted by Jaywant Kulkarni, a teacher and counsellor at Gandhi Bal Mandir High School, Kurla, the survey gathered responses on their online learning experiences in the year of the pandemic. Out of 1,000 responses from class X students from 110 schools in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai, nearly 50% said their schools had completed teaching over 80% of the syllabus but 18% said they had not learnt anything through the digital medium. Kulkarni said, “It has been over 10 months since schools moved online. But many students are still not connected and are being left out. The education department has only given schools extra time by pushing ahead exams and reducing syllabus by 25%. The department should have looked for a more comprehensive solution for assessment.” Over 65% students said they may be unable to complete board papers this year as they have not practiced writing for most of the year. Among the respondents, only 20% said they were confident about appearing for board exams. Kulkarni pointed out that the department’s efforts were not reaching students. The survey showed 80% students said they were unaware of a tele-counselling facility set up by the education department. “The lockdown has not been only an academic loss to students but they are grappling with various other issues. While the government has set up helplines, students don’t know about them, so on-ground implementation is not as expected,” he said. The survey was given to students through teachers’, using social messaging applications. Schools in the state, except in MMR, reopened for classes IX-XII on November 23 last year. From January 15, schools opened in the rest of the state for classes V-VIII. But schools in MMR continue to be shut. Sixty-one percent students said their parents were willing to give written consent for them to attend schools if they reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/most-students-want-50-marks-for-board-exams-based-on-internal-assessment-survey/articleshow/80868508.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Chautala village farmers lock power house over demands||Sirsa: Farmers of Chautala village on Thursday locked up the main gate of the power house, forcing Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam SDO Yugank Jain and JE Suresh Karwasra to visit them under police protection and accept their letter of demands. The farmers, who have been sitting on dharna for three days at Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh Chautala’s village, relented after an assurance of redressal of their grievances at the earliest. All India Kisan Sabha tehsil president Rakesh Fagoria said the government has given the contract for around 200 tubewell connections to a private company but only 67 have been installed so far. He alleged that the supervisor of Chautala-Asa Khera power house takes bribes for giving tubewell connections. He said they started a dharna against this on Tuesday and laid siege to the power house, but no officer met them. Jain said he heard the farmers’ problem and had ordered to speed up the tubewell connection work. Regarding allegations of bribery, he said the accused will be booked if the farmers provide an evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chautala-village-farmers-lock-power-house-over-demands/articleshow/80869792.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: MNM resolves to make Kamal Haasan next chief minister||CHENNAI: Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) on Thursday resolved to make its president and actor Kamal Haasan the next chief minister of Tamil Nadu and work tirelessly for the victory of the party’s candidates in the 2021 assembly elections in the state and in Puducherry. A resolution passed at the party’s general council meeting at Vanagaram in Chennai outskirts made Kamal the “permanent president” of the party. Another resolution vested all powers with the party president to decide on firming up alliances or contesting alone in the assembly election. The party launched to usher in a change in Tamil Nadu's polity now seems to be treading the Dravidian path in terms of eulogising its leader. Of the 25 resolutions that were passed at the general council meeting, some of them were dedicated to appreciating and praising the party president. The first resolution placed on record its appreciation for Kamal Haasan who braved the enduring pain in his leg to complete the first phase of the party's campaign. Another resolution appreciated his efforts for obtaining the 'battery torch' symbol for the party from the Election Commission of India. The party resolved to oppose any infrastructure project, including the eight-lane Salem-Chennai expressway, that posed a threat to the environment and affected the livelihood of the farmers. It condemned the delay in concluding the investigation and bringing to book the accused in the Pollachi sex case, besides the inability to start the trial process. It also condemned the state and the Centre for not doing enough to protect the lives of fishermen and ensure a free environment for undertaking their fishing activities. In another resolution, the MNM condemned the attempts by the Centre to promote Hindi and Sanskrit. Another resolution passed by the MNM highlighted the rights of the people of Tamil Nadu to know the truth behind the death of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa and condemned all those involved in delaying the process of inquiry. It also asked the Tamil Nadu government to bring out a white paper on the extent of debts of the state. The party also condemned the delay in taking a decision on release of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mnm-resolves-to-make-kamal-haasan-next-chief-minister/articleshow/80868263.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Will bring back Indiramma Rajyam: Congress||HYDERABAD: After YS Sharmila, daughter of late YS Rajasekhara Rao, claimed to bring back Rajanna Rajyam (reference to her father’s rule in united Andhra Pradesh) other parties,brought up their eras of rule. TPCC on Thursday talked about Indiramma Rajyam (reference to late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s time when there was no other politically dominant force in united AP other than Congress). Launching social media campaigns even at the village level, Congress stated that it would not propagate any false news but will talk only serious issues with reference to Indiramma Rajyam. Though YSR was a Congress CM, after formation of YSRCP, Congress’ claim over his good deeds had limitations. Amid the assumption that Sharmila’s new party would majorly dent Congress vote bank, this statement from TPCC assumes significance. Not falling behind, BJP claimed to bring Ram Rajyam (reference to Lord Rama’s rule from Ramayana).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-will-bring-back-indiramma-rajyam/articleshow/80869787.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Brace for diversions at Avishikta for 5 months||KOLKATA: After conducting a three-day traffic diversion trial last week, Kolkata Police has blocked a part of the Avishikta crossing to facilitate construction of the New Garia-Airport Metro viaduct and two piers. DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar has issued an order to Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), saying the implementing agency must complete construction of two piers and the 120m viaduct within five months or face legal action. The steep deadline suits RVNL, which is desperate to complete this stretch and meet its December-2021 deadline of Phase I — Ruby crossing (Hemanta Mukherjee station) to New Garia (Kavi Subhas station) — section of the Metro corridor. Work will be on 24x7, so that the crossing can be freed exactly 150 days from now. The order regarding “Permission to road blockade along the section of EM Bypass at Avishikta crossing for construction of Metro piers 110 and 111 for viaduct work of New Garia-Airport Metro project” stipulates a host of dos and don’ts for the crossing at the Kalikapur stretch of EM Bypass, to allow hassle-free traffic movement even as a large part of the road will be barricaded for the Metro construction. For instance, only half the north- and south-bound old bridge is being cordoned off for the construction. And 4m of the road space from the northern side of the existing pillar (P-109) must be kept free for traffic movement. RVNL has been asked to put up a barricade all along Avishikta crossing in such a way that east-bound vehicles from Prince Anwar Shah Road connector going south of EM Bypass can move further north of the crossing and U-turn from there. On the other hand, south-bound vehicles intending to avail Prince Anwar Shah Road connector (west-bound from Avishikta crossing) will move further south and U-turn somewhere between Kalikapur and the Kalikapur crossing. “Now that the site is available and KMDA on Wednesday gave RVNL the pending NOC to go ahead with the construction, there’s no hurdle to fill the 120m viaduct gap at Avishikta crossing,” an RVNL official said. RVNL has already paid KMDA Rs 45.9 lakh for widening a stretch over a canal, near the crossing. Around 25m has been widened on the western side and 12m on the eastern side so that traffic could be diverted from these sides. The existing width of the Bypass is 26m. After the widening, the total width has become 63m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/brace-for-diversions-at-avishikta-for-5-months/articleshow/80868277.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 12, 2021||Delhi||North corpn mayor built his house on illegally occupied land, claims AAP||New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party functionary Durgesh Pathak on Thursday alleged that North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash had built his house by illegally occupying a piece of land belonging to Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board. Delhi Police and DUSIB repeatedly asked the corporation to stop the construction of the building but no step was taken, Pathak said, asking the BJP to suspend him. Showing a picture of a building in Sadar Bazar area, Pathak said the house belonged to Jai Prakash. “It has four floors. The electricity bill of this house comes in the name of his son. This whole building is situated on encroached DUSIB land,” Pathak claimed. “The corporation did not take any action because he is the mayor,” said Pathak. The mayor rejected the allegations as baseless and false. “Pathak has accused my son of encroaching DUSIB land. My son owned a custodian property at Gali Vikram, Bahadurgarh Road, Sadar Bazar, which he took on power of attorney from another individual. He has also been paying rent to the DUSIB since then. He has all the papers and receipts of the property and he also has all the documents of correspondence with the officials of DUSIB. All the construction was done by the person from whom he took the property,” Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corpn-mayor-built-his-house-on-illegally-occupied-land-claims-aap/articleshow/80868307.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Business||ITC Q3 net dips 11.5% to Rs 3.6kcr||Kolkata: FMCG-to-hotel-to-tobacco conglomerate ITC has reported a 11.5% year-on-year drop in net profit to Rs 3,662.8 crore for the quarter ended on December 31, 2020, from a net profit of Rs 4,141.9 crore in the year-ago period. However, the company has claimed that real decline in PAT was 3.7%, on a comparable basis (adjusting for one-time benefit of Rs 340 crore in base period due to reduction of corporate tax rate). “The operating environment remained challenging even as economic activity picked up pace progressively during the quarter with the easing of restrictions and increased mobility. High frequency-led economic indicators pointed to green shoots of recovery in aggregate demand and supply, leading to upward revisions in GDP growth estimates for FY 2020-21,” the company has said. According to the city-based diversified conglomerate, the segment revenue stood at Rs 3,562 crore representing a growth of 11% on a comparable basis driven mainly by robust growth in health and hygiene products, noodles, snacks, spices, dairy, agarbatti and matches. “Most major categories enhanced their market standing during the quarter. Segment EBITDA grew by 28% to Rs 326 crore with margins expanding by 150 bps y-o-y to 9.2%,” it has added. The segment posted a whopping 92.6% y-o-y growth in operating profit at Rs 207.3 crore during this period. Hotels business posted a 57.4% y-o-y decrease in its revenue at Rs 235.2 crore, while the segment posted a Rs 67.3crore operating loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/itc-q3-net-dips-11-5-to-rs-3-6kcr/articleshow/80869783.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Varanasi||Body packed in plastic found near a canal in UP's Chandauli||VARANASI: Body of a mentally challenged girl was found in a plastic sheet dumped near a canal in Dhina area of Chandauli district on Thursday. In another incident, a woman in Jaunpur lodged an FIR against her sister’s husband alleging that he raped her after taking her to a hotel in Varanasi a week ago. In Chandauli, sensation prevailed in the villages near Janauli canal under the limits of Jansa police station after some locals noticed a human body packed in a plastic sheet. Inspector Dhina Atul Kumar said that on being alerted the police reached the spot and found a girl’s body packed in the plastic sheet. After the police started efforts to ascertain her identity it was found that the body was of Ujala (18), resident of Bhadahu village in Dhanapur area. On being informed, her parents and family members reached there and informed the police that the girl was mentally ill for past many years and was under treatment for the same. But, as the body was found dumped packed in a plastic sheet, the villagers suspected that the girl was murdered. Kumar said that the body has been sent for postmortem and actual reason of her death would become clear only after the arrival of the autopsy report. Meanwhile, a woman from a village lodged a named FIR against her brother-in-law with Kerakat police. Inspector Kerakat Vinay Prakash Singh said that in her complaint lodged on Wednesday evening, the 30-year-old unmarried woman alleged that she had to purchase her medicines from Varanasi. As her brother-in-law dwells in Chaubeypur area in Varanasi she sought his help, said the woman alleging that a week ago when she reached Varanasi with him to purchase the medicine he misled and took her in a hotel room and raped her. Singh said that the after registering a rape case investigation has been started in this case. A search has been launched to nab the accused who is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/body-packed-in-plastic-found-near-a-canal-in-chandauli/articleshow/80869779.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||10-year-old’s statement puts molester in jail for 5 yrs||Mumbai: A 10-year-old girl who had immediately informed her mother that a 50-year-old man in their share cab had molested her after he offered her mother to seat her on his lap on their way from CSMT to Colaba, has ensured that the accused was convicted and sentenced to five years imprisonment. A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) ) Act court recently found the accused, Mohammed Ahamed, guilty of aggravated sexual assault. The accused, who worked as a domestic help, was nabbed soon after the girl and her family alighted from the cab. The court said that even if the police failed to find the taxi driver, the sole testimony of the child was enough to find the accused guilty. Awarding the minimum sentence of five years to Ahamed, the court said, “Considering his age factor, no other criminal background, his responsibilities towards his daughters and his wife, the nature of the crime and the gravity of the offence, to me, it would be justified if he is imposed minimum sentence of five years and fine of Rs 10,000.” The incident took place on March 25, 2018. The child was was on the front seat, her mother and aunts at the back. The accused got into the cab at a stop on the route. When the mother asked the child to come to her, the accused offered to let her sit on his lap. When they all alighted at Colaba, the child cried and told her mother about what he had done. The accused was caught by the crowd. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10-year-olds-statement-puts-molester-in-jail-for-5-yrs/articleshow/80869877.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Bhopal||19 bonded labourers rescued from Maha||Bhopal: Nineteen migrant labourers were rescued from sugar cane plantations in Kolhapur in Maharashtra and brought back home to Damoh in MP on Wednesday. The rescued labourers include five women, eight men and six children — all of them were being made to work as bonded labourers for several weeks. As per reports, they were made to work for 15 hours at a stretch and forced to live in pathetic conditions. “ In the night, we were given a headgear with a torch tied around to work in the dark”, they told the local media after reaching Damoh on Wednesday. All the labourers belong to the Scheduled Caste community and had reached a village of Kolhapur through a middleman, three months ago. The district administration learnt about the issue after Hiralal Ahirwar, a labourer from Damoh, lodged a complaint with a helpline of the district administration that labourers from Batiyagarh village of Damoh were held hostage in Kolhapur and they were working as bonded labourers. Bhagirath Ahirwar, one of the labourers who was rescued, said , “We worked for 45 days, but were not paid. We were beaten , abused, even the women were treated badly and not given food.” Abhishek Tiwari, CSP Damoh, who was coordinating with the team members who rescued the labourers, said, “They were promised different kind of work when they were taken from Damoh, but after reaching Kolhapur, they were employed for something else. Their working hours were very long; they were treated badly and not paid”. He said that FIRs have been registered against those involved in the case, including the middleman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/19-bonded-labourers-rescued-from-maha/articleshow/80869812.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Chennai||Save yourself from Dhinakaran: Minister tells Sasikala||Chennai: Law minister C Ve Shanmugam on Thursday advised J Jayalalithaa’s confidante V K Sasikala “to be careful” with her nephew AMMK leader TTV Dhinakaran. “A warning to Sasikala and her family. Save yourself from Dhinakaran,” Shanmugam told reporters in Villupuram. He recalled how Sasikala had entrusted the party and the government with Dhinakaran, asking him to ‘take good care’ of it. “But within a month he lost both,” the minister said. The minister hit out at Dhinakaran for his attempts “to grab” the reins of the AIADMK, claiming that Sasikala was still the general secretary of the party as endorsed by the general council in December 2016 after the passing of Jayalalithaa.The ruling AIADMK-led by O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami had lodged a complaint with the police last week, alleging conspiracy hatched by Sasikala, Dhinakaran and supporters to unleash attack in the state using human bombs.Shanmugam said the AIADMK was created from “the sweat and blood” of 1.5 crore cadres. “The party will not at any point of time, nor in any situation become a slave to Sasikala’s family again,” he said.On the AIADMK’s threat to act against ‘outsiders’ using the party flag, the minister said law would take its course. “It will take place at an appropriate time,” he said. The query comes against the backdrop of Sasikala using the flag on her vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/save-yourself-from-dhinakaran-minister-tells-sasikala/articleshow/80868246.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Khalistani flag hoisting: NIA files chargesheet against six||MOHALI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday filed a chargesheet against six persons in connection with a case of hoisting the Khalistani flag on the eve of Independence Day in Moga last year, an official said. The chargesheet was filed before a special NIA judge in Mohali under relevant sections of the IPC, the UAPA and the Prevention of Insult to National Honour Act against Inderjit Singh, Jaspal Singh, Akashdeep Singh, Jagwinder Singh, Pannu and Harpreet Singh. Inderjit Singh, Jaspal Singh and Akashdeep Singh are radicalised members of the outlawed SFJ and are accused of conspiring with SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu and Rana Singh. In furtherance of the conspiracy, Inderjit, Jaspal and Akashdeep allegedly hoisted the Khalistani flag on the terrace of a four-storey building of the deputy commissioner’s office complex in Moga. They also cut the rope of the national flag hoisted near the main gate. They made video of the incident and sent it to Pannu and Rana, which was broadcasted by them on various social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khalistani-flag-hoisting-nia-files-chargesheet-against-six/articleshow/80869781.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
February 12, 2021||Pune||Pune: 1am closing time for bars, restaurants in PMC areas||PUNE: The civic body on Thursday allowed restaurants and bars to remain open till 1am in the city, but at least 70% of these establishments are unlikely to avail of the 1.5 hours of additional closing time as of now. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also allowed shops to remain open till 11am and liquor outlets till 10.30pm, besides approving reopening of spa centres and swimming pools. “The orders have been issued for civic areas based on the directives of the state and the Union governments. They will be effective till further order,” PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said. Ganesh Shetty, president of the Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA), told TOI, “Areas such as Hinjewadi, Kondhwa, Aundh, Nagar road are still recording low footfalls and restaurants in these localities are thus unlikely to remain open till 1am. However, areas such as FC road, Camp, Koregaon Park, Kalyaninagar and Kothrud are likely to be the major beneficiaries of the extended deadline.” Shetty said the work-from-home scenario has led to less footfalls in restaurants in areas having IT companies. “Many working professionals have gone back to their hometowns and are working remotely. Restaurants in these areas may not follow the 1am deadline and close earlier,” he said. John Chen, owner of Kimling restaurant, told TOI that he would implement the deadline extension in all of his four outlets in Pune. “The extension of the 1.5 hours in closing deadline will help us recover losses incurred during the pandemic,” Chen said. The PMC order stated that spa centres have to follow social distancing, sanitation and cleanliness norms. Chairs, tables and beds used for customers would have to be sanitised after every two hours, while use of disposable napkins and towels are a must.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1am-closing-time-for-bars-restaurants-in-pmc-areas/articleshow/80869817.cms||Neha Madaan
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Man makes fake govt course certs||Mumbai: The crime branch on Wednesday arrested a man for allegedly making fake certificates for government courses and company work experience certificates. Crime branch officials received information that accused Sattar Shaikh (42) was selling fake certificates for diploma courses for Rs 5,000-15,000. The police raided Sattar’s Chembur residence. They found fake electrical engineering diploma marksheets issued by the Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-makes-fake-govt-course-certs/articleshow/80868272.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Surat||Say cheers to beer and roses in Daman||SURAT: On this Valentine’s Day, the cupids will say it with beer and roses. For the first time post-Covid, the hotels in Daman are fully booked by tourists from Surat and Mumbai for celebrating Valentine’s Day, which falls on a Sunday this year. The Daman administration has also opened up its doors for tourists as not a single Covid-19 case has been reported in the last 10 days and there were no active cases as well. Charmie Parekh, deputy collector, Daman told TOI, “There are no active Covid-19 cases in Daman. The territory is somewhat free of coronavirus from the last 10 days. To manage the rush on the weekend falling on Valentine’s Day, we have diverted the routes to avoid traffic jams.” With night curfew still imposed from 11 pm coupled with the prohibition in Gujarat has led many to escape over the long weekend on Valentine’s Day. There are many Surti couples who are going to Goa and Puducherry to celebrate the festival of love. Hoteliers in Daman said that their facilities are fully booked for the weekend bash. During the New Year celebrations, the hotels were 80% booked, but for Valentine’s Day booking have crossed 95% in Daman. Harish Thangal, secretary of Daman Hotels and Restaurant Association (DHRA) told TOI, “This is the first time after Covid-19 that the hoteliers have got good business. Majority of the hotels had started bookings a fortnight ago keeping in mind the rush of the tourists from Surat and Mumbai.” Many leading hotels in Daman have organised Ghazal events, orchestra and DJ parties on the weekends to add glitter to the Valentine’s Day celebration for their customers. The hotels are also offering special discounts on food and alcoholic beverages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/say-cheers-to-beer-and-roses-in-daman/articleshow/80866965.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: SIM card racket busted after Salt Lake man loses Rs 11 lakh||KOLKATA: A fake SIM card distribution racket — used by fraudsters to make calls and dupe hundreds of victims in Kolkata and Salt Lake of several lakhs — was busted by Bidhannagar police while probing into a bank fraud case this week. The revelation came during the course of the investigation of a fraud case reported by a Salt Lake businessman in which he alleged that on January 18, his father had received a call from a person who introduced himself as a representative of a telecom firm and said the phone number would be blocked instantly if he didn’t follow the instruction. “The caller sent a link on his father’s mobile, which was a link to a screen-sharing platform that got downloaded and the caller had instant access to his phone. The caller made online transactions and even had access to the OTP. Over the next few minutes, there were multiple transactions from the father’s bank account and Rs 11 lakh was siphoned,” said a police officer. Probing into the case, police first knocked on the door of a Burdwan resident, tracking the mobile number where from the call was made. But it was found that the man had no idea that the phone number was registered against his name. Tower location of the number confirmed his statement. Cops then began probing further and on January 25, they arrested a 25-year-old west Burdwan resident Asif Khan, who had used the number to make the call and had duped the elderly man. Cops found many fake SIM cards activated using forged Aadhaar cards and fake names of retailers. “Based on his statement, we arrested Santanu Pradhan (28), Sougata Barapanda (29) and Naba Kumar Patra (29) – all residents of Egra. While Patra and Barapanda are leading distributors of a telecom firm, Pradhan was a salesman who had primarily connected Asif with the distributors,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sim-card-racket-busted-after-salt-lake-man-loses-rs-11-lakh/articleshow/80868308.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||3-member panel to probe oil spill from Titanium factory||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government constituted a three-member committee here on Thursday to probe the reasons for the oil spill into sea from state-run Travancore Titanium Products Ltd (TTPL). According to a press note issued by the office of minister of industries, the oil spill has raised environmental concerns. The three-member-committee comprises A P M Mohammad Haneesh, principal secretary, department of industries; M Mohammad Ali, MD, Malabar Cements; and S Chandrabose, MD, Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. The committee will submit a report based on detailed probe and will also recommend steps to avoid similar hazards in future. The report will be submitted within 10 days. Meanwhile, tension emerged at Veli over the removal of spilt oil. Residents opposed the procedure and demanded that a positive decision on compensation and livelihood loss shall be made soon and until then recovery steps would not be allowed there. Pollution control board (PCB) officials held talks with the residents but did not yield any result. PCB has taken up the matter with city police commissioner as well. It has been decided to resolve the matter without aggravating the law and order situation in the area. The sand spread over the contaminated stretch extending up to 4.5km was removed on Thursday. This will be disposed off scientifically. Senior PCB officials will visit the site on Friday and hold talks with the residents. The officials said that it is imperative to remove the contaminated sand from the area. Meanwhile, PCB will undertake a damage assessment study to fix environmental compensation which needs to be levied from TTPL. PCB is learnt to have sought the opinion of legal wing to finalize the strategy for damage assessment so that grievances of residents regarding loss of livelihood could be properly addressed. The Indian Coast Guard’s (ICG) monitoring continued today to assess the oil spill into the deep sea. The ICG team positioned itself at the intertidal zone and monitored the situation and ensured that no oil had been spread into the ocean. ICG Ship C-441 continued their surveillance today also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/3-member-panel-to-probe-oil-spill-from-titanium-factory/articleshow/80869850.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chennai||Silent on V K Sasikala, Edappadi K Palaniswami says he will be back as CM||TIRUPUR: Wooing farmers, weavers, Muslims and youth with promises fulfilled by AIADMK in the past and assurances of fulfilling more, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said he would be back as CM with people’s mandate to continue the welfare schemes of the government. Addressing an election rally in Tirupur on Thursday, the CM said it was AIADMK which has consistently chalked out schemes for the welfare of farmers. Alleging that DMK president M K Stalin was getting restless because of AIADMK’s announcement of farm loan waiver, EPS said the DMK had launched a false propaganda that the promise would not be kept. “Stalin says AIADMK would not implement poll promise of farm loan waiver. A government order would be issued soon and receipt for farm loan waiver would be issued in ten days,” he said. AIADMK has a history of fulfilling election promises in 2006 and 2011, whereas DMK has never kept promises, he said. Choosing to be silent about V K Sasikala and her nephew T T V Dhinakaran, EPS continued to train his guns on Stalin accusing him of dynastic politics and duping the public with ‘unfeasable’ assurance. “He has never addressed public grievances during his stint as MLA, minister and deputy chief minister, Now he is collecting petitions promising to sort out those complaints in 100 days. How can he sort out all those complaints in 100 days,’’ he asked. Asserting that it was he who laid the foundation stone for Avinashi Athikadavu water project, EPS said, “I will be back as CM again with your support and inaugurate the scheme once its completed.” Recalling the long history of struggle for the project, EPS said though it was fully funded by the state government, AIADMK took it up for the welfare of the farmers as announced by late chief minister J Jayalalithaa in the run up to the 2016 assembly election. In Tirupur district, which has a mix of agriculture, industry, weaving and sizeable Muslims in few pockets, EPS listed out contributions of AIADMK for farmers, the industries brought in by his government, promised 10,000 free houses for weavers and assured the minority community not to be apprehensive about AIADMK because it has allied with BJP. He said Muslims need not worry because of the alliance and added that the AIADMK would not give up its policy of minority welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/silent-on-sasi-eps-says-he-will-be-back-as-cm/articleshow/80868283.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||ED questions builder’s son, continues to search offices||Mumbai: Enforcement Directorate (ED) continued its search at the premises of Pune-based businessman Avinash Bhosale on Thursday and questioned his son Amit for several hours at the agency’s Ballard Estate office in south Mumbai. ED will summon him again along with his father after examining documents gathered during the search. ED officials said a money laundering case has been registered on the basis of a cheating case filed by Pune police against Bhosale, his son and others a few years ago. It is alleged there was a plan to construct a residential building for bureaucrats in Pune. Bhosale, though, had purchased the plot after manipulating the rules and constructed a commercial structure for himself. Earlier, ED had probed Bhosale, his family and company Avinash Bhosale Infrastructure Ltd (ABIL) under Foreign Exchange and Management Act (FEMA) and recently it registered a case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). ED formed teams that raided Bhosale’s premises in Pune and Kolhapur on Wednesday morning. They didn’t allow those found in the office to leave the premises till completion of the raid till Thursday afternoon.  In 2007, Bhosale was caught at the airport after his return from London for allegedly violating FEMA rules. A Rs 1.8 crore penalty had been imposed on him. In 2017, income tax (investigation) officials searched his premises and reportedly found questionable transactions in tax havens of more than Rs 100 crore. They forwarded the details to ED.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-questions-builders-son-continues-to-search-offices/articleshow/80868300.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Diesel now Rs 85/litre; prices of veggies, fruits may rise||Mumbai: Diesel prices were hiked for the third day in a row and it broke records to cross the Rs 85-mark in Thane and Navi Mumbai, the latter having the APMC market where hundreds of diesel trucks carrying vegetables, pulses and fruits arrive daily. The rate in Mumbai was six paise shy of Rs 85, while petrol was revised to a new high of Rs 94.36 on Thursday. The price of diesel in Thane and Navi Mumbai was Rs 85.05 a litre, which could increase freight costs and prices of essentials like fruits and vegetables are likely to go up in few days, sources said. “Diesel constitutes a major input cost of operations, which is around 65% of transportation costs. Prices are increasing for more than a month and transport operations are becoming unviable unless there is immediate revision in freight by about 15%. There is pressure on us to hike freight costs which will impact the price of essential commodities, including fruits and vegetables,” said All-India Motor Transport Congress chairman (core committee) Bal Malkit Singh. Fuel prices have gone up for three consecutive days and it’s a hike of nearly a rupee per litre for petrol and diesel. Oil companies said it was due to a surge in international crude oil prices as India imports 85% of its oil needs, and citizens cannot get relief unless the government cuts down on taxes and VAT. The highest price of diesel in the state was in Amravati (Rs 86.33), followed by Aurangabad (Rs 86.11). For petrol, Parbhani now has the highest price in the country (Rs 96.54), while Nanded’s rate was Rs 96.37.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/diesel-now-rs-85/litre-prices-of-veggies-fruits-may-rise/articleshow/80868134.cms||Somit Sen
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Uttam writes to PM, seeks time for talk on state issues||Hyderabad: TPCC chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Thursday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his time and apprise him of the situation in Telangana. Uttam said he wanted to meet the PM and tell him about the impact of the central farm laws on the farming community. Uttam in his letter said CM K Chandrasekhar Rao after meeting the PM in December had announced closure of 10,000 agriculture procurement centres run by SHGs of women as new farm laws won’t permit them. Uttam said this goes against what the PM said in Parliament. Addressing the PM, Uttam wrote, “You and your ministers have time and again stated, both inside and outside parliament that neither MSP nor existing procurement centres will be affected by these laws.” This has created anxiety and tension among farmers of Telangana, Uttam added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-writes-to-pm-seeks-time-for-talk-on-state-issues/articleshow/80869818.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||Amanmani declaredabsconder by court||Special MPMLA court has declared independent MLA Amanmani Tripathi an absconder in a kidnapping case as he was again not present after not appearing in the trial proceedings for last many dates despite several warrants. Special MPMLA court judge PK Rai also initiated process to attach Tripathi’s property in case he still does not turn up in court. The court fixed March 4 as the next date of hearing. The case pertains to Gautampalli police station, where an FIR was lodged in 2014 on the complaint of a Gorakhpur contractor Rishi Kumar Pandey. Pandey had alleged that the Nautanwa MLA Amanmani, had demanded ransom from him and had also threatened to eliminate him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/amanmani-declaredabsconder-by-court/articleshow/80870700.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Centre gave land meant for school at just Rs 2 crore to build BJP office: AAP||NEW DELHI: AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj on Thursday alleged that the central government allotted over two acres of prime land at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Marg at just Rs 2 crore to Delhi BJP to build its office. He further alleged that the land was meant for a school and not for building the office of any political party. Claiming that the public did not receive any benefits despite several promises made by BJP, right from employment to taming inflation, Bharadwaj alleged the only group that profited from the schemes of the central government was BJP itself. “BJP is running the central government for its own benefit. To be precise, its own political benefit. DDU Marg in central Delhi is one of the costliest areas. DDA, which comes under the Centre, allotted over 2 acres to BJP for just Rs 2 crore to build the party office. As the BJP headquarters is at DDU Marg, the Centre gave land to build the state party office just opposite it,” alleged Bharadwaj, while asking BJP whether it was true that the land was sanctioned to build a school. The legislator stated that in the last Delhi assembly election, BJP got just eight seats and AAP got 62 out of 70. “The Centre did not have any land for AAP, which is running Delhi government, and asked us to pay crores as rent for our office. The BJP government also tried to evict us from this office repeatedly,” he added. Responding to the allegations, Delhi BJP general secretary Kuljeet Singh Chahal said his party had been allotted 809 square metres of land at DDU Marg for its office and “not two acres as falsely claimed by AAP.” “The government has a policy for allotting land to all political parties for their office. Delhi BJP had applied for land in 2001 and even moved Delhi High Court for getting it. The petition number is 2174/2008. The cost of the land was deposited before 2004 and it was allotted on May 12, 2010. Even AAP’s office is on government land,” added Chahal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-gave-land-meant-for-schoolat-just-rs-2cr-to-build-bjp-office-aap/articleshow/80868337.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||89% of TB patients in Telangana are tobacco users: Govt report||HYDERABAD: While the link between tobacco and tuberculosis has been long established, the latest data from the state has underlined this once again in bold. Telangana has recorded 62,342 cases of tuberculosis during 2020 and 89% of these patients were found to be tobacco users. The tobacco users among these patients total to 55,259. This was revealed in a report by the state health authorities during a high-level meeting held recently. Interestingly in Karimnagar district, 100% of the TB patients were found to be tobacco users, while in Nizamabad district 99% of the patients detected admitted to using tobacco or tobacco products. While experts point out that there has been a marked upward trend in cases of tuberculosis , the numbers have jumped from 48,444 in 2017 to 70,202 in 2019, but dipped in 2020. The dip, however, was on account of the ongoing pandemic, said state health authorities. According to sources at the health department, Telangana ranks fourth in the country in tuberculosis cases after Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Sikkim. “However, we have a robust surveillance here which is why the number of cases detected is very high. Among districts, the highest number of new cases during 2020 were in Hyderabad followed by Rangareddy and Malkajgiri, while the lowest were found in Mulugu district,” said an official from the department. Officials have meanwhile attributed the upward trend in cases to the urban congestion as majority of the cases were being reported from slums. “Also, the fact that at least 40% of patients discontinue medication before they are free from TB and become spreaders, is adding to the burden,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/89-of-tb-patients-in-t-are-tobacco-users-govt-report/articleshow/80869853.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||CRS no to screen doors in Kol Metros||Kolkata: Platform screen doors (PSDs) shouldn’t be installed in the city’s Metro lines, chief commissioner of railway safety (CCRS) Shailesh Kumar Pathak has observed while giving his approval for the Dakshineswar stretch. Any new Metro in India requires the nod from the commissioner of railway safety (CRS). The statements regarding PSDs is mentioned at the start of the observations made by the CCRS in the “sanction of introduction of commercial services” for the 4km extension of the north-south Metro. It has come at a time when PSDs are seen as the best solution to prevent suicides on Metro tracks. Kolkata’s Line 2, the East-West Metro, has PSDs. And RVNL, which is implementing most of the city’s other Metro projects, including the Dakshineswar line, has kept the provisions for platform screen doors in most of the corridors. The provision is not there for the Dakshineswar stretch, though, since it’s an extension of the north-south line, which is the country’s oldest Metro. The CCRS has observed: “It is learnt that PSD is being planned for Metro Railway. Provision of PSD increases the cost of signalling substantially apart from increasing maintenance requirement. In Metro networks, non-adherence to timetable is the cause of maximum inconvenience to passenger…so such cost-prohibitive equipment need not be deployed in Indian Metro systems and requirement of PSD should be critically reviewed on the basis of over life cycle cost, operations and maintenance issues and operational requirement of Metro.” Pathak has also pointed out that even in Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, which runs on advanced signalling technology, platform screen doors have not been planned or provided in major portions of the network, except for lines seven and eight. Asked if the critical statements has made the use of the new technology uncertain in the new Metro corridors in Kolkata, a senior RVNL official rued, “I would guess so. After all, the observations have come from the highest railway safety official.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crs-no-to-screen-doors-in-kol-metros/articleshow/80868322.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, hand over recyclable waste & earn reward points||Thiruvananthapuram: City corporation plans to incentivise responsible non-biodegradable waste management system through ‘Green credit cards’. Public can hand over cleaned, segregated non-biodegradable waste of recyclable value at material recovery facilities (MRFs) and in return reward points will be credited to their Green credit cards. These points can be redeemed at selected shops in the city. Eco-friendly products can be purchased at subsidized rates with Green credit cards. The corporation will invite a global tender from software firms to implement the scheme. Expression of interest will be invited from shops and commercial establishments which wish to be a part of Green credit scheme in the city. Initially the system was planned for school children modelled on Alappuzha. In Alappuzha, the school students who bring recyclable waste for scientific disposal are rewarded with credits which they could use for purchasing books and stationery related to academics. Interested citizens can register in the Green credit card scheme. It will be implemented in selected MRFs in the initial phase. Kazhakkoottam, Medical College and Manacaud are the probable areas where Green credit card system will be implemented initially. As per the proposed system, a person bringing recyclable waste to an MRF will be given reward points based on prefixed rates of each material being deposited at the facility. The total value will be evaluated and points will be credited to Green credit cards. It will also be implemented in housing societies, which will be assigned one card each, and waste being collected from individual flats will be rewarded for the recyclable value. Clean Kerala Company will offer money for selected products and for other materials corporation will invite bids from private parties. The civic body will take a share of handling charges and remaining amount will be credited as reward to the public. One of the major advantages of the scheme is that the corporation will be able to save a substantial sum in terms of cleaning and segregation of recyclable waste at MRFs. At present, the city corporation employs many staff at MRF, who deal with uncleaned and unsorted waste, leading to wastage of time and man-hours. Green credit card system is expected to inspire people to bring in waste; cleaned and dry. Meanwhile city mayor Arya Rajendran said in a news conference here on Thursday that the dry waste collection drive which had been halted for the past few months will be resumed in the city in compliance with Covid-19 prevention protocol. The corporation will engage Haritha Karma Sena and Kudumbashree workers for door-to-door collection of non-biodegradable waste, which will then be transported to MRFs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-hand-over-recyclable-waste-earn-reward-points/articleshow/80869916.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Pune||Pools set to reopen for leisure splash after 9 months||Pune: The civic body’s decision to allow reopening of swimming pools has come as a big relief for the water sports enthusiasts, though many facilities may not open immediately.The swimming pool operators would have to follow the social distancing norms and they should abide by the standard operating procedures as suggested by the sports ministry, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) order stated.“It has been more than nine months since the pools have been closed, earlier for all and later for the leisure swimmers. Now, even the lesiure swimmers can use the pools. But the pools may not open immediately as a lot of maintenance activities have to be undertaken,” said city-based Tapan Panigrahi, a national level swimming coach from the Swimming Federation of India.Tilak Tank secretary Amit Golwalkar said, “We haven’t got too many swimmers during winter. But once the rush starts, we will create batches of limited swimmers. We will not allow random walk-ins. Entries will be given to only those who pre-register in batches. Since competitive swimmers are training here, we have ensured proper hygiene and are maintaining the chlorine level of the water.”Neha Madaan & Tushar Dutt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pools-set-to-reopen-for-leisure-splash-after-9-months/articleshow/80869886.cms||Neha Madaan
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||UP to immunise kids whomissed JE vax from Feb 21||Lucknow: Taking the fight against Japanese encephalitis to the next level, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to launch an additional round of immunisation from February 21. Under this, children in the 2-15 age group, who missed their vaccine over the past sessions, would be targeted in 38 districts of the state. The training and briefing of the frontline workers in this regard has begun and the line listing of the children will follow next. As per relevant orders in this regard passed by mission director, National Health Mission, Aparna U, the work of listing the missed children through a head count survey began on Wednesday while the paperwork will continue over the week. A dry run of the JE immunisation programme will take place on February 17, while the actual campaign will begin on February 21. The order categorically states that campaign against encephalitis is among the top priorities of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and adhering to timelines was extremely crucial to the success of the exercise. Health officials informed newspersons that the JE vaccination campaign was launched in 2017. In all the years, the achievement was 100% vis-a-vis the target. While in the first year, over 91 lakh children were covered more than 33 lakh kids were given the shot in 2018. In 2019, over 26.8 lakh targeted population was covered whereas in 2020, 11.36 lakh targeted beneficiaries were given the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-immunise-kids-whomissed-je-vax-from-feb-21/articleshow/80804328.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Allahabad||AU opens for research scholars of arts faculty||Prayagraj: The authorities of Allahabad University have decided to open the hostels and departments for research scholars of the arts faculty. However, teaching for undergraduate and postgraduate students would continue in the online mode. The varsity and hostels would remain closed for the students of all departments. After the unlock phase last year, only teachers and administrative officials were called on the campus. Recently, the authorities decided that the year-ending exams would be held via online mode from April. Meantime, a meeting was held on the campus on Tuesday which was attended by all the deans and heads of the departments. Presided over by vice chancellor Prof Sangita Srivastava, the meeting reached a consensus that the arts faculty would be opened for research scholars. The scholars would be permitted to visit their departments with a rider that only five of them would be permitted at one time. Student leaders have been demanding that the teaching atAU should resume in offline mode because many students, especially of rural background, were finding it hard to study online. “Teaching for UG and PG students would continue through online mode only as directed by the University Grants Commission (UGC),” said AU PRO Jaya Kapoor. The official clarified that the decision would continue till any fresh guidelines are issued by the UGC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-opens-for-research-scholars-of-arts-faculty/articleshow/80869746.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kanpur||Jhansi officials get Covid jabs||Jhansi: The district administration officers, including commissioner and district magistrate, were vaccinated here on Thursday at the collectorate with no complaint of any side effect. The vaccination booth was inaugurated by commissioner Jhansi division, Subhash Chandra Sharma, who was also the first person to be vaccinated followed by district magistrate, Andra Vamsi. Talking to reporters, Vamsi said that the vaccine is absolutely safe and there should be no confusion related to its quality. CMO Dr GK Nigam said resistance towards Corona will start developing after a fortnight of administration of both the doses, which will be done at an interval of 28 days. He also said after 20 days of the first vaccination drive held in the district, all the beneficiaries are in good health with no complaint coming from any place. On the other hand, the district has reported at an average three or less Covid-19 positive case per day in past one week with a recovery rate of 97.89% bringing a breather of satisfaction here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jhansi-officials-get-covid-jabs/articleshow/80869885.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Maha schools can now fine tobacco shops within 100 yards||Mumbai: The state education department has issued new guidelines for educational institutions managing schools stating that no shop within 100 yards of their premises should be allowed to sell tobacco products, or the school management can fine them. The department issued a circular on the basis of revised guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health & family welfare on tobacco-free education institutions at the national level. The guidelines stated that in India over 13 lakh people every year (around 3,500 people daily) die due to consumption of tobacco. As per Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS), 2009, 14.6% of students in India aged 13-15 use tobacco. Institutes must prominently display ‘Tobacco-Free Area’ signage on their premises, Tobacco-Free Education Institution’ signage at entrance or boundary wall of the institute, and no evidence of use of tobacco products like cigarette or beedi butts or discarded gutka-tobacco pouches, spitting spots, should be found inside the premise. The institute should appoint ‘Tobacco monitors’ to keep a check on tobacco use too. The circular stated that no shop selling tobacco products should be within 100 yards of the school boundary or the school management should complain on the ‘national quitline’ helpline and fine the shop. The management should coordinate with the local body and parents to stop the sale of tobacco products, the circular stated. As all education institutions are in public places, the school authority or principal, or deputed teachers can fine a person found violating the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Product Act, 2003., stated the circular. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-schools-can-now-fine-tobacco-shops-within-100-yards/articleshow/80868091.cms||---
February 12, 2021||India||Rs 1,000cr raised for Ram temple in just a month||AYODHYA: The Ram temple trust’s coffers are brimming with Rs 1,000 crore in less than 30 days since the nationwide fund-raising drive was launched by Vishwa Hindu Parishad on Makar Sankranti last month. “Bank accounts of Sriram Janambhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust in three nationalised banks [State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and Bank of Baroda] have a current balance of more than Rs 1,000 crore,” trust secretary Champat Rai told TOI. The trust members attribute the successful crowdfunding campaign to the overwhelming support from all communities across India for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. At least 1.5 lakh small groups of VHP functionaries have fanned out across the country and are going door to door to raise funds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rs-1000cr-raised-for-ram-temple-in-just-a-month/articleshow/80871300.cms||Arshad Afzal Khan
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||Four UP IAS empanelled as secys at Centre||Lucknow: Four senior IAS officers from the UP cadre have been empanelled for holding secretary level positions at the Centre. They are Devesh Chaturvedi who is currently additional chief secretary agriculture, agriculture education and research department, agriculture marketing, agriculture foreign business and export promotion department; SP Goyal, ACS to UP CM, civil aviation, estate and protocol department, and additional resident commissioner, UP; and Sanjay Bhoosreddy, ACS sugar industries, excise and cane commissioner. Jiwesh Nandan, the fourth officer to be empanelled, is currently joint secretary to Government of India in the ministry of defence, in Delhi. IPS officer Anil Kumar Agarwal has also been empanelled for the Centre at DG rank. Meanwhile, some IAS officers were transferred in a late night move They include Priyanka Niranjan, special secretary (irrigation and water resource) who is the new DM Jalaun. Anuj Singh, vice chairperson of Gorakhpur Development Authority is the new DM Hapur. He will be replacing Aditi Singh who has been shifted as DM Ballia. Aryaka Akhouri, special secretary (secondary education) is DM Bhadohi while Sanjiv Ranjan, CEO, GIDA, is DM Sambhal. Samuel Paul, project administrator Greater Sharda Sahayak Samadesh Vikas Pradhikari is the new DM of Ambedkar Nagar while Vibha Chahal, posted as additional resident commissioner, UP, in Delhi has been shifted as DM Etah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/four-up-ias-empanelled-as-secys-at-centre/articleshow/80870704.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Nashik||230 pvt hospitals in Nashik yet to conduct fire audit||Nashik: As many as 230 private hospitals and nursing homes in the city are yet to conduct fire audits though the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has set the deadline of February 15 to conduct the audits and obtain no-objection certificates (NOCs) from the civic body. Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav had ordered immediate fire audits in more than 530 private hospitals, maternity homes and nursing homes across the city following the Bhandara fire incident. SO far, around 300 private hospitals and nursing homes have conducted the fire audits and obtained NOCs. “There still are 230 private hospitals and nursing homes in the city that are yet to conduct the fire audit and obtain NOCs,” said Rajendra Bairagi, a senior officer in the NMC fire brigade department. “We had already given one-month time to the private hospitals to conduct the audits and obtain NOCs. We will serve notices and take action against those failing to meet the deadline,” said Bairagi. According to the fire department, private hospitals must conduct the fire audit twice a year as per the norms. The civic body had issued a public notice asking all the private hospitals, residential and commercial buildings to get the audits done by government-recognised agencies and submit the reports to the civic body by February 15. Failing which, the civic body will snap the water and power supplies to the buildings. The fire brigade department officials said they are also getting details on how many residential and commercial buildings have completed the fire audit. As per the new unified development control promotion and regulations (DCPR) introduced by the state government, buildings with height of 24m or more are needed to make provisions of fire safety equipment and get NOCs from the fire brigade department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/230-pvt-hospitals-in-nashik-yet-to-conduct-fire-audit/articleshow/80869900.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||90 matches on Day 3, UP & TNplayers score white slam||Lucknow: At least 90 singles and doubles matches (men & women) were played on the third day of the 25th All India Postal Carrom Tournament at KD Singh Babu Stadium on Thursday. In men's (singles) matches, Kishore, Silvan, Suman, Silam Brasan, Bharati Dasan and Dharani (all from TN), Mohd Owais and Imran Khan from UP, Akhlaq (Assam), Jalaj and Subodh from Bihar, Shivanand (Telangana), Shyam Sundar (Karnataka) and Rajesh (Karnataka), Ilahi (Odisha) and JP Das (Chhattisgarh) entered pre-quarter finals. The high point of the day was the white slams scored by UP’s Owais and Bharati of Tamil Nadu. In men's (doubles) category, Jalaj and Vivek (Bihar), Suman and Silam (TN), Shivanand and Jeeva (Telangana), Rajesh and Shyam (Karnataka), Ilahi and JK (Odisha), Owais and Imran (UP), K Tamil and Dharni (TN), and Bharati and Kishore (TN) secured their berth in quarterfinals. In women's singles ties, Sonal, Bhagya Shri and Likhita (Maha), Nivedita (Assam), Rama, Savit and Laxmi (Tel), Vineeta (Andhra) won their matches to enter quarter finals. In women's doubles, Asha and Mumtaz (TN), Sonal and Bhagya Shri (Maha), M Sircar and M Pal (WB), and Savita and Rama (Tel) entered semi-finals. Final matches of men's and women's doubles category will be played on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/90-matches-on-day-3-up-tnplayers-score-white-slam/articleshow/80870694.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||AIMIM to enter student politics in UP, set to contest AUSU polls||PRAYAGRAJ: After tasting success in recent Bihar elections and declaring its intent to contest 2022 assembly polls in UP, All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) has decided to enter student politics and has set up a students’ wing in Prayagraj. The local AIMIM leaders announced that the wing will contest Allahabad University Students’ Union elections this time. Aiming to increase its presence and influence among youths, AIMIM state president Shaukat Ali has appointed Mohammad Amir, an MA first year student of Allahabad University (AU), as the head of the students’ wing and has entrusted him the responsibility to constitute his team and launch a membership drive. “We will contest students’ union polls and will field our candidates on all posts in AU and constituent colleges. We are approaching students of all castes and communities for support and are assuring them all assistance in studies and difficulties,” Amir said. The AIMIM has recently launched a door-to-door campaign in Prayagraj for membership. The party leaders said people have joined AIMIM in large numbers recently and have vowed to support us in panchayat, municipal and Vidhan Sabha elections. “This is the first students’ wing of AIMIM in the state which will actively participate in student union politics and will contest elections. We have full support of the party high command in Hyderabad,” said Zeeshan Rehmani, an office-bearer of the student’s wing. “We have 100 members, all students of AU and will grow to challenge the monopoly of students’ wings of other parties,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aimim-to-enter-student-politics-in-up-set-to-contest-ausu-polls/articleshow/80870710.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||Power dept to ensure smooth supply in summer||Lucknow: State power minister Shrikant Sharma on Thursday again directed his department to ensure that arrangements are in place for disruption free power supply ahead of the summer season beginning April 1. He instructed additional chief secretary to monitor the development and review the preparation and plan for summer season prepared by distribution companies. He further asked power officials to work on a 100-day action plan to bring major reforms in order to improve electricity supply. Sharma also directed the power department to improve the ‘jhatpat’ web portal in next 100 days, so it becomes consumer friendly facility to apply for electricity load demand request, change of location, name change as well as complaints of correcting wrong bills. Emphasising on reducing the losses, Sharma added, “All pending power connection applications must be issued within the stipulated period with no negligence. We have suffered Rs 90,000 crore loss, therefore motivating the consumers to pay bill on time should be priority instead of disconnection. All defaulter feeders must bring down their line losses below 15% by 31 March. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/power-dept-to-ensure-smooth-supply-in-summer/articleshow/80870712.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two empty coaches of Express decouple twice in 2 hours||MUMBAI: Two empty coaches of Bandra Terminus-Ramnagar Express decoupled twice in two hours, raising questions about maintenance of the rake and quality of couplers. This affected punctuality of suburban train services, which were running late by 15-20 minutes. Nineteen trains were also cancelled. It was deemed serious as it could have led to an accident. Sources said the rake had undergone periodic overhauling (POH) in November last year and it had just come out of workshop before being deployed in service. A senior official said, “The pin, used to join compartments through the hole in the draw bar of a coupler, suffered wear-and-tear, due to which the coaches decoupled. This means that inspection during maintenance was not up-to-the-mark.” The 18-coach train, which runs with Linke-Hofmann-Busch (LHB) coaches, had left Bandra Terminus at 5.10am. As soon as it reached Jogeshwari at 5.30am, two coaches on the rear end of the train decoupled. Staff reached the spot around 6.20am and recoupled the coaches, after which the train proceeded at 6.40am. The two coaches again decoupled around 7.15am when the train was between Naigaon and Vasai Road stations. The train left with 16-coaches and the two decoupled coaches were cleared from the track with the help of a locomotive at 8.40am. Western Railway’s chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said, “There were no passengers in the decoupled coaches. No passenger on the train was injured.” A railway official said the train was running at 30kmph so the risk of an accident was minimal. WR will ascertain the cause of the accident after a probe as the parting of coaches could have been due to faulty material or shoddy maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-empty-coaches-of-express-decouple-twice-in-2-hrs/articleshow/80868119.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||SMNRU student sexually assaulted,tortured by seniors, cops book two||Lucknow: A visually-challenged BA (I) student of Dr. Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University (SMNRU) has lodged a complaint of sexual assault, torture and ragging against two seniors, also visually-challenged, with the police and university administration. The incident occurred on February 4 following which the victim student lodged a complaint with the university administration which ordered a probe. Dissatisfied with the pace of probe, the victim lodged an FIR at the Para police station on February 8 saying he was forced to smoke cigarettes, tortured and then sexually assaulted. The matter came to the light when a student circulated the copy of FIR on social media. “The two seniors caught me by my hand when I was coming out of the canteen and took me to room number 233 of the B-2 Hostel where they thrust a cigarette in my mouth and when I resisted, they tortured and sexually assaulted me and left,” he said in his complaint. The student said he approached police after failing to get justice from the university administration. Assistant commissioner of police, Kakori, Archana Kumar Singh, said an FIR on the charges of unnatural sex has been registered against the two students named in the complaint. SMNRU registrar Amit Kumar Singh said the university had taken cognizance of the incident the same day, provided medical assistance to the student and forwarded the complaint to police to lodge an FIR. “Our anti-ragging committee is investigating the matter. University has also given a personal attendant to the victim student for 24X7 care,” he added. BOX Posters accuse prof of harassing girl, probe on Lucknow: Posters were pasted on the walls of a boys’ hostel in Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University, accusing a professor of sexually harassing a girl. The poster does not mention any name, but states, “A professor is indulging in sexual harassment, when the students will get justice.” It further alleges that the student had blocked the professor on WhatsApp, but he continues to call her on the phone. It also said that an email has been sent to the governor in this regard. AKTU vice-chancellor Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak, who holds additional charge of the language university, said “We will probe the matter and strict action will be taken against those found guilty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/smnru-student-sexually-assaultedtortured-by-seniors-cops-book-two/articleshow/80870675.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Bhopal||Rajnath inaugurates over 57K water structures in MP||Bhopal: Union defence minister Rajnath Singh virtually inaugurated more than 57,000 water structures constructed in Madhya Pradesh under ‘Jalabhishekam’ campaign from New Delhi on Thursday. Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar also attended the program virtually organised in the presence of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan at Minto Hall.“Water is life and also the basis of the existence of the world. Doubling the income of farmers is the resolve of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Water conservation works being done by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan with public participation will be helpful in achieving this goal and building self-reliant Madhya Pradesh,” he said. Speaking on the occasion, Tomar said, Madhya Pradesh is the first in the country in many schemes. “This achievement has been possible only due to the sensitivity of CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan towards the villages and the poor. Along with housing, road construction, good work on corona control was also done in the state. Those labourers in need have been given relief by employing them. This enabled the construction of useful structures in rural areas. In view of the changing weather cycle due to climate change, it is necessary to save every drop of water. Water structures built under ‘Jalabhishekam’ campaign will be helpful in this task,” he said.Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said “Under ‘Jalabhishekam’, 57,000 water structures costing over Rs2,000 crore have been inaugurated under Mahatma Gandhi NREGA and Pradhan Mantri Krishi Irrigation Scheme. These water structures will irrigate 2.50 lakh hectares of land without submerging an inch of land. These small water structures would do the work that big dams could not do. The MNREGA scheme has emerged as a force in the difficult times of Coronavirus. Migrant workers returning to our villages were provided employment through this,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rajnath-inaugurates-over-57k-water-structures-in-mp/articleshow/80869915.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||DJB to extract 55MGD extra water from floodplain zone to meet summer demand||New Delhi: Delhi Jal Board (DJB) plans to extract 55 million gallons per day (MGD) of additional groundwater through tubewells inside its water treatment plant complexes to augment the supply in summer months, water minister Satyendar Jain has said. Jain, who is also the DJB chairperson, met senior officers on Thursday to discuss the issue. The move will not compromise groundwater levels as most of DJB’s water treatment plants are located in the floodplain zone where groundwater gets recharged every year during flood in the monsoon, a senior official claimed. “The water will be extracted through tubewells and mixed with regular supply water in the reservoirs. It will ensure water is supplied in adequate quantity and pressure at the tail end, especially during summers,” the official said. In the previous meeting, Jain has instructed the water utility to maximise utilisation of existing and defunct tubewells for groundwater recharge so that rainwater can be harvested during the monsoon. DJB has around 10,000 tubewells, out of which 4,500 are functional. “The tubewells, which cannot extract water, will be used for groundwater recharge,” the official said. “DJB has been instructed to take innovative steps to meet the increasing water demand of Delhi.” The minister said water augmentation was the only solution to meet the increasing demand of water in Delhi. He also spoke about how DJB could use the existing tubewells lying defunct for recharging groundwater along with reducing floods on roads. Due to urbanisation, natural catchments and absorption capacity of soil have reduced. “This utilisation of defunct tubewells is an opportunity to recharge groundwater directly in the residential areas. This will also reduce TDS in groundwater after dilution of harvested rainwater,” Jain said. Referring to the initiatives of rejuvenation of 600 waterbodies and lakes as well as old canals and irrigation minors, and floodwater harvesting, the minister said these would improve groundwater levels and quality. Delhi government’s initiative of floodwater harvesting has led to improvement of groundwater level up to 2 meters in Palla. Recently, DJB has decided that water will be extracted from 16 points to increase the water supply in Dwarka by 3MGD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-to-extract-55mgd-extra-water-from-floodplain-zone-to-meet-summer-demand/articleshow/80868355.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||NCDC office likely in Tukapally||Hyderabad: The five-member team from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) met the senior officials of the state government including chief secretary and health officials on Thursday. Discussions were held during the meeting over the setting up of a local office in the city and the team is learnt to have chosen a site in Genome Valley in Tukapally. The team including Dr KL Ramesh, Dr Shikha Vardhan from NCDC, Dr Pranay Verma from Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Dr Dhara Shah from NCDC and Rajeev Kanaujia, senior architect from Central Design Bureau (CDB), New Delhi, had visited three sites offered by the state government on Wednesday and chose the Turkapally site. The team will also be submitting a report to the Centre on their return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ncdc-office-likely-in-tukapally/articleshow/80869890.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||Govt hammers out fineprint of common minimum syllabi for state varsities||Lucknow: Despite two failed take-offs, the state government is working hard to implement the common minimum syllabi in universities, this time in sync with the new education policy from the new academic session scheduled July 11.If all goes well, students taking admission for an undergraduate course in varsities in the state will pursue a revised and common syllabus. The government sought feedback from stakeholders till February 20, before giving it a final shape. In the new scenario, students taking admission in an undergraduate course after Class 12 would have to opt for two major subjects from one stream. Also, students would have to take one major and one minor subject from any other stream and one vocational and one compulsory co-curricular subject. And in all subjects, the first unit would be dedicated to Indian culture. The new curriculum also attempts to impart practical knowledge to students opting for theoretical subjects like languages. Now, translation, conversion, script writing, phonics, language labs have been included to imbibe a practical approach. To boost research from undergraduate level, research orientation and research projects have been added in first and final year in undergraduate courses. Under the new credit system, there will be six co-curricular subjects of two credits each which students need to complete in first three years of the course. Each semester will be of 15 weeks, of which 90 days of mandatory teaching is expected. One credit is equal to one hour of weekly lecture or two hours of practical session. And a subject with four credits in one semester is equal to 60 hours of lecture. Each question paper will have a minimum pass percentage, which will be fixed by the academic council of universities. There will be minimum marks to qualify, while there will be minimum credits to obtain a degree. Student have to accumulate minimum of 46 credits for one-year certificate course, 92 credits for two-year diploma and 138 credits to earn an undergraduate degree. It was also decided to have continuous internal evaluation. In all subjects, 75% evaluation will be done by external examiners while 25% will be done internally. It is compulsory for students to pass all subjects and final results will be based on grades awarded to them. The Board of Studies (BOS) in each subject in a university will consider common minimum syllabus (CMS) as the model to frame its own syllabi, retaining minimum 70% content in each subject. Additional chief secretary (higher education) Monika S Garg said, an initial feedback by 202 stakeholders shows the syllabus is future-oriented and has included Indian tradition. Of total respondents, 68.8% felt CMS fulfils the objective of national education policy (NEP), 2020, while 10.9% felt the syllabus is not in sync with NEP. The feedback showed 73.8% respondents felt there is an inclusion of skill content in syllabus, while 11.9% said ‘No’. On another question related to research, 67.8% respondents said, the syllabus is research-oriented. Among total respondents, 70% were teachers. “The syllabus has been formed keeping NEP in mind which calls for flexible curricula, creative combinations of subjects, integration of vocational education and multiple entry and exit points at undergraduate level,” Garg said. The initiative for minimum common syllabi was taken during the BSP regime in 2011, but it failed to take off. Again in April last year, universities were asked to work on it, but it didn’t take shape. KEY POINTS Student will have to take 3 majors, 1 each of minor, vocational and co-curricular subject for UG course 46 credits for 1-year certificate course, 92 for 2-year diploma, and 138 for three-year UG course Each semester to have 15 weeks, minimum 90 days of teaching Research introduced from first year of UG course 75% external evaluation, 25% internal evaluation in all subjects||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-hammers-out-fineprint-of-common-minimum-syllabi-for-state-varsities/articleshow/80870763.cms||Isha Jain
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: CBI books couple for Rs 5 crore SBI loan fraud||HYDERABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked a couple for Rs 5 crore loan fraud wherein they conspired with some SBI officials and used two different identities on Aadhaar and voter ID cards to cheat the bank after taking a loan. The CBI lodged an FIR under IPC sections of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and the Prevention of Corruption Act based on a complaint filed by State Bank of India Parishrama Bhavan branch at Basheerbagh. The CBI named Paruchuri Kumar, a resident of Narayanguda, his wife P Pallavi, relationship manager of SBI Abdul Rawoof Pasha, SBI panel advocates P Umapathi Rao and K Harihar Babu and valuers and others. “Paruchuri Kumar held two identities — one as Paruchuri Kumar as per the Aadhaar card and other as Kanuganti Suresh Kumar as per the ID card issued by the Election Commission of India. He conspired with Pallavi and others, forged the documents and availed an asset-backed loan of Rs 5.1 crore and cheated the bank to the tune of Rs 4.8 crore,” the CBI said. The other accused SBI officials colluded with Kumar and defrauded the bank. The CBI said Kumar took Rs 5.1 crore for construction of Vasantha Happy Homes Nest at Sainikpuri. The loan was a guarantee by Pallavi. Towards collateral security, she deposited title deeds. “The accused executed a false declaration-cum-affidavit stating that there is no subsisting mortgage charge or any other encumbrance or attachment over the property,” it said. The fraud came to light when Pallavi approached the bank’s Bible House branch as director of JBC Broadcasting Corporation, using the second identity. The Bible House branch sanctioned a loan of Rs 6 crore but the loan was not disbursed as her husband Kumar could not produce originals of prior title deeds despite repeated requests. The accused tried to use the same property for two different loans. As the fraud was less than Rs 50 crore, a forensic audit was not conducted, the CBI said and added that they nailed the accused through an internal investigation. The CBI lodged an FIR under IPC sections of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and the Prevention of Corruption Act based on a complaint filed by SBI Parishrama Bhavan branch at Basheerbagh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-couple-for-rs-5cr-sbi-loan-fraud/articleshow/80868350.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Ghatkesar horror: Gangrape case filed against 4 accused||HYDERABAD: A day after an undergraduate student was kidnapped in Ghatkesar, Rachakonda police, on Thursday, registered a case of gang rape against the four accused. All the four men are in police custody and are being interrogated. Based on the victim’s statement and the medical examination report, police added 376 (D) (gangrape), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 354 (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures), 354 (B) (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe) of IPC to the already existing 365 (kidnap) of the IPC. “Scientific investigation is in progress and the victim’s health is stable. More than 10 teams are assisting with the investigation,” an official of Rachakonda police said. While committing the offence, the accused also injured the victim on her leg and head, the official added. The incident took place on Wednesday evening when the victim boarded an autorickshaw at Rampally, while returning home from college. According to victim’s statement, the auto driver did not stop at the given location and instead took her on a different route, where three others got into the auto.  She was, subsequently, forced into another van and later taken to an isolated place, where she was allegedly gang raped. Rachakonda police said that it was the victim’s presence of mind that helped them track her down. “While she was held captive by the accused, they forced her to switch off her mobile phone. However, despite that, the victim secretly managed to turn on her phone. That’s what helped us reach the location,” the police official said. Initially, since the victim was in a state of shock after being rescued and shifted to a local hospital, there were some contradictions in her statements regarding the rape, police said.  “We, therefore, waited for the medical examination to confirm sexual assault and added the sections accordingly,” the official added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghatkesar-horror-gangrape-case-filed-against-4-accused/articleshow/80868333.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Surat||‘Roadside workers need dignity’||Surat: A committee comprising social scientists, economist and social workers studied the horrific Kim crossroad accident in which 15 labourers sleeping on the pavement were killed by a speeding truck on January 19 and declared a fact-finding interim report on Thursday. In its report, Bandhakam Shramik Sankalan Samiti (BMS) expressed its concern over the fact that workers of different unorganized sectors especially migrant construction labourers and their children are exposed to such hazards owing to lack of proper housing facilities or even basic amenities like toilet or kitchen. “Despite Supreme Court orders workers have to live on roads. The committee has found out that the city has 334 slums. Out of 27 night shelters majority only two are functional. Gujarat government should spend Rs 3,100 crore fund of Gujarat Labour Welfare Board to develop these night shelters immediately,” said Vipul Pandya of BMS. Pandya demanded labour park where workers get a common kitchen, toilet and shed where their belongings can be kept safe and there is no threat to their lives too. “ They should be provided immediate accommodation in schools and community halls. This will save many lives,” said economist, Hemant Shah. The committee includes Kiran Desai, director of Centre for Social Studies; Hemant Shah, economist; Uttam Parmar of Kim Education Society among othersPanel also proposed that the employer should be fined minimum of Rs 10,000 under The Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act for not providing accommodation to workers. “Workers living on road or footpath are forced to leave at an interval of a few days. Often to harass them, cops also seize their bundle of belongings which is very inhumane,” said Patel of Aajeevika Bureau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/roadside-workers-need-dignity/articleshow/80866993.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 12, 2021||Surat||Eight arrested for overspeeding, two die in accident||Surat: Even as police arrested eight persons for overspeeding as part of a special drive, two men died in separate road accidents on Wednesday night.Six people nabbed for overspeeding on motorcycles were booked for attempt to commit culpable homicide not amounting to murder and other sections of Motor Vehicle Act. All were driving high-end bikes. While police seized two cars that were being driven at high-speed. They too were booked under same sections as the motorcycle riders. All the accused were arrested and released on bail on Thursday. Meanwhile, Akshay Rathod (19) died due to severe head injury after he lost control over his motorcycle and fell on the road near Bharthana bus stop in Amroli. In another accident, a watchman Hasla Prasad (45), was knocked down by a BMW car in the parking of Millenium Market in Bhathena. The car belonged to Rafiq Galani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eight-arrested-for-overspeeding-two-die-in-accident/articleshow/80866889.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kanpur||Third daughter of Gulfam succumbs to burns||Kanpur:Two weeks after a man set his family ablaze before setting himself on fire atop an under-construction structure in Musanagar Bangar area of Kanpur Dehat district, his one-and-a-half-year-old third daughter Sitara succumbed to her burn injuries at KGMU in Lucknow on Thursday. Earlier on January 31 and Feb 2, the man’s five-year-old daughter Chand Tara and seven-year-old Moeena undergoing treatment at KGMU had succumbed to burn wounds. To recall, seven persons, including six children, suffered burns after a man set his family ablaze before setting himself on fire on January 28 morning in a dispute over graveyard land. Locals and police had intervened but by then seven members of family besides a policeman who tried to save them also suffered burn injuries. Police said Gulfam had accused one Vijay Soni of grabbing a major portion of the graveyard land and illegally raising a concrete structure on it. “Sitara (18 months old), succumbed to wounds during treatment on Thursday at KGMU in Lucknow. Earlier, Chand Tara (5), and Moeena (7) had passed away on January 31 and February 2 while receiving treatment at KGMU in Lucknow. Further investigations are underway in this regard,” said ASP Kanpur Dehat Ghanshyam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/third-daughter-of-gulfam-succumbs-to-burns/articleshow/80870267.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||City gets three mobile labs for Covid-19 tests||Mumbai: Mobile laboratories for Covid-19 testing will soon be made available across the state, said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday. The CM was speaking at the launch of three mobile testing laboratory vans—at BKC, National Sports Club of India, Worli and NESCO, Goregaon. The labs have been set up by SpiceHealth, a healthcare company founded by low cost carrier SpiceJet’s promoters in collaboration with the BMC. The mobile labs, which are accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), can each process 3,000 test reports per day and the reports will be available in 24 hours. Municipal Commissioner I S Chahal said the cost per test will be Rs 499. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-gets-three-mobile-labs-for-covid-19-tests/articleshow/80868541.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||Doyen of geology, Prof IB Singh, passes away at 75||LUCKNOW: Prof IB Singh, the doyen of geology, museum man of Lucknow University, who was part of Dwarka Excavation and did comprehensive study of the Ganga Plains, providing in-depth analysis of landform development, and was head of geology department, breathed his last on Thursday morning at the age of 75 after prolonged illness. Faculty members from all departments, scientists from Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences and other institutions rushed to pay tributes when his body was brought to LU. Famous among students, teachers and all people of the scientist fraternity, Singh was known for his simplicity and his over five decades of contribution in the field of geology. ‘Sir used to come in slippers, even barefoot sometimes for lectures’Singh had done BSc (Hons) and MSc (geology) from LU in early 60s and joined as a lecturer in 1972 and served for around 40 years. He published four books and 200 research papers. Faculty members and scientists who had been his students said he not only taught geology, but life lessons as well. Former director of Geological Survey of India, Vikram Rai said, “If we could not get a reserved ticket during academic tours to excavation sites with sir, he sat on the train floor and used to say, ‘Jab train mein berth na miley, tab jo earth pe so jaye, woh hi asli geologist hai’.” “If you will not add more to your knowledge, your career will come down like landslides that occur often in Uttarakhand. This was how he taught us, he connected every concept of geology with our lives to make us understand life and science together,” said Ravi Kant Singh, a senior geologist at groundwater department, UP. “His teaching style was unique, and his simple living fascinated us. He came in slippers and sometimes even rushed barefoot to take lecture, since he believed that every second of his life was for his students. Name an institution in India or abroad in the field of geology, you will find there will be at least one bright geologist who had been Prof Singh’s student,” he added. He was a teacher par excellence, like a parent to all his students, said faculty member Prof KK Agarwal. “He developed the Centre of Sedimentological Research at the university. His contribution was not confined to LU, but at national and international level as well. He was associated with projects of the International Union of Geological Sciences (IGCP) and was a member of the Advisory Council of the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons, the list is long and unending,” he added. Senior geologist at Geological Survey of India, Kalyan Krishna, said, “I still remember each and every concept taught by him in MSc. He wanted to develop research temperament in every student. Our MSc was no less than doctoral study as sir made us understand that science is best understood when it is explained in simple words.” His science class was very different from the others because we never heard any incomprehensible technical terms or scientific jargon during his lecture as he taught in a lay man’s language, Krishna added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/doyen-of-geology-prof-ib-singh-passes-away-at-75/articleshow/80870713.cms||Mohita Tewari
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||South Mumbai banker granted divorce as wife in UK stays off e-proceedings||MUMBAI: A family court recently granted a 33-year-old south Mumbai banker’s plea for divorce at the admission stage even as his estranged UK-based wife did not attend proceedings via video-conferencing despite repeated summons. The 32-year-old woman informed the court through lawyers that she had filed a similar petition in the UK, seeking divorce. The court said that since the woman deserted the man in 2014, four years after their marriage, his plea could be granted. The man’s lawyer, Edith Dey, told the court that the woman had communicated from the UK that she had consented to the divorce. “Essence of marriage is gone... So in the larger interest of society, it is always better to unshackle them from this bond of marriage, which does not bind their heart and mind. So this court is inclined to grant divorce on the grounds of desertion,” the court said. The court, however, refused to pass on an order on the custody of their 9-year-old daughter. The court reasoned, “From the record it is apparent that the child ordinarily resides in the UK. Petitioner [husband] admits that since 2014 the child is residing with the respondent [wife]. So child ordinarily resides out of jurisdiction of court and even out of India. In such a situation, this court has no jurisdiction so far as custody issue of the child.” The man’s parents represented him in court as he too is currently aboard for work. The court said it had sent the woman a video-conferencing link by email on February 4, 2020. It said that even after lockdown, a link was sent, but the woman had not joined the proceedings. The court also noted that the marriage counsellor has sent a report, stating that the woman could not be contacted on phone. On January 12, the woman sent an email to the court, with snail mail, about proceedings she had filed in the UK. The couple married in 2010. Their marriage broke down and they lived separately. The 32-year-old woman told the court through her lawyers that she had filed a similar petition in the UK, seeking divorce. The court said that since she has deserted the SoBo banker four years after marriage in 2014, his plea could be granted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/banker-granted-divorce-as-wife-in-uk-stays-off-e-proceedings/articleshow/80869947.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||Over 1 lakh frontline staff vaccinated, UP sees a low turnout||LUCKNOW: The vaccination turnout in the state capital on Thursday was the lowest in the state, with less than 50% of the targeted beneficiaries being inoculated. As per the data of CoWIN portal updated till 8pm, 1,00,251 of the targeted 2,07,170 frontline workers got vaccinated across the state in 1,722 sessions. “Compared to previous sessions, the turnout of 48.3% was surely the lowest, but still the number of persons vaccinated was over one lakh which is not a small figure, even though this figure is not final and data will be updated till late night,” said an officer. Though no official reason was given for the decline, officials said the turnout was low due to several districts, including Lucknow, lagging way behind the target. In fact, in 28 districts, the turnout was less than the state average of 48%. Lucknow scored lowest with a turnout of about 20.93%, followed by Prayagraj where over 75% of the listed beneficiaries missed vaccination. Mainpuri turned out to be the best performer by the end of the day, achieving 80.66% of the target and neighboring Auraiya followed next with 75% attendance. Insiders also attributed the decline to gaps in the lists prepared for vaccination. “In many districts, it was found the personnel in uniform could not make it as they were posted in other districts. Internet connectivity issues in some places also prolonged the time spent per person,” said sources. Additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal urged listed beneficiaries to come forward and take their shots in individual and social interest. He also urged people to follow Covid-19 prevention protocol till the required herd immunity is achieved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-1l-frontline-staff-vaccinatedas-state-grapples-with-low-turnout/articleshow/80870696.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 12, 2021||Pune||Liquor shops await orders on 10.30pm deadline||Pune: Liquor merchants are awaiting the collector’s order on keeping shops open till 10.30pm, an half-an-hour extension on closing time as allowed by the civic administration on Thursday. An state excise department (Pune) official said an order on the deadline extension from 10pm to 10:30 pm for the liquor shops in the city would have to come from the district collector, who governs liquor licences. A source from the Pune District Wine Merchant’s Association said, “We will have to wait for the collector to issue an order in deadline extension. We have already verbally communicated to the excise superintendent about extending the deadline for liquor shops till 10:30 pm and the authorities are looking into it.” Liquor shops had reopened in the district in May last year, after a gap of 44 days of lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. All wine and liquor shops were allowed to operate between 10am and 6pm then. During the consecutive phases of unlock, liquor stores were gradually allowed to remain open till 10pm. The liquor vends now want the closing deadline to be extended to the pre-Covid-19 timing, 10:30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/liquor-shops-await-orders-on-10-30pm-deadline/articleshow/80869931.cms||Neha Madaan
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||UP: BJP’s ‘tilak’ to adorn rural beneficiaries of schemes||LUCKNOW: Putting a ‘tilak’ on the forehead of beneficiaries of various government schemes to instill in them a sense of pride and drive down a message that beneficiaries are not ‘yaachaks’ (those asking for benefits) but deserve share in development is a significant move of the BJP to treat ‘rural’ voters with dignity ahead of panchayat polls. The party is ready to take up the ‘reach out to voters’ campaign from February 15. Besides, gram chaupals and gram sampark with the rural electorate will be launched on February 23. “The party is emphasizing on the word ‘abhivaadan’ of voters. Jisko jitni yojanaon ka laabh mila hai usko utne tilak lagaye jayenge aur isme mahilayen bhi hongi (there would be as many tilaks as the number of schemes that the voter is deriving benefits from and it will include women as well),” said Vijay Pratap Singh, general secretary, BJP and convenor, panchayat elections, Awadh Kshetra. ‘Jitna laabh utne tilak’ is also a move to certify the number of schemes that have been implemented by the party successfully. Panchayat poll is not what the ruling BJP wants to look at as a ‘local’ level election. Given its detailed strategy to woo voters and make an ardent army of ‘karyakartas’ at every booth, the party is not taking it easy. Also, harping on nationalism (rashtravaad), cultural nationalism (sanskritik rashtravaad) and ideology (vichardhara), the party is taking the line similar to assembly and general elections to win over the voters. “Because issues are same and so are the expectations of voters, the party has always promised development and corruption free leadership and that is what we are talking about again,” said Singh. February will be the month given to building bridges with voters. The party will back zila panchayat poll candidates with full force. In case of electing pradhans, it will have its emphasis on ‘ideology’ and urge those who support the party’s ideology to back a common candidate. Pradhans will get the party’s ‘naitik samarthan’. Another interesting aspect of the panchayat polls is recognition of grassroot level workers. “The BJP will create leadership at the local level from among its own workers,” said Singh. Those who get to contest election on party’s backing will contribute to the upcoming assembly elections as well. Awadh kshetra is the biggest of the six kshetras that the state has been divided into by the party to simplify its functioning. Awadh kshetra has maximum zila panchayat seats, 680. It has Lucknow commissionerate, Ayodhya commissionerate and Devipatan mandal. It has 42 Vidhan Sabha seats and to add more, 13 administrative districts and 15 organizational districts (party’s division of district). Ram Mandir and party’s ‘sanskritik rashtravaad’ is as natural to make sense to voters as any other Antyodaya scheme of the party which has been implemented by the Centre in this region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjps-tilak-to-adorn-rural-beneficiaries-of-schemes/articleshow/80870706.cms||Neha Shukla
February 12, 2021||Allahabad||IRCTC starts bus booking facility||Prayagraj: After providing the facilities for train and flight booking for several years, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has stepped into the field of ticket booking facility for passengers in buses. Interested passengers or persons can book bus tickets or for that matter bulk booking for different prominent cities across the country through IRCTC’s website. The tickets can be booked through IRCTC portal at www.bus.irctc.co.in. For now, this facility is available on the web-page of the Corporation, but IRCTC is all set to release the mobile app version in the first week of March. For providing the best of the service in this category, IRCTC has tied up with state road transport services as well as 50,000 private bus operators to cover different destinations located in 22 states and three union territories of the country. Under the bus booking facility, passengers would also be informed about the bus operator and the photos of the bus which the passenger would be boarding to complete his journey would be available. Apart from the facilities available on the route, the fare as well as the location of the bus pick-up and drop within the city would also be displayed on the website. The passenger would also be informed about the current booking position of seats, how many are still left etc. on a real time basis. Apart from this, passenger can also book the seat number which he or she would prefer for their journey, depending upon availability. Once the ticket is booked and the seat number, boarding and dropping points etc. have been selected, the passengers will also get the option of online payment through IRCTC website itself through different payment portals. According to IRCTC, public relations officer Anand Kumar Jha, IRCTC is gradually developing as the government’s “one stop and shop travel” in the country, using which the passenger would be getting all the facility needed in case of travelling to any outstation city. However, while using the facility, passengers leaving or coming to Prayagraj may face some inconvenience because of the fact that the name of Prayagraj is still mentioned as Allahabad on the portal. Because of this confusion, the passengers may not get any result if they search with the city name as Prayagraj. Therefore, for booking tickets and service, the user has to mention Allahabad as the name of city and not Prayagraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/irctc-starts-bus-booking-facility/articleshow/80869718.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||Cops at CM’s security first to take Covaxin shot||Lucknow: Excitement was palpable among women cops, who came to take the jab against Covid-19 on Thursday. These included those deployed in the security of the chief minister and former chief minister. Donning uniforms and holding their IDs, they patiently waited in queues at an inoculation centre in Bhaurao Devras Hospital (BDH), where they signed the consent form for Covaxin without any hesitation. Posted in the security of chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, inspector Neelam Tiwari (53) was among the first ones to take the shot. “I was eagerly awaiting my turn. Now, I can perform my duty without any fear of getting infected.” Similarly, posted in the security of former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, sub-inspector Gaytri Yadav (52) said, “I have come to take the shot midway of my duty and will report back after taking the jab.” Another cop deployed in the CM’s security, head constable Anita Pal (48) said, “My two children motivated me and are excited that I am taking the shot.” The enthusiasm was no less in some male cops, who came at BHD. Sub-inspectors Prabhu Narayan Pal, Suryaman, Paras Nath Yadav — all posted in the chief minister’s security — spoke in favour of taking the shot and appreciated the process of different phases of vaccination. Constable Anupama Tripathi (30), said, “It is a great feeling to finally take the shot along with my co-workers... It will be beneficial if everyone working with us takes the jab.” At a vaccination centre in Fatima Hospital, Indu Yadav (24), a constable posted at Hazratganj police station, was seen inquiring about her name in the list. Yadav said: “Being a frontline worker, I was excited to take the jab, but I did not receive any message regarding vaccination. My seniors told me to inquire at Fatima Hospital.” “I found my name in the list and am now taking the shot,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-at-cms-security-first-to-take-covaxin-shot/articleshow/80870686.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||179 new Covid cases, but no death reported in UP||Lucknow: Stating that despite decline in cases, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed that the Covid-19 management strategy remains in top gear in the state. “The CM has said that testing average should not fall and surveillance activities must be organised as planned till the pandemic ceases,” said additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal here on Thursday as the state recorded 179 new cases. He also said that though the cases were declining and the vaccination programme has been launched, the prevention protocol should not be undermined till the desired herd immunity level is achieved. Sehgal said that UP’s edge over the pandemic virus was clearly an outcome of the state's effective strategy. “ÜP is the only state to have reached out to such a large part of the population through testing and surveillance activities. Our efforts have been lauded on different fronts including the World Health Organisation,” he said, adding that no Covid-19 death was reported in the past 24 hours. He also said that the success of the strategy can be gauged from the Covid-19 recovery rate of over 98%. Meanwhile, the new cases took the state’s tally to 6,01,898.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/179-new-covid-cases-but-no-death-reported-in-up/articleshow/80870697.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||BJP’s welfare vision inspired by Deen Dayal Upadhyay: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said, principles of Jan Sangh founder Deen Dayal Upadhyay were at the core of welfare schemes executed by BJP governments at the Centre and state. Yogi was addressing a gathering of party functionaries on the 53rd death anniversary of Upadhyay. Yogi said, it was Upadhyay’s ideas which motivated party workers to help the needy during the pandemic-triggered lockdown. “There may have been directions from the BJP brass, but the ‘bhaav’ (emotions) which mobilised the BJP cadre to provide relief during the Covid pandemic were those envisioned by Upadhyay,” he said. The CM said, the foundation of Jan Sangh – precursor to the present-day BJP – rested on fulfilling promises made to people. “And this idea continues to this day,” he said. “When PM Modi assumed power, he spoke about ensuring welfare schemes to every section of society,” he said, maintaining that promises made six years ago can be seen on the ground. “Welfare schemes, which largely remained a dream between 1947 and 2014 are being implemented by BJP government at the Centre,” Yogi said, attributing Upadhyay for his inspiration behind PM Modi’s vision. The CM said, Updhayay’s principles drew an outline for all-round development in the country, putting welfare of every section of society on priority. “Upadhyay’s ideas are relevant not only in India, but for the whole world,” he said. Yogi said, the emergence of BJP as world’s largest party and its acceptance among all sections of society is because of its leadership and clean image, which formed the basis of Upadhyay’s `siddhant’ (principles).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjps-welfare-vision-inspired-by-deen-dayal-upadhyays-principles-yogi/articleshow/80870707.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chennai||Congress still top draw in Puducherry, but chinks appear in armour||CHENNAI: The Congress in the Union territory of Puducherry, which has split four times in the past 25 years, faces an uphill task of retaining power in its stronghold in the coming assembly poll. The recent resignations of public works minister A Namassivayam, second in command in the V Narayanasamy-led cabinet, legislator E Theeppainthan and a dozen mid-level functionaries, who joined the BJP have ruffled the Congress. There is talk of a few more prominent functionaries, including elected representatives from the Congress and other parties, switching to the saffron party in the coming days. As the party tries to put its house in order, old-timers say it may be able to weather this storm largely because Puducherry has remained a Congress bastion over the years. The Congress is the only party which completed its full terms apart from its splinter group AINRC floated by former chief minister N Rangasamy. This is because Puducherry had been politically unstable until the anti-defection law was passed. The AIADMK, which formed the government twice, did not complete both the terms. The governments fell in 21 days in 1971 and in 17 months in 1974 after their alliance partners withdrew their support to the government. Similarly, there were many instances of floor-crossing between the AIADMK and the DMK leading to the fall of the DMK governments on three occasions. Last time the DMK formed a coalition government with the erstwhile Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar) in 1996, the government was dissolved four years later after TMC(M) merged with its parent Congress party. Despite being at the helm in Tamil Nadu, the two major Dravidian parties have never been able to take root in Puducherry, where traditionally people vote for the national party, which is also in power at the Centre. The lack of popular local Dravidian leaders is the other reason why people do not feel connected, say political observers. Historically, the Congress has been a priority to Puducherry since the Union territory merged with the Indian Union in 1963. People here have not forgotten the promise of Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru that the unique ties of Puducherry with France will be maintained, and any change will be taken up only after a consensus is reached. The same privilege was not accorded by other parties. In the late 1970s, when Prime Minister Morarji Desai attempted to merge the Union territory with neighbouring states of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, people strongly opposed the move and showed their anger in the next election. The AIADMK, which supported the move, could not win a single seat in the next assembly polls. But the shift in the support for the Congress has been perceptible with the BJP, which had a negligible presence in Puducherry, gaining prominence after the nomination of three local BJP functionaries as members of the legislative assembly in 2017. Since 1963, the BJP had won only one MLA seat in Puducherry when A M Krishnamurthy was elected on a BJP ticket in 2001. The party contested all 30 constituencies in the 2016 assembly polls but drew a blank. The recent emergence of BJP in Puducherry is not only a major cause concern for Congress, but also for its alliance partners — AINRC and AIADMK. In case the saffron party wins more seats, it could push the territory towards a situation where no one side can have a clear majority. AICC secretary and party in-charge for Puducherry Sanjay Dutt is confident about the Congress’s prospects. "People in Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and other southern states are against the BJP’s one nation one language policy. People saw how the BJP in the Centre misused the lieutenant governor’s office and blocked all development and welfare schemes of the elected Congress government," he said. The statehood not being granted by the BJP at the Centre will also play on the minds of the people, he said. Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee president A V Subramanian said an illusion was being created by opposition parties and defectors that Congress had lost its base. "They expected that a 2011-like scenario would emerge with an exodus from the party. But except for a handful of people none of the others have quit," said Subramanian. However, the BJP unit is in an upbeat mood and is sure of opening its account for the second time after 20 years in the legislative assembly. "A pro-BJP environment has been created in Puducherry. The transparent and corruption-free Modi government at the Centre has improved the party’s image here. The voters here will overthrow the corrupt Congress party and elect us," said Union minister of state for industries, public enterprises and parliamentary affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal, the party’s in-charge for Puducherry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cong-still-top-draw-in-pondy-but-chinks-appear-in-armour/articleshow/80868357.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||11-Pathikrit-State-PFI members wanted to disturb communal Arrested PFI members tried to disturbcommunal harmony in Hathras: ED||Lucknow: The Lucknow unit of Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday filed a Prosecution Complaint (PC) against five Popular Front of India (PFI) men for getting finances from abroad to help their alleged bid to disturb communal harmony in Hathras after alleged gang rape of a dalit girl which led to her death in September 2020. Four of them, including Kerala journalist Siddiqui Kappan, were arrested in Mathura in October 2020 on their way to Hathras a few days after the girl's death. The fifth, Rauf Sherif, was arrested in December at Trivandrum airport. As per the ED's PC, while Kappan and Masud Ahamd are members of PFI, the other person arrested along with them -- Atiq-ur-Rahman -- are members of PFI's student wing, Campus Front of India. The fourth person arrested from Mathura, Mohammad Alam, was driving the car they were travelling in. He was also an active participant in the conspiracy, the ED says Sherif, who was detained by the authorities at Trivandrum airport in December last year and brought to UP by STF, is the general secretary of CFI. Special Judge Dinesh Kumar Sharma on Thursday took cognizance of their offence under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). A prosecution complaint by ED is similar to a chargesheet filed by the police. It is a final report before the trial court, which has to take cognisance of the report and start the trial, said the ED officials. All four arrested from Mathura have been booked for sedition, raising funds for the purpose of committing a terrorist act under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, spreading enmity between religions, and other charges. As per the ED sources, it surfaced during the probe that Rauf Sherif had received a sum of Rs 1.36 crore from PFI members based in Oman and Qatar. He acquired and possessed proceeds of crime from abroad in his bank accounts, they say. It has been further alleged that the accused also acquired lands, vehicles and other properties and also transferred money to the other four accused arrested from Maant, said the ED. The agency officials also said that during the probe it surfaced that Sherif was the main conspirator of handling funds from abroad and also disbursed the funds to Masud Ahmed and Atiq-ur-Rehman. Proceeds of the crime was generated through schedule offence under PMLA and the funds were used by Rauf Sherif and his associates, the ED said. The ED also said that there are specific allegations against Atiq-ur-Rahman that he took active part in a conspiracy hatched by Sherif to visit Hathras with other accused to disturb communal harmony. Masud was the general secretary of Delhi state PFI and was in regular touch with Sherif and took part and received money generated from criminal activities in his bank accounts. Similarly, Siddiqui Kappan was also involved in crime and he transferred funds to the bank account of Atiq-Ur-Rehman. Mohammed Alam, was driving the car bought in the name of Masud. He took an active part in a conspiracy hatched by Sherif, the ED said. "About 15 days prior to their visit of Hathras, the car was purchased for Rs 2.25 lakh," the ED said. “Based on the above allegation, the prosecution complaint was filed in PMLA court of special judge Dinesh Kumar Sharma,” said a senior ED official. The ED sleuths also examined the website ‘Justice for Hathras’ and conducted enquiries from the domain servers about the details of money collected and utilised. It also examined the ultimate beneficiaries of money collected by this website. They had also sought data traffic analysis from Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) for tracing the first IP resolution. The ED sources told TOI that PFI was under the scanner since 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/11-pathikrit-state-pfi-members-wanted-to-disturb-communal-arrested-pfi-members-tried-to-disturbcommunal-harmony-in-hathras-ed/articleshow/80870731.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||Few frontline workers turn up for jab||Lucknow: Delay in communication and anomalies in lists resulted in less than one fourth of the frontline workers selected for Covid-19 vaccination in the second round of Phase II turning up to take the jab on Thursday. This was the lowest turnout in terms of percentage in all the seven rounds held in Phase I and Phase II. The drive carried out at 98 booths in 28 vaccination centres saw a turnout of only 2,990 (24.2%) people out of a total 12,334 frontline workers, including police personnel, civic staff, panchayat and revenue staff. No incident of adverse reaction was reported from anywhere. Healthcare workers were vaccinated in Phase I, while frontline workers are being given shots in Phase II. In the first round of Phase II, 1688 (64.3%) out of targeted 2,625 frontline workers had turned up on February 4. Earlier, 30% turnout was 30% on January 16 (Phase I-round I ) Prominent among those who took the jabs included director-general of police, UP, HC Awasthy and additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar. However, joint commissioner of police (law and order) Naveen Arora got an SMS in the afternoon informing him that his vaccination is scheduled at Era’s Lucknow Medical College in the morning, hence he could not go for the shot. Officials of various departments governing frontline workers said that many of the employees could not go because they did not receive any information or got the SMS very late. Lucknow Municipal Corporation health officer Dr S K Rawat said “As per the protocol, the beneficiaries were to be informed through SMSes a day before about the schedule followed by a phone call as a reminder. However, only a few of our employees got SMSes in advance, while many did not get any communication.” “Moreover, the health department shared the schedule of Thursday and Friday with us after the start of the vaccination process on Thursday. By that time, it was too late to inform the staff whose vaccination was scheduled on Thursday. For Friday, we are informing all the selected beneficiaries and hopeful that turnout will increase,” added Rawat Naveen Arora, who is also nodal officer for vaccination of police personnel in Lucknow, said “In the absence of any prior communication, we sent our officers to vaccination centres to find out names mentioned in the lists. Thereafter, these officers personally called up those whose names were in the list and asked them to come and get vaccinated as add-on-beneficiary,” he added. For example, Thakur Singh, a police constable, did not receive any SMS, but was sent to KGMU centre by his superior. “Since my name was not in the list, I was kept waiting for two hours after which, the name was added and I got the shot,” he said. However, health officers blamed departments for anomalies in the lists. District Immunisation Officer Dr MK Singh said the list for the centre at Avanti Bai hospital had names of 69 police personnel who had identical phone numbers. Besides, he added, there were many cases in which wrong numbers were provided. Healthcare workers left out in earlier rounds get vax Some centres also utilised the situation by vaccinating healthcare workers who were left out in previous rounds. For example, at the vaccination centre in Vivekanand polyclinic, not a single frontline worker turned up for vaccination. “We waited for three hours, but when no one came, we called our 34 healthcare workers who were left out in previous rounds and gave them the shots,” said nodal officer Dr VK Singh. (With inputs from Vedanta Agarwal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/few-frontline-workers-turn-up-for-jab/articleshow/80870685.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||97k youths register for Abhyudaya coaching||Lucknow: Youths aspiring to qualify engineering, medical, defence services, civil and other competitive exams have given an overwhelming response to chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s decision to set up free coaching centres under the Abhyudaya scheme. As many as 97,000 candidates have already registered on the online portal within 20 hours of its launch. Of the total, nearly 46,000 are those willing to prepare for civil services. While over 4,000 candidates have applied to get coaching for NEET entrance test, 2,500 have opted for JEE exam. The free coaching centres will begin classes on the auspicious occasion of Basant Panchami. The excitement among the youths to join free coaching is understandable as they will get direct counselling from a galaxy of top bureaucrats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/97k-youths-register-for-abhyudaya-coaching/articleshow/80870698.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Skeleton: Cops blame it on adulterous affair||Hyderabad: A skeleton of a man killed in January 2020 was found kept inside a wooden box in a furniture shop closed for several months. SR Nagar police concluded that the victim, Kamal Maity died after he was hit on his head by the suspect Palash with a strong wooden stick. In the last one year, the accused secretly visited his store on a couple of occasions but did not have the courage to shift the body elsewhere. On Wednesday, members of the managing committee of a local temple in Borabanda forcefully opened the furniture shop, which is part of the temple property, as the suspect Palash has not been paying rent for last 10 months. There was a foul smell coming from the box. When they opened it, they found skeleton remains of a human. Police said an extra-marital affair is the motive behind the murder. Cops also questioned a woman but later gave her a clean chit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/skeleton-cops-blame-it-on-adulterous-affair/articleshow/80868354.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||12k frontline workers get jab on Thu||Hyderabad: Vaccination of targeted frontline workers dropped further to 24% on Thursday, as only 12,249 of the intended 50,766 workers could be vaccinated by the end of the day. While state health authorities have said that the dip in vaccination is on account of myths related to vaccination that were doing rounds on social media, one myth in particular was having impact. The myth that consumption of alcohol has to be stopped if one takes Covid vaccines has been a deterrent for many. Since the rollout of vaccination for frontline workers, 76,749 frontlines workers have been vaccinated upto Thursday. This is against a target of 2,25,861. Meanwhile, the constable who suffered seizures after receiving the vaccine on Wednesday is still serious and four minor cases of side effects were reported on Thursday. Dr M Raja Rao, superintendent of Gandhi Hospital said, “The constable is stable at present and treatment is ongoing. He is having pneumonia and fits. The chances of recovery are fair.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/12k-frontline-workers-get-jab-on-thu/articleshow/80869917.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Churuli’ attracts delegates in large numbers on day 2||Thiruvananthapuram: Delegates gathered in huge numbers to watch the first screening of the film ‘Churuli’ by noted director Lijo Jose Pellisery, at Tagore Theatre in Vazhuthacaud on the second day of the Internatinal Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK). It was the world premiere of the movie, which is one of the major attractions of the 25th IFFK. ‘Churuli’ narrates the tale of two undercover cops who embark on a journey trailing a criminal. The circumstances and the people they come across are mysterious, making them question their own individuality. The film will be screened again on Saturday at 4pm at the Kairali Theatre. It is being screened as part of the ‘international competition’ category and is competing with 13 other films for the ‘Suwarna Chakoram’ for Best Film. In an interactive session organized as part of IFFK, Aseem Chhabra, the director of the New York Indian Film Festival and member of the jury for the Best Indian Debut Director Award, said that India is often unable to bring their best films to the international stage and the reason behind this is inadequate marketing of films. This, in turn, is the main reason why Indian films go unnoticed in the international arena, he said. He added that it requires proper marketing strategies to get the acceptance of the international audience. Adding that IFFK has always been a source of inspiration to all moviegoers, Chhabra showered praise on the Kerala government for its decision to organize the festival despite the Covid situation. Calling the move a courageous one, he said that during these times of crisis, many festivals around the world are being abandoned or are organized online. It is a laborious task to get people to the theatres in four locations. The government of Kerala and the Chalachithra Academy have bravely taken up this task, said Chhabra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/churuli-attracts-delegates-in-large-numbers-on-day-2/articleshow/80869978.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Tap water access linked to dengue risk: Study||New Delhi: Tap water access in densely populated parts of Delhi is a strong predictor of the risk of contracting dengue, says a study, which may lead to new strategies to control transmission of the deadly virus in urban areas. The dengue virus is among a growing number of mosquito-borne pathogens across the world that have adapted to spread in cities, the scientists, including Vikram Kumar from National Institute of Malaria Research in Delhi, noted. They said close to 3.5 billion people across the world were at risk of dengue, which is spreading increasingly with growing rates of urbanisation. In the current study, published in the journal PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases, the scientists analysed social and environmental risk factors for contracting the virus in Delhi. They measured dengue antibodies in 2,107 individuals and mosquito larval prevalence in 18 areas within the city, including the socio-economic factors across neighbourhoods.  Based on the analysis, the scientists said, 7.6% of the surveyed individuals were positive for dengue virus antibodies, indicating a recent or current infection. The study found that colonies with very poor access to tap water, with less than 61% of houses having access, were associated with a higher risk of exposure to the virus.  According to the research, these were the only type of areas to register dengue cases between epidemics. However, despite relatively low mosquito densities, they said wealthy colonies had a higher risk of recent infection than intermediary colonies. The scientists believe this may likely reflect the import of dengue virus by commuters coming into the high income areas during the day.  Citing the limitations of the research, the scientists said the classifications in the study based on wealth indicators were subjective to an extent. However, they said these do offer at least some quantitative indication of socio-economic status. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tap-water-access-linked-to-dengue-risk-study/articleshow/80888375.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||30 rifle shooters to cull wild pigs: Forest dept||Hyderabad: The Telangana state forest department on Thursday informed that it identified 30 rifle shooters for culling wild pigs in the state as a voluntary service to farmers. A statement from the forest department said that some members of the panel of shooters met forest officials voicing their concern over the demand for money in order to cull wild boars. “The list of shooters empanelled by the department has been circulated to all the officials of agriculture, forests, horticulture and panchayat raj departments across Telangana,” the statement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-rifle-shooters-to-cull-wild-pigs-forest-dept/articleshow/80868387.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Monitoring system on lines of tsunami warning can help avoid Uttarakhand-like disasters: DU professor||NEW DELHI: Surveillance and monitoring systems along the lines of tsunami warning systems, which are installed around the Indian Ocean, can help prevent Uttarakhand-like disasters, says Delhi University professor and Himalayan expert Maharaj K Pandit. The professor claims that rising temperature was the major reason behind the recent tragedy. “The disaster that struck Rishganga-Dhauliganga Valley on February 7 is a sad reminder of the natural vulnerability of the Himalayas to the vagaries of the mountain’s very nature. We should not kid ourselves into believing that this is the last disastrous Himalayan event that caused the loss of human life, property and infrastructure, including two hydropower plants,” says Pandit. In 2013, he had in a journal, ‘Nature’, cautioned about the threats that rising temperatures pose. “Melting ice and snow form new glacial lakes and increase the volumes of existing ones. This may raise the threat of glacial-lake outburst floods. Some 8,800 glacial lakes in the Himalayas are spread across nations and more than 200 of these have been classified as dangerous,” he wrote in the journal. The former dean of the Faculty of Science says that “the Himalayan countries need to build an international network that will monitor risks, such as those from glacial lakes, and give early warning of hazards.” He adds that floods in the Himalayas and its downstream are caused mostly by temporary damming of river channels, which wreak havoc on being breached. The damming is caused by landslides, which are triggered by a plethora of natural and man-made factors like heavy rainfall, earthquake, active geological features, deforestation, large-scale land-use changes, etc. He believes that the site of destruction, downstream to Vishnuprayag, has numerous geothermal (hot) springs that indicate volcanic activity or magma lurking below, spewing out fountains of hot water. “Considering recent evidence that the Himalayas is warming more rapidly than other world mountains, presence of geological features like geothermal springs is a double whammy that can potentially trigger massive fluvio-glacial material movement. Dhauliganga Valley between Reni village and Vishnuprayag is very narrow and that compounded the problem,” says Pandit. The professor suggests that the mountains should not be strained and that regular monitoring and data analysis of dangerously positioned flood sources in the upstream regions are critical to hazard management. “The scientific information will not only save lives, property and limited financial resources but also avoid human misery and unnecessary expenditure on post-hazard operations.” He has further called for compensatory afforestation programmes, funded by hydropower corporations, and involvement of local communities, civil society and women’s self-help groups in infra projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/monitoring-system-on-lines-of-tsunami-warning-can-help-avoid-uttarakhand-like-disasters-du-prof/articleshow/80868456.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Statement by Sanjay Dhotre on ITIR project misleading: Telangana minister||HYDERABAD: Telangana IT minister KT Rama Rao said Union minister of state for electronics and IT Sanjay Dhotre’s statement on Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) project was misleading and factually incorrect. “The statement given by union minister Sanjay Dhotre on ITIR, Hyderabad, in Lok Sabha on February 10 is factually incorrect,” KTR said. The union minister of state responded to a question in Lok Sabha on ITIR, posed by BJP MP from Karimnagar Bandi Sanjay. The Telangana minister said that in spite of submitting detailed project reports (DPR) and also several reminders in the last six years, the union minister chose to mislead the house by issuing the statement that the Telangana government was asked to submit the required information to the concerned ministries with intimation to MeitY. No information was furnished by the Telangana government. Explaining further, the Telangana minister said the first such letter was written to PM Narendra Modi by chief minister KCR as soon as the Telangana state was formed in June 2014. Another detailed memorandum was submitted on ITIR project to the Centre by him in September 2014. Similarly, in 2016, he met the then union minister of state for labour and employment Bandaru Dattatreya to present a DPR of ITIR, as a response to the latter’s comments that the Telangana government did not submit a project report. “Though the state government presented a project report on ITIR twice, union minister Bandaru Dattatreya commented that we did not submit DPR. Probably he might have been misguided by officials. To put things straight and make facts clear, I personally met him and also presented the DPR of ITIR once again,” the Telangana IT minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/statement-by-dhotre-on-itir-project-misleading-says-ktr/articleshow/80868386.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 12, 2021||Bengaluru||UK flyers show Covid antibody and vax certificates, seek quarantine exemption||BENGALURU: Passengers flying in from the United Kingdom are now seeking exemption from the mandatory home quarantine of 14 days, saying they are here for short visits, with some even furnishing Covid-antibody or vaccination certificates or both. The quarantine precautions were put in place following fears of the UK variant of SARS-CoV2, which is known for faster transmission and is being blamed for a spike in cases in that country. Faced with multiple exemption requests, the state health department has sought the guidance of the technical advisory committee. A meeting was held in this regard on Thursday. BBMP said irrespective of certificates produced, state and central directives must be followed. ‘UK returnees’ request must be considered’Public health experts said since the passengers are producing antibody or vaccination certificates, showing they are not a threat, their request must be considered. Since November 25, when the central government issued a new guideline to control the spread of the UK variant, passengers returning from the UK are being made to undergo Covid RT-PCR test on arrival. Those testing negative are told to quarantine themselves at home for 14 days while those testing positive are taken to a government Covid hospital. Since November 25, 10,218 passengers from the UK have landed in Karnataka and of them, 59 tested positive for Covid. Twenty-six primary contacts of those infected were found infected. On analysing the genomic sequencing of their samples at Nimhans, 21 have been found to be infected with the UK variant. Authorities say steps taken to isolate the patients at the earliest have helped in controlling the spread. A majority of the UK returnees are in Bengaluru. “We are in a tricky situation. Some of the returnees have come to see their parents. Some have come for marriage ceremonies. When they are vaccinated, and have certificates showing that they have Covid antibodies, we need to look into the matter,” said a public health expert. “The government’s measures for strict home quarantine was to ensure no spread of the new variant in India.” BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad said he was not aware of passengers making exemption requests. “Whether they carry Covidnegative certificate, or Covid vaccination report, they have to follow the state and central government directives,” he said. Health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said he would look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/uk-flyers-show-covid-antibody-and-vax-certificates-seek-quarantine-exemption/articleshow/80871419.cms||Sunitha Rao R
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Cut in referral wages to hit Gulf workers’||Hyderabad: TRS Rajya Sabha member KR Suresh Reddy said the government of India’s move in reducing the referral wages of workers in the Gulf will adversely impact them. Speaking on the Union Budget on Wednesday, Suresh Reddy said reducing the minimum wage would severely affect the workers. Referring to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget speech wherein she talked about skilled workers going to the Gulf countries, Suresh Reddy said the GoI through a circular had reduced the minimum referral wage to 200 dollars per month. “The reduction in the wages is by 30 per cent,” the TRS MP said and pointed out that according to available figures 90 lakh to one crore Indians work in the Gulf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cut-in-referral-wages-to-hit-gulf-workers/articleshow/80868431.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Wife-beater labourer who earns Rs 6,000 monthly ordered to pay Rs 3,500 to wife||A 30-year-old labourer earning Rs 6,000 a month has been ordered to pay Rs 3,500 monthly maintenance to his estranged wife after she filed a domestic violence complaint against him and her in-laws. The man must also pay her Rs 2,500 as compensation and Rs 1,000 as legal costs. Ruling in favour of the 28-year-old mother of one, a magistrate’s court said she had testified that even during her say at her parents’ home, her husband and in-laws used to visit and assault her. “She proved her complaints made to the police. Thus, the applicant [woman] has proved total misbehaviour on the part of the opponents... In the circumstances, under the Domestic Violence Act, the applicant is entitled to protection order,” the court said. It said copies of the judgement be sent to the protection officer and police inspector of the relevant police station. —Rebecca Samervel||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wife-beater-labourer-who-earns-rs-6000-monthly-ordered-to-pay-rs-3500-to-wife/articleshow/80870067.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chennai||Property registration revenue revives partially in Chennai||CHENNAI: Revenue through property registrations in the Chennai Zone comprising the city, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, after a slump due to Covid-19, has shown a marginal increase of 4% in January. This is still less as Chennai zone in pre-Covid times accounted for an average of 45% of the state’s total revenue. Registration department data shows Chennai zone accounted for 36% of the total revenue in January, up from 32% till December 2020. In January, revenue of ₹896.7 crore was recorded across Tamil Nadu, with more than 2 lakh documents registered. While the value of registrations in January 2021 was an increase by 8% over the figure in January 202, about 10,430 additional documents were registered in January 2021 over the same period in 2020. Except for Chennai and Thanjavur zones, all other districts have either equalled or exceeded previous year volumes in the number of property registrations compared to 2020. Real estate experts say the slow phase of revival in Chennai Zone is due to the secondary investments made by many city residents in their native places. SrinivasAnikipatti, senior director of Knight Frank India (Tamil Nadu and Kerala) said many Chennaiites who moved to their hometowns during the pandemic are preferring investments there. “But for Coronavirus, these secondary investments would have been made in Chennai and its neighbourhood,” he said. The total revenue through property registrations netted nearly ₹8,000 crore between April 2020 and January 2021. The revenue is expected to touch ₹10,000 crore in the current fiscal, though it depends on the declaration of model code of conduct for ensuing assembly election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/property-registration-revenue-revives-partially-in-chennai/articleshow/80868440.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
February 12, 2021||Surat||Surat’s realtors to join the strike||Surat: About 300 construction sites across the city will remain shut to protest the increase in the prices of cement and steel on Friday. Builders affiliated with the CREDAI’s Surat chapter will shut the construction and related activities as part of the strike announced by the Builders’ Association of India (BAI).CREDAI office-bearers said that the cement prices have increased by 28% and steel prices have gone up by 47% in the last four years. “Around 30,000 construction workers, too have supported the strike and they will stay away from work,” CREDAI president, Ravji Patel told TOI. The CREDAI office-bearers will also submit a memorandum to the district collector demanding reduction in the prices of cement and steel.According to Patel, about 50 residential projects in the posh Vesu, Althan, Adajan and Pal have been stuck due to the hike in the prices of steel and cement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-realtors-to-join-the-strike/articleshow/80867034.cms||---
February 12, 2021||India||Nitish meets Modi, backs new farm laws||PATNA: Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday met PM Narendra Modi for the first time since the assembly elections in November last year and said he had come to meet the PM to extend thanks for the latter’s support during the 2020 polls. On the farmers’ agitation, the CM said the Centre was holding talks with farmers and he hoped that the issue would be resolved soon. He added that he fully backed the three farm laws and believed that the legislations were in the interest of farmers. Asked if he had a discussion with the PM on the farm issue, Nitish said there was no need for any discussion (with the PM).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nitish-meets-modi-backs-new-farm-laws/articleshow/80871466.cms||Madan Kumar
February 12, 2021||Madurai||Fake passport: HC dismisses plea to shift probe to CBI||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday dismissed a plea which sought to transfer investigation to the CBI in a case registered by the Q Branch against several people who had obtained passports by submitting forged documents in Madurai district.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Muruga Ganesan, joint secretary of the advocates wing of the PMK. In his petition, Ganesan had stated that several people including Sri Lankan refugees obtained passports by producing fake documents in 2019. All these passports were issued after verification by the Avaniyapuram police station.A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed: “we do not find any public interest involved in this as the case has been registered and the investigation is under progress.” The judges observed that the investigation was moving in the right track and there was no material evidence produced by the petitioner to show that it was not done properly.During the course of hearing, additional advocate general K Chellapandian appearing for the state submitted that the Q Branch had registered a case against several people including three police personnel, one official from passport office and two postal department employees. He stated that 16 people have been arrested and 175 witnesses have been examined in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fake-passport-hc-dismisses-plea-to-shift-probe-to-cbi/articleshow/80870078.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||The beginning that wasn’t: Parents rue lost year of kids||NEW DELHI: The process of nursery admissions for this year will finally begin soon, but the children admitted last year have spent their whole year without going to school even for a single day. The year, the first in the school life for the most, was spent in front of laptops and phones due to the pandemic. Parents feel it has been a “zero year” because kids may have picked up a few academic skills, but have hardly grown emotionally. “When online classes started, I was not sure how such a young child will learn. But the school insisted, so we started following the schedule — getting up early, making the kid sit on a chair while keeping the laptop at a distance,” said a parent, whose son studies at The Shri Ram School. “Slowly they got used to listening to the teacher. I will not say they haven’t learnt anything, but they would have learnt a lot of other things at school.” Most parents believe meeting the teacher regularly helps in the all-round development of children and they learn to do a lot of things on their own. “They learn to stay away from the mother, go to the toilet on their own, clean their hands and try to eat lunch,” said Sunita Chauhan, a parent whose daughter will now be promoted to KG. Many parents are also anxious that even if their children go to school in the 2021-22 session, their emotional level will be similar to that of a nursery child. “Emotionally, both nursery and KG students will be learning to adjust to the school environment,” said Pankaj Sinha, a parent whose child is admitted to a private school. But not going to school even this year also worries them. They feel their children may even lag in academics. “They may be able to learn verbally, but writing is difficult. Many parents have started thinking about taking tuitions where they are trying to build a school like set-up. By the time kids reach KG, they should know to write—small letters, words,” added a worried Sinha. A petition was filed in Delhi High Court asking for deferring the nursery admissions this year. The purpose of nursery education is like a play school, making children do physical and emotional activities, and familiarising them with school environment, and it cannot be done online, it had said. The court had disposed of the petition, asking the government to consider this aspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/the-beginning-that-wasnt-parents-rue-lost-year-of-kids/articleshow/80868491.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Police apprehend 16-year-old boy for sodomising two-year-old||NEW DELHI: A 16-year-old boy has been apprehended for allegedly sodomising a two-year-old child at his house in Subhash Nagar on Tuesday. The boy worked at the house as a domestic help and had sexually assaulted the child on the pretext of taking him to bed for the day. A case under POCSO Act and other relevant sections has been registered. The matter came to light when police received a complaint from the child’s father, who stated that his two-year-old son had been sexually assaulted. He told police that about 11.50pm, their domestic help took his son to a room on the first floor and assured that he would make him sleep. After some time, when the child’s mother went upstairs, she found that the room was locked from inside and her son was crying. “On this, she asked the domestic help to open the door. When he did so, she checked on her son and found him bleeding from his private parts. When she confronted the domestic help, he ran away from the house,” said a police officer. The boy was later apprehended from New Delhi Railway Station when he was planning to leave the city. During questioning, he confessed to have sexually assaulted the child. “He was produced before a juvenile justice board and was sent to an observation home,” the officer said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-apprehend-16-year-old-boy-for-sodomising-2-yr-old/articleshow/80868501.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chennai||New policy may hurt old MTC buses||Chennai: Last week, the Centre announced that the first phase of its scrappage policy will be applicable to government vehicles only. But it is expected to have no impact on vehicles owned and run by Tamil Nadu motor vehicle maintenance department on behalf the state government. The department, which operates nearly 22,000 cars and two-wheelers, sells off around 800 unfit vehicles every year through auctions. “The existing state law doesn’t allow us to run any vehicle beyond 10 years. So there is no question of undergoing a test after 15 or 20 years,” said a senior official from the department, requesting anonymity. However, there is no clarity on whether all the guidelines under the new scrappage policy are applicable to buses run by state-owned transport corporations. If so, then the financial burden of MTC is expected to increase. Of the 3,100 MTC buses being run in Chennai, around one-third are more than eight years old. These buses have run more than 10 lakh kilometres. Road worthiness of some buses is suspect as these meet with frequent accidents. According to the new policy, commercial vehicles, aged above eight years, should not only clear the fitness test but also pay a green tax that is expected to be 10% to 25% of the road tax. MTC, however, is confident that it can manage these expenses as its maintenance cost has come down of late. A senior official said: “Unlike old buses, the new buses fitted with Bharat Stage IV engines do not need any major engine repairs for at least 10 lakh kilometres. The spares are cheaper. So even if our buses are made to undergo a fitness test, they will easily clear them.” But V Suresh Kumar, an advocate dealing with road accident claims, said except for the new red buses, most old buses have broken seats and run on worn-out spare parts. “An MTC bus breaking down or getting involved in an accident is common. When the corporation does not have enough money to settle claims made in motor accident tribunal, I don’t understand the logic behind claiming additional tax expenditure as manageable,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-policy-may-hurt-old-mtc-buses/articleshow/80868514.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Agra||19-yr-old arrested for taking loans with forged documents||Agra: A 19-year-old youth was arrested for allegedly cheating various banks by opening fake accounts by using forged documents and later fleecing finance companies to buy high end consumer and electronic items.The accused has been identified as Yogesh Kumar, a BSc first year student and a resident of Hathras. The accused had opened at least 10 fake accounts in various banks including the Axis Bank, ICICI, IDBI, and Indusind bank and applied for loans in HDFC bank and Bajaj Finance.“Two mobile phones, three LED TVs, one Gym machine, one Sony home theatre, three fake Aadhaar cards and one Apple laptop have been recovered from his possession,” said cyber crime officer in Agra, Vijay Tomar.Tomar added that the accused belongs to a well-off family, but was doing it to earn quick money.The matter came to light after Bajaj Finance Company manager lodged a police complaint against an unidentified person for taking loan by producing fake documents in Agra, Aligarh, Gautam Budhnagar, Mathura and Delhi. The finance company noticed it after not getting the EMI for the products, bought by him, on time.The youth’s modus operandi was to use the fake Aadhaar card after putting his picture on it for opening a fake bank account and buying SIM cards for getting OTP. He used a PVC card printer for taking out a hard copy of the Aadhaar card which is to be produced at the time of opening the account. He also checked CIBIL score (consumer’s credit score) before applying for a loan.Tomar said that Kumar has been booked under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly) along with 467, 468, 471 of IPC at Jadishpura police station and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/19-yr-old-arrested-for-taking-loans-with-forged-documents/articleshow/80867065.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Oil spill from TTPL sparks environmental concerns||Thiruvananthapuram: A leakage in the pipeline carrying furnace oil to the boiler at Travancore Titanium Products Ltd (TTPL) on Wednesday caused oil spill in the sea along Shanghumugham-Veli coast forcing a temporary ban on visit to tourism spots and fishing activities for 48 hours. Tourists will be prohibited from entering Veli, Sanghumugham and Vettucaud beaches on Thursday too. The pipeline carrying the furnace oil runs above the drainage line and the spilled oil directly flowed into the drainage line leading to the sea. About 5,000 litres of oil is estimated to have been leaked. High-pressure pumping caused excessive leakage following the pipe burst. The authorities said approximately 2,000 litres of oil must have spilt into the sea. Later in the day, the TTPL stopped operations following a directive from the pollution control board. PCB issued a letter to TTPL expressing strong objection over the company’s failure to inform it about the oil spill. The agency has instructed PCB instructed TTPL not to resume operations until containment, cleansing and disposal measures are completed. An emergency response team has managed to contain the flow by blocking the drainage line. The recovery of spilt oil has also been initiated. With sea waves washing ashore the oil, thick tar has been formed on the beach. Saw dust is being sprayed over the tar which is then scooped up and stored at TTPL and will be disposed of scientifically. The team is also in talks with technical firms to engage machinery for the recovery of oil sediments. The damaged pipeline will be replaced. Generally, around 26,000 litres of furnace oil are stored at TTPL and 12,000 litres are used daily to generate steam and for other burning purposes. Such an oil leakage has been reported at TTPL for the first time and the company has initiated an internal inquiry. An acid plant is generally used to generate steam but as it was shut down, furnace oil was used for the purpose. A Coast Guard ship and an aircraft conducted surveillance over the coastal area following the oil spill. The officials of pollution control board visited the site and assessed the situation. District authorities havedirected TTPL to remove the sand littered with oil on the beach from Vettucaud to Veli. A report prepared for Thiruvananthapuram by the state disaster management authority in 2016 had stressed the need for formulation of an oil spill contingency plan for the coastline. It had focused more on causes arising from increased coastal transport owing to the upcoming Vizhinjam port.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/oil-spill-from-ttpl-sparks-environmental-concerns/articleshow/80870200.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Haryanvi singer Choudhary booked in cheating case||New Delhi: Haryanvi singer Sapna Choudhary has been booked by Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing for alleged misappropriation of funds amounting up to Rs 4 crore, cheating and criminal conspiracy, following a complaint by the director of a celebrity management and events management firm.The FIR, against Choudhary and others, was registered on Wednesday, in which Pawan Chawla of P&M Movies Private Limited alleged that after exiting a popular television reality show, the singer had approached him in March 2018 through a common friend to work with the firm. An artist-management agreement was executed in 2018, which had barred her from working with any other company.The same year in May, Choudhary and her mother took Rs 50 lakh as loan citing an emergency, the complainant claimed. Though Choudhary had returned Rs 13 lakh, she took a few more loans, the FIR states. In January 2020, another artist-management agreement was executed when it was allegedly found that Choudhary owed Chawla Rs 3.5 crore.Chawla has alleged that last March, he came to know that Choudhary had opened a branch office of his company in Gurgaon and also involved one of his employees in her venture. Choudhary and others have committed breach of trust and misappropriated a huge amount taken from him, he alleged. He complained that while approaching him for a Rs 1-crore loan to buy a house in Gurgaon, Choudhary had promised to execute its sale deed in his name in case she failed to return the amount. Choudhary told TOI, “I am aware of the FIR. This is not the first time this is happening. Time will tell; in this industry, all these things keep happening.”“We are looking into others’ role, but no arrest has been made so far,” a cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/haryanvi-singer-choudhary-booked-in-cheating-case/articleshow/80868506.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Plea in Delhi HC seeks vaccine for inmates out on bail||NEW DELHI: A petition has been moved in Delhi High Court seeking a direction to the Centre and Delhi government to vaccinate undertrial prisoners and convicts, who are out on interim bail during the pandemic, asserting that there is a probability of the prison complexes becoming Covid-19 hotspots upon their return. Petitioner advocate Abhilasha Shrawat submitted that a high-powered committee has decided to not extend the emergency parole or interim bail of the prisoners on the grounds of declining Covid-19 situation and asked them to surrender by February 7. “If prisoners outside the jails are not vaccinated, then there are probable chances of the prison complexes becoming hotspots. Overcrowding along with poor sanitation facilities make these prisons prone to the spreading the virus,” the plea said. IANS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-in-hc-seeks-vaccine-for-inmates-out-on-bail/articleshow/80868546.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Lakhs of old vehicles, only one recycling unit||CHENNAI: The Centre plans to ensure that all vehicles are scrapped 15 years after they are bought unless they pass a stringent fitness test. An announcement is imminent and this could see millions of vehicles classified as scrap overnight. In Tamil Nadu alone, more than 6.7 million vehicles were registered before 2004 and if even one-tenth of them fail the fitness test, the number of bikes, cars, autorickshaws, buses and trucks bound for the scrapyard will run into thousands. But the state has just one automobile recycling unit, at Sriperumbudur near Chennai. The centre named CERO is run by Mahindra in collaboration with Metal Scrap Trade Corporation (MSTC) Limited -- a Union steel ministry Initiative. This is one of two operational recycling centres in the country. The other 23 authorised centres are expected to resume operations soon, said industry sources. The Sriperumbudur unit, which was launched in December 2019, to handle 20-odd vehicles a month, is now recycling about 200 vehicles every month. This includes cars, two-wheelers, trucks and buses. Rajesh Menon, Director-General of Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), said, “An attractive scrappage policy should hopefully lead to private investments in setting up more scrapping centres.” A senior official from the Union road transport ministry said that ideally any authorised vehicle scrapyard would take care of the end-to-end recycling process at minimal cost. Any customer willing to get his or her vehicle recycled at an authorised centre need not pay anything for the service. Instead the recycling unit will purchase the vehicle. “All an old car owner needs to do is to contact the nearby scrapping or recycling unit. Their vehicle will be towed from the customer’s place, evaluations will be made on site and a ‘certificate of destruction’ will be provided at the end so that there were no apprehensions of the vehicle being used elsewhere,” the official added. The Centre is also mulling incentives for those who opt to scrap their old cars. Captain Mohan Ram, who has worked in the vehicle recycling sector for decades, said that many countries have proved that more than 90% of a vehicle can be recycled and put back into use by employing shredders. More than cars, there is an urgent need for two-wheeler recycling units as their population is simply eight times more. In comparative units, setting up a two-wheeler dismantling unit needs less effort and investment but pollution load will decrease significantly, he added. S Yuvaraj from TN Truckers Asssociation said that before opening more scrap yards, the state government should focus on opening more vehicle fitness testing centres soon. The transport department’s proposal to start two such centres in Chennai and Trichy are pending, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/67-lakh-old-vehicles-but-only-one-recycling-unit/articleshow/80868504.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 12, 2021||Agra||Covid-free certificate must for applicants in Army recruitment drive||Agra: The Indian Army has made Covid-free certificate mandatory for applicants participating in a recruitment drive, which will commence in six districts of UP on February 15. The applicants will have to wear face masks and carry hand sanitizer along with gloves while taking the fitness and medical test. According to director recruitment of Army Recruiting Office, Agra, Col Siddhartha Basu, the Covid-free certificate should not be older than 48 hours before the applicant appears for the exam. This step has been taken as a precautionary measure, as around 1.12 lakh youth from Kasganj, Hathras, Firozabad, Aligarh, Agra, Mathura will participate in the 19-day drive. Basu told TOI, “The applicant’s temperature will be checked before entering the venue. In case of any symptoms, an antigen test will also be conducted even if he is carrying a Covid negative test report.” He added that all precautions are being taken as the recruitment drive will have to be shut if any Army personnel gets infected. The recruitment drive for soldiers (general duty, technical, tradesman and clerical/store keeper) will be conducted at Anand Engineering College, near Keetham lake on Agra-Mathura highway from February 15 to March 6 where aspirants from all six districts will participate. The drive will be monitored by a drone amid tight security arrangements. According to available information, on the first two days, February 15 and 16, youths from Kasganj will take the test, followed by those from Hathras (February16-18, Firozabad (February 18-20), Aligarh (February 21-25 ) and Mathura and Agra from February 26 to March 6. Those shortlisted will appear in the common entrance exam which will be conducted in the last week of April, said officials. Col Basu said the All-India religious preachers (Granthi, Padre, Maulvi) test will also be conducted in Agra on March 9 and 10 and more than 6,000 applicants have registered for the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-free-certificate-must-for-applicants-in-army-recruitment-drive/articleshow/80867075.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Madurai||Neet impersonation: HC tells univ to issue certificates to student||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed the SRM University at Chennai to issue transfer and conduct certificates to a student involved in Neet impersonation as he had joined a course in another college.The petitioner was involved in Neet impersonation and a case was registered against him by the Theni CB-CID officials. All the educational documents were seized by the police and some were handed over before the Theni judicial magistrate (JM) court.Since the petitioner wanted to join a course, he filed a petition seeking return of the documents and the high court in 2020 had ordered to return the Classes X and XII marksheets.The petitioner sought for the transfer certificate produced before the JM court, however, the court refused to return it on the ground that those documents are of no use as they were produced during admission in MBBS course.The petitioner had filed this revision petition challenging the order of the Theni JM court seeking to return his school transfer and conduct certificates.Additional public prosecutor submitted that since the petitioner was admitted in an MBBS course in SRM University, the transfer and conduct certificates were of no use and cannot be returned.During the course of hearing, the court had suo motu impleaded SRM University as a respondent in the case. The counsel for the university submitted that since the student had not continued the course, they are ready to issue transfer and conduct certificates mentioning that a criminal case is pending against the petitioner.Taking cognizance of the submissions, justice R Tharani observed that the petitioner has been admitted in another college and it is the duty of the university to give transfer and conduct certificates to him. The judge observed that since the case has been pending against the petitioner, university is at liberty to mention the same in the conduct certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/neet-impersonation-hc-tells-univ-to-issue-certificates-to-student/articleshow/80870085.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police take note of ‘extortion’ by civil defence volunteers||NEW DELHI: Taking note of rampant complaints of extortion by civil defence volunteers who have been illegally issuing Covid and other challans to the public, Delhi Police on Thursday said it had taken cognisance of the issue and was initiating action against the offenders. Highlighting that people have been mistaking the volunteers as policemen due to similar uniform, Delhi Police in a tweet urged Delhiites to verify their identity before accepting any challans. Cops said they have registered several FIRs and are taking each complaint seriously. Last week, a journalist and his wife were harassed at ITO after being accused of not wearing a mask. Following this, several Twitter users had highlighted similar plight. “It is learnt that civil defence volunteers, who on their own have no power to prosecute for Covid violations, are doing so and are mistaken as Delhi Police personnel. Misconduct, if any, are attributed to Delhi Police,” the police’s tweet read. “FIRs have also been registered in this regard and miscreants have been arrested. We appeal that people may verify their identity before accepting any challan,” another tweet read. According to the cops, they had received several complaints about volunteers being involved in crimes ranging from cheating to snatching and kidnappings. A few days ago, three civil defence volunteers deployed at the office of SDM, New Delhi, were arrested on charges of issuing fake Covid challans to people visiting Talkatora Garden. The accused were identified as Sunny, Yashwant and Lucky. In one of the cases, the accused had asked for Rs 2,000 each from two people for not wearing masks. As the victims didn’t have cash on them, the accused made them transfer money through an e-wallet platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-take-note-of-extortion-by-civil-defence-volunteers/articleshow/80868502.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Madurai||HC: Stop hurling baseless charges against judges||Madurai: Observing that it is high time stakeholders of judiciary refrained from making baseless allegations against judicial officers, Madras high court dismissed a plea moved by a man challenging the dismissal of his petition before the Tirunelveli special court. The case in question, which was registered against petitioner Lakshmanan in 2005, involved corruption and the final report was filed in 2007. It has been pending for the past 13 years. In March last year, the petitioner filed an application before the special court for trial of cases under Prevention of Corruption Act seeking certain documents, but the court dismissed the application in July. Challenging it, he moved the HC Madurai bench. The counsel contended that the trial court, after receiving the counter statement during the pandemic period, had dismissed the petition without hearing his side. He had submitted that the trial court judge did not give sufficient opportunity to argue their case elaborately in physical mode though he is not blaming or making any allegation against the judicial officer.Justice K Murali Shankar observed that though the counsel had withdrawn his allegation immediately, the ground of attack finds place in the petition due to which this court is constrained to deal with it. The judge observed that during the pandemic the entire country was working virtually. Since the petitioner had not raised any objection before the trial court against hearing the case virtually, he cannot raise such a stand before the court.The very lodging of a complaint that the petitioner was not given opportunity to argue elaborately physically is against the orders of the Supreme Court which had permitted virtual hearing of cases. “Moreover, it is high time for the stakeholders of the judiciary to refrain from making allegations or levelling charges against the judicial officers without any basis or iota of truth.” The court said the bar must discourage clients and the litigant from raising baseless allegations and they must desist from incorporating the same in the pleadings. The judge said that the trial court had observed that the petitioner / accused had not pleaded about the nature of the documents sought for and the reasons why he wanted to send for the same. Observing that there is no infirmity in the order passed by the trial court, the judge dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-stop-hurling-baseless-charges-against-judges/articleshow/80870107.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 12, 2021||Madurai||Man held for sexually assaulting minor girl in Madurai||MADURAI: The Madurai city police arrested a 31-year-old man for sexually assaulting a 10-year-old girl after taking her to a secluded place in Virudhunagar district on Wednesday. The girl, who was later abandoned in a secluded place, spent the night alone, before being located by the locals on Thursday morning. The accused is a light commercial vehicle driver and was the girl’s relative. Avaniyapuram police inspector Pethuraj said the accused took the girl in his vehicle. He then sexually assaulted her at a secluded place in Thiruchuli Road. As she screamed, he gave her a cool drink mixed with some intoxicant substance. Fearing that the girl would reveal his crime to her parents, he abandoned her and returned home. The girl woke up in the morning and came to the road, where she was spotted by locals. Police said the girl’s parents searched for her till midnight after she went missing. As they could not find her, they approached the Avaniyapuram police. Based on a complaint from the girl’s father a missing case was registered. Police too joined the search. Meanwhile, the girl’s parents received a phone call from villagers from Kariapatti in Virudhunagar district on Thursday morning. They told the parents that they found the girl wandering lonely on a road. Police reached there and rescued her. A case under the sections of the Pocso Act has been registered and an inquiry under way. The accused would be produced before a judicial magistrate on Friday, the inspector said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl/articleshow/80870114.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Waste collection carts parked on road in KK Nagar, residents irked||CHENNAI: They are part of the ecofriendly solution to the city’s garbage menace, but battery-run vehicles launched by Greater Chennai Corporation are being parked on busy roads, and residents are not happy. A portion of Anna Main Road in KK Nagar has been turned into a parking lot for the vehicles as the corporation does not have enough space to park them. The contractor, Urbaser-Sumeet, has set up temporary sheds to park and charge the vehicles. The road is closed for Metrowater work for six months now. Residents said such encroachment will encourage other motorists who will park on the road illegally. In Perungudi, residents staged a protest when land allocated for a park was used to keep the vehicles. When contacted, the contractor said the spot was provided by corporation officials. “We haven’t encroached any land. The corporation has provided parking area for us to charge the vehicles. We have parked on the land allotted to us,” said a representative from Urbaser-Sumeet. There are 2,919 vehicles for the seven zones and about 20 to 50 of these vehicles need parking space in every ward. A corporation official from the solid waste management department said the corporation has allotted the contractor parking space where debris is dumped and at ward offices. “We need to provide them with space to park and charge the vehicles. The land in KK Nagar is adjacent to a park and the road is 120 feet wide. The land allocated is not on the road but a patch that belongs to the corporation. We are neither hindering traffic nor encroaching any land.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/waste-collection-carts-parked-on-road-in-kk-nagar-residents-irked/articleshow/80868544.cms||Komal Gautham
February 12, 2021||Madurai||Passengers at Madurai airport only 70% of pre-Covid times||Madurai: The aviation sector is yet to recover from the impact of Covid-19 despite more flights resuming operations and more destinations being added. While passenger traffic is seeing month-on-month growth, it is yet to be anywhere near pre-Covid days. The number of passengers using Madurai airport has been on the rise ever since it was opened in May after being shut for two months due to the pandemic. However, achieving pre-Covid levels is not in sight any time soon.There is a 70% drop in the number of passengers handled by the airport between April and December 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. Officials at Madurai airport say that month-on-month growth of passenger number has been encouraging. For instance, 83,540 passengers were handled in January which is 16% higher compared to December 2020. The airport handled about 70% of the monthly average of passengers of the pre-Covid-19 era in January. The average monthly footfall in Madurai airport before the pandemic struck was 1.2 lakh.Airport authorities say it is not fair to compare numbers with the pre-Covid era as many people are still scared of travelling despite the best possible safety measures being taken by Airports Authority of India and airlines. They expect people to realize it soon and plan their travel.Madurai airport director S Senthil Valavan said that apart from safety measures, they have taken up work to meet the infrastructure requirement in the post-Covid era. The proposal to expand the terminal building is inching closer to approval. Work like land acquisition for runway expansion is also getting closer to completion. Both the state government and AAI are very positive about the construction of the underpass required for the runway expansion. “The safety of passengers and aircraft is also being improved. Recently, we installed a Digital Current Weather Information System with the help of Indian Meteorological Department. It will provide various data required for enabling smoother operation of flights in real time so that accurate information can be shared by the air traffic controllers to pilots,” Senthil Valavan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/passengers-at-madurai-airport-only-70-of-pre-covid-times/articleshow/80870165.cms||V Devanathan
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: AISA condemns invite to PM Modi for Jamia event||NEW DELHI: A week after vice-chancellor of Jamia Millia Islamia Najma Akhtar said that the varsity is keen on inviting Prime Minister Narendra Modi for their centenary celebration, AISA has come out with a statement condemning this. On February 6 Akhtar had said that “we have requested the PM to grace the occasion through virtual mode as the chief guest” for the centenary celebration. Reacting on this, the AISA unit of Jamia, in a statement issued on February 11, said that they disapprove the invite to the PM. “The Jamia administration has shown its authoritarian and anti-student tendencies once again by inviting Modi. Students are shocked and displeased over the invite to PM as his ideas cross the line into hate speech and communalism. The students are angry, restless and unhappy with the workings of the Modi-led regime,” AISA said. Sources in Jamia, however, told TOI that no date had been set for the convocation and no invite had yet been sent to the PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aisa-condemns-invite-to-pm-for-jamia-event/articleshow/80868598.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Jodhpur: Court acquits Salman Khan of charges in arms licence case||JODHPUR: In a major reprieve for actor Salman Khan, the Jodhpur district and sessions court on Thursday dismissed the state government's plea and acquitted the Bollywood star of the charge of filing a false affidavit regarding his arms licence in the blackbuck poaching case. District judge Raghvendra Kachhwal pronounced the order, which had been reserved for three days after the completion of arguments on February 9. Khan was present in the court through video-conferencing while pronouncing the order. “We are happy that the court rejected the application of state and absolved Khan of the allegation of filing a false affidavit. There was not much substance in the matter and the allegation had been made against him just for the purpose of harassment,” said his counsel H M Saraswat. This is the second time that the actor has been acquitted of the charge. Earlier, the chief judicial magistrate's court too had absolved him and rejecting the application of the state. Khan had submitted the affidavit in the trial court in 2003, stating that he had lost his arms licence while hearing the case against him for poaching blackbucks in Kankani village in 1998. The prosecution had argued that he had submitted a false affidavit and stated that he had not lost the licence but submitted it for renewal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/court-acquits-salman-khan-of-charges-in-arms-licence-case/articleshow/80870168.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Here, pay to use free public toilets||CHENNAI: Radhika M*, a corporation employee, postedd at Pondy Bazaar in T Nagar is forced to use toilets at restaurants and commercial establishments as the corporation-run public toilet is either locked or a person sitting outside asks for a user fee. On Thursday, when TOI visited the toilet, it was locked. Public toilets run by the civic body that should be free have become pay-and-use facilities. Sources said political parties have posted representatives who collect a ‘fee’ ranging from Rs 2-10. The toilets are not maintained as well. A former councillor from T Nagar said this has been happening for several years. “This illegal collection of user fee is being ignored by the corporation,” he said. When asked, corporation officials said they would take action. “It is true that in many locations some people collect money illegally. But we have always acted on complaints. Ahead of the elections it becomes a menace,” said a senior engineer from Kodambakkam. In north Chennai, toilets that are contracted collect money from users. R Mahalakshmi, a social worker from T Nagar who has audited public toilets in the city earlier, said: “The usual excuse given for collection of money is the need to purchase cleaning material and salary of the staff maintaining them. Most of them are contracted and we are sure that this collection of money is illegal. This is the reason we have been asking for a Chennai toilet maintenance board that will look after the entire toilet infrastructure and its maintenance.” (* name changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/here-pay-to-use-free-public-toilets/articleshow/80868554.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal move Delhi HC for prison reforms||NEW DELHI: Jailed over their alleged role in instigating riots in northeast Delhi, JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal have moved Delhi High Court seeking prison reforms. In a joint plea, the two Pinjra Tod activists, facing multiple FIRs, have sought permanent facility of e-mulaqats (videoconferencing from jail) with family and friends equal in time and frequency as physical mulaqaat and other benefits for inmates in city prisons. The duo has also sought resumption of physical activities within jail by maintaining social distancing norms and access for inmates to accredited doctors, therapists, and other medical professionals through videoconferencing facilities, among other prayers. Citing their own experience in jail during the past seven months, the petitioners said they noticed and were subjected to “certain treatment which is not in consonance with principles of natural justice, or is an unjustifiable infraction into their right to life.” The plea says it seeks to “build a case for larger scale prison reform” adding that the accused are “both highly educated women having had demonstrated expertise as peaceful activists” who also seek to address the court through videoconference while in custody. The women want the high court to direct jail authorities to make mandatory/ compulsory the viewing of a video introducing new inmates to prison life and “permit the petitioner access to resource persons/research supervisors/other professionals through videoconferencing facilities as required for the purpose of completing education.” In their plea the two activists have also challenged a prison rule as violative of the right to food and sought directions to permit access to eggs/non-vegetarian food for inmates. It adds that “the objective of ensuring safe detention and minimum standards of treatment of prisoners consistent with the principles of dignity of the individuals” is not being met in view of the extenuating circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kalita-narwal-move-hc-for-prison-reforms/articleshow/80868556.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 12, 2021||Madurai||Two held for trying to sell fake black diamond||Tuticorin: The Thoothukudi South police on Thursday arrested two men for cheating jewellers by trying to sell a black shiny stone to them, which they claimed to be black diamond worth Rs 27 lakh. The duo was identified as S Ananda, 37, of Kothanur Dinne in J P Nagar in Bengaluru, and his accomplice D Venkatesh Babu, 45, of Hosur in Krishnagiri district.Superintendent of police (SP) of Tuticorin district S Jayakumar said the duo came to Tuticorin two days ago and stayed in a lodge in the city. “They claimed to have a black diamond and tried to sell it to a few jewellery outlets here. They also approached some individuals to sell it when information reached the police,” he said.Thoothukudi south police detained the duo and during inquiry they claimed it to be a 425 carat black diamond valued at Rs 27 lakh. Preliminary analysis of the stone revealed that it was fake and the duo tried to cheat with it. They were booked for cheating under sections 420 of the IPC.They will be remanded in judicial custody, police said and added that they are in touch with the Krishnagiri district police to find if the accused were involved in cheating in that region. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-held-for-trying-to-sell-fake-black-diamond/articleshow/80870137.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Madurai||MP writes to IBPS over clash in exam dates||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has written to the chairman of the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS), Mumbai, over the clash in dates for the recruitment process of two banking positions this month. In his letter on Thursday, the MP appealed to the chairman to change the date of one of the processes to benefit candidates who would appear for both the selection procedures. The MP requested the IBPS chairman to change the interview date for the probationary officer positions for the benefit of candidates. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-writes-to-ibps-over-clash-in-exam-dates/articleshow/80870149.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Madurai||Triweekly trains to run between Dadar and Tirunelveli||Madurai: Railways will operate a triweekly special train between Dadar and Tirunelveli starting February 27. This fully reserved train through Hosur, Dharmapuri and Salem will be in addition to the existing weekly special train between Tirunelveli and Mumbai that runs via Coimbatore and Mangaluru.According to a statement from the Madurai division of Southern Railway on Thursday, train No. 01021 Dadar – Tirunelveli triweekly special will leave Dadar at 9.30pm on Saturdays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays and reach Tirunelveli at 11.40am on the third day. This service will start on February 27.In the return direction, train No. 01022 Tirunelveli – Dadar triweekly special will leave Tirunelveli at 3pm on Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays and will reach Dadar at 5.30am on the third day. Services of the train will begin on March 1. Services of both the trains will continue till further advice.They have stoppages at Kalyan, Pune, Satara, Karad, Sangli, Miraj, Kudachi, Ghatprabha, Belgaum, Londa, Alnavar, Dharwar, Hubli, Haveri, Ranibennur, Harihar, Davangere, Birur, Kadur, Arsikere, Tiptur, Tumkur, Yesvantpur, Banaswadi, Hosur, Dharmapuri, Salem, Namakkal, Karur, Dindigul, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Sattur and Kovilpatti. Train No 01021 will stop at Karjat also. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/triweekly-trains-to-run-between-dadar-and-tirunelveli/articleshow/80870192.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Three Cong candidates move HC||Ahmedabad: Three Congress candidates moved the Gujarat high court on Thursday against rejection of their nominations, and seeking direction to concerned election officers to allow them to contest civic polls. Two of the candidates, Dinesh Parmar and Devalben Rathod, are from Ahmedabad while Shilpa Rana is from Bhavnagar district. The three candidates have alleged that the election officers rejected their nomination forms without giving them proper time to file a detailed written reply to the defects pointed out at the time of scrutiny, said their advocate Vivek Bhamare. Parmar, who wants to contest from Thakkarbapanagar constituency, was rejected on the ground that his “further affidavit with the form was not according to the format”. Rathod went to file her nomination for the Sardarnagar ward. Her nomination was rejected by the election officer on the ground that the person who was nominating her had not signed the nomination form. Rana's nomination form was rejected by the election officer on the ground that the party’s mandate showed the name of petitioner as 'Shilpaba Jaydevsinh Gohil instead of Shilpaba Jaydevsinh Rana'. All three petitioners have requested the high court to quash the orders of election officers rejecting their nomination forms. The matter is likely to be heard on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-cong-candidates-move-hc/articleshow/80870239.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Madurai||Heavy rain in January to cut salt production in Tamil Nadu by 10%||TUTICORIN: The unexpected heavy rain in January has not only affected crops on 3 lakh acres in Tuticorin district but also resumption of production in this salt-making hub of Tamil Nadu. Delayed by two months, production will now begin only in mid-March, causing at least a 10% drop in annual salt production or 2.5 lakh tonnes. The district has salt pans on 25,000 acres and employs about 50,000 people directly and indirectly. Annually, salt production in the district accounts for up to 80% of the state’s production. Work begins in the pans after Pongal, peaks by the end of January and continues till the onset of rain in September. Production is completely stopped from September till mid-January. “We don’t receive heavy rain from December, so we start preparing salt pans by repairing bunds damaged by the rain. Simultaneously, we pump fresh brine to a big tank and leave it open for the water to evaporate and for the salt concentration to increase during the next 25 to 30 days,” salt pan owner S Petchimuthu said. Water with high salt concentration is then released into the salt pans, where solidification and crystallisation takes place over the next 15 days. It is at this stage that the harvesting of crystal salt begins.  All this has been postponed due to the January rain that continued till Pongal. This year, the preparation of salt pans and pumping of brine to the tank began only by January end. “Harvesting would begin only after mid-March ,” Petchimuthu said. This will impact salt production by reducing it from the usual eight months a year to six months this year, provided there is no more rain till September. The worst hit have been salt pan workers who went jobless till commencement of production. Secretary of Tuticorin small scale manufacturers association A R A S Dhanapalan said salt production last year was about 22.5 lakh tonnes, that is 90% of the annual production of 25 lakh tonnes under ideal conditions. A spell of rain in February had impacted salt production last year. “We expect at least a 10% drop this year too due to the delay in beginning production,” he added. On the positive side, salt producers saw marginal increase in the price for stock leftover from last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/heavy-rain-in-jan-to-cut-salt-production-in-state-by-10/articleshow/80870181.cms||M K Ananth
February 12, 2021||Madurai||Man, 48, gets 10 years jail term for sexually assaulting minor kin||DINDIGUL: A mahila court on Thursday convicted a 48-year-old man to 10 years imprisonment after he was found guilty of sexually abusing his 15-year-old relative who had stayed at his house during her preparations for the class X board exams in 2018-19. The court also imposed Rs 10,000 as fine on him. The accused hailed from a village near Dindigul. Special public prosecutor, R Koperundevi, said the accused had convinced her parents to allow her to stay at his place for special coaching for a few days and prepare for the board exams. During that time he sexually abused her multiple times, after which she returned home and informed her parents. They preferred a complaint with the Dindigul all women police station, where a case was registered in January 2019. Police also arrested the accused and lodged him in jail. The case was heard before the Dindigul mahila court and on completion of trial, the judge S Purushothaman found the accused guilty. He was found guilty under sections 5(l) (whoever commits penetrative sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly)and 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The man was also awarded one year imprisonment as he was found guilty under section 506(i) (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-48-gets-10-yrs-jail-term-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-kin/articleshow/80870173.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation elections: Candidates get ‘copy-paste’ rate card||AHMEDABAD: Inflation has a crushing effect on the aam aadmi. However, it does not seem to have made much impact when it comes to polls and politicians.  Just check the rate card notified by the collectorate for the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation election, and you will find that the maximum amount that a candidate can spend on any item while campaigning is still the same as it was in the 2019 general election. In fact, the rate card even bears the signature of former collector Vikrant Pandey, who was Ahmedabad collector during the 2019 general election. So, like the 2019 Lok Sabha election, candidates for the AMC polls will be able to spend a maximum of Rs 6 for a ‘cutting’ (half) tea cup, and Rs 12 for a full cup of tea. Officials said that instead of blindly following the 2019 circular, the office of the collector should have at least taken into account the prevalent rates. Half a cup of tea now costs Rs 10, and not Rs 6. Also the rate of coffee has been kept at par with tea rates which is not the case in the market. Officials of the collectorate informed that collector Sandip Sagale had instructed the department concerned to retain the 2019 election rate card for the AMC election. Barring the first page of the rate card, which bears the signature of the current collector, all the other pages have the signature of former collector Vikrant Pandey. Collector Sagale was not available for his comments. A senior officer said that instead of creating the circular again, the entire circular was pasted below and no one realized, that pages bore the former collector’s signature. The State Election Commission (SEC) has fixed the maximum expenditure limit for candidates contesting in the municipal corporation elections, at Rs 6 lakh. The Congress alleged that the SEC, under pressure from the ruling BJP, has kept the rate card unchanged, in a bid to portray that there has been no increase in input costs. “Prices of every thing have shot up since 2019. Petrol and diesel prices have increased. Yet, rate card remains unchanged. The 2019 rate card has just been reproduced and handed over to parties,” said GPCC spokesperson Manish Doshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/candidates-get-copy-paste-rate-card/articleshow/80870241.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 12, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Pups fall into open well, dog barks for a day till help arrives||CHENNAI: Jillu, a stray dog, had been barking for hours on Wednesday. She was pacing up and down, and peeping into a dark well at a vacant plot on Thumbavanam Street in Kancheepuram. Local residents could not understand why Jillu was restless and barking. Tamil Nadu: Following a 30-minute-long struggle, rescuers bring out three puppies from 20-foot-deep well at… https://t.co/X4ZhjxCIkA— TOIChennai (@TOIChennai) 1613097837000A day later, on Thursday afternoon, a resident checked on Jillu and found that her puppies had fallen inside a 20-foot-deep well. They were struggling to come out and all along their mother had been barking for help. The resident informed the fire and rescue services personnel in Kancheepuram and three firemen led by Saravanan rushed to the scene. The firemen took 30 minutes to rescue the puppies, who were born three days ago. “The puppies were struggling in the dark and looking for a way to come out. But they kept hitting against the wall instead,” said Saravanan, adding that the well was dark and the team could only hear the puppies squeak. The team entered the well and used a bucket to bring the puppies out. “The dog stopped barking only after we climbed out,” he said. Since the well was uncovered, the newly born puppies might have slipped into it, residents said. Locals, who had thronged the place to witness the rescue operation, thanked and applauded the firemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pups-fall-into-open-well-dog-barks-for-a-day-till-help-arrives/articleshow/80868593.cms||Sindhu Kannan
February 12, 2021||Madurai||Tourism key to recover footfall at airports, say travel agents||Madurai: The footfall at airports can match pre-Covid levels only if the tourism sector picks up, say travel agents in Madurai. At present, it is mostly professionals, company officials and people visiting relatives and attending functions who mostly use the airport. There is also a substantial increase in the number of politicians using Madurai and Tuticorin airports as part of their campaign for the fast approaching assembly elections, they say.All flights operated from Madurai are enjoying good seat occupancy. In fact, Madurai is next only to Chennai in terms of recovery among airports in Tamil Nadu. However, most of the bookings are being done by passengers themselves, the travel agents say. G Raveendran, president of Madurai Travel Club, said the number of flights connecting Chennai should be increased as many do not get tickets at times. People are slowly gaining confidence to fly as Covid-19 cases are coming down. “It will take more time for tourism to pick up. But it is only after the tourism sector gets on its feet that the number of passengers will reach pre-Covid levels. The central government’s decision last year to divert leave tour concession to buy consumer goods has hurt the tourism industry. We expected the government to reverse this decision so as to revive tourism, but no announcement has come so far,” Raveendran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tourism-key-to-recover-footfall-at-airports-say-travel-agents/articleshow/80870166.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Vadodara||Doctors protest attack on urologist||Vadodara: The city’s medical fraternity suspended their outpatient department (OPD) services on Thursday to protest the attack on a doctor on February 9. Around 10,000 doctors who are associated with the Vadodara Hospitals Association, IMA Vadodara, SETU, homeopath association, ayurvedic doctors’ association, dental association and physiotherapy association stayed off all planned work the whole day. Dr Pratik Shah, a urologist of a private hospital in Harni, was attacked by the kin of an elderly patient he had treated. According to the police, accused duo — Rajendrasinh Rathod and Ratilal Solanki — was unhappy about the treatment given to their relative 70-year-old Yashwant Rathod at the complainant’s hospital a few months ago. This led them to abuse and allegedly assault Shah on Feb 9. “The police commissioner had promised us immediate action. But if such incident be repeated then the doctors will not just shut OPD but in-patient department and emergency services too,” said Dr Mitesh Shah, senate member of MS University, representing the faculty of medicine. Meanwhile, Warasia police have arrested the two men for assaulting the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/doctors-protest-attack-on-urologist/articleshow/80866381.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chennai||Man poses as woman, robs ‘date’||Chennai: A man, who posed as woman, befriended an acquaintance on Instagram and snatched a phone after calling him for a date. The victim had stolen the phone from the impostor last month. Police said Saravanan, 20, of Anna Nagar east, lodged a complaint with the Puzhal police that a five-member gang had kidnapped him and had snatched his phone and bike. After investigation, police rounded up Lokesh, 20, and his friends Vinoth Kumar, 19, of Oragadam, Prathap, 23, of Ganghi Nagar, Praveen, 24, of Kalaivanar Street, and a juvenile. The men told police that Saravanan had stolen Lokesh’s phone on January 18. Though he had filed a complaint with Ambattur police, there was no action. Lokesh opened an Instagram account posing as a girl last week and asked Saravanan to meet at Puzhal lake where the gang beat him and took away the phone and his bike. Police have arrested the gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-poses-as-woman-robs-date/articleshow/80868618.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Madurai||3 booked for murdering newlywed||Madurai: The Keelavalavu police booked three men in connection with the murder of a newlywed man in a village in Madurai district.V Vellaisamy, 29, of Pepanaiyampatti village was hacked to death at Boothamangalam junction on Wednesday. He had married only four months ago.Police said Vellaisamy with the help of a few villagers had caught the trio red-handed while they had been stealing a goat a few months ago and handed them over to the police. After coming out of the prison, the trio planned to eliminate him.The trio intercepted him when he was on his way to a nearby place and attacked him using sharp weapons. As he fell down unconscious, the gang fled from the spot. Based on a complaint filed by Vellaisamy’s wife V Bhavani,20, the Keelavalvu police registered a case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC against R Ayyanar, C Prabhu and A Dharmar of Attapatti village. Special police teams have been formed to nab the trio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-booked-for-murdering-newlywed/articleshow/80870201.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Patna||Maoist shot dead in Lakhisarai encounter||PATNA: A CPI (Maoist) armed squad member, identified as Mansa Kora, was killed in an encounter with the security forces in the Maoist-hit Lakhisarai district on Thursday. An Insas rifle and magazine, a hand grenade, and 236 live cartridges were recovered from the site, police said. The deceased was an activist of the armed squad led by Arvind Yadav. Kora, a resident of Gurmaha Bichlatola under Barhat police station in Jamui district. Following an alert, a joint team of CRPF, STF, Cobra and district armed police units launched a search operation in Cheraun Korasi forest under Chananpur police station area around 10.30 am, leading to an exchange of fire. Lakhisarai SP Sushil Kumar confirmed that one Maoist was killed in the exchange of fire while others managed to escape taking advantage of the forest cover. The site is around 15 km from the district headquarters. The SP further said that raids were on to arrest the Maoists who managed to escape. “We had specific intelligence inputs about a gathering of an armed squad of the banned outfit. Police launched an operation, leading to the killing of a hardcore Maoist,” he added. The borders of Lakhisarai with Jamui, another Maoist-hit district in the region, has been sealed and operation launched in the villages considered safe hideouts of the Maoists. The neighbouring Munger district has also been put on alert in the wake of the police operation, the SP said. The district witnessed a Maoist encounter after a gap of almost three years. A self-proclaimed area commander Baleshwar Kora had suffered grievous bullet injuries in the exchange of fire between the police and the Maoists between Ghogharghati and Kanimoh village under Kajra police station in 2018. Notably, the areas falling under Chanan police station in Lakhisarai district have of late become a safe hideout for the Maoists, who were carrying out their operation with consummate ease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/maoist-shot-dead-in-lakhisarai-encounter/articleshow/80867889.cms||Ramashankar
February 12, 2021||Patna||When Nitish Kumar met PM Modi first time after polls, backed farm laws||PATNA: Bihar CM and senior JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar on Thursday told media persons in New Delhi that he fully backed the three contentious farm bills and believed that the legislations were in the interest of the farmers. He also dispelled the rumours that the NDA government led by him wouldn’t last the full term. Nitish was talking to media persons after his first meeting with PM Narendra Modi since the state assembly election in November last year. He said he had come to meet the PM to extend his thanks for the latter’s support during the 2020 assembly polls. “During the assembly election, the PM made several trips to Bihar and extended all support to the NDA candidates. So, I came to meet him and thank him,” Nitish said. On the farmers’ agitation, the CM said the Centre is holding talks with the farmers on certain issues in the three farm bills, and he hoped that the issues between the government and the agitating farmers would be resolved soon. Asked if he had a discussion with the PM on the issue of agitating farmers, Nitish said there was no need for any discussion (with the PM) on the issue. “You all know our (JD-U) stand on the farm bills. The Union government has been holding talks with the farmers, and it wants to hold further talks with the farmers. Talks are going on at some places. I hope the issue (between the Centre and farmers) will be resolved either today or tomorrow,” Nitish added. “What is the aim of the three farm legislations?” Nitish asked and quickly replied, “They are in the interest of the farmers. Whatever legislations have been framed they all are in the interest of farmers.” Nitish also made light of the claims of Bihar’s opposition parties that his coalition government would not last its full term. “If the opposition leaders are getting publicity out of their claim, then there is nothing wrong with that. They (opposition leaders) are ignorant of the ground realities in Bihar,” Nitish said in a lighter vein. It was Nitish’s first meeting with PM Modi after a coalition government headed by him assumed office Bihar in November last year. The CM’s last visit to the national capital was in March last year before the country-wide lockdown was enforced due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The CM clarified that he came to meet the PM with no specific demand. “There was no specific demand or issue. It was just a mutual talk on different issues. In our alliance, we keep meeting and keep holding talks regularly. I had not come to meet the PM with any demand. We keep talking on different issues be it environment or education,” Nitish told reporters. Asked whether he talked about JD(U)’s inclusion in the Union cabinet, Nitish said there was no talk on such issues “from our side”. “There was no talk on the issue of JD(U) inclusion in the Union cabinet from our side. We didn’t hold any talk on such issues, but we are together at the Centre,” the Bihar CM said. Nitish was accompanied by JD(U) leader in Lok Sabha and Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh and Nalanda MP Kaushlendra Kumar when he went to meet the PM in Parliament House. CM calls on VP in Delhi: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar called on Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu at the Upa Rashtrapati Niwas in Delhi on Thursday. “It was a courtesy visit to the Vice-President after Nitish Kumar took charge as the CM of Bihar for the fourth consecutive term in November last year,” a senior JD (U) leader told TOI over the phone. Earlier on Wednesday, the CM had met Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda in Delhi. He is learnt to have a long discussion with Nadda on different political issues, especially LJP president Chirag Paswan’s role in the NDA. Nitish is on a three-day trip to the national capital. He is expected to return to Patna on Friday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-meets-pm-first-time-after-polls-backs-farm-laws/articleshow/80867304.cms||Madan Kumar
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||In new campaign, Congress vows to set things ‘GujRight’||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat Congress on Thursday announced a ‘Pledge Paper’, in which it promised to provide rights to citizens which they have been “deprived under the BJP regime over the years,” through a card system called ‘GujRight’. Speaking about the campaign, GPCC chief Amit Chavda said the party carried out ‘Hello Gujarat’ campaign in the past weeks, which was well received by the people of the state. “Based on the feedback of that campaign, we have prepared a 10-point ‘Pledge Paper’, where, instead of coming out with false promises like the BJP, we will be taking a pledge to provide urban citizens their rightful basic needs. In this Pledge Paper, we promise to provide free water, better roads, better tax structure, quality education, housing, health, public transport, employment and better administration.” He added that the party will revamp the process of providing services to people through the ‘GujRight’ initiative. “Under this initiative, citizens will be provided a card through which they can avail basic services, facilities and schemes for free. We will provide free water to those who are active in conservation of water and people promoting environmental conservation efforts will be encouraged. The public will be provided clean and free public toilets. We will be rationalizing the Bus Rapid Transport System (BRTS),” added Chavda. ”We will be providing scientifically designed service corridors on both sides of the roads in newly developing areas,” added Chavda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-new-campaign-congress-vows-to-set-things-gujright/articleshow/80870233.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Madurai||Give DMK a resounding victory like in the LS polls, says Udhayanidhi||Dindigul: Don’t repeat the same mistake like you did last time by not voting for the DMK, party youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin exhorted the gathering while addressing them at Seelapadi in Dindigul district on Thursday as part of the ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalin Kural’ campaign. “You cheated the DMK in the last assembly election and got cheated. Will you repeat the mistake?” Udhayanidhi asked them while referring to the DMK losing the 2016 assembly election and people getting cheated by the present government.“You should give DMK the victory you gave in the Lok Sabha elections,” he said. Recalling DMK’s victory in 38 of the 39 parliamentary constituencies in the state in 2019, he recalled that P Velusamy won by a margin of 5.38 lakh votes in the Dindigul Lok Sabha constituency. “It is the biggest margin in Tamil Nadu and the third biggest victory margin in India,” he said.The DMK leader also compared price escalation of fuel, LPG cylinder price and other essential commodities during his campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/give-dmk-a-resounding-victory-like-in-the-ls-polls-says-udhayanidhi/articleshow/80870217.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||As losses mount, Delhi Metro pleads for full-capacity operations to get back on track||NEW DELHI: Facing an unprecedented financial crisis, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has urged the central government to revise the Covid-19 safety protocol to allow its trains to run with at least full seating capacity to tide over the revenue crunch. DMRC resumed train services from September 7 last year after being closed for 169 days. It reopened with a new set of travel protocols to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus as finalised by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. This protocol mandates regulated entry into stations, a gap of six feet between passengers on the platforms and while standing inside the coaches and leaving every alternate seat in the trains vacant. As a result, only 50-60 passengers can now travel in a coach, which, before the Covid-19 outbreak, carried 300-350 people during the peak hours. DMRC has written to the urban affairs ministry, urging the central government to allow relaxations and has cited the permission given in October last year to buses in Delhi to carry to their full seating capacities and recently allowing cinema halls to operate with 100% capacity. An urban affairs ministry official told TOI that with many services resuming as the lockdown was relaxed in phases, DMRC requests to be allowed to carry more passengers as the rush has also gone up. However, the Union ministry of home affairs has not decided on the issue yet. “We have written to the home ministry about Delhi Metro’s request and are taking it up with them. As soon as the ministry allows it, we will permit full capacity operations in all metro rail systems in the country, not just Delhi Metro,” he said. When Delhi Metro was shut down, the rail company faced losses of up to Rs 1,700 crore and in December last year, sought an assistance of Rs 1,678.4 crore from the Centre and the state governments where Delhi Metro has its corridors. DMRC said that in order to ensure that it was able to continue operating the urban train system in a safe manner while meeting its loan obligations to Japan International Cooperation Agency, it was necessary for the government of India and Delhi government to provide necessary support as per the sanctioned orders of the projects at different stages. While the Centre and Delhi government are mandated to share operational losses of Phase I and II corridors equally, the state government is supposed to bear the entire operational losses of Phase III. From 2002, when its operations began, DMRC hadn’t logged operational losses till the Covid lockdown. When services resumed in a graded manner in September 2020, the passenger journeys on average numbered 6-7 lakh and reached 16-18 lakh in January 2021. Even though ridership now is just 20-25% of what it was pre-pandemic, Delhi Metro cannot carry more passengers due to the safety protocols. The rush, however, has resulted in busy metro stations witnessing serpentine queues of passengers. The average waiting time to enter stations like Rajiv Chowk, Patel Chowk, Hauz Khas, etc, now varies between 30 and 45 minutes. While DMRC kept only 269 of the 682 entry/exit points open at its stations when services resumed last year to ensure regulated entry, it has gradually increased the number open gates to 447 due to complaints from commuters. The largest number of entry/exit points has been opened on the Blue Line (Dwarka/Vaishali-Noida Electronic City), where the operational gates have gone up from 59 to 89. It is followed by Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre), where numbers have gone up from 39 to 83 and Violet Line (Kashmere Gate-Ballabhgarh), where the number of operational gates has increased from 34 to 71.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-losses-mount-delhi-metro-pleads-for-full-capacity-ops-to-get-back-on-track/articleshow/80868639.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 12, 2021||Rajkot||Man booked for illegal construction on govt land||Rajkot: A first case under the land grabbing law was registered in Morbi district against a man for illegal possession of government land. According to police, the accused named Dawood alias Jawlo Mohammed Paleja had encroached upon land belonging to animal husbandry department and had constructed six shops on it. Paleja had rented out four of the six shops for a paan shop, a restaurant, a transporter and a garage. The land in Tajpar village on Lakhdhirpura road was given to the department by the district collector for developing a sheep breeding farm. When an executive magistrate learnt about land grabbing, the shops were demolished. The animal husbandry department was informed about it and an offence was registered at B Division police station based on a complaint given by a deputy director of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-booked-for-illegal-construction-on-govt-land/articleshow/80866897.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Madurai||MCC shouldn’t hit business: Grain merchants||Madurai: The Tamilnadu Foodgrains Merchants Association Limited has appealed to the chief electoral officer (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo to announce and implement the model code of conduct (MCC) in such a manner that it does not affect business and trade.In a representation sent to the CEO on Thursday, the association stated that in the previous assembly as well as Parliament elections, there were situations where cash with appropriate documents carried by businessmen was confiscated citing the model code. Businessmen and traders faced severe hardship due to this. “Severe or strict code of conduct for elections will affect business and trade in the state, especially at a time when these activities are returning to normalcy slowly after the Covid-19 pandemic,” association president S P Jeyapragasam said.The demands include allowing proprietors or employees to take cash up to Rs 2 lakh for purchases and sales receipts with proof such as in writing from the establishment’s letter pad. General public should be allowed to take cash up to Rs 3 lakh for purchasing jewellery, textiles, furniture and provisions for weddings and related functions. Cash confiscated by authorities should be handed over to the district collector and returned early to the stakeholders, after they produce the relevant papers.They also urged the CEO to ensure that traffic is not diverted through other routes during political campaigns, especially heavy vehicles during business time and in business areas. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mcc-shouldnt-hit-business-grain-merchants/articleshow/80870204.cms||---
February 12, 2021||India||CAA after Covid vaccine drive ends: Shah in Bengal||THAKURNAGAR/COOCH BEHAR: Reaching out to rural Bengal with a bounty of guaranteed or conditional sops, Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday promised citizenship to Hindu refugee communities once the Covid vaccination drive is over and Rs 18,000 each in farmers’ bank accounts if BJP takes over from Trinamool. He also announced the Centre’s decision to raise a paramilitary “Narayani Battalion”, as demanded by the state’s Koch-Rajbanshi community. Addressing a gathering in Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas district, Shah touched on implementation of CAA as being just a matter of time. “I assure you we will give due respect and recognition to Matuas, namasudras and refugees who had been denied citizenship for the last 70 years. How can one stop that? It’s a central law now,” he said. “I told you earlier the implementation got delayed during the pandemic. We will do it after Covid vaccination (drive) is over.” The home minister also promised to rename Thakurnagar railway station as Sri Dham station if BJP was voted to power. To Bengal’s farmers — including Dalits, Adivasis and Muslims — he held out hope for a direct benefit transfer of Rs 18,000 each under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi immediately if BJP assumed office. In north Bengal’s Cooch Behar, he chanted “Jai Shri Ram” before targeting Mamata. “Why is Mamata (Banerjee) upset with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chants? Is it an offence? It is because she is trying to appease a particular community...” Shah also hit out at TMC, CPM and Congress for “spreading fears and confusion” among Muslims in Bengal. Shah also met Ananta Maharaj (Ananta Roy), who has a following among Rajbanshis in the Cooch Behar. Mamata took a dig at Shah’s “CAA-after-vaccination” statement, saying “he meant election vaccination because normal people do not even know when they will get vaccines”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/caa-after-covid-vaccine-drive-ends-shah-in-bengal/articleshow/80871533.cms||Sanjib Chakrabarty
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Road widening: Huge mismatch of trees in Akola-Washim section||Nagpur: If recent illegal felling of over 100 trees for road expansion work by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) near Akola raised serious concern, RTI reveals mismatch of over 3,000 trees between the Akola-Medshi-Washim-Hingoli border. According to information received under RTI by green activist Jaydeep Das from NHAI, in the 100km section from Akola-Medshi-Washim to Hingoli border, which is being expanded to four-lane, there were 7,402 trees. On the contrary, the Arboriculture register maintained by the public works department (PWD) makes a mention of over 10,000 trees in the said section. Arboriculture is the record of cultivation, management, and study of individual trees, shrubs, vines, etc. The state highway was handed over to NHAI a couple of years ago. “There is a mismatch of over 3,000 trees. There can be only two reasons for the mismatch — either these trees have been taken on record or must have been clandestinely stolen over the years. There is a possibility that less number of trees have been recorded to lower the evaluation. If more number of trees are counted, more money has to be paid towards compensatory plantation,” Das alleged. NHAI officials, who did not want to be quoted, said, “One of the reasons for the mismatch could be due to internal roads which are not taken into account while preparing a DPR. These trees must be falling on internal roads. We take into account bypass roads.” However, Sheikh Mohammed Sheikh Makbul aka Munna, founder of Sarpamitra Nisarga Samvardhan Bahuuddeshia Sanstha, Akola, said he had lodged a complaint with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and top authorities for various flaws in the counting of trees in the said stretch. The state government has already ordered an inquiry. Even NHAI project director Rakesh Jawade on December 17, had written to Akola SP about the theft of 11 trees but Munna says the complaint was just a formality ostensibly to show that NHAI cared for trees. “NHAI officials did not insist on filing an FIR in the theft of trees,” he said. The existing road with right of way (ROW) of 30 metres from the centre had a good canopy of trees, mostly neem planted by the British. When the road was with PWD it had counted over 10,000 trees in 30 metre ROW in the 100km patch. This did not include trees in forest patches. Munna says NHAI’s tree number also doesn’t include trees on land acquired from the farmers. That number may be also over 5,000 but these trees have not been taken on record either by the forest department or NHAI as per the complainant. The evaluation of these trees was not done by the respective tree officers. Das says, “In the said road section, forest area falls between Patur-Medshi (8km). Forest land diversion proposal is pending with the forest department. As permission on forest stretches has not been granted yet, NHAI should not have started work on non-forest land creating a fiat accompli situation.” “Even as roads are widened in the entire district, there is no talk of wildlife mitigation measures. There are leopards, and other wild animals in the Patur forest but NHAI road widening has no plan to take mitigation steps,” adds Munna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/road-widening-huge-mismatch-of-trees-in-akola-washim-section/articleshow/80868666.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 12, 2021||Madurai||Book on globetrotter Somalay released on his birth centenary||Madurai: A book, ‘Ulagam Suttriya Tamilar Somalay’, authored by writer Devi Nachiappan, was released during a celebration organized in Sivaganga district to commemorate the birth centenary of S M L Lakshmanan Chettiar or ‘Somalay’.‘Somalay’, born in 1921, was a globe trotter, businessman and writer, who has more than 80 published works. A government library named after him as Somalay Memorial Library is currently functioning in Nerkuppai, Sivaganga district. The library is aided by Tamil Nadu foundation (TNF. “The library houses more than 30,000 books and around 70 students from Nerkuppai and nearby villages make use of the library every day. It is also the only library functioning in the area with availability of computers. Computer training is also provided to students,” said S Kannan, the librarian.During the celebration on Thursday, the book ‘Ulagam Suttriya Tamilar, Somalay’ by award-winning author Devi Nachiappan was released in the presence of various dignitaries like V T Somasundaram, son of Somalay Sundaram, Dr M Selvarasu from Ganesar college of arts and science and writer V Thiagarajan from Nerkuppai. The dignitaries also addressed the gathering of students shared their thoughts on Somalay as well as on the importance and use of libraries and books for children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/book-on-globetrotter-somalay-released-on-his-birth-centenary/articleshow/80870230.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Tele-consults down, patients back for face-to-face with docs||Mumbai: While tele-consultations with doctors became popular during the pandemic-induced lockdown in 2020 as many patients couldn’t travel to hospital out-patient departments (OPDs), hospitals say patients are now returning for face-to-face consults. With the Covid-19 graph showing a decline in the city, patients, including senior citizens, have started visiting hospitals in larger numbers in the last two months. “We used to have 50:50 ratio for in-hospital consultations and tele-consultations in the second half of 2020, but the ratio has now changed to 70:30,” said Joy Chakraborthy, chief operating officer of Hinduja Hospital, Mahim. Ditto at Fortis Hospital in Mulund. Dr S Narayani, zonal director of Fortis Hospitals in the city, said, “Patients preferred tele-video consultations at the height of the pandemic, but most patients are walking in now.” She said if video-consults accounted for 45% of all the consultations during the Covid months, “now less than 10% are opting for it.” However, tele-consulting apps state their numbers are still high. These apps allow patients to consult doctors across hospitals and specialties. Practo registered a 250% growth in the last six months of 2020. “Over 1.2 lakh people signed up for our plans in that period,” said a company spokesperson. The active user groups included patients with chronic health conditions and those living in remote locations; while bulk of the users are from cities, the number of consultations from tier-II cities also grew 30 times. Certain specialties such as sexual and reproductive health emerged popular, accounting for 20% of all of Practo’s tele-consultations in 2020, said the spokesperson. Women made up for maximum users, with youngsters in the 21-30 age group seeking appointments for health issues relating to pregnancy, irregular periods, erectile dysfunction, PCOD and abortion, said the company’s press release. Tele-consultation isn’t a new concept, but, during the Covid months, hospitals were forced to invest in infrastructure for it. Chakraborthy of Hinduja Hospital said tele-consults would continue to remain an important option. “There is a section of patients which discovered they can get a consultation without having to travel for long or stand in queues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tele-consults-down-patients-back-for-face-to-face-with-docs/articleshow/80868680.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||MC house to take call on deal with waste collectors||Chandigarh: The municipal corporation will hold a special general house meeting on Monday to finalise door-to-door garbage collection process in the city.The house will take up a memorandum of understanding (MoU), which the civic body plans to sign with every waste collector to bring them under its direct watch. If the agreement is approved, door-to-door garbage collection will begin in the remaining parts of the city in a phased manner.Sources in the MC said, “As most of the union leaders have agreed to the process, it has been decided to sign an agreement with them. With this, the collectors will be provided many facilities, like Rs 10 lakh welfare fund will be introduced every year for them.”Under it, the MC will collect charges from residents. “The collectors will be allowed to collect garbage from the houses they are already covering. Each collector will have to cover a minimum of 300 houses. They will be given special toolkits and other protective gears. They have agreed to these issues,” sources added.PACT FACTSAn agreement will be signed with every garbage collectorThere will be a Rs 10 lakh welfare fund for themThey will be allowed to collect waste from the houses they are already coveringEach collector will cover a minimum of 300 housesThey will be given special toolkits and protective gearsThey will be provided basic vaccination facilities, insurance coverThey will be allowed to take leave after prior intimationThey will have to follow garbage collection timingsMC will collect charges from residents||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-house-to-take-call-on-deal-with-waste-collectors/articleshow/80868667.cms||Deepak Yadav
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||No online education for 5.7% RTE kids in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: About 5.72% of students who have enrolled under the Right To Education (RTE) Act in state schools have not been able to avail online education during the lockdown period, when schools and other institutions across the country were shut down. The findings are based on a study of data from 9,385 schools that held online classes for RTE students. In the case of Ahmedabad rural, 100% students received online education during the nine-month lockdown period. But in the case of Ahmedabad city, only 94.02% students have received online education. “From June 2020 to January 3, 2021, 94.28% of the students in the state have received online education. Whereas 5.72% of the students have not received online education,” said an official aware of the matter. There are 5.83 lakh students who have not used any devices or facilities such as television, DTH box or radio to access online education, he added. Issues of internet connectivity and lack of proper facilities including proper mobile phones or computers are believed to be the reason that so many students could not participate in online classes all these months. As per district wise data, 100% of children have been educated online in Ahmedabad (rural), Dangs, Navsari, Tapi, Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation and Surat Mahanagar Parishad. In Jamnagar, 79% students received online education in the corporation limits. The state has seen the very high number of students, many of whom also used multiple mediums, gaining education through programmes telecast on television, as per the data. A total of 46.35 lakh students or 48.33% have received education through television. About 59% students attended online classes using smart phone devices. Whereas 17.95 lakh or 18.72 % of the students, have used DTH and set top boxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-online-education-for-5-7-rte-kids/articleshow/80870332.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||A warmer week ahead, winter all but over in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Expect a warm week ahead as India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted the daytime temperature to remain 5 to 6 degrees above normal for the next seven days. Delhi’s maximum temperature may hover around 30 degrees Celsius. Track the pollution level in your cityKuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “There will be a gradual increase in both minimum and maximum temperatures. The winter chill is over and there is no prediction of cold wave or cold day conditions.” He added there might be slight variation in the temperature on some days but the weather was predicted to remain comfortable in the month. The maximum temperature recorded on Thursday was 26.1 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal, while the maximum temperature on Wednesday was 30.4° Celsius, seven degrees above normal. The minimum temperature on Thursday settled at 9.6 degrees Celsius, one notch below the normal. Met officials said the maximum temperature was expected to hover around 27-28 degrees Celsius on Friday and Saturday but likely to remain around 30 degrees Celsius from February 15. As there is prediction of clear sky and daytime temperature may remain above normal, the day would be warm, said Met officials. The minimum temperature is predicted to increase to 10 degrees Celsius on Friday but it may dip to 8° Celsius on Saturday and again rise to 10 degrees Celsius for the next few days. According to the IMD forecast, there are chances of shallow to moderate fog in the next six days during the morning hours. However, experts have predicted ‘very poor’ air quality for Delhi for the next two days. The overall air quality index (AQI) of the national capital was 330 in the ‘very poor’ category. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said, “Surface winds are low and winds are likely to marginally improve during daytime. The ventilation is likely to stay in the same range. AQI is likely to stay in the ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. AQI of Delhi may improve to lower end of ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category on February 15.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-warmer-week-ahead-winter-all-but-over-in-capital/articleshow/80868653.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||KU to appoint adjunct faculties, give scholarship to TG students||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala University budget, presented here on Wednesday, has proposed to appoint industrialists as adjunct faculties as part of the attempts to bridge the gap between industry and academia. The budget, among other things, proposed to institute a Rs 2,000 monthly scholarship for transgender students pursuing higher studies in institutions under the varsity. The budget presented by the syndicate finance committee convenor K H Babujan at the university senate meeting has a 140 point agenda, which according to him sets the road map towards developing the university into a people centric and participatory institution. It proposed to develop Karyavattom campus to a model campus and set up a Navodhana Veedhi (renaissance corridor) on the campus and Rs 2 crore has been earmarked for this. It has proposals for green initiatives in memory of poet Sugathakumari and modernization programmes in administration. The budget proposed start up grant to students who take initiative towards carrying out research initiatives that would be directly beneficial to society. The budget proposals said the university would start more evening courses under various departments as part of helping more people to have access to higher education. It proposes to carry forward most of the already functional initiatives such as ‘young scholars’ meet’ and ‘meet the scholars’. The university authorities later said the varsity has taken all necessary steps to take strict action against an official accused for indulging in manipulation of mark lists recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ku-to-appoint-adjunct-faculties-give-scholarship-to-tg-students/articleshow/80870291.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Woman falls off scooter, crushed to death by truck||New Delhi: A 22-year-old woman was crushed to death after she fell off a scooter and came under the wheels of a truck on Thursday morning.The woman was returning home from GB Pant Hospital, where her father had died a few hours back. According to police, the victim, identified as Swati, was the pillion rider behind her neighbour, who was riding the scooter. After hitting a speed breaker, Swati fell off and a truck coming from behind mowed her down.Police received a call about an accident near Ghazipur drain road. A team reached the location and took the woman to a hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival. As the rider had to apply brakes suddenly because of a speed breaker, Swati fell from the scooter. In the meantime, a truck came from behind and ran over her head. The errant truck driver, Jainath Mandal, who escaped from the crime spot, was arrested on Thursday evening. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-falls-off-scooter-crushed-to-death-by-truck/articleshow/80868659.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Madurai||Thiagarajar college in Madurai gets NAAC re-accreditation||MADURAI: Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science, Teppakulam, Madurai received A++ re-accreditation from national assessment and accreditation council (NAAC) in its fourth cycle with a score of 3.63 out of 4. The college, an autonomous institution, affiliated to Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU), had been re-accredited with A grade in the third cycle in January 2013, and now, in 2021, it has received A++ grade. “We improved our score from 3.37 to 3.63 in this cycle. This time, the assessment process was more transparent and 70% of it was done digitally through artificial intelligence while 30% assessment was by the NAAC committee team,” said K Hari Thiagarajan, secretary of the college. The NAAC committee, consisting of a pro-chancellor, principal, professor of the Central University, and a NAAC representative visited the college campus on February 4 and 5 for assessment. The assessment is both qualitative and quantitative across various parameters like academics, teaching-learning evaluation, research, innovation, hostels and lab facilities, students’ progression etc., “In 2020, as many as 417 students of the college were placed through campus placements even amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Thiagarajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/thiagarajar-college-in-madurai-gets-naac-re-accreditation/articleshow/80870240.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Farmers gherao BJP leaders, attack vehicle||MOHALI: BJP leaders faced heavy resistance from farmers and their supporters when they released their election manifesto in Sector 79, Airport Road, here, on Thursday. Farmers’ supporters hemmed in the vehicle in which BJP leaders were leaving the venue and raised slogans, saying they would not let the party operate their election offices in Punjab. While they were escaping from the mob, leaders’ vehicle was hit with a stick, which damaged its glass. However, immediate police intervention helped BJP men leave the venue unhurt. Leaders, including former BJP MLA Subhash Sharma, Mohali district president Sukhvinder Singh Goldy and local BJP leader and industrialist Sanjiv Vashisht, faced protesters’ ire. One of the kisan supporters—who were mainly youths—said, “We will not let BJP contest elections in Mohali. They will be uprooted from Punjab. If they want to exist here, then they must take back the three farm laws and apologise to the farmers.” The protesters alleged that the BJP was responsible for farmers’ deaths at Delhi borders. The BJP, on the other hand, alleged that the Congress was orchestrating attacks on their leaders and councillors. Sharma said, “The Congress is instigating the people and planting their supporters to gherao and manhandle BJP candidates. The state police are also working at the behest of the Congress-led state government.” He said recently, BJP candidate Madan Shonkie was allegedly attacked by a woman Congress candidate, but no action has been taken so far. A BJP Dalit candidate’s husband committed suicide, as they were being pressurised to withdraw candidature, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-gherao-bjp-leaders-attack-vehicle/articleshow/80868655.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||10 arrested for break-in bids||Mumbai: Ten history-sheeters were arrested in separate cases for preparing to break into an ATM kiosk and a phone store in the western suburbs. Five of them were held at Malad (E) on Thursday and the rest in Kandivli (E) on Tuesday. Tools used for committing break-ins were seized from them. Two of the men will be handed over to Nashik cops. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10-arrested-for-break-in-bids/articleshow/80868725.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Jobless addict held for robbing Sector 61 bank||CHANDIGARH: The police on Thursday claimed to have solved the February 8 Sector 61 bank robbery with the arrest of an unemployed drug addict. Harjot Singh, 34, a resident of Phase III-A, Mohali, was nabbed near his house on Wednesday night following a tip-off. “Armed with a toy pistol, he had robbed Rs 8.65 lakh from Chandigarh State Co-operative Bank. The B Pharma degree holder drove there in his white car, which he parked at the rear of the bank. After executing the heist, he escaped in it. We have recovered the amount, the toy pistol and the car from his house,” said UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal at a presser in Sector 36 police station. After checking the footage of the CCTV cameras installed in the area, a team led by the ASP (south division) identified and traced the accused.  During lockdown, Harjot had lost his job in marketing sector and started doing drugs. “As he ran out of money, he committed the robbery to fund his drug needs. He thought the robbed cash bag would have about Rs 1 lakh, but panicked on finding Rs 8.65 lakh in it and hid it in his house,” said police. Harjot would frequent Sector 61 and knew the area. “He is being questioned if anyone else is involved in the robbery. He does not have a criminal background. He lives in Mohali with his wife and two children,” they added.  He was produced before a local court that sent him in two-day police remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jobless-addict-held-for-robbing-sec-61-bank/articleshow/80868678.cms||Pawan Tiwari
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Metro ridership rising, but nowhere near target||Nagpur: MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit had set an ambitious daily ridership target of Nagpur Metro at one lakh. While the ridership is gradually increasing, the present figures are nowhere near the target. On weekdays, it is between 17,000 and 20,000, while on Sundays it is above 25,000. On Republic Day, record number of Nagpurians — 56,441 — boarded the Metro. Metro officials are, however, not disappointed with the ridership figures. “When we restarted Nagpur Metro in October after a prolonged lockdown, the ridership on weekdays was around 3,000. In February, the minimum ridership was above 17,000. This is significant increase,” said an official. The ridership on weekdays in early January was between 10,000 and 12,000. The official said while many people boarded the Metro on Sundays for joyrides, the ridership on weekdays was due to regular users who take the Metro for going to their places of work or education. “A good number of students have been using the Metro to reach their school. Right since the day schools restarted in Nagpur, long queues were witnessed on Metro stations as students lined up to purchase ticket,” he further said. According to the official, various moves like allowing commuters to carry bicycle in train has helped in increasing the ridership. “Now e-scooters on hire, autorickshaws and e-rickshaws are available at all stations for last-mile connectivity. We have provided e-scooters for Metro employees at our office,” he added. Meanwhile, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has improved its feeder bus service for the Metro. Now, buses connect Jaiprakash Nagar with Jaitala and Mhalgi Nagar, Ajni Square with Raghuji Nagar and Manewada, Khapri with Butibori, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Mulak College (Satgaon), Airport South with Shiv Elite Society (Shankarpur) and Beltarodi and Lokmanya Nagar with Hingna, Wadi T-point and GH Raisoni College. About a month ago, 20 city buses used to halt near Sitabuldi interchange Metro station. However, on request of MahaMetro, traffic police closed the road between Rani Jhansi Square and Sitabuldi station. Now, the city buses no longer stop near the station. A Metro official said that one side of the road had already been opened and other side would be fully opened soon. “City buses will again stop near Sitabuldi station and this will further increase our ridership,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-ridership-rising-but-nowhere-near-target/articleshow/80868695.cms||Ashish Roy
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Can’t let a near-complete approved project be laid to waste, says HC; East Kidwai Nagar revamp will go on||New Delhi: Delhi has been built and rebuilt over centuries, Delhi High Court said on Thursday, declining to stop the near-complete East Kidwai Nagar revamp project as it had all the mandatory approvals in place.The court said such a redevelopment project couldn’t be “laid to waste” due to the problem of ever-growing traffic pointing out there couldn’t be a “one-time measure” or the “only solution” to the issue.“The position of traffic in Delhi is not hidden from any person. With the mounting population pressure, the ever-rising number of private vehicles, constraint of space and unplanned development, the city is slowly losing its charm. But is this enough to stop all development or redevelopment in the city? The answer has to be no,” noted justice Navin Chalwa, while ruling on a petition challenging the redevelopment project on the ground that it had failed to provide for adequate infrastructure, such as roads, open spaces, water supply, green belt, etc.The plea was filed in 2014 by senior advocate Aman Lekhi (currently Additional Solicitor General of India) and some residents of South Extension-II against the project that aims to construct both commercial and residential complexes, with the majority comprising houses under General Pool Residential Accommodation for government employees.“Right from the city of Lal Kot founded by Tomar rulers in 786 AD to the present state, Delhi has been built and rebuilt,” the court observed citing William Dalrymple’s City of Djinns to note that Delhi “was destined to appear in a new incarnation century after century.”Dealing with the objections against the revamp due to its impact on congestion and traffic, the court said the authorities had to “be proactive” in dealing with these problems so that such projects minimised stress on infrastructure. “In fact, they should add to quality of life rather than destroying it… There cannot be a one-time measure that can answer this ever-growing problem; there cannot also be only one solution to the same,” it added, giving an example of the success of Delhi Metro.“At the same time, it cannot be said that while all this is being studied and measures are being taken, the project, which is nearing completion, must be laid to waste,” the bench observed. While there was no doubt that a project of such proportions did put tremendous pressure on the existing infrastructure, the same had to be considered from the point of view of the master and zonal development plans, it added.In its verdict, the court also found a shortfall in compensatory tree plantation in lieu of those felled for the project and also “misuse” or excess earmarking of area for commercial use. It directed NBCC, which is carrying out the work, not to hand over possession of the commercial/office block to the allottees without first ensuring that compensatory plantation was complete.On excess commercial usage of 16,241.9 square metres, Justice Chawla asked the agencies to see if it could be compounded and if not, the construction should be brought in conformity with the requirement. “Till then, the PSU is restrained from handing over possession of such construction, i.e. 16,241.9 square metres to third parties/allottees,” added the bench.The court said out of the total project land of 86 acres, 14 acres were classified as land of the protected monument Darya Khan Tomb, where no construction was permitted and it could not have been taken into account for sanctioning the plan or determination of the floor area ratio.The bench underlined that the revamp plan was in tune with Master Plan of Delhi and had been considered by various authorities, including Environment Impact Assessment Authority, National Monuments Authority, Delhi Pollution Control Committee, Unified Traffic & Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre, New Delhi Municipal Council, Delhi Urban Arts Commission, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cant-let-a-near-complete-approved-project-be-laid-to-waste-says-hc-east-kidwai-nagar-revamp-will-go-on/articleshow/80868687.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt sets ball rolling for ration at doorstep||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has set the ball rolling to implement its ambitious scheme to deliver ration at the doorstep of the 72 lakh beneficiaries. The government has started the process to hire multiple flour mills for grinding wheat as it plans to deliver flour instead of grain. Mills will also be roped in to refine rice and weed out impurities. Under Mukhya Mantri Ghar-Ghar Ration Yojna, which also seeks to deliver ration items in packets to ensure right quality and quantity, will be implemented simultaneously across the capital. Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited floated a tender in January for the empanelment of flour mills for transportation and grinding grain, which will be sourced from Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns in Delhi. The mills will also package the flour in different sizes and send these to a delivery agency. The government has also floated tender for selecting the delivery agency. “Once the scheme is launched, the beneficiaries will not have to visit the fair price shops. Supply of flour instead of grain will also save their time and money,” said an official. In the existing system, most food articles are distributed loose, but the new scheme will deliver them in packets with manufacturing and expiry dates, he added. “The entire process will be monitored through CCTV cameras, GPS, PoS devices with biometric authentication. The information will be made available on real-time basis to the authorities, which will help in prevention of waste and corruption,” said an official. The CCTV cameras will function 24 hours and the footage will be stored for two months. Under the public distribution scheme, the food and supplies department distributes 3.6 lakh quintals of subsidised wheat and rice and other essential commodities like sugar and salt every month through fair price shops. Delhi has over 17.5 lakh ration card holders with nearly 72 lakh beneficiaries. The new scheme will be executed in two steps. First, foodgrains will be sourced from the FCI godowns and sent to the mills for processing and packaging. In the second step, these will be sent to the delivery agency, which will plan distribution schedules and doorstep deliveries after successful biometric authentication. The delivery agency will receive the food packets by the 13th of every month for the next month’s distribution and set up large facilities at district levels to store them. The agency will inform the beneficiaries about the schedule through the SMS gateway of the food department. Last July, the Delhi cabinet approved the scheme after failing to launch a similar scheme in March 2018 due to the government’s power tussle with the Centre. The scheme follows the AAP government’s move to deliver various citizen-related services at the doorstep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-sets-ball-rolling-for-ration-at-doorstep/articleshow/80868698.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahead of polls, man held with Rs 1.3 cr in cash||Ahmedabad: Ahead of the local body elections in the state, a man carrying Rs 1.34 crore in unaccounted cash was nabbed in the city, police said on Thursday. The model code of conduct is in effect in the city for the February 21 elections to six municipal corporations, including Ahmedabad. “Based on a specific tip off, police sub-inspector B B Solanki, who was on patrol to maintain law and order in view of the coming elections, raided a place on the Ring Road in Ramol on Wednesday night and nabbed one Bhavesh Valand with Rs 1.34 crore cash,” a release from the police said. Since Valand, 28, a resident of Vadodara, failed to produce any valid proof regarding the source of the money, police seized the “benami cash” under Section 102 of the CrPC and detained him for investigation, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahead-of-polls-man-held-with-rs-1-3-cr-in-cash/articleshow/80870329.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||For 2nd day in a row, Maharashtra gets over 3,000 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai 500 plus||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row, the state got over 3,000 new Covid-19 cases. A total of 3,297 cases and 25 fatalities were added on Thursday, taking Maharashtra’s total caseload to 20,52,905 and toll to 51,415. Mumbai got over 500 cases for the second day in a row. With the addition of 510 cases and three deaths, the total Covid tally of the city stood at 3,12,303 and toll at 11,405. Officials say it is too soon to say that the spurt in cases is due to a reopening of local trains for the general public. They say the BMC and the state are monitoring the situation. The state government allowed the general public to board local trains during specific time slots from February 1 onwards. Nevertheless, there has been a significant dip in active cases in the state. With the discharge of 6,107 patients on Friday, Maharashtra had only 30,265 active cases, of which 4,197 were in Mumbai. Total discharges in the state were over 19.7 lakh, with the rate of recovery touching 95.8%. In the state on Thursday, Mumbai Metropolitan Region reported the highest cases and fatalities, 905 and seven, followed by Pune in cases (475) and Nashik in deaths (5). The recovery rate in Thane was 97%, with 57,734 recovered and 816 still under treatment. A total of 10,37,760 tests have been done till date in Thane. There were 71 positive cases from NMMC on Thursday, taking its total Covid count to 53,723. Two deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 1,099. PCMC areas reported 44 fresh cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 29,100. With one death, the toll reached 631. The recovery rate has improved to 96.83%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/for-2nd-day-in-a-row-state-gets-over-3000-covid-19-cases-city-500-plus/articleshow/80868744.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Thane||For 2nd day in a row, Maharashtra gets over 3,000 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai 500 plus||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row, the state got over 3,000 new Covid-19 cases. A total of 3,297 cases and 25 fatalities were added on Thursday, taking Maharashtra’s total caseload to 20,52,905 and toll to 51,415. Mumbai got over 500 cases for the second day in a row. With the addition of 510 cases and three deaths, the total Covid tally of the city stood at 3,12,303 and toll at 11,405. Officials say it is too soon to say that the spurt in cases is due to a reopening of local trains for the general public. They say the BMC and the state are monitoring the situation. The state government allowed the general public to board local trains during specific time slots from February 1 onwards. Nevertheless, there has been a significant dip in active cases in the state. With the discharge of 6,107 patients on Friday, Maharashtra had only 30,265 active cases, of which 4,197 were in Mumbai. Total discharges in the state were over 19.7 lakh, with the rate of recovery touching 95.8%. In the state on Thursday, Mumbai Metropolitan Region reported the highest cases and fatalities, 905 and seven, followed by Pune in cases (475) and Nashik in deaths (5). The recovery rate in Thane was 97%, with 57,734 recovered and 816 still under treatment. A total of 10,37,760 tests have been done till date in Thane. There were 71 positive cases from NMMC on Thursday, taking its total Covid count to 53,723. Two deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 1,099. PCMC areas reported 44 fresh cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 29,100. With one death, the toll reached 631. The recovery rate has improved to 96.83%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/for-2nd-day-in-a-row-state-gets-over-3000-covid-19-cases-city-500-plus/articleshow/80871746.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Navi-mumbai||For 2nd day in a row, Maharashtra gets over 3,000 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai 500 plus||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row, the state got over 3,000 new Covid-19 cases. A total of 3,297 cases and 25 fatalities were added on Thursday, taking Maharashtra’s total caseload to 20,52,905 and toll to 51,415. Mumbai got over 500 cases for the second day in a row. With the addition of 510 cases and three deaths, the total Covid tally of the city stood at 3,12,303 and toll at 11,405. Officials say it is too soon to say that the spurt in cases is due to a reopening of local trains for the general public. They say the BMC and the state are monitoring the situation. The state government allowed the general public to board local trains during specific time slots from February 1 onwards. Nevertheless, there has been a significant dip in active cases in the state. With the discharge of 6,107 patients on Friday, Maharashtra had only 30,265 active cases, of which 4,197 were in Mumbai. Total discharges in the state were over 19.7 lakh, with the rate of recovery touching 95.8%. In the state on Thursday, Mumbai Metropolitan Region reported the highest cases and fatalities, 905 and seven, followed by Pune in cases (475) and Nashik in deaths (5). The recovery rate in Thane was 97%, with 57,734 recovered and 816 still under treatment. A total of 10,37,760 tests have been done till date in Thane. There were 71 positive cases from NMMC on Thursday, taking its total Covid count to 53,723. Two deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 1,099. PCMC areas reported 44 fresh cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 29,100. With one death, the toll reached 631. The recovery rate has improved to 96.83%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/for-2nd-day-in-a-row-state-gets-over-3000-covid-19-cases-city-500-plus/articleshow/80871747.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two private hospitals launch Swasthya Sathi wards||KOLKATA: The first dedicated Swasthya Sathi wards in Kolkata have been set up at AMRI Hospitals and RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) this week while two other private hospitals are getting ready to flag off similar units by next week. With a steady spurt in the number of patients seeking admission under the scheme — that was extended to cover all Bengal residents last November — these wards will help the hospitals strike a balance between Swasthya Sathi admissions and the rest, ensuring that none is turned away, said the hospital authorities. Earlier this week, the government raised the rates of Swasthya Sathi packages by 10%-20% and that for medical management by Rs 300 a day. But the hike has left private hospitals dissatisfied as they have called for a reconsideration of the charges that remain too low to be sustainable. AMRI has introduced Swasthya Sathi wards at each of its three units in Dhakuria, Mukundapur and Salt Lake with a total strength of 110 general beds. All have been taken up within three days of introduction on Monday. “Since there has been a huge spurt in the number of Swasthya Sathi patients, it is necessary to have a separate ward. It had been agreed upon in our discussions with the government that 15% of our total beds would be reserved for government-scheme patients. So, we have stuck to that,” said AMRI CEO, Rupak Barua. He added that the hospital already has a long queue of Swasthya Sathi patients who have been put on a waiting list. Around 80% of Swasthya Sathi patients at AMRI, too, have been admitted for surgeries. “Almost all of them are cardiac patients while the remaining 20% are a mix of other cases,” said Barua. RTIICS, too, has set up a dedicated ward with 65 beds that have taken an entire floor. It will also serve patients under all other government schemes, according to zonal director, R Venkatesh. “As an endeavour to serve patients under various schemes in a seamless manner, we have earmarked a floor to accommodate all patients under various schemes including Swasthya Sathi. We stay committed to providing quality healthcare services to all,” said Venkatesh. Medica Superspecialty Hospital is planning a separate ward soon. “At present, around 10% of our patients are under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. It has started rising and will rise phenomenally over the next few months. So, a dedicated ward is the only way we can accommodate them as well as the rest,” said senior vice-chairman and head of cardiology at Medica, Kunal Sarkar. He added that a majority of patients under the scheme have taken admission for procedures. “Due to the Covid situation, admitting patients for medical management is difficult. But with time, we will have a better balance between surgical and medicine cases,” added Sarkar. With rates being low, the sudden surge in patients will put a strain on the finances of hospitals, felt Barua. Another private hospital that has just got empanelled for Swasthya Sathi, is planning to introduce a dedicated ward by the end of this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-pvt-hosps-launch-swasthya-sathi-wards/articleshow/80868697.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 12, 2021||Delhi||The Ridge Is Coming Back! Signs Of Life After Trespassers Thwarted||New Delhi: The removal of encroachments and trespassers at Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary is already showing ecological benefits, with officials at the park not only reporting an increase in vegetation growth, but also the sightings of a number of rare birds in the last few months. The sanctuary has recorded the presence of the black-hooded oriole, great crested grebe and greylag geese for the first time, while the endangered Steppe eagle and Egyptian vulture have also been observed at the lake in the park.The forest department is still carrying out a campaign to rid the Southern Ridge of illegal occupation. While no permanent structures were discovered within the sanctuary, the whole area was suffering on account of trespassers and illegal activities, such as cutting the grass for selling or people entering the protected area to collect firewood. Motor vehicles also drive through the sanctuary, using it as a shortcut.Amit Anand, deputy conservator of forests (South), who is overseeing the encroachment removal drive in the Southern Ridge, reported the discovery of numerous entry points both on the interior and the exterior of the park, often through deliberate breaches of the boundary walls. Anand said these facilitated the access into the park for trespassers and vehicles.“There were people playing cricket inside the sanctuary, while villagers, particularly those living nearby, use the park areas as shortcuts. Motorcycles and cars too often enter the sanctuary premises, causing such disturbances that no wildlife is seen in these sections,” said Anand.Several motorbikes, with cut grass carried on them for sale elsewhere, have been seized. “Firewood collection is another illegal activity that we are focusing on,” disclosed Anand. “However, all other human activities have completely stopped, and this has meant less disturbance for the wildlife inside. Their overall territory under the park’s jurisdiction has, therefore, also increased.”Sohail Madan, centre manager, Bombay Natural History Society at Asola, claimed that vegetation growth had sped up since trespassing was curbed. There are more wildlife sightings now in places earlier showing human presence. “People earlier cleared the vegetation to use a patch as a cricket field. A number of bikes and cars also passed through the sanctuary, disturbing the habitat. Vegetation growth had stopped and such areas had become barren,” said Madan.The BNHS manager is happy at the reversal. “We saw a black-hooded oriole for the first time in the park, as also greylag geese and a great crested grebe. Around 15 Egyptian vultures and many Steppe eagles were also sighted at the lake. This is an overall indicator of habitat improvement,” smiled Madan.A forest officer said plantation had been carried out in some parts of the park, while vegetation had grown back naturally in other locations. “Check dams built in the sanctuary have played a key role in the rejuvenation. The moisture content in the area has increased and you can see grasses growing along the check dams. Water is being preserved and will attract wildlife,” the officer said.The sanctuary forms a significant chunk of the Southern Ridge and is spread across 1.96 hectares. The sanctuary is a part of the Aravali belt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/the-ridge-is-coming-back-signs-of-life-after-trespassers-thwarted/articleshow/80868710.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Proceedings against Rahul Gandhi suspended till March 10||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has temporarily suspended proceedings in the defamation case against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi after the complainant Ajay Patel, chairman of the Ahmedabad District Cooperative Bank Ltd, challenged the trial court’s decision not to grant him exemption from presence during hearings. Justice B N Karia has suspended proceedings in the Ahmedabad metropolitan court at least till March 10 and permitted Patel to seek an adjournment from the trial court, which on Thursday adjourned the case till March 15. The HC has issued notice to Gandhi on Patel’s petition demanding quashing of interim orders passed by the trial court, said Patel’s advocate Ajit Jadeja. The case proceedings were expedited after the Supreme Court’s order that criminal cases against legislators and parliamentarians should be heard and decided quickly. The HC was moved by Patel after the trial court rejected his request to exempt him from remaining present during the hearings. Patel could not remain present on the days of the hearing because he was suffering from Covid-19. Later, his movement was confined due to post-Covid complications. His doctor then advised him not to go to public places before he gets vaccinated. His requests for exemption from proceedings were rejected. In the meantime, Gandhi filed an application seeking discharge from the case on the ground that the applicant failed to attend court proceedings. In 2019, ADC Bank and Patel dragged Gandhi to the court over the Wayanad MP’s allegation that the bank was involved in a scam as it swapped scrapped notes of Rs 750 crore with valid currency within five days of demonetization in 2016. Gandhi is also facing another defamation case in the metropolitan court, in which a former BJP councillor Krishnavadan Brahmbhatt filed the complaint that Gandhi had called Union home minister Amit Shah a murder accused in his election speech at Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/proceedings-against-raga-suspended-till-march-10/articleshow/80870324.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Collector’s camp office to come up at Kowdiar||Thiruvananthapuram: The government has allotted 50 cents of prime land in the capital that was taken back from Kowdiar Palace as surplus land, for the construction of a new camp office cum residence for the district collector. The land has been allotted from the 7.2 acres that was taken back from the ownership of Kowdiar Palace, as surplus land. Thiruvananthapuram district collector had submitted a proposal to the government for the construction of a new camp office cum residence. The order in this regard was issued last week. At present, the district collector’s camp office functions from a government quarters building at Jawahar Nagar. The government has also imposed several conditions while allotting the land for the camp office. The government has instructed that the camp office has to be constructed only by adhering to the regulations of the Kowdiar conservation zone, and also by adhering to the rules and regulations of art and heritage commission. The government has also said that the land should be used only for the purpose it has been assigned for. It should not be sub-leased and should not be mortgaged in any financial institution. Construction should be initiated within one year of assignment. It should be protected from any kind of encroachment and no trees should be felled. Kowdiar area enjoys heritage zone status and the heritage commission had recommended that any construction or land allotment should be done only in consultation with the commission. Along with allotting land for the collector’s residence, the government had also allotted 24 cents in Kowdiar next to Kowdiar village office for construction of residential apartments for IAS officers, and had also entrusted the public works department to undertake the construction. While the residential complex for IAS officers including a new residence for the district collector has been taken care of, a section of IPS officers have also raised the same matter. “While there are official residences for district police chiefs in all the districts close to that of the district collectors, there isn’t one in the capital, even though there are two police districts- Thiruvananthapuram city and rural for the capital,” police sources said. But a senior police official pointed out the flip side of the matter that there are already ample numbers of quarters available for the police in the capital city. “There are four independent houses behind the police headquarters, in addition to another eight apartments at Vazhuthacaud. Also, six new villas including the one for the state police chief have come up, and one independent house for a senior official is available near SAP camp. Many of these are unoccupied, and these 19 facilities are enough to take care of the requirements of the police officials in the capital,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/collectors-camp-office-to-come-up-at-kowdiar/articleshow/80870334.cms||KP Saikiran
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Zalke scraps dept set up by Mundhe||Nagpur: Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke on Thursday directed the civic administration to abolish public health engineering (PHE) department, which was formed by the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe to address complaints related to sewerage lines. Zalke said the health (sanitation) department will redress the complaints now. Mundhe had formed the department a year ago and water works department’s superintending engineer Shweta Banerjee was given the additional charge of it. Mundhe had also transferred 10 deputy engineers to the PHE to attend to the grievances pertaining to choked sewer networks. “Instead of easing the work, the system to attend to the complaints used to get delayed,” said Zalke. “Besides, 10 deputy engineers too were of no use to resolve the issue. So, I have asked the administration to start a procedure to dissolve the department,” he said during the standing committee meeting held in NMC headquarters on Thursday. The panel also gave its nod to electric department’s proposal to spend Rs46.94 lakh for installing firefighting system at Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya in Gandhi Nagar. The standing committee also gave green signal to the fire and emergency services department plan to scrap its defunct small fire tenders, emergency tenders, ambulances etc. The department will now dispose of the scrap to the bidders shortlisted through e-auction. The scrapped material will fetch the NMC over Rs15 lakh. On Thursday, tenure of eight corporators from the 16-member standing committee ended and they included former standing committee chief Pradip Pohane, Yashashree Nandanwar, Vikram Gwalbanshi, Vandana Bhagat, Sanjay Chawre (all BJP), Congress corporators Gargi Chopra, Dinesh Yadav and BSP’s Ibrahim Ahmed. Zalke also allowed general administration department’s proposal to change mobile service provider. After facing poor network issues in Vodafone Idea (Vi) service, the GAD has requested the panel to look for a new service provider. The NMC will now appoint a new mobile service provider for three years and estimated expenditure for the purpose will be around Rs27 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/zalke-scraps-dept-set-up-by-mundhe/articleshow/80868757.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 12, 2021||India||‘Dalit converts to Christianity, Islam won’t get quota’||NEW DELHI: Dalit converts to Islam or Christianity will not be eligible for contesting parliamentary or assembly elections from constituencies reserved for Scheduled Castes (SC), and cannot claim other reservation benefits, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in response to a question in Rajya Sabha on Thursday. However, those adopting Hindu, Sikh and Buddhist faiths would be eligible for contesting from SC reserved seats and getting other reservation benefits, Prasad clarified in response to a question from BJP member G V L Narasimha Rao. Speaking on eligibility to contest from reserved constituencies, the minister said, “Para 3 of the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order outlines that... no person who professes a religion different from Hindu, Sikh or Buddhist religion shall be deemed to be a member of a Scheduled Caste.” The minister’s statement makes a clear distinction between Dalits adopting Islam and Christianity with those choosing to adopt Hinduism, Sikhism or Buddhism. The Union law minister, however, clarified that there was no proposal to bring in any amendment in the Representation of the People Act to debar SCs/STs converting to Islam or Christianity from contesting parliamentary or assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dalit-converts-to-christianity-islam-wont-get-quota/articleshow/80871535.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||IIT-Kgp to hold convocation on February 23||Kolkata: IIT-Kharagpur will hold the convocation for 2019-20 on a virtual mode on February 23. Usually organised in July-August, the convocation had to be postponed last year due to the Covid-19 situation. Though the situation has improved considerably since then, the IIT authorities have decided to hold the convocation on the virtual mode this time . A decision on organizing the convocation in 2020-21 will be taken later, according to the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-kgp-to-hold-convocation-on-february-23/articleshow/80868771.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC to set up nurseries in five circles in Secunderabad zone||SECUNDERABAD: The GHMC will soon set up its own nurseries in parks maintained by it and residential welfare associations (RWA) in Secunderabad zone. The GHMC had recently conducted a study on availability of saplings for households. Ornamental, medicinal, and other plants will be available to residents in five GHMC circles of Secunderabad zone, including Secunderabad, Begumpet, Musheerabad, Amberpet and Malkajgiri. The officials of Urban Bio-diversity (UBD) wing, Secunderabad zone, would distribute around half-a-dozen varieties of saplings to at the nurseries free of cost. “Many are buying the saplings at higher prices in private nurseries. The price of each sapling could be between Rs 30 to Rs 50. Now, the GHMC will keep all saplings for sale at its own nurseries, set up in the colony parks,” deputy director, UBD-Secunderabad, A Malini told TOI. The UBD wing had already identified 20 such parks for setting up of the nurseries. The RWAs in these five circles can buy the saplings from the nurseries in their colony parks.  “To promote greenery, the civic body also launched a programme called ‘Haritha Shukravaram’, which is conducted every Friday,” she added. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-set-up-nurseries-in-five-circles-in-secbad-zone/articleshow/80868782.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||How TRS won Hyderabad mayor poll with a little help from MIM||HYDERABAD: TRS on Thursday won the mayor and deputy mayor posts in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) with a handsome majority, but only after it got support from Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM. BJP put up candidates for both posts but did not get the needed numbers. With this, GHMC got its first woman mayor since the formation of Telangana in Banjara Hills corporator Gadwal Vijaya Laxmi. Tarnaka corporator Mothe Srilatha will be her deputy. The mayor post had been reserved for women this time. Given the stiff competition for the posts, the TRS leadership had sent their names in a sealed cover. Even the corporators and ex-officio members were not informed about the names till the last minute. Vijaya Laxmi is the daughter of TRS secretary general and Rajya Sabha MP K Keshava Rao. She had been among the frontrunners for the post right from the start. Ahead of the 2018 assembly elections, she had tried to get a ticket from Khairatabad but had failed. Srilatha’s family, on the other hand, has been loyal to TRS for a long time. Her husband Mothe Shoban Reddy had participated in the Telangana statehood agitation. Both Vijaya Laxmi and Srilatha got 132 votes each in the election held with the raising of hands. BJP candidates Veeraangari Radha and Shankar Yadav secured 48 votes each. Of the 132 votes that the winning candidates secured, TRS corporators and ex-officio members contributed 80 votes, while the AIMIM added another 52 votes. TRS has 56 seats in the 150-member GHMC council, while BJP has 48 seats (one corporator passed away). AIMIM finished with 44 seats in the recently concluded elections and Congress has two corporators. The mayoral election saw some sloganeering as well. BJP members started shouting “Jai Shree Ram” after TRS proposed the names of its candidates who were backed by AIMIM. In return, TRS members started shouting “Jai Telangana”. Hyderabad district collector and presiding officer, Sweta Mohanty, intervened and asked the members to calm down. The oath-taking ceremony, held before the mayoral election, was a colourful affair with different members taking oaths in at least four different languages. While most preferred Telugu to be sworn in, Urdu, Hindi and English were also heard. Besides, all TRS members came with traditional pink scarves around their necks and BJP members came decked in saffron and even sported turbans. The two Congress members walked out before the election took place. “We have boycotted the meeting as KCR went to Delhi and took directions from there. The drama here is being played as per instructions of Amit Shah and Modi garu,” said Rajita Reddy, Congress corporator from Uppal. After the elections, BJP members organised a protest outside the GHMC. They said TRS and AIMIM had cheated the people during campaigning by claiming they were not supporting each other when they were protecting each other’s interests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-wins-ghmc-mayoral-poll-with-a-little-help-from-mim/articleshow/80871058.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Webinar to mark CU commerce dept centenary||Kolkata: Calcutta University’s commerce department will celebrate its centenary year on Saturday. “The university’s commerce department is starting its centenary celebrations with a two-day webinar, where alumnus from across the world will participate,” said Ashish Kumar Sana, head, department of commerce, CU. Even though CU was founded in 1857, its commerce department started in 1922. The webinar “Resilience Strategy for Indian Economy: Role of Commerce and Accounting in the New Normal” is being co-organized by CU’s Commerce Alumni Association, which turns 50 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/webinar-to-mark-cu-commerce-dept-centenary/articleshow/80868792.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kochi||Irrigation department invites tender for seawall repair in Kerala||KOCHI: After a series of protests by residents, the irrigation department has finally initiated tendering of the reconstruction and repair works of the broken seawall at Chellanam coastal panchayat. The tendering for 10 projects of seawall repair at various places along the Chellanam coast has been started by the department. The projects will be completed using two funds – around Rs 15 crore allotted for Chellanam as part of the coastal protection measures and an emergency fund of Rs 1 crore allotted for the repair of seawall at Chellanam Bazaar, which is worst-affected by sea erosion. Using the Rs 15 crore, works of seawall repair at nine places between South Chellanam and Saudi will be done. Regarding the seawall repair at Bazaar, the executive engineer of Ernakulam division of irrigation department has issued a notice on Monday inviting online bids from registered bidders of the department or public works department. The project, which aims at the “reformation and reconstruction of damaged sunken seawall using stones,” has an estimated cost of Rs 88.53 lakh. The closing date for online bidding submission is February 16 and the project has to be completed within six months. The tenders for all the nine works were invited by the irrigation department’s central circle Thrissur. A series of protests were held by Kerala Region Latin Catholic Council (KRLCC) and Care Chellanam, an association of residents and coastal protection activists in the village, seeking immediate repair of the seawall before the onset of monsoon. “The tendering is a welcome move but it is important to ensure that the works have to be contracted at the earliest. We are closely following up the developments and hope to complete the works before the onset of monsoon,” said Care Chellanam coordinator Jinson Veluthamannungal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/irrigation-dept-invites-tender-for-seawall-repair/articleshow/80867220.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Budget schools to start offline classes in Telangana||HYDERABAD: In clear violation of state government orders, budget schools across Telangana have decided to discontinue online classes — for students of class 6 to class 8 — and return to physical classrooms from February 25. Confirming this on Thursday, members of the Telangana Recognised School Management Association (TRSMA) — umbrella organisation for these schools — said, beginning February 15, they will not offer any online classes to students enrolled in classes 6 to 10. Reason: Financial constraints coupled with poor learning experience of students. There are about 10,000 budget schools across Telangana, of which 4,500 to 5,000 are located within the GHMC limits. As per the government diktat, no school management can discontinue online classes or insist on physical attendance, even for students of classes 9 and 10 who have resumed school from February 1. “Students, teachers and school managements are suffering because of the current arrangement. While the learning gap is increasing for a student, teachers and managements are struggling to make ends meet. The only solution to all these problems is to reopen schools,” said Y Shekhar Rao, president, TRSMA. He said that they have been waiting for too long for schools to reopen and have already submitted multiple representations to concerned officials, including one submitted to the education minister on Thursday. Even teachers have taken a hit because of this delay in reopening, managements argue. While pre-Covid these schools had over three lakh teachers, most of their contracts were not renewed during the pandemic and their salaries withheld. Even post resumption of classes 9 and 10, only 10% teachers have been asked to rejoin work. “AP has already reopened classes even for primary school students. The same is the case with at least 10 other states. Why are we still forced to wait,” asked Rao maintaining that irrespective of state’s stance, these schools are certain to start physical classes this month. Stressing financial constraints, managements said not even 15% to 20% of parents have started paying fees for the academic year 2020-21. As a result, If schools are reopened, at least some parents will pay the fee, they reason. “On the one hand the state is asking us not to collect fees, but on the other hand it is asking us to continue both online and offline classes. How is this even possible?” said S Srinivas Reddy, who runs a private school in Amberpet and also the honorary president of TRSMA. He added: “Managements don’t have resources to offer both online and offline classes. If parents are unwilling to send their kids to school, they can opt for digital classes offered by the state through Doordarshan and TSAT.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/budget-schools-to-start-offline-classes/articleshow/80868789.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 12, 2021||Kochi||PM Narendra Modi to launch slew of development projects in Kochi on Sunday||KOCHI: The commercial sector of the state will witness a giant leap on Sunday when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a slew of development projects in the city, including the Rs 6,000-crore propylene derivatives petrochemical project at BPCL Kochi refinery, during his visit to Kochi. The project will help generate 5,00,000 metric tonnes per annum (MTPA) of propylene, one of the main feed-stocks of petrochemicals. Using this capacity, BPCL is strategically entering the petrochemical sector to reduce dependence of the country on imports of petrochemicals which is used to produce a wide range of articles as paints, printing inks, automotive parts, diapers, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and so on. A few days ago, chief minister Pinarayi had laid the foundation stone for the petrochemical park in Ambalamugal. Various industries which use the raw material generated at Kochi Refinery such as automobiles, plastic manufacturing units, costumes manufacturing factories, textiles will be visiting the park. Another project that PM Modi would be launching is the Sagarika Cruise Terminal at Cochin Port. The Rs.25 crore project funded by Union tourism ministry will help enhance the capacity of Cochin Port to handle passengers of cruise ships which berth here. With the launching of the new terminal, the port has the capacity to handle 5,000 passengers at a time. Modi will also inaugurate the reconstruction of South Coal Berth at the port. The Rs.20cr work funded by shipping ministry will be beneficial for industrial units like FACT. The formal inauguration of RoRo vessel service in Willingdon Island-Vallarpadam sector will also be held alongside. Inauguration of Vigyana Sagar, a knowledge and skill development centre of Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL), is also on the PM’s agenda for Sunday. The 70,000sqft education complex has been envisaged as a premium maritime learning centre in the country. “We are focussed on building top class ships as well as achieving our business goals. At Cochin shipyard, we believe, developing knowledge for young professionals is also equally important. The company came up with a plan to develop a knowledge and skill development centre to train young international talent,” said Madhu S Nair, chairman and managing director of CSL. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, minister of ports, shipping and waterways Mansukh Mandaviya, MP Hibi Eden and mayor M Anil Kumar would be attending the event. It is also learned that the Prime Minister will attend a BJP meet in Kochi on the day. Meanwhile, Kochi police have banned flying of drones in the city limits in view of the security arrangements during Modi’s visit. City police on Thursdays said in a statement that drones shouldn’t be flown in the city limits till February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pm-to-launch-slew-of-dvptprojects-in-city-on-sunday/articleshow/80867211.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Bareilly||3 cops assaulted by men accused of molesting 2 minor sisters, 5 held||Bareilly: A group of people allegedly assaulted three policemen and locked one of them in a room in Shahjahanpur’s Kalaan area when they went there to arrest people accused of molesting two minor sisters. The alleged molestation took place during a religious function. Additional superintendent of police (rural) Sanjeev Kumar Bajpai said, “Our outpost in-charge had gone to attend a molestation complaint when a few people turned aggressive and assaulted the police team on wednesday night. Extra force was sent and five persons were arrested. We are also trying to find if someone else was involved in the attack.” Videos of the incident have also surfaced on social media platforms. Police said that the attackers were trying to shield the accused who were involved in the molestation. Police have registered two FIRs in this case. The first FIR was registered on the complaint of the father of the girls under section 354 (attempt to outrage the modesty of a woman), 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment of life) along with the POCSO act. The second one was filed against the two accused in the first FIR and three others for the attack on policemen. All the five were booked under IPC sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in the discharge of his public functions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-cops-assaulted-by-men-accused-of-molesting-2-minor-sisters-5-held/articleshow/80867208.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 12, 2021||Chennai||Anna, Kamaraj missing from Chennai airport||CHENNAI: First, the name of former chief minister K Kamaraj disappeared. Now, that of another former chief minister, C N Annadurai, too has gone from Chennai airport. A board saying ‘Anna International Terminal’ facing the airside was taken down after the portion was razed for rebuilding. Curiously, announcements with the prefix ‘Anna International airport’ have also been dropped. The glass façade of a terminal opened in 2013 only bore ‘international terminal.’ But, the facility continued to be known as Anna International airport as international arrivals functioned from the old terminal. Now, the airport no longer bears the name of two of the political stalwarts who lead the state in its early days. The old domestic terminal was named after K Kamaraj, but when the building was closed and a new terminal opened adjacent to it in 2013, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) did not retain the old name. However, a name board saying ‘Kamaraj domestic terminal’ stood atop the old building facing the airside till it was pulled down early last year. No action has been taken, either by political parties or the government, to ensure AAI retained the names of the leaders at the airport. DMK Rajya Sabha member T K S Elangovan said it had come to the party’s notice Anna’s name was not being used at the airport. “We will raise the issue in Parliament on Friday.” An AAI official said no decision would ever be taken to drop Anna’s name. “The old international terminal is still there but the portion which had the ‘Anna International Terminal’ board has been pulled down. This is the reason behind the concern.” The facility being called Chennai airport was not because of any instruction, he said. The Congress too is confident Kamaraj’s legacy will not be forgotten. TNCC president K S Alagiri told TOI in March 2020 that the AAI promised to name the domestic terminal after Kamaraj after the ongoing work is completed. The confusion arose after a resolution passed in the state assembly said the domestic and international terminals, when commissioned, should be named after former chief minister M G Ramachandran. This is yet to be done. Sources said the three terminals that will come up when the integrated terminal is finished can be named after the three former CMs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-kamaraj-missing-from-city-airport/articleshow/80868796.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Take penal action against bank officials for frauds: HC to RBI||Nagpur: After finding that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is taking a lenient approach towards erring officials of various banks where scams were detected, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court directed it to act tough in such situation. Expressing concern over increasing numbers of bank frauds and scams coming to fore, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote further asked the apex bank to take penal action against erring officials, in whichever position they are, for not complying with its guidelines. The directives came while hearing a suo moto criminal PIL (No. 614/2017) regarding Rs25 crore losses caused to the UCO Bank due to alleged embezzlement of funds by its own officers. The HC had appointed Rajnish Vyas as amicus curiae to plead the PIL. While adjourning the hearing by three weeks, the bench told the top bank that its earlier affidavit was “unsatisfactory” and asked it to file a detailed reply on action it has taken or proposed to take against the UCO bank officials concerned. “The RBI is required to play the role of a real sentinel. Therefore, we expect that its reply would reflect its concern about prevention of such frauds and scams and taking punitive action against those responsible for it,” the bench said. The judges noted that the RBI doesn’t have any independent machinery to carry out the investigation into any fraud, but it can certainly take penal action under the powers conferred upon it in Banking Regulation Act, 1949, and the RBI Act, 1934, against the erring banks and also the officials concerned. “On going through various provisions made in Banking Regulation Act, 1949, one would not require any time to grasp the fact that the powers of RBI in controlling the affairs of the banks are enormous. That’s the reason why it is called the central bank having the supervision and control over all the banks and financial institutions engaged in the business of banking in India,” the judges said. Way paved way for confiscating MSCB assets The Nagpur bench of the High Court on Thursday vacated the stay on confiscation of movable assets of Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank (MSCB) in Mahal. The orders came while hearing a bank’s petition for staying the confiscation orders in a case filed by Bhandara’s Wainganga Cooperative Sugar Mill workers alleging Rs13.89 crore misappropriation by its officials. The case was listed before a division bench comprising justices Nitin Jamdar and Anil Kilor, which rejected the bank’s contention. Earlier, the Supreme Court on December 4, 2019, had ordered recovering the amount from the bank within six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/take-penal-action-against-bank-officials-for-frauds-hc-to-rbi/articleshow/80868834.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 12, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Study calls for novel ways to restore mangroves||KOCHI: Community-based management through ecotourism is a viable alternative for sustainably managing mangrove ecosystems in Kerala, which has lost 95% of the trees during the past three decades, says a study by researchers at Cochin University of Science and Technology. The study, based on a two-year survey of mangroves across the state, found that the mangroves in Ernakulam have suffered the maximum damage. A district-wide analysis revealed that mangrove vegetation is highest in Kannur, followed by Ernakulam and Alappuzha. Thiruvananthapuram has the lowest mangrove cover. The floristic diversity of mangroves in Kerala was represented by 18 species of which, Sonneratia alba, Avicennia alba, and Ceriops tagal were found to be rare in the state. The study, published in Elsevier’s ‘Regional Studies in Marine Science’, also examines the factors responsible for the decline of mangroves, various conservation measures adopted and future prospects. It was found that there is a scarcity of scientific information on mangrove areas in many districts. Geographic information System (GIS) and remote sensing can be effectively used for identification and mapping of various mangrove patches. “The conservation and restoration programmes of mangroves in the state have been accelerated after the 2004 tsunami. Since mangroves are separate and unique ecosystems in the marine environment, exclusive mangrove forest conservation laws need to be framed, legislated and enforced. In addition, site-specific and community-based mangrove rejuvenation and restoration programmes must be employed for long-term management and conservation of mangroves,” says the study. Though Kannur has the maximum mangrove cover, massive mangrove destruction was reported from Kunhimangalam, Irinavu, Pazhayangadi, Papinissery, Thalassery, Melur and Thazhaekavu due to shrimp farming and other developmental activities. Further, Kallai in Kozhikode lost its pristine mangroves due to defective land-use practices whereas mangroves in Pulluni in Tirur in Malappuram and Chettuva in Thrissur are highly threatened due to tourism and human encroachment. Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Sciences has been working in conservation efforts in Puthuvype in Ernakulam and creating awareness by conducting workshops among mangrove dwellers and local communities. Novel concepts like mangrove resort and conservation through ecotourism are also being implemented in several districts like Kannur and Ernakulam. Pappinissery mangrove theme park along Valapattanam River in Kannur and Malipuram aqua tourism center in Ernakulam are some examples. “People look at mangroves as a menace or a mosquito-breeding area and are not keen on preservation,” said S Sreelakshmi, research fellow and lea author of study, Cusat school of marine sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/study-calls-for-novel-ways-to-restore-mangroves/articleshow/80867230.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
February 12, 2021||Kochi||Tribespeople of Kerala denied rights for 12 years||KOCHI: The tribespeople of Kerala have been denied their basic right under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 with a whopping 18,000 claims for individual land rights being denied by successive governments for the past 12 years from 2008 to 2020. The FRA, 2006 provides individual rights to tribespeople and forest dwellers in different parts of the country to cultivate land in forest regions and also allows community rights over common property resources in the forests. But many claims under FRA by them have been rejected by the state administration without any rationale and in many cases forest department officials are not aware of the provisions of FRA, 2006. The tribal leaders and organizations pointed out that if the deserving claims are scrutinized and those eligible are provided land for cultivation and training to market their agri-products at their exclusive outlets, it will not only improve their impoverished lives, but also stop large-scale encroachment of forest land in the Western Ghats. There are around 4.24 lakh tribespeople in Kerala, out of which 1.80 lakh hail from Wayanad. Palakkad has a tribal popolation of 70,000 and the rest are largely scattered in Idukki and Nilambur regions of the Western Ghats. The tribal population is the first to be impacted by climate change induced disasters in the Western Ghats and land related issues. Attapadi tribal block is a case in point. In the past 60 years, the fortunes of the tribal population in Attapadi changed with settlers taking over the tribal land. The tribal population of Attapadi was 91% in 1951, but by 2011it shrunk to 43%. The tribespeople moved away from traditional agriculture, and over the years the number of cases of malnutrition death too has increased. Though the state and central governments spent around Rs 400 crore on various welfare schemes like starting community kitchens and eco-restoration programmes, nothing seemed to have worked. The underlying issue was land and the need for the tibespeople to regain their self-esteem rather than work as labourers in settler’s estates and become addicted to alcohol and drugs. The government has released 36,000 acres so far in the fringes of forest areas under FRA for the tribal population. But tribal activists say there has not been any sustainable agri-policy involving members of tribal communities to cultivate crops and find a good market for their organic produces in town and cities. “On Thursday, the representatives of various tribal organizations met chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and urged the government to settle the claims under the provisions of FRA, 2006,” Rajendra Prasad, a tribal activist and convener of Tambu, an NGO based in Attapadi, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tribespeople-denied-rights-for-12-yrs/articleshow/80868881.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Puducherry||Not named in invite, Kiran Bedi orders notice to official||PUDUCHERRY: Lieutenant-governor Kiran Bedi has directed chief secretary Ashwani Kumar to issue show-cause notice to project implementation agency director T Arun for omitting her name in the invitation for the inauguration of the reconstructed Marie Building on the Beach Road on Friday. Bedi also asked Kumar to forward Arun’s reply to her for further action. “I will take action against him (Arun) after I get his reply. Why did he omit the office of the lieutenant-governor for such a major event? I wasn’t even made aware till I saw the card,” she said in a WhatsApp post. Bedi pointed out that the reconstruction of Marie Building was fully funded by the Union government. “This is one of the important works sanctioned by the Centre under the coastal disaster risk reduction project (CDRRP) at Rs 14 crore. Therefore, it is only proper to invite dignitaries of the Centre for the inauguration,” she said. She directed Kumar to write to the ministry concerned and schedule a suitable date for inauguration after consulting the officials concerned. Till then, she asked that the inauguration scheduled on Friday be postponed. She directed all secretaries concerned to ensure that there is no breach of protocol in future. She warned that officials failing to do so will be issued show-cause notices and the Union government will be intimated about their acts. Bedi also refuted the charges levelled by chief minister V Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues that she interferes in the day-to-day affairs of the administration of the elected government. She said the vested interests in Puducherry have been constantly striving for her recall because she ensured ‘transparency in governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/not-named-in-invite-bedi-orders-notice-to-official/articleshow/80868875.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Women top men 56: 44 in getting jabs in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: More women healthcare and frontline workers have taken the Covid-19 vaccine in the state than their male counterparts till date. As the state crossed 6 lakh vaccinations on Thursday, data revealed that 56% of the recipients were women. In Mumbai though, where over 1 lakh vaccinations had been done by Thursday, officials said the distribution was nearly even. Officials said the state trend cannot be linked to hesitancy and was perhaps an indicator of gender distribution in the state’s health system. The state completed vaccinating 6.1 lakh beneficiaries on Friday, the 19th day of vaccination, of whom 5.2 lakh are healthcare workers and 89,949 are frontliners. Over 3.4 lakh are women recipients and 2.6 lakh are men. The state has nearly 11 lakh healthcare workers registered for vaccination, the highest in the country. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said the gender numbers don’t reflect any trend except that more female health workers are registered in Maharashtra. Twice as many frontliners take jabs as health workersOn the 20th day of the Covid vaccination drive, the city saw a slight drop in footfall compared to previous days. On Thursday, 61% of the 9,375 intended beneficiaries showed up to take the vaccine. Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer, said that frontliners who took the vaccine in the city were nearly double the number of health workers. Of the 5,707 vaccinated, 3,718 were frontline workers and 1,989 were health workers. Data showed that 52% of the healthcare workers scheduled for Thursday took the vaccine, while it was 67% for frontline workers. Across the state too, frontline workers exceeded the count of healthcare workers who took the vaccine. Of the 34,889 who took the vaccine, 15,593 were health workers and19,296 were frontliners on Thursday. On more women being vaccinated, principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said, “Registration of women health workers is much more than men due to criteria of health workers laid down. In some categories like ASHA and aanganwadi sewikas, 100% registered beneficiaries are women,” he said. The trend of women outnumbering men was initially seen in UP too. Dr Naveen Thacker, a former civil society organization representative to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, concurred that the health sector probably has more women, but it can only be said with certainty after registrations are over. “In certain specialisations, such as nursing, women far outnumber men. They may account for nearly 90%. Large chunks of community health volunteers too are all women so that could be contributing to higher numbers,” he said. An assistant health officer from one of the city’s wards said that at the community level, more women are involved. “This vaccination drive has presented a good opportunity to find out how much women contribute to the health sector,” she said. State officials said vaccination of 49% of the 10.54 lakh registered health workers is over. Among frontliners, nearly 90,000 of 7 lakh registered have been given jabs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/twice-as-many-frontliners-take-jabs-as-health-workers/articleshow/80868878.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 12, 2021||Bareilly||Free health camps for PTR forest personnel||Pilibhit: With an aim to ensure that forest personnel are fit and healthy, World Wide Fund for Nature (India) in coordination with Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) authorities and the State LH Ayurvedic College has launched free health camps in all five range areas of the reserve. Naresh Kumar, senior project officer of WWF, said, “The free medical facility will be extended to all family members of the forest staff and the communities living in proximity of PTR.” The camps will be held everyWednesday by a team of 10 to 12 Ayurvedic doctors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/free-health-camps-for-ptr-forest-personnel/articleshow/80859325.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 12, 2021||Ludhiana||A mechanical engineer who quit job to run langar sewa||Ludhiana: A mechanical engineer by profession, Harsimran Narula of Ludhiana has been organising langar sewa on Delhi road, near Lohara for over a fortnight now. He quit his job to serve the humanity. According to him, he thought of starting the langar sewa while returning from the farmers’ protest at Singhu border when he came across some protesters, who were looking for some tea stall or food joint. “It was there that I decided to quit the job in order to serve the protesters and also others by starting the langar sewa and provide tea, milk, eatables and a place for night stay. Initially, I was alone, but soon some of my friends also joined me,” said Harsimran. He has been serving every traveller, including those moving in trucks, cars or even bike riders with food, tea and milk, and providing them shelter. “This is our small gesture towards the society we belong to. I hope that such initiatives will also help dispel the misgivings about the farmers’ agitation, regarding which various narratives are being created. This should also reflect on the deep connect of the Sikhs with the humanity,” he said. Others who have joined him in organising the langar seconded him. “This relationship has been defined by none other than Guru Nanak himself. ‘Nanak uttam neech na koi (no one is superior or inferior)," the Guru had declared," said Kamaljeet Patwari, who has been part of the initiative. “This langar is not identified by any nationality either. It's not Indian, Pakistani, American, British or Afghani... It's called ‘Guru ka Langar’,” stressed Amandeep Singh, another friend of Harsimran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/a-mechanical-engineer-who-quit-job-to-run-langar-sewa/articleshow/80867235.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Parents fail to pay fees, girl kills self||HYDERABAD: A class 10 student of a private school in Neredmet killed herself on Thursday after she was asked to drop out of school for failing to pay Rs 3,000 fee. According to the complaint filed by the family, 16-year-old Yashashwini, daughter of labourers from Kakatiya Nagar in Neredmet, was depressed since she was forced to discontinue her studies. “The parents were facing financial crisis and couldn’t afford the fee. A few days ago, the school informed the girl that she will not be allowed to attend classes,” said Neredmet inspector A Narasimha Swamy, adding, “The family did not make any mention of harassment by school staff.” On Thursday evening, the teenager hanged herself in her house while her parents were away at work. “When her parents returned, they found the house locked. They broke the latch of the door and found her hanging by a rope. There was no suicide note,” the inspector said. A case of suspicious death has been registered under Section 174 of CrPC and the girl’s body shifted for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/class-10-kid-forced-to-drop-out-as-parents-fail-to-pay-fee-kills-self/articleshow/80871070.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Open Manuu, demand students||Hyderabad: Maulana Azad National Urdu University (Manuu) students have urged the administration to reopen the varsity in compliance with directives of the government at the earliest. The students want to resume academic activities on the campus following their enrolment to various programmes. “The Covid-19 has affected the lives of everyone, but it hit students harder. From internet connectivity to continuous strain on eyes due to excessive exposure to screens for fulfilling study requirements, student health has been affected both physically and mentally,” said Umar Faruq Quadri, former president of Manuu Students Union, echoing concerns of the varsity students. The Manuu students’ union has threatened to enter the university and occupy hostels if the administration fails to take any decision in this regard. “Online mode of study can be a temporary aid, but not a permanent substitute to offline classes. UGC has also approved the reopening of universities and colleges across the country with necessary arrangements,” he added, urging authorities to reopen the university by February-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/open-manuu-demand-students/articleshow/80868871.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Bareilly||Rampur court grants interim bail to senior journalist for his tweet on Delhi farmer’s death||Rampur: Siddharth Varadarajan, editor of a news portal, and a reporter were granted interim bail in a case related to his tweet on the death of a farmer during the Republic Day violence in Delhi. Rampur district and sessions judge Gaurav Srivastava on Thursday also directed the UP Police “not to arrest them”. Defence counsel Harsh Gupta told TOI that the anticipatory bail application was presented before the sessions court, which gave its directions after listening to the arguments. The court also directed the police to present the case diary and the other records. A case under IPC sections 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) and 505(2) (statements conducive to public mischief) was filed in Rampur. The FIR was filed on a complaint by one Sanju Turaha, a local resident, at Civil Lines police station. Varadarajan told TOI, “We have maintained from the outset that the charges are baseless. Freedom of the press is a cornerstone of our Constitution. I have full faith in the judiciary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-court-grants-interim-bail-to-senior-journalist-for-his-tweet-on-delhi-farmers-death/articleshow/80866297.cms||Nazar Abbas
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||On eve of campus return: Excited kids, edgy parents||Kolkata: Excitement, interspersed with bouts of anxiety, seemed to be the dominant emotions at most households with board-year students. While a majority of the youngsters said they looked forward to returning to school on Friday after almost a year’s gap, not all the parents seemed too confident about sending the children out of the safety of their homes. “My daughter is elated that she can go to school on Friday. She has been calling up her friends. But I am concerned precisely over this. What if she takes her mask off on seeing her friends? What if they share food?” said a Jodhpur Park resident, mother of a class-IX student at a south Kolkata school. Some guardians are worried about the commute to and from the school. To add to their concerns is the 12-hour Bengal bandh called by the Left in protest against the alleged police brutality on Left supporters during a rally on Thursday. “My son used to take the schoolbus. Although he has already made reunion plans with his bus mates, I am not comfortable with allowing him to use the bus now. I will drop him personally in our own car before heading to office. The same car will pick him up from school later in the day,” said the father of a class-X student. “Further, with the last-minute bandh call, I will not take any chance with the school bus. If the situation gets worse in the morning, I will not even send him to school on the opening day.” Some anxious parents even staged a demonstration outside a popular co-ed school in south Kolkata, demanding rollback of their decision to organize offline annual exams for classes IX and XII within days of reopening. “I lost my husband a few months ago amid the pandemic. Our family is stressed. I can’t take this added concern about my son’s well-being. He has breathing trouble and is not used to wearing masks for a long time at a stretch. We want the school not to hold physical classes this session but to resume the next session with offline classes,” said the mother of a class-IX student. Another parent of a student at the same school said, “The school has written in the declaration form that they would not take any responsibility if the child falls ill. If he contracts the virus, he wouldn’t even be able to sit for the exam, be it online or offline. What will happen to him then?” To gain parents’ confidence, several schools have held multiple meetings with parent bodies to discuss the safety measures taken. Despite their anxiety, several parents said that for children who would appear for board exams, lab work and practical lessons were important and they would have to send their wards to school. “The institute is arranging for doubt-clearing sessions and mock exams. The online schooling has lessened the habit of writing and thus can hamper their speed during exams. Lack of laboratory exposure can also impact their performance in the final exam. Hence, I will send my child to school,” said the father of a class-XII student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-eve-of-campus-return-excited-kids-edgy-parents/articleshow/80869046.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Steel raw material rates down, but industry wants more||Ludhiana: Nearly 10 days after Union finance minister Nirmala Seetharman announced import duty cut up to 5% on certain steel products, a positive impact is being seen on the rates of domestic steel raw materials, which have come down between Rs 4,000 to 8,000 per tonne. The slashing of import duty was welcomed by Punjab’s engineering goods manufacturing sector—especially the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), manufacturing bicycles and its parts, sewing machines, auto parts, etc—that had been suffering due to a steep hike in the steel raw material rates. However, despite the fall in rates, the MSMEs are still not happy, as they feel that rates need further correction, since they are still very high compared to their cost 6-12 months earlier. Talking about the issue, Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “During the past 10 days, the rates of ingot have slipped by around Rs 6,000 to Rs 36,000 per tonne. Similarly, the rates of pig iron have also come down to Rs 36,000 from Rs 42,000 per tonne. “We do not know whether the current reduction is due to the budget announcement of cut in import duty on various steel products, like non-alloy and alloy steel, stainless, etc. But, this reduction is hardly anything if we compare the rates at which these were trading six months ago. Therefore, the rates need further reduction and we will request the central government to take appropriate measures in this regard.” According to Rajkumar Singla, president of Fasteners Suppliers Association of Ludhiana, since February 1, there has been a decrease of Rs 7,500 per tonne in the rates of wire rods, which are currently around Rs 40,000 per tonne. “As far as the rate of hard rolled (HR) coil is concerned, the cost has decreased by Rs 5,500 to Rs 52,000 per tonne. This is certainly a relief for the industry, but the cut is not adequate enough, as the rates have witnessed reduction of only up to Rs 8,000, while the increase in cost of some raw materials in the last one year has been over Rs 20,000 per tonne. The industry will get proper relief only if there is further rate reduction of at least 15-20% to bring the same to justified levels.” Inderjit Navyug, former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), said, “The rates of several types of steel raw materials have decreased, but nobody knows for how long they will remain at these levels. So, for a permanent solution, it is our request to the Centre to fulfil the long-standing demand of forming a steel regulator, which would keep a check on the rates of steel in the market and without its approval, no rate hike would come into effect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/steel-raw-material-rates-down-but-industry-wants-more/articleshow/80867260.cms||Mohit Behl
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 3D printing tech used to operate on 18-month-old||NEW DELHI: An 18-month-old born with a rare condition — a triangular front of the head — underwent a successful surgery to correct the deformity at a private hospital in the city recently. Normally, the bones forming the skull are separated by joints called sutures, which also serve as centres of growth. Dr Sonal Gupta, director, neuro and spine surgery, Fortis Shalimar Bagh, said these sutures fuse at set times after birth, resulting in lack of skull growth in a direction perpendicular to the suture. “However, the brain is still growing rapidly during this period and needs space to do so. Therefore, the condition needed to be corrected, as it could hamper the neuro-psychological development of the child, in addition to the obvious aesthetic defect,” she added. The doctor said they fed the digital data from the patient’s 3D CT scan into the 3D printer to print two rapid prototype skull and upper face models, which were exact replicas of the patient’s skull. “We worked on these to determine the exact size of the bony cuts on the patient’s skull. There was no scope for even smallest of deviations, as it could cause blindness, profuse bleeding or even brain damage. We conducted a mock one on the 3D model a day prior,” she said. During the actual surgery, the doctors transferred the measurements from 3D models to the patient’s skull. “We did an entire cranio-facial remodelling by removing the frontal bones and the orbital bandeau, while ensuring the brain and eyeballs were protected. We recontoured these bones to the dimensions of the model surgery and replaced these in corrected position,” said Dr Richi Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3d-printing-tech-used-to-operate-on-18-month-old/articleshow/80868910.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chennai||6,000 cops on guard for PM visit, 8 repeat offenders held||Chennai: Stepping up security ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Chennai on Sunday, city police have arrested eight repeat offenders as a precaution. Four others were booked for pasting posters on Thiruvottiyur metro station premises. More than 6,000 police personnel have been assigned VVIP bandobast duty. Modi will land in Chennai at 10.30am and will leave for Delhi around 1.30pm after attending the scheduled programmes including the inaugural of 9km metro rail extension line from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar near Thiruvottiyur. The eight arrested by the Washermenpet police were local goons ‘Mango’ Satish, Murali, Imran, Ashok Kumar, Jagan, Loganathan, Gunasekaran and Kuppan. They were remanded in prison as a preventive measure. Ahead of the metro line inauguration, security has been tightened in the city, particularly in places along the metro line route. Police identified the four arrested for pasting posters at Thiruvottiyur metro station as Siva, Ajithraj, Aravindan and Santhosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/6000-cops-on-guard-for-pm-visit-8-repeat-offenders-held/articleshow/80868914.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||After 9 months, no Covid-19 death in Telangana||HYDERABAD: For the first time after nine months, Telangana has recorded zero death due to Covid-19 on Thursday. It was on May 8 last year that the state saw no Covid-related deaths, when the total toll was 30. The cumulative death toll so far into the pandemic now stands at 1,613 in the state. On Thursday, 146 new cases were recorded which took the total numbers to 2,96,134 in the state. State health authorities said that cases have reduced drastically since the last one-and-a-half months, attributing the fall to active surveillance and increased testing. “Early lockdown coupled with ruthless containment measures have had an effect. Moreover, with ramping up testing and decentralisation of testing by taking it up to the village level helped in cutting the chain of transmission. While we are well past the peak stage of the pandemic, we cannot rule out the spread in future. It will depend on people’s behaviour. The virus has not vanished and hence people should be cautious and take the vaccine when their turn comes. In the coming days it is only the vaccine which is going to help us,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana. While the state has a positivity rate of 0.7%, the case fatality rate (CFR) is currently 0.54%, which is among the lowest in the country. Kerala with 0.40% CFR and Assam and other northern eastern states are the only ones to have a lower CFR than Telangana. The national average CFR is 1.4%. The recovery rate in the state is 98.83% as compared to the national rate of 97.2%. On Thursday, 29,755 tests were conducted in the state. With this Telangana has now completed 82.1 lakh Covid-19 tests and has reached 2.2 lakh tests per million population. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 25 new cases on Thursday while Rangareddy recorded 11 cases. Except Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Kamareddy, Narayanpet and Wanaparthy districts, all the remaining districts in the state recorded new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-9-months-no-covid-19-death-in-t/articleshow/80871073.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Cong organises unique protest against high fuel rates||Ludhiana: Congress leader KK Bawa, who is also state president of Desh Bhagat Yadgari Society, organised a unique protest march against the central government’s failure to control the rates of fuel and LPG in the country. Bawa marched from Jagraon bridge till the mini-secretariat, along with his supporters and elephants, as a mark of protest against the Centre. At Jagraon bridge, the protesters also paid obeisance at the statue of the martyrs Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev. Giving more information, Bawa said, “Modi government has back-stabbed common man, poor, farmers, middle class and small businessmen. Be it diesel, petrol or LPG, all these fuels are connected directly with the savings and earnings of the people and after the central government deliberately did not take any measures to bring down their rates, inflation has risen manifold, thus affecting lives of everyone. Thursday’s march with elephants and tractors was just a small initiative to make people aware about the misdeeds of Modi government.” He added, “We have sent a memorandum to the PM through the deputy commissioner, in which we have strongly demanded that the rates of petroleum products be revised immediately and farm bills be withdrawn at the earliest. When Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister, the rates of petrol and diesel were at lowest point in the country, but now under the Modi government, the rates of petrol and diesel have gone up. On the other hand, the BJP is selling public sector enterprises of the country to big industrial houses for peanuts. Modi and his cabinet should shun their arrogance and listen to the problems of the people, especially farmers.” Meanwhile, Congress party workers led by MLA Surinder Dawar also staged a protest against the central government for ‘failure’ to control the rising rates of fuel. Speaking on the occasion, Dawar said, “Petrol diesel and gas rates have sky-rocketed, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi has failed to do anything till now and instead he and his party are busy playing politics over farm laws. The rate of crude oil has gone down to an all-time low in the world, but in our country the rates of petrol, diesel, LPG and other allied products have touched an all-time high level. We want to ask the government where are their leaders who used to hit the roads when even a single paisa hike of petrol and diesel took place when they were not in power. In fact, the silence of BJP leaders have exposed their hypocrisy and time is not far when this saffron party will be uprooted from power by common man, farmers and businessmen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-organises-unique-protest-against-high-fuel-rates/articleshow/80867286.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Task force for Covid likely to be turned into state govt think tank||Mumbai: The Covid-19 task force that steered the state’s response through the pandemic could take the form of a permanent think tank on the lines of NITI Aayog. On Thursday, CM Uddhav Thackeray, senior bureaucrats and all members of the task force met at the CM’s official bungalow Varsha to critically evaluate the handling of the pandemic. The task force of senior specialist doctors was constituted on April 13 last year to minimize Mumbai’s death rate that was above the state and national average then. In Thursday’s meeting, one of the key points agreed on was to continue training of doctors in ICU protocols and general management to handle Covid-19 better, should cases or deaths rise again. The team also communicated its plan to make video capsules detailing various aspects of handling Covid such as ICU care, administrative requirements, use of steroids, etc and distribute it among doctors across Maharashtra. Chairman of the task force Dr Sanjay Oak told TOI there was a need for the state to be in “perpetual preparedness.” “A body of medical experts could be there to help in various aspects of health. Having a medical think tank on the lines of Niti Aayog could help not just for Covid but other diseases like tuberculosis,” said Oak, adding more specialist doctors could be added to the team. The state officials are believed to have agreed to the idea though no official announcement has been made. Officials said the meeting was informal and notes were exchanged. Officials said the task force has been advising for 10 months, and the CM was keen to hear their experiences and ways in which this set-up can be continued. “There was also a discussion on findings and suggestions made by the Central team,” an official said. Another official said, “It was also to figure out what could be done to shed the negative impression about the state’s handling of the pandemic recently pointed out in an economic survey report.” About the video capsules, Dr T P Lahane, director of medical education and research said, each member of the task force would speak for 8-10 minutes and elaborate on one aspect of Covid management. Intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit said learning modules would be uploaded for all doctors to watch. On higher death rates in some districts, Dr Oak said the task force would have a meeting with Dr Avinash Supe and Dr D Kadam, who head the death committees for Mumbai and rest of Maharashtra respectively. “Our past reviews have shown loopholes in ventilatory management and doctors not following treatment protocols,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/task-force-for-covid-likely-to-be-turned-into-state-govt-think-tank/articleshow/80868928.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Commissioner proposes... house disposes: SDMC nixes tax hikes||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation has finalised its budget for 2021-22. With municipal elections scheduled for next year, all taxes that were proposed were rejected by the civic body, even as it also rolled back the tax hikes for commercial properties enforced through the 3rd Municipal Valuation Committee last July. The allocation for discretionary funds for councillors and chairpersons of committees and zones has been raised, while Rs 50 lakh has been set aside for every ward for repair of roads and back lanes. Each ward will also get Rs 5 lakh for streetlights. Perhaps with an eye on projects to be inaugurated in the pre-election year, Narendra Chawla, leader of the House, announced while presenting the budget that provisions have been made to mention the name of the area councillor on the inauguration plaques of projects alongside the names of the MP or MLA even if the work was undertaken under the MP/MLA local area development scheme. Chawla also announced that it will now be mandatory to inform the councillor about any work under the MP/MLA LAD scheme and a 10% service tax will be charged for any project carried out using corporation resources. The discretionary funds provided to SDMC members has been increased, with the money available for each area councillor for development works doubled from Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore. While Rs 50 lakh has been earmarked for such projects for the deputy chairman of each zone under a new account head, chairman of committees for education, horticulture, construction, health, department of environmental management services, etc, will get Rs 50 lakh instead of Rs 30 lakh. The budget also announced the relaunch of the Atal Jan Aahar Yojna to provide subsidised meals. This scheme was earlier launched in 2017, but despite the obvious need for it during the Covid-19 lockdown, it was wrapped up. After the resumption of the scheme, a thali will cost Rs 15 instead of the previous Rs10. Chawla said SDMC would provide Rs10,000 to each councillor for the celebration of national festivals and hiked the funds available for the management of festivals like Ramlila and Chhath Puja from Rs50 lakh to Rs1 crore. In a significant move, the penalty for illegally dumping construction and demolition waste on roadsides has been hiked tenfold to Rs 50,000 per offence. The civic body has allowed residents living in rural and urban villages to keep an animal (either cow or buffalo) within the periphery of their homes without having to pay the animal tax. The civic body will also attempt to construct at least one community centre each in the 49 wards that currently don’t have one. There was also an emphasis on boosting publicity around the projects undertaken by SDMC. The budgetary provision for the press and information department went up to Rs5 crore. Chawla criticised Delhi government for “violating the constitutional setup by withholding Rs3,200 crore from SDMC for political gains”. He accused the government of not recognising municipal workers who died while carrying out Covid duties and withholding the Rs1 crore compensation given to Covid warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/commissioner-proposes-house-disposes-sdmc-nixes-tax-hikes/articleshow/80868955.cms||Paras Singh
February 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala governor clears Vishwas Mehta’s appointment as CIC||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Governor Arif Mohammed Khan is learnt to have given clearance to the selection of chief secretary Vishwas Mehta as the chief information commissioner of the state. It is reliably learnt that the governor signed the file in this regard on Thursday. At the same time, the development has also thrown up some legal questions on whether the officer, who is currently the chief secretary of the state, can continue to be in the post any more. As per the section pertaining to the terms of service of the state chief information commissioner, the state chief information commissioner or the information commissioners, who on the date of appointment to the commission was in the service of the central or the state government, shall be deemed to have retired from such service with effect from the date of his appointment. The Supreme Court, in the Union of India versus Namit Sharma, 2013, case had ruled that even though the sections 12(6) and 15(6) of the act do not debar a member of Parliament or member of the legislature of any state or Union Territory, as the case may be, or a person holding any other office of profit or connected with any political party or carrying on any business or pursuing any profession from being considered for appointment as CIC or information commissioner, but after such person is appointed as CIC or information commissioner, he has to discontinue as the member of Parliament or member of the legislature of any state or Union Territory, or discontinue to hold any other office of profit. The question remains whether the notification would be immediately issued by the office of the governor in this regard, as the governor is the appointing authority, or whether it would get delayed as Mehta can continue as the chief secretary till February 28, when he would retire from IAS. If the notification is issued, Mehta will have to be relieved as he would be disabled from discharging duties as chief secretary. Continuing in the post of chief secretary after such notification is issued may attract disqualification under the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/governor-clears-mehtas-appointment-as-cic/articleshow/80868939.cms||KP Saikiran
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Make schools parties to case: HC||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Thursday said that it cannot hear a PIL that wanted the schools to implement mother tongue as the medium of instruction for children studying in classes 1 to 8 without private schools being made parties before it. The bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy directed petitioner D V Rao to make the private schools parties to the case if he wants to pursue the case. The petitioner was quoting the provisions of the RTE Act that made it mandatory for all schools to impart education to children in their formative years in their mother tongue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/make-schools-parties-to-case-hc/articleshow/80868937.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||BCI not to implement regulation to scrap 1-year LLM programme||Hyderabad: The Bar Council of India (BCI) has decided not to implement regulations abolishing one-year LLM programme from the next academic year. The submission was made to the Supreme Court on Thursday in a case filed by the Consortium of National Law Universities against the BCI regulations. A bench of Chief Justice of India SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian heard the plea by the consortium and two other individual candidates challenging the decision of the BCI to scrap the one-year LLM programme and derecognise foreign LLM. The BCI told the SC that its decision to scrap the one-year LLM programme and derecognize foreign LLM will be brought into force only from academic year 2022-23. “We are glad that the BCI understood the magnanimity of the situation and decided not to implement these regulations from academic year 2020-21. Many LLM aspirants will benefit from this decision,” said Faizan Mustafa, president of the consortium. The SC adjourned the case by four weeks. The move brought relief to close to 5,000 prospective LLM students who had registered for the exam scheduled in May/June, 2021. The one-year LLM was introduced in India following recommendations of the National Knowledge Commission in 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bci-not-to-implement-regulation-to-scrap-1-year-llm-programme/articleshow/80868931.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Nashik medical college gets cabinet nod; Amravati, Buldhana get ‘tweets’||Nagpur: The Maharashtra state cabinet has given approval for a PG medical college and 430-bed hospital at Nashik on Wednesday. But, two districts in Vidarbha — Amravati and Buldhana — where the demand of government medical college was being raised since long received only assurances and declaration of support through tweets by ministers. Amravati, just like Nashik, is a divisional headquarters, and the district’s guardian minister Yashomati Thakur was quite vocal in raising the government medical college demand here. Thakur had claimed after the last meeting of state cabinet that the issue of GMC at Amravati was discussed and soon there will be a medical college at Amravati. Even Deputy CM Ajit Pawar, who was in Amravati for District Planning Committee (DPC) meeting, had assured there will be a medical college in Amravati soon. But, nothing more than assurances came for the district. On the same lines, Buldhana’s guardian minister and state FDA minister Rajendra Shingne had tweeted on February 8 that Buldhana’s medical college has been approved by state health minister. Even health minister Rajesh Tope had tweeted that his department has approved a medical college at Buldhana. However, neither Amravati nor Buldhana got cabinet approval on Wednesday. Nashik, on the other hand, got approval as well as budgetary provision for medical college. Sources said that the influence of veteran guardian minister of Nashik Chhagan Bhujbal has played an important role in getting approval for Nashik’s medical college. Nashik Municipal Corporation also made Rs100 crore budgetary provision for the college in this year’s budget. No such provision was made in Amravati. As per the government’s new policy, GMCs were proposed in Satara, Parbhani, Buldhana, Sindhudurg, Nashik, Nandurbar, Amravati, Osmanabad, Palghar, Alibaug and Mumbai. Out of these, Nandurbar’s medical college will start admissions from this 2021-22 academic session. Cabinet approvals have already been given for Osmanabad, Palghar, Sindhudurg and Satara medical colleges. Amravati is the only division out of six revenue divisions in Maharashtra having only two government medical colleges. All other divisions have at least four. “In last budget, the government has approved colleges in Satara, Alibaug, Nandurbar and Amravati. It’s in process. The allegation that Amravati is not on priority list of state is baseless. Soon, we will get cabinet approval for Amravati GMCH,” said Yashomati Thakur, guardian Minister of Amravati. Rajendra Shingne, guardian minister of Buldhana reiterated that the health department has approved medical college for Buldhana too. “Cabinet approval will follow,” he said. A senior officer in the department of medical education and research told TOI that even after getting cabinet nod, the establishment of medical college will take at least one academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nashik-medical-college-gets-cabinet-nod-amravati-buldhana-get-tweets/articleshow/80868962.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||2 killed in accident on city outskirts||Hyderabad: Two persons died while two others sustained injuries in a road accident on the NH-65 at Pedda Amberpet on Thursday.  K Hanumantha Rao, 39, who was driving from Pamidipadu village in Narsaraopet mandal of Guntur district, stopped his Innova car at Pedda Amberpet to answer nature’s call. However, a DCM van transporting chillies that was behind the Innova rammed into another DCM van carrying iron rods. “Due to speeding, a farmer in the DCM van, M Ramachandraiah, 75, of Narannavari Palem in Martoor mandal of Prakasham district, who was sitting next to the driver, Dharma Teja, died. The driver did not sustain any injuries,” Abdullapurmet inspector V Swamy said. Due to the impact, the other DCM van with iron rods rammed into the parked Innova, crushing to death the Innova’s driver. While the second DCM van driver sustained injuries, the passenger in the Innova was unhurt. Alerted by motorists, police reached the spot and removed the two bodies stuck in the mangled vehicles using a crane. The bodies were shifted to Osmania General Hospital and the injured DCM van driver was shifted to a nearby hospital for treatment. Police registered a case against the DCM van driver transporting chillies under Sections 304-a (causing death due to rash or negligent act) and 337 (causing injuries due to rash or negligent act) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-killed-in-accident-on-city-outskirts/articleshow/80868974.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kozhikode||NBW issued against Biju and Saritha||Kozhikode: The judicial first class magistrate court cancelled the bail of solar scam accused Saritha S Nair and Biju Radhakrishnan and issued a non bailable warrant against them as they failed to appear before it on Thursday when the court was to pronounce its verdict in a cheating case against them. The court postponed the pronouncement of its verdict in the case to February 25. The JFCM court-III judge Nimmi K K cancelled the bails of Radhakrishnan, Saritha and third accused B Manimon and issued instructions to produce them before the court on February 25. The court rejected the absent petitions filed on behalf of the accused. The petition filed on behalf of Radhakrishnan said that he could not travel as he was recuperating after angioplasty while Saritha said in her petition that she could not appear due to medical reasons. Assistant public prosecutor Geoffrey George Joseph strongly opposed their pleas and urged the court to cancel their bail. Radhakrishnan and Saritha had allegedly duped Abdul Majeed, the owner of Associated Steels Yard and took a payment of Rs 42.7 lakh after promising him a franchise of Team Solar company to distribute solar panels, lighting equipment and water heaters. Manimon was accused of creating forged documents for duping the businessman. The chargesheet was filed in December 2013 and the trial began in January 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/nbw-issued-against-biju-and-saritha/articleshow/80869005.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Rinku Sharma, 25, stabbed after birthday party brawl, dies in hospital||NEW DELHI: A 25-year-old man was assaulted and then stabbed by a group of people inside his house in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri on Wednesday night. The victim, Rinku Sharma, died at a hospital during treatment. Four men have been arrested for the crime, which took place in the aftermath of a brawl at a birthday party in the afternoon. The victim lived with his parents and two brothers in K-Block of Mangolpuri and worked as a lab technician at a hospital in Paschim Vihar. His brother, Ankit, said the assailants, who were armed with knives and sticks, knocked on their door late in the evening and forced their way in. “Before we could understand what had happened, the men surrounded us and started asking about my brother,” said Manu, his second brother. Sharma was allegedly dragged outside the house, punched and kicked over a dozen times before being stabbed in the back with a large knife. The accused fled leaving him lying in a pool of blood. The family members then rushed him to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital. Ankit claimed the assailants intercepted them again while they were on their way to the hospital. The attackers allegedly reached the hospital too. Doctors operated upon Sharma and took out the knife. However, his condition started deteriorating and he was referred to another hospital on Thursday morning. He died around noon before he could be shifted. The kin of the deceased alleged that he was on the group’s radar for the past six months. A brawl had taken place while he was bursting crackers during a Jagrukta rally organised in the area. He was a member of Bajrang Dal and BJP’s youth wing. The family claimed that the main perpetrator was still absconding. While police claimed there was no communal angle to the murder, personnel were deployed in the area to prevent any skirmish. Cops are also looking into a video of the incident in which an accused was seen waving a knife at Sharma, which went viral on Thursday. A senior police officer said, “A scuffle had ensued during a birthday party that was attended by both the accused and the victim. The four accused, identified as Mohammed Islam, Danish, Zahid and Mehtab, have been arrested. A case has been registered under the relevant sections of IPC and investigation is on.” Watch 25-year-old man stabbed to death in Delhi's Mangolpuri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/25-yr-old-stabbed-after-brawl-dies-in-hospital/articleshow/80869017.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Parents split on private schools’ move||HYDERABAD: The decision of private budget school managements to stop providing online classes has received a mixed response from parents. While a few said that students will benefit from the move as they are unable to understand the subject taught through virtual classes or had no access to online classes at all, others said that parents should not be forced to send their wards to schools by shutting down online classes completely. “This move by the school managements clearly shows that they are immune to all rules and regulations and that they are not answerable to anyone. How can they even say that they will start schools with or without the state’s permission? Is the government running/monitoring schools or is it the other way around,” questioned K Venkata Sainath, joint secretary, Hyderabad Schools Parents Association (HSPA). He said that a decision like this should be taken in consultation with the state government, especially the health department. “Who will take responsibility if schools turn into Covid-19 hotspots? What if the Kerala scenario repeats here? Also, starting classes for younger kids is also risky for parents and grandparents,” he added. They said that maintaining social distancing in schools will also be a headache if physical classes are started for students of class 6 to class 8 as many schools don’t have the required space. “My son’s school is nothing but a vertical building. How are they going to maintain social distancing if students of class 6 to class 10 come to school,” questioned M Ram Reddy, whose son is studying in class 8 in a private school. A few, however, said that it’s high time schools are started as children have lost major part of the academic year. “Unless schools are started, our children will not get to learn anything,” said K Lalitha, whose children are studying in a budget school. She said that classes should begin for primary school students as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-split-on-pvt-schools-move/articleshow/80868983.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Elections for NMC’s 10 zonal chairmen on Feb 16||Nagpur: Elections to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s 10 zone committees for the year 2021-22 will be held on February 16. The parties will decide on zone chairmen with an eye on the civic elections due early next year. There are chances that those who did not get any opportunity in the last four years will be rewarded with the post. The number of candidates in the ruling BJP for the post of various chairmen is large and it may be a headache picking among them. Sources said the party will hold a meeting on February 13 for this. In the 151-member House, BJP has 107 corporators, Congress 28, BSP 10, Shiv Sena 2, NCP 1 and independent 1, while two corporators were declared invalid. At present, BJP has its chairpersons in eight zones. The remaining zonal chiefs are from BSP and Congress. Last time, Congress’s Gargi Chopra had become chairman of Mangalwari zone with BJP’s support. Mangalwari zone comprises four prabhags—one, nine, 10 and 11— and has 16 corporators, eight from BJP, five from Congress and three from BSP. This time, with the support of Chopra, BJP is trying to give chairmanship to a party corporator rather than support corporator from another party. In Ashi Nagar zone, where BSP has seven corporators, the current chairperson Viranka Bhivgade, may retain the post. Under this zone, BJP has three corporators, while Congress is second with six. BJP with a majority in other eight zones—Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Hanuman Nagar, Dhantoli, Nehru Nagar, Gandhibagh, Satranjipura and Lakadganj zone – will easily retain the posts of chairmen. Prakash Bhoyar, Amar Bagde, Madhuri Thakre, Smita Chakole, Vandana Yangatwar, Abhiruchi Rajgirhe and Rajkumar Sahu are the present chairpersons. As per election schedule released by municipal secretary Ranjana Lade, the nomination for the zone chairman will be held on February 15 and the election for the same post has been schedule for next day. Nomination papers can be withdrawn half an hour before elections, the notification stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/elections-for-nmcs-10-zonal-chairmen-on-feb-16/articleshow/80868981.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Corpn teachers seek tablets, net pack for online classes||New Delhi: The teachers’ association in North Delhi Municipal Corporation has warned that it would not resume work unless paid allowances for internet connection to run online classes along with provision of smartphones/tablets. Kuldeep Khatri from Shikshak Nyay Manch Nagar Nigam said the salaries for over 9,000 teachers have been pending for the past four months, while they were being forced to continue online teaching at their own cost. “We have demanded internet cost to be borne by the corporation along with tablets,” he added. Khatri alleged that the education department had ordered teachers to download an attendance application, which would violate their privacy “Teachers are not in favour of this new application, which is not even available on Play Store, and may not be safe. This records the coordinates of the mobile phone,” he added. A senior official said pending salary for a few months had been recently released and efforts were being made to clear the pendency. “A section of teachers is using it as a pretext to avoid attendance app. The app only ensures they are not missing school at the time of duty,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-teachers-seek-tablets-net-pack-for-online-classes/articleshow/80888675.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Centre planning two industrial corridors linking Nagpur||Nagpur: The union ministry of commerce and industry has accorded approval for development of eleven industrial corridors in four phases as part of national master plan for providing multimodal connectivity to economic zones. Two of these corridors link the city — Hyderabad-Nagpur and Delhi-Nagpur. While the central government has decided to develop an industrial township in Zaheerabad, Telangana under Hyderabad-Nagpur Industrial Corridor project, detailed proposal is awaited from state governments for Delhi-Nagpur Industrial Corridor. It is clear that the city will not benefit from this ambitious scheme in near future. According to a written reply by Som Prakash, minister of state for commerce, in Lok Sabha, the Government of India is developing various industrial corridor projects as part of National Industrial Corridor Programme which is aimed at development of greenfield industrial cities in India in order to compete with the best manufacturing and investment destinations in the world. National Industrial Corridor Development and Implementation Trust (NICDIT) has been constituted for unified development of industrial corridors in the country. Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) is the first industrial corridor, which is being implemented in the country wherein substantial progress has been made. Prakash further stated that the industrial corridors program was aimed at providing multi-modal connectivity with complete ‘plug and play’ infrastructure till the plot level along with building resilient and sustainable future ready cities. Shiv Kumar Rao, president of Vidarbha Economic Development Council (VED), said that the Hyderabad-Nagpur Industrial Corridor had been proposed by Telangana government four to five years ago. “The central government had suggested some changes, which have been made. VED is trying to coordinate with Telangana government and centre for linking the corridor with Samruddhi Mahamarg so that Vidarbha benefits,” he told TOI. Rao further said that the detailed project report (DPR) of Delhi-Nagpur Industrial Corridor was yet to be prepared. “We will give inputs to central government so that Vidarbha gets the maximum benefit from this project,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/centre-planning-two-industrial-corridors-linking-nagpur/articleshow/80869011.cms||Ashish Roy
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Byculla zoo to reopen on Monday||MUMBAI: Almost a year after shutting its gates to visitors, Veermata Jijabai BhosaleUdyan and zoo, popularly known as Byculla zoo, is likely to start operations next week, from February 15. It had restricted entry to visitors on March 15 last year amid the Covid-19 pandemic. As the garden and zoo reopens, visitors will, for the first time, also get a glimpse of the two Royal Bengal tigers named Shakti and Karishma, who were brought from Siddharth Garden and Zoo in Aurangabad city last February and kept in quarantine. They were to be put up for public viewing on March 25, 2020 but the zoo restricted entry to public a week before. The zoo authorities have created a specialized underwater viewing facility for visitors to get a glimpse of the tigers. A senior civic official said that an official proposal to re-open the zoo has been tabled before the BMC chief and awaits a nod. “We plan to reopen the zoo taking into consideration all the Covid-19 precautionary measures like social distancing to be maintained, sanitizers to be placed at various spots on the premises and dustbins for disposal of masks and sanitizers,” the official said, adding that the zoo has 5,000-6,000 visitors on a regular day while on weekends crowds touch up to 15,000. However, in the current scenario, authorities said that in case crowds on the zoo premises rise, they will shut gates for a while and open only once the crowds within reduce. The aviary which has a walkthrough within is expected to remain shut so that visitors are not in close contact. With the zoo shut for a year, authorities said a loss of Rs 5 crore has been incurred. Currently, an adult visitor to the zoo has to shell out Rs 50 while a child is charged Rs 25. School picnics have been a part of outings at the zoo. Recently, zoo authorities held a virtual picnic for students of Saraswati Vidyalaya High School, Thane. Students and their parents could get a glimpse of the entire zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/byculla-zoo-to-reopen-on-monday/articleshow/80869021.cms||Richa Pinto
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||People supposed to walk in air: HC on lack of footpaths||HYDERABAD: The high court on Thursday took up the task of restoring footpaths that disappeared in busy areas of Hyderabad and made it clear that it will monitor the issue till the authorities ensure safe passage for pedestrians. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave directions to the state while hearing a PIL filed by advocate Mamidala Thirumala Rao of Somajiguda, who challenged the inaction of the state authorities in this regard. Distressed at the disappearance of footpaths in busy areas that made lives of pedestrians more precarious, the bench said: “People are supposed to walk in the air. May be they have become lighter over the years”. The bench noted with concern that the authorities were eclipsing the footpaths when they expand the existing roads. In some areas, the footpaths were completely encroached by adjacent shops and street vendors. Though the state brought in a policy for street vendors and even earmarked separate spaces for them, even introduced a system of identity cards for such vendors, the scheme was not implemented with the same fervour with which it was announced. It directed the state government to restore all lost footpaths. It also ordered a crackdown on footpath encroachers. The bench also directed the state to conduct a comprehensive survey on the state of footpaths in Hyderabad. It sought zone-wise status reports from the authorities in this regard. The state was asked to rebuild all the lost foot paths as per the prescribed norms. The petitioner, in his plea, said that all those who were succumbing to road accidents were pedestrians. The authorities were directed to file detailed affidavits on all these aspects after conducting a thorough survey and the court would monitor the issue henceforth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-supposed-to-walk-in-air-hc-on-lack-of-footpaths/articleshow/80869028.cms||M Sagar Kumar
February 12, 2021||Kochi||Govt to promote mini museums across Kerala||KOCHI: The state has set itself on the path of becoming the country’s museum hub and the mini museums being set up across the state would act as vibrant cultural spaces with thematic narratives and global appeal, said Venu V, additional chief secretary. Addressing a media conference here after an experience walk through newly-curated galleries at Tripunithura Hill Palace Museum and the Bastion Bungalow at Fort Kochi, which has been designated as district heritage museum, Venu, who oversees the departments of archeology, archives and museums, said the state’s new museum movement challenges existing norms about museum spaces by rendering them dynamic. “Modern museum spaces are cultural spaces. People don’t come to see display of objects but listen to stories,” he said. The mini museum initiative is anchored by Keralam Museum, an organization formed to build and modernize museums. The Hill Palace Museum at Tripunithura will open galleries that throw fresh light on the erstwhile ruling dynasty of Kochi, while the Bastion Bungalow will offer a perspective on Kerala’s mercantile trading network from ancient to modern period. On Thursday, a district heritage museum was opened at Mani Iyer Hall in Kalpathi. The galleries at Hill Palace, modernized at a cost of Rs.2.37cr and Bastion Bungalow galleries, refurbished at a cost of Rs.3.58cr, would be inaugurated by Ramachandran Kadannappally, minister for ports, archeology and museums, on Friday. Venu said Keralam Museum has completed eight other projects — Koyikkal Palce Folklore Museum at Nedumangad in Thiruvananthapuram (Rs.3.5cr), District Heritage Museums at Thrissur (Rs.1.28cr) and Idukki (Rs.2.65cr), Pazhassi Raja Museum, Kannur (Rs.93 lakh), Gandhi Smriti Museum, Payyannur (Rs.2.44cr), Jail Museum at Kandonthar (Rs.30 lakh), Signature Museum, Thiruvananthapuram (Rs.30 lakh), Vaikom Satyagraha Memorial Gandhi Museum, Kottayam (Rs.1.8 cr). Work on 20 more DHMs are progressing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-to-promote-mini-museums-across-state/articleshow/80869050.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Cop ends life on way to hosp||New Delhi: A 39-year-old Delhi Police sub-inspector ended his life while he was being taken to a hospital in an ambulance, officials said on Friday. The deceased, Rajbir Singh, was posted in southeast district lines and was mentally unsound, they added. DCP (Southeast) RP Meena said, “An information was received that Singh killed himself with a piece of cloth in a CATS ambulance, which was taking him to a hospital for admission from his house.” He had been on leave for five days and was marked absent on Friday morning at District Line, he said. According to police, Singh called the CATS ambulance from his residence and was taken to DDU Hospital, but doctors refused to admit him there. He was then taken to IHBAS hospital, where too he was allegedly refused admission. Police said an inquiry is being conducted and legal action will be taken accordingly. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cop-ends-life-on-way-to-hosp/articleshow/80888705.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Vijayawada||TTD vigilance wing: Keeping shrines across India secure||TIRUPATI: The vigilance and security wing of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is not just responsible for safeguarding of the sacred abode of Lord Venkateswara in Tirumala, but is also in charge of the security of over 50 temples across the country which too come under the ambit of the temple body. While the TTD was set up in 1932, a vigilance and security department was formed after a long 42 years, in 1974, with a retired deputy superintendent of police as its head. In 1984, an IPS officer was posted as the chief of the department. Since then, 29 IPS officers have served as heads of the TTD’s vigilance and security wings, which has resulted in the transformation and upgrading of the temple’s security and surveillance to world-class standards. The total staff strength of the wing is 2,853 as of now, who are split into 12 sectors to guard the Tirumala temple and the other temples located across the country. They also guard the queue-lines, pilgrim congregation points, twin ghat roads and pedestrian routes leading to Tirumala, TTD offices and treasury in Tirupati, and the temples properties located across the country. To build a strong surveillance network and facilitate real-time monitoring, the security wing is now spending over Rs 50 crore to bring all TTD temples and properties across the country under surveillance by installing 2,600 CCTV cameras. “It’s not just cameras. We have also put in place different analytics software like face recognition, fire and smoke and zone intrusion to address various issues. There is round the clock surveillance through 10 control rooms and a centralised command control room at Tirumala,” TTD’s chief vigilance and security officer Gopinath Jatti told TOI. To safeguard the hill town, inner cordon and outer cordon projects are being executed. While the Tirumala temple and the four mada streets measuring 1.4 km come under the inner cordon, TTD is spending Rs 13 crore towards executing its outer cordon project covering 10.6 kilometres. Around 20 armed guards with automatic weapons are on guard at all vantage points in Tirumala 24x7. TTD also has 12 bomb disposal units at its disposal. A 53-member strong Octopus camp has also been set up at Tirumala. The Octopus unit — an elite anti-terror force which undergo training along with the NSG — is equipped with most advanced weaponry. In fact, various temple trusts including Shirdi Sansthan and Himachal Pradesh police department met Jatti recently to study and replicate TTD’s temple security mechanisms at Shirdi and at some prominent temples in Himachal Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-vigilance-wing-keeping-shrines-across-india-secure/articleshow/80868825.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 12, 2021||Vijayawada||Speculations rife as Mangalagiri legislator meets Y S Sharmila in Hyderabad||VIJAYAWADA: Even as rumour mills are working fast over possible differences between chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and his sister Sharmila, a ruling party MLA visited Lotus Pond in Hyderabad on Thursday, adding more fuel to the fire. Mangalagiri MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy, who is said to be closely associated with the YSR family, was closeted with Sharmila for nearly 30 minutes at her Lotus Pond residence. While what transpired between the two is not known, there are speculations that he tried to convince Sharmila not to launch a political party in Telangana. He also reportedly told her about the several intricacies Jagan would have with Telagana Rastra Samiti (TRS) in the years to come if she launches a separate party. It may be recalled that Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy had confirmed that Jagan and Sharmila have differences of opinion over her role in politics. He also said that Jagan advised his sister not to launch a party in Telangana, where he would have to deal with the TRS government as the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh. In this background, it is said that the Mangalagiri MLA made yet another attempt to convince her not to take a hasty decision and launch her party. While a section of people say Jagan had made a last-minute effort to stop his sister from plunging into politics in Telangana, people close to the chief minister have disowned the Mangalagiri MLA’s meeting with Sharmila. Attempts made by TOI to reach Ramakrishna Reddy failed as he did not respond to calls or messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/speculations-rife-as-mangalagiri-legislator-meets-sharmila-in-hyd/articleshow/80868029.cms||Gopi Dara
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Why is Telangana failing to protect Hill Fort Palace: HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday sought to know from the state tourism development corporation as to why it is failing to protect a historical monument, Hill Fort Palace, that served as a residence for the erstwhile Hyderabad State’s Chief Justice and was later bought by Nizam himself. The bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a public interest petition filed by Hyderabad Heritage Trust that expressed concern over the current dilapidated state of the palatial building despite it being notified as a protected monument by the state. The state gave it to the tourism development corporation which was entrusted with the task of protecting it and also to commercially exploit the precincts and the palace without harming the structure. But the corporation could not succeed in the task except for renting it out for film shoots occasionally, nor did it file its counter before the court explaining its difficulties to do so. K Ramakanth Reddy, the counsel for the petitioner said that the petitioner trust has been obtaining oral consent from the authorities and cleaning the palace and its premises. “Though we are ready to protect the palace, we are not given the task,” he said. The bench gave one last opportunity to the corporation and made it clear that if the corporation further dodges filing its counter, then the court would proceed further on the premise that the corporation has got nothing to say in the matter and its right to file a counter will then be forfeited. Sir Nizamat Jung Bahadur, the Chief Justice for the Princely State of Hyderabad, got the Hill Fort Palace built in 1915 and he resided in it for 15 years. The architecture model of Trinity College, Cambridge was adopted while designing the building. Later, Mir Osman Ali Khan Siddiqui, the last Nizam of Hyderabad, bought it in 1929 for his son Moazzam Jah who was also heading the city improvement board at that time. After the annexure of Hyderabad to Indian Union, the palace was leased out to commercial interests who named it as Ritz and ran it as a star hotel. Upon the expiry of the lease period, the land and the palace returned to the state which, in 1997, handed it over to the tourism development corporation with the twin objectives of protecting it and also to run it on commercial lines. Ramakanth Reddy alleged that the corporation filed on both counts. The case will come up again in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-is-state-failing-to-protect-hill-fort-palace-hc/articleshow/80869052.cms||M Sagar Kumar
February 12, 2021||Vijayawada||Man poses as health worker to rob woman in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Coming up with a new modus operandi, an unidentified person tried to rob an elderly woman under the guise of being a health worker administering a Covid-19 vaccine. The incident, which took place in Malakkapatnam village under Machilipatnam mandal in Krishna district on Tuesday, came to light on Thursday when cops along with the clues team inspected the house to examine the scene. According to Chilakalapudi inspector R Anka Babu, a man claiming to be a health worker approached V Kusuma’s (55) residence under the pretext of administering the vaccine. Cops said the culprit first tried to collect her sample and after that, when she was relaxing on her chair, began searching inside the house. After finding no cash or jewellery in the house, he left. The woman, suspecting his actions informed the cops, who then learnt that the accused had tried the same tactic in a few other places in the neighbourhood. Cops appealed to locals to be cautious about persons trying to approach residents under the pretext of administering vaccines. Officials also CCTV footage in the area to identify the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-poses-as-health-worker-to-rob-woman/articleshow/80868704.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Three juveniles among 4 held for temple theft||VISAKHAPATNAM: Police in Vizianagaram have arrested four persons, including three juveniles, for their involvement in thefts at shopping malls and temples in Vizianagaram town. On February 8, unidentified persons had entered Maridamma temple by breaking the locks and decamped with temple’s hundi. Cops examined CCTV footage at the temple and areas nearby. Investigation revealed one of the accused to be Durga Prasad, a repeat offender who was arrested in 2000 for theft. Prasad confessed that he, along with three juveniles had committed the offences at the temple and few other places in town. Police recovered Rs 1,000 cash, the stolen collection box, two bikes, and other items from the accused. Citing the incident, the police implored traders and residents to install CCTV cameras in their buildings to prevent crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-juveniles-among-4-held-for-temple-theft/articleshow/80868485.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh govt forms committee to study Amaravati buildings||VIJAYAWADA: The state government on Thursday formed a committee to study the requirement and utilisation of buildings in Amaravati. Chief secretary Adityanath Das would be the chairman of the nine-member committee. The government issued orders constituting the committee with AP Land Acquisition secretary, GAD principal secretary, municipal administration and urban development principal secretary, principal finance secretary, law secretary, Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA) commissioner, planning secretary and principal adviser to the chief minister as members. The AMRDA commissioner had earlier in December 2020 informed the state government that a decision is required in respect of secretariat, HoD towers and permanent high court building in accordance with the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, 2020. The government also has to take a decision on the unfinished buildings and apartments, the AMRDA commissioner said. Based on this, the state government constituted the committee to study and recommend to the government on buildings, housing units which are essentially required for the legislative capital and also suggest future course of action regarding unfinished apartments, bungalows and other essential buildings. The committee was also asked to “explore the means for reducing burden on the exchequer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-forms-committee-to-study-amaravati-buildings/articleshow/80867941.cms||Gopi Dara
February 12, 2021||Vijayawada||Intermediate edu official in ACB net||Vijayawada: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials conducted simultaneous raids on properties belonging to a superintendent-cum-auditor with the education department across Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Guntur areas on Thursday. The accused officer, identified as Koneru Sai Krishna (52), currently works as commissioner at the office of intermediate education in Guntur. The raids started at eight places at around 6.30 in the morning and continued till late in the evening. ACB officials said disproportionate assets worth over Rs 2.2 crore (document value) in the officer’s name, his family members and relatives were unearthed during the raids. The market value of the movable and immovable properties would however be over Rs 15 crore. In terms of immovable properties, Sai Krishna owns three independent houses and five flats. As far as movable properties are concerned, he owns four vehicles, 1.2 kilograms of gold ornaments worth over Rs 55 lakh and household articles worth Rs 14 lakh. Immovable properties were also found to be registered in the name of his wife, children, friends and other relatives. Sai Krishna was initially appointed as Allwyn worker in May 1993. He was promoted as a junior assistant in 1996 and as senior assistant in 2013. In June 2015, he received his latest promotion as superintendent in the department of intermediate education. Sai Krishna will be produced before the special court for ACB cases in Vijayawada. A disproportionate assets case has been registered against him. Further investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/intermediate-edu-official-in-acb-net/articleshow/80868753.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 12, 2021||Vadodara||‘No gallery, no vote’ say artists||Vadodara: Threats by people to boycott civic polls as they did not get roads, water, drainage lines or streetlights are common, but a section of artists in the city have threatened to boycott the civic polls if the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) did not fulfil their demand for an art gallery around the old city. The VMC had razed its Swami Vivekananda Gallery in Badamdibaug about four years ago. The civic body had planned a citizen facilitation centre, video conference hall and a gallery in the same building at the site. But the plan was altered later and the Central Command and Control Centre (CCCC) and the fire brigade headquarter came up at the site. Presently, there is no gallery owned by the civic body in the city. There is also a dearth of exhibition spaces in the old city area. Artists have argued that the gallery at Badamdibaug was affordable and centrally located. Various options have been discussed since the last couple of years, but no solution has been found. Artists have made repeated representations and held an exhibition on the boundary of Sursagar recently as a mark of protest. Now, they have threatened to stay away from the polls of vote NOTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-gallery-no-vote-say-artists/articleshow/80866399.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Vijayawada||UCIL moves high court seeking permission for public hearing||Vijayawada: The Uranium Corporation of India Limited (UCIL) moved Andhra Pradesh high court seeking to vacate the stay on the proposed public hearing for expansion of its mining activities in YSR Kadapa district. The high court had earlier stayed the proceedings of the public hearing after a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition challenging the same. The petitioners argued that the UCIL did not take adequate measures to mitigate environmental damage being caused due to the mining of uranium ore. They have also contended that the UCIL did not pay proper compensation to the mining affected people and necessary rehabilitation facilities were not provided to the affected villages. The petitioners contended that severe environmental damage was done due to radioactive metal mining in the area and without taking required remedial action to minimise the damage, the UCIL proposed to expand its operations which cannot be allowed. Taking arguments of the petitioners, the high court had earlier stayed further proceedings of the public hearing. The UCIL has sought to vacate the stay order as a go ahead for the public hearing. The court had earlier asked to submit all details pertaining to the public hearing. However, as the reply submitted by the petitioners countering the arguments of UCIL were not updated, the high court adjourned the matter on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ucil-moves-high-court-seeking-permission-for-public-hearing/articleshow/80868982.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Vijayawada||‘15 lakh have drawn their quota of rice’||Amaravati: Door delivery of rice is smoothly progressing in urban areas, civil supplies commissioner Kona Sasidhar said on Thursday. Explaining that all measures have been initiated to avoid inconvenience to the public as well as mobile vehicle operators, he said about 15 lakh cardholders out of 27 lakh in the urban areas have already drawn their quota of rice from mobile dispensing units. Sasidhar further said that they have fixed all the glitches faced in the initial days of launching the scheme and people are happy to receive rice at their doorsteps. “Andhra Pradesh is the first state in the country to launch door delivery of ration for the poor as chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is very particular that people should not be inconvenienced while taking rice from the depots,” he said. Sasidhar added that as many as 2,067 vehicles were moving in urban areas to distribute rice to the beneficiaries. “No one needs to stand in queue lines any more as the operators have been instructed to deliver the stocks right at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/15-lakh-have-drawn-their-quota-of-rice/articleshow/80868085.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Vijayawada||Newly-wed couple found dead in Andhra Pradesh||TIRUPATI: A young couple, who were married just five months ago, were found dead under mysterious circumstances in the bathroom of their residence at Bharatimitta locality in Pakala town of Chittoor district on Thursday. The deceased were identified as S Althaf Hussain (32) and his wife S Samiya (30). Samiya was working as a grameena mahila samakhya karyadarsi (woman police) at K Oddepalli village secretariat, while Hussain, who was employed with a software company in Bengaluru, was working from home for the last eight to nine months owing to the pandemic-induced situation across the country. The incident came to light when Samiya’s colleagues from the panchayat secretariat went to their residence early on Thursday and knocked on the door. When there was no answer to their calls, they checked through the bathroom window and saw the two bodies on the floor. Police suspect the deaths may have happened been a result of an electric shock. They also are investigating the possibility of the couple having died by suicide. Pakala police sub-inspector Raja Sekhar got the house opened under the supervision of revenue officials and sent the bodies for post-mortem. A case has been registered. Further investigation in the matter is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/newly-wed-couple-found-dead-in-their-bathroom/articleshow/80869039.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Visakhapatnam||59 ashram schools built in Andhra Pradesh: Arjun Munda||VISAKHAPATNAM: Union minister for tribal affairs Arjun Munda informed the Rajya Sabha that construction of all 59 Girijan ashram schools in Andhra Pradesh has been completed. All these schools had been sanctioned by the central government between 2002 and 2016. Replying to a query from MP Vijayasai Reddy of the YSRC, Munda said that all tribal hostels in the purview of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) have been converted into ashram schools with hostel facility. Likewise, all schools to be set up for tribals in plain areas have been converted into residential schools, he added. The Andhra Pradesh government had started construction of Eklavya model residential schools in tribal areas. The minister further said that the tribal affairs ministry has allotted Rs 95.45 crore between 2016-17 and 2020-21 for arranging basic facilities in residential schools, Girijan ashram schools and Ekalavya schools in various districts across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/59-ashram-schools-built-in-ap-munda/articleshow/80868876.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Tirumala sees decrease in smuggling activities||TIRUPATI: The Covid-19 pandemic may have impacted the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams adversely on many fronts, but it has also led to a positive outcome — helping slow down the smuggling of prohibited substances such as liquor, cigarettes, etc. into the hill town. Though smoking, chewing tobacco and consumption of liquor and non-vegetarian food is strictly prohibited at the sacred abode of Lord Venkateswara in Tirumala, miscreants continuously attempt to smuggle these substances which the vigilance and security wing of the temple body has to tackle all through the year. In 2018, 2,800 beedi bundles, 2,150 cigarette packets, 8,555 packets of chewing tobacco and 2,969 bottles of liquor were seized by the temple security staff. The seizures in 2019 included 3,650 beedi bundles, 2,536 packets of cigarettes, 8,366 packets of chewing tobacco and 2,088 liquor bottles. Between January and March — the temple was closed from March 20 to June 8 due to nationwide lockdown — and after the reopening of the temple in June till December 2020, the security staff confiscated 703 beedi bundles, 515 cigarette packets, 1,500 packets of chewing tobacco and 125 bottles of liquor, which is much less compared to previous years. TTD’s chief vigilance and security officer Gopinath Jatti also attributed the decline in seizure of prohibited substances to strict frisking and baggage screening systems at Alipiri toll plaza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tirumala-sees-decrease-in-smuggling-activities/articleshow/80868935.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 12, 2021||Rajkot||Labourer held for raping six-year-old||Rajkot: A 20-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping a six-year-old girl in Barvan village on the outskirts of Rajkot city on Thursday. The accused Ramlal Bhil was arrested by officials of Airport police. They said that Bhil is a native Bhilwara town of Rajasthan. According to police, the accused and the rape survivor’s family belong to Bhilwara and had come to Barvan village to dig a farm-well. They were working together on the farm as labourers. On Thursday morning, the accused took the little girl into nearby shrubs and allegedly raped her. Later, when the girl’s father saw he suspected something wrong had happened to her and he informed the farm owner, who called the police. Police immediately detained Bhil and launched further probe. Police booked the accused under various sections of Indian Penal Code and different sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/labourer-held-for-raping-six-year-old/articleshow/80866936.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Vijayawada||Focus on better sources of revenue: Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the officials to focus on better revenue sources of the state to implement Navaratnalu and other welfare schemes promised in the election manifesto. At a review meeting held at his Tadepalli camp office on Thursday, the chief minister asked the officials to expedite mining works acquired by APMDC in Bramhadiha coal block in Jharkhand, Suliyari in Madhya Pradesh and Madanpur South Coal mines in Chhattisgarh in stipulated time. He wanted them focus on high revenue mining activities and expedite the works related to silica sand by coordinating with APIIC. The chief minister directed the forest department officials to get permission from the central government at the earliest to sell the red sanders stocks in the state. He asked them to take steps on war footing to get the work done with transparency without giving room for corruption. The officials should focus on revenue generating sources for the state, conduct regular reviews on these and prepare estimates from time to time. The officials should be ready with the necessary plans to increase revenue sources without burdening the people, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-focus-on-better-sources-of-revenue/articleshow/80867897.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Petition for SIT probe: Delhi HC seeks reply from cops||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Thursday sought response of Delhi Police on a plea seeking a court-monitored SIT probe into the death of 25-year-old Navreet Singh, who died after his tractor overturned during the farmers’ rally on Republic Day. Justice Yogesh Khanna issued notice to Delhi government, Delhi Police, Uttar Pradesh Police and the chief medical officer of district hospital at Rampur, where the postmortem was carried out, on a petition by Singh’s grandfather, who has challenged the stand of police that the victim died after his tractor overturned. The court directed Delhi Police to file a status report with regard to the investigation on or before the next date of hearing on February 26. Police submitted that a “generic FIR” had been registered and assured the court that there was no difficulty in sharing the documents with the family. The accident was captured on CCTV camera, the footage of which was released by police, showed the speeding tractor ramming the barricades near ITO. A postmortem report revealed that the protester died due to the accident. Appearing for the grandfather, Hardeep Singh, advocate Vrinda Grover claimed there were two eye-witnesses who assert that there were gunshots, while the medical experts also said that “lacerated wounds” on Singh’s body were consistent with that of a bullet injury. Seeking a time-bound probe, Grover said, Delhi Police had failed to inspire any confidence in the family of the victim. The forensic experts had independently opined that the injuries were consistent with firearm or gunshot wounds, and could not have resulted from the tractor overturning, she added. “The haste with which Delhi Police made public statements declaring incident to be an accident and registered FIRs against journalists, who have pursued the possibility of Singh’s death having resulted from a firearm injury, inspires no confidence that it will conduct a fair probe,” the plea said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/petition-for-sit-probe-hc-seeks-reply-from-cops/articleshow/80869064.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kozhikode||Tiger scare: Forest dept on alert at Thirunelly||Kozhikode: Forest department has intensified patrolling and deployed camera traps near a house at Thirunelly in Wayanad after suspicion arose that a tiger had tried to break into the house on Tuesday night. Forest officials found pug marks and fur, believed to be that of a tiger, near the house after they searched the spot. They also confirmed that scratch marks were found on the door of the house. The incident took place at the home of Salitha K (40), situated close to Thirunelly police station. Mrudun K C (22), the nephew of Salitha who was staying in the house, got a shock when he reportedly saw a tiger trying to force its way into the house after breaking open the door latch at 11.30pm. “We heard some sound from the front of the house around 11pm. We checked, saw nothing and went to sleep. Half an hour later, we again heard loud sounds and our dog, which was tied inside the house, barked incessantly. When Mrudun went to check, he saw a tiger trying to push its way inside. The door latch was broken in the attack,” she said. Mrudun first threw his phone at the animal and pushed the door back, after which the tiger went away after some time. “We are alive just because we managed to push the door back,” she added. Salitha said that her pet was attacked by the tiger a month ago and hence it was moved inside the front room at night. “Maybe the tiger came to catch the dog,” she added. Begur forest range officer K Rakesh said the incident was unusual as it is not normal for a tiger to push its way through a door. “We don’t know what exactly transpired. We have found pelage resembling that of a tiger from the vicinity and pug marks a bit away from the house,” he said. The department deployed a patrol unit in the area at night. “We had deployed two camera traps, but we are yet to get visuals of the tiger,” said deputy range officer MV Jayaprasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/tiger-scare-forest-dept-on-alert-at-thirunelly/articleshow/80869066.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Agra||Jayant Chaudhary, 6,000 others booked for violating prohibitory orders in Aligarh||Agra: Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice-president Jayant Chaudhary, along with 21 identified and 6,000 unidentified people, was booked for “violating prohibitory orders” by joining a kisan mahapanchayat held in Aligarh two days ago to support the farmers protesting at Delhi borders. Police said the mahapanchayat was organised without seeking prior permission. Besides, participants at the gathering were not wearing face masks and had flouted the social distancing norm amid the Covid-19 pandemic, said police. haudhary and others were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (unlawfully or negligently spreading infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and appropriate sections of the Epidemic Disease Act on a complaint filed by a sub-inspector at the Gonda police station. The FIR stated that protesting against the three new farm laws, around 6,000 people had gathered at the mahapanchayat, which was presided over by Chaudhary Raj Singh and addressed by the RLD leader, who sought support for BKU leader Rakesh Tikait. On Thursday morning, attaching a news clip about the FIR, Chaudhary in an apparent address to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath tweeted: “Baba btaa de kahan aur kab giraftari deni hai. (Baba, tell me where and when to come to get arrested)”. The RLD has been holding a series of meetings across western Uttar Pradesh starting from February 4 to gather support for the farmers protesting against the controversial farm laws at Delhi borders. Chaudhary is scheduled to address mahapanchayats till February 18. He will be in Mathura for four days for launching a movement on his father Chaudhary Ajit Singh’s birthday on February 12 to commemorate sacrifices made by him for the farming community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/jayant-chaudhary-6000-others-booked-for-violating-prohibitory-orders-in-aligarh/articleshow/80867453.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Schools look at hybrid option for those at home||KOLKATA: A day before board-year students return to campuses after almost a year, school authorities were busy figuring out the best way to teach, which will be to continue with online classes, along with physical ones, for a while. Most institutes have taken this decision following parents’ request not to end online classes abruptly as a section of them seems reluctant to send their children to school till the vaccination drive is completed. At South City International School, only Class XII students have been called to campus now, for their practical work. “So, online classes will continue,” said principal John Andrew Bagul. Several countries across the globe have adopted the blended or hybrid model, under which Students attend online and offline classes on alternate days. This gives the schools time to sanitise the premises, while students don’t have to leave the safety of their homes every day. But the problem lies with some schools, where the same set of teachers takes classes in both middle and senior classes. So, if those teachers go to campuses for the seniors’ physical lessons, they might find it difficult to rush back home to hold online sessions for classes VI to VIII. To solve the problem, several of those institutes have made arrangements for the teachers so that they can take online classes from campuses. Scottish Church Collegiate School has installed stronger routers for better Wi-Fi connection so that multiple teachers can take online classes from the premises. “There are many who teach from classes VI to XII. So, we are making provision for these teachers to take online classes from schools. We have improved our Wi-Fi connections so that several teachers can log in at the same time,” said Bivash Saniel, headmaster at Scottish Church. At Sakhawat Memorial Government Girls’ High School, the authorities have kept the teachers’ schedules flexible. “Teachers who take online sessions for classes VI to VII can come for in-person classes late. They can also leave early if their online classes are in the latter half,” said Protyusha Dey, assistant headmistress of the school. But Vivekananda Mission School will not face this problem as separate teachers are assigned to middle and senior sections. “For the time being, we have just called students of classes X and XII in smaller groups for their practicals. So online classes will continue without any hindrance,” said principal Sarmistha Banerjee. Ram Mohan Mission High School principal Sujoy Biswas, too, said, “Online classes for students not visiting the campus will not be impacted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-look-at-hybrid-option-for-those-at-home/articleshow/80869070.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 12, 2021||Bareilly||Constable run over by truck in Moradabad||Bareilly: A UP Police constable, Pradeep Kumar posted in Moradabad’s Katghar police station, was run over on Thursday by a speeding truck as he was walking opposite the roadways bus stand. The truck sped away after the accident. Gajendra Singh, SHO, Katghar police station, told TOI, “As soon as we received the news about the accident, we went to the spot and rushed Kumar to hospital. He was severely injured and succumbed to injuries during treatment.” He added that police are gathering CCTV footage of the road to ascertain the vehicle number of the truck to nab the driver. An FIR has been registered against unidentified person under IPC section 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others). A resident of Haryana, Kumar (23) was from the 2018 batch. He was to get married later in February. Prabhakar Chaudhary, senior superintendent of police, Moradabad, SP (city) Amit Kumar Anand and SP (rural areas) Vidya Sagar Misra were among those who paid a floral tributes to the deceased constable in the police line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/constable-run-over-by-truck-in-moradabad/articleshow/80862746.cms||Maria Khan
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Four killed in two road accidents||Hyderabad: Four persons died in two different road accidents at Shameerpet and Tandur on Wednesday night Two masons died when a truck hit their bike at Shameerpet on Wednesday night. The deceased were, Mallesh, 28, and Narasimha, 35. “While the two victims were travelling on a bike from their hamlet to Shamirpet, a truck travelling in the same direction hit their bike at Turkapally. The victims fell under the rear tyre of truck and died on the spot,” Shamirpet inspector S Santosham said. Driver of the truck abandoned the vehicle and fled from the spot. Police registered a case under section 304-a of the IPC and launched a man hunt to nab the offender. In another case, two persons, Anil and his friend Dattatreya died when their bike rammed into a truck at Antaram village on Wednesday night. Anil died on the spot. His friend, Dattatreya succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital later in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-killed-in-two-road-accidents/articleshow/80869059.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Plans are on track for ‘rail roko’ protest on February 18, say farmers||NEW DELHI: After announcing a four-hour nationwide ‘rail roko’ movement on February 18, members of Samyukt Kisan Morcha have started preparations to invite volunteers for jamming railway tracks, including those leading to Delhi. Farmers at Singhu Border said police might not allow them entry in the capital but railway tracks pass through neighbouring states and they could block the tracks near Ghaziabad and Sonepat. Jitender Singh Sheena, state press secretary, Kirti Kisan Union, Punjab said, “While announcement has been made for blocking railway lines across nation from 12-4 pm on February 18, there will be no exception unlike last time when states like Delhi, UP and Uttarakhand were spared for ‘chakka jam’. We will block all railway lines, including those leading to Delhi.” “We will ensure that the whole exercise is carried out smoothly and as per the plan. The idea is to build pressure on the government to repeal anti-farmer laws,” he said. At Singhu Border, union leaders were seen informing farmers about the event from the main stage on Thursday. Meanwhile, the crowds at Singhu and Tikri borders seem to have thinned out. Farmers at the borders, however, denied it, claiming that “some of them might have gone to their hometown while others are staying inside their camp due to rising temperature during afternoon.” Harbant Singh, another farmer from Kadhali village, said they have been organising community meals from day one of the protest. “While youngsters from our village are collecting and transporting ration regularly, some of them are also staying here to cook food. This movement is not going to end even if there is a decline in the number of protesters. We will leave the place only after the three laws are repealed,” he said. Watch Farmers announce 4-hour nationwide 'rail roko' on February 18||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plans-are-on-track-for-rail-roko-protest-on-feb-18-say-farmers/articleshow/80869106.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Series of thefts at industrialist Adi Godrej son-in-law’s bungalow||MUMBAI: The city police have arrested two history-sheeters and their accomplice in connection with a Rs 3.4 lakh theft at Akash Ganga bungalow of Arvind Dubash, the son-in-law of industrialist Adi Godrej, near Mahalaxmi temple in south Mumbai in January. The police caught the main accused, Chetan Thulkar, at Kolkata airport when he was returning to Mumbai after visiting his newborn child. During interrogation, Thulkar allegedly confessed to having committed theft at the same bungalow on five occasions since April 2020. He also spilled the beans on his accomplices Prakash Lavekar (55) and Akash Waghmare (35). There are 22 theft cases registered against Thulkar in various police stations in south Mumbai. Thulkar would splurge the ill-gotten gains on expensive spa treatment and five-star hotel stay, said the police. In his complaint with Gamdevi police, Dubash’s family manager, Pankaj Kshirsagar, said that unidentified men had sneaked into Akash Ganga bungalow on the night of January 7, and had stolen ornaments worth nearly Rs 1.7 lakh from the temple room and Rs 1.7 lakh cash. A team, led by senior inspector R G Rajbhar, noticed that the window grill had been removed and replaced. The footage retrieved from the sensor camera in the temple room caught two men in the act, while another CCTV footage from a Mumbai Coastal Road office nearby showed the same two men in the vicinity of the bungalow. “From the footage and after going through history-sheeters’ records, we zeroed in on Thulkar. We learnt that in the second week of January, he had flown to Goa, stayed in a five-star hotel for a day and returned to Mumbai,” said Rajbhar. The police could not trace Thulkar as his phone was switched off. By then he had taken a flight to Nagpur, bought new SIM cards and a phone and stayed in a five-star hotel. An informer alerted the police who put Thulkar’s new number on surveillance and noticed that he had made several calls to a Mumbai number. They found that the number belonged to Thulkar’s commercial sex worker girlfriend who had gone to Kolkata to deliver her baby. On learning that Thulkar had left for Kolkata, a police team collected details about his return to Mumbai, detained him in the airport lobby and brought him to Mumbai. After the complaint was filed, the police had questioned Lavekar on suspicion and allowed him to go, but they monitored his movements. Thulkar had befriended Lavekar in jail. During interrogation, Thulkar said Waghmare’s wife was pregnant and he needed money so he agreed to commit the theft. Thulkar said he paid Waghmare Rs 30,000 and had kept the stolen loot with Lavekar. Police have recovered the ornaments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/series-of-thefts-at-godrej-son-in-laws-bungalow/articleshow/80869102.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 12, 2021||Pune||PMC reviews staff count on corona duty||Pune: With a drop in daily cases, the PMC has now started a review of employees engaged in Covid-19 duty. The PMC’s general administration department has asked all department heads to furnish details of employees involved in Covid-19 work. Based on the data provided by the department and current requirement for Covid-19 related work, the administration will take a call on deployment of staffers on infection-related containment measures. The excess workforce will be asked to join their respective departments at the earliest. Sunil Indalkar, deputy commissioner, general administration department, said details have been sought from various departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-reviews-staff-count-on-corona-duty/articleshow/80869084.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||NCLT urged to stay auction||Hyderabad: Raising doubts over the ongoing auction of assets as part of liquidation of Servomax India firm, two shareholders on Thursday approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) urging it to stay the auction. They expressed fear that the assets are being sold at cheaper rates due to connivance between the promoter and liquidator. “The insolvency board and the registrar of companies must examine the actions of the liquidator in this issue,” they said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nclt-urged-to-stay-auction/articleshow/80869089.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Labourer killed in bike accident||Coimbatore: A truck mowed down a 48-year-old daily wage labourer at Selvapuram on Thursday.Police identified the victim as Paramasivam of Telungupalayam. “He was on the way to his home from Selvapuram on a motorcycle when the accident happened. The truck was carrying mineral sand. It rammed Paramasivam’s motorcycle when he was approaching the Selvapuram police station area,” a police officer said.Paramasivam suffered serious head injuries and died on the spot. The traffic investigation wing (TIW-west) police have registered a case and are investigating the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/labourer-killed-in-bike-accident/articleshow/80869067.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Husband demands Rs 25L from woman to co-exist with 1st wife||AHMEDABAD: A 60-year-old woman from Juhapura on Wednesday filed a complaint against her husband, who allegedly demanded Rs 25 lakh from her so that she can co-exist with his first wife. In her complaint at Vejalpur police station, the woman, a social activist, stated that the accused demanded the money to give to his first wife. She stated that she first got married at the age of15 and her first husband died 11 years after their wedding. She again got married and her second husband died about 15 years ago. On September 1, 2019, she married the accused who told her he was already married with two children. He told the complainant that he would take her to live with him only if his first wife agreed to it. She was living in another house where her husband used to visit her. Initially, for around eight months, he behaved decently with her but later the accused began picking fights with her over petty issues. She alleges that he did not even accompany her to the doctor to have her illness seen to. On February 5, her husband demanded a scooter and a cellphone from her. When she went to give him the scooter and cellphone in Juhapura, he arrived with his first wife and children. He then demanded Rs 25 lakh from her if she wanted to live with them. His first wife also demanded the money and threatened her if she did not pay the money, she would kill her, saying that many of her relatives are gangsters. Her husband even began telling community members that she had married 12 times earlier and he was her 13th husband. The woman first sent a legal notice to him for defaming her and as he did not respond, she filed a complaint against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/husband-demands-rs-25l-from-woman-to-co-exist-with-1st-wife/articleshow/80869105.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Pune||Number of reserved Covid beds slashed across region||Pune: The numbers of reserved beds for Covid patients have reduced across Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad because of the drop in cases. The Pune Municipal Corporation, for example, now has 4,426 beds compared to the 9,000 it had in November.Rubal Agarwal, the additional commissioner of the PMC said the 80:20 bed reservation rule at private hospitals (80% for Covid and 20% for general patients) has been relaxed for now, on the condition that the hospitals will revert to the rule if there are fresh infection spikes in the region.Agarwal added the PMC has adequate bed availability, with Naidu Hospital, the Baner dedicated Covid facility and Sassoon part of its response infrastructure. Laxman Gophane, the assistant medical officer of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation said the civic body will now mainly rely on the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH), the Autocluster medical facility and the New Bhosari hospital for Covid care.Avinash Bhondwe, president of the Indian Medical Association’s Maharashtra chapter, said the government has only partially relaxed the 80:20 bed rule at private hospitals. He said hospitals should be allowed to carry out general patient care, especially when Covid numbers are dropping across the region. “Earlier the patient cap was 80:20, now it is 50:50. When the number of Covid patients is dropping, private hospitals should be allowed to operate at full strength to treat general patients,” he said.The 80:20 bed reservation rule and audits of Covid treatment bills were among key steps the state government had taken last year to improve pandemic response at the hospital level.Public health experts in the region have urged hospitals to continue keeping some beds reserved for Covid patients as preparedness measures in case of spikes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/number-of-reserved-covid-beds-slashed-across-region/articleshow/80869068.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Yarn price hike forces rayon fabric makers to close units||Erode: Rayon fabric manufacturers in the district have stopped production for 11 days, starting Thursday, to protest the soaring yarn prices.B Kandavel, coordinator, Erode District Power Loom Unit Owners’ Association, said they had earlier stopped production for 11 days in December 2020 after incurring huge losses following the yarn price hike. According to Kandavel, the price of 1kg of 30-count rayon yarn has increased to Rs 290 from Rs 230 in November 2020. Pointing out that the price of one metre of rayon fabric was quoted at Rs 32 when the orders were received, he said it would now take them Rs 34 to produce the same. “People who gave the orders are not ready to pay the revised price.”There are more than one lakh power loom units in Erode district and more than 20,000 units at Pallipalayam and Kumarapalayam towns in Namakkal district.Power loom unit owners said about 60% of the units had stopped production in the past one month. “The remaining units will be closed for 11 days, as they can’t bear the loss,” Kandavel said.The power loom unit owners have decided to avoid purchasing viscose rayon yarns and petition officials and politicians to take steps to reduce yarn prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/yarn-price-hike-forces-rayon-fabric-makers-to-close-units/articleshow/80869069.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Corpn surveyor, two others held for taking bribe||Coimbatore: The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) sleuths on Thursday arrested a surveyor, who was attached with the city corporation, for accepting a bribe of Rs 6,000 from an elderly man for patta transfer. Two others have also been held for their involvement in the incident.A DVAC official identified the accused trio as A Nirmal Kumar, 41, surveyor with the corporation east zone at Singanallur, A Natarajan, 67, a retired field assistant of the survey department, and N Pradeep Kumar, 38, a tout from Pollachi. All the three have been booked under Section 7(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The official said the three were held based on a complaint lodged by Nagarajan, 62, a native of Udhagamandalam in the Nilgiris district. “He had bought a tiled house at Ondipudur in Coimbatore a few months ago and registered it in his wife’s name. He wanted to demolish the house and construct a new one. When he approached a bank for loan, officials asked him to get the property’s patta transferred to his wife’s name from the previous owner.”Nagarajan approached the surveyor a few days ago for patta transfer. However, Nirmal Kumar and Natarajan demanded Rs 6,000 for the same. Nagarajan then informed DVAC deputy superintendent of police T H Ganesh, who gave him chemical coated currency notes to trap the surveyor and aides.“On Thursday, Nagarajan was asked to handover the amount to Pradeep at the surveyor’s room at the corporation east zone office. We nabbed the tout while taking the bribe and then arrested the remaining two,” the DVAC official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-surveyor-two-others-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/80869107.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Partha to schools: Don’t compromise on kids’ health||Kolkata: State a day before schools in Bengal reopen, education minister Partha Chatterjee on Thursday urged school authorities and parents to be vigilant and ensure that all health safety protocols were adhered to. He made it clear that the government would take “no risk” when it came to students’ health. “We are keeping a close watch. I would also urge the parents to keep an eye that all Covid-preventive protocols are being strictly adhered to,” Chatterjee told reporters. In view of the bandh, he said, “We will stand firm in our decision (to reopen schools on Friday). We will provide all help to schools to bring students and resume classes. Those who called the bandh, will be able to explain why they did it. Board examinees, their practical classes are of no importance to them.” About safety on campus, Chatterjee said, “We have reached out to principals and (school) authorities. All anti-Covid measures have been informed to all stakeholders. Parents will decide on sending their children (to school). Online teaching modes will continue. The chief minister has also announced tablets and smartphones will be given to HS students.” The minister reminded schools on the need of following the safety protocols. “Repeated sanitisation of toilets and classrooms should be carried out. Masks are mandatory and physical distancing must always be ensured. It is necessary to follow these protocols. On the issue of children’s safety, we will tolerate no lapse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/partha-to-schools-dont-compromise-on-kids-health/articleshow/80869132.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Truckers to hike rental rate by 20% as fuel prices soar||Coimbatore: Truckers in the district have decided to hike the rental rates by 20%, as fuel prices have increased by 18.5% since June. With the diesel and petrol prices going upwards of Rs 83 per litre and Rs 90 per litre, respectively, in the recent price hike, truckers also blamed both the Union and state governments for not reducing taxes on fuel.Truckers said fuel prices had been increasing by a few paise or a rupee almost weekly after the introduction of dynamic pricing.N Murugesan, president, Coimbatore District Lorry Owners’ Association, said, “The price of diesel has gone up to Rs 83 per litre in February second week, up Rs 13 from Rs 70 in June. It’s an 18.5% hike in nine months. With the fuel price on the rise, it is hard to keep our rentals at the old price.”He said the truck rental prices would now be hiked by 20%. “Hiring a small lorry from Coimbatore to Chennai used to cost Rs 12,000-Rs 13,000 earlier. Now, it will cost around Rs 15,000. Hiring a 10-wheeler and 12-wheeler to Chennai will now cost upwards of Rs 18,000 and Rs 24,000, respectively, from Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000 earlier.”Lorry owners said while transport was the next most important sector after agriculture, both the central and state governments hadn’t provided any concessions to it. “If the Centre were to bring fuel under the Goods and Services Tax (GST), prices would reduce. And if the state government were to reduce or remove value-added tax (VAT) on fuel as in states such as Kerala and Karnataka, prices would drop by around Rs 2.50 per litre,” Murugesan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/truckers-to-hike-rental-rate-by-20-as-fuel-prices-soar/articleshow/80869103.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Pune||PMC begins inoculation of police personnel, 121 cops receive jabs||Pune: As many as 121 police personnel, primarily from the constabulary, were administered Covid shot after Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) began vaccination of the police force at the police hospital in Shivajinagar on Thursday. “The Pune city police has a strength of 8,446 personnel. All of them have registered for the vaccination. The inoculation numbers among the staffers are expected to increase as the drive progresses,” additional police commissioner (administration) Jalindar Supekar told TOI. With this, the immunization for the day stood at 51% in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). A total of 3,243 people, including 2,525 healthcare workers and 718 frontliners, of the expected 6,800 beneficiaries turned up to get vaccinated on Thursday. The vaccination sites in the PMC areas, however, recorded the lowest turnout of frontline workers. Barring 121 police staff, only eight PMC staffers took the shot at the two designated vaccination sites on Thursday. Ashish Bharati, chief of the PMC health department, said, “The vaccination of frontline workers has been currently restricted to two PMC-run hospitals. We are inoculating only PMC staffers attached with the Dhole Patil Road ward office. Many staffers find these centres quite at a distance while attending to their routine works. We are planning to designate new centres, which will be closer to the ward office.” More frontline than healthcare workers turned up for Covid vaccination in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas for the second consecutive day. Overall, the PCMC areas recorded 41% achievement. A total of 620 beneficiaries, 262 healthcare workers and 358 frontline workers, of the expected 1,500 beneficiaries took the shot in the PCMC limits on Thursday. “We have crossed vaccination of 10,000 healthcare workers and 1,000 frontline workers so far,” said Pavan Salve, addition health chief, PCMC. The rural parts of Pune recorded the lowest 38% target vaccination on Thursday. A total of 909 beneficiaries of the expected 2,400 took the shot. Pune administrative circle has crossed the 1 lakh-mark in vaccination. Of this, Pune district has vaccinated 57,800 beneficiaries so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-begins-inoculation-of-police-personnel-121-cops-receive-jabs/articleshow/80869119.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 12, 2021||Coimbatore||EPS borrowed farm loan waiver idea from DMK, says Kanimozhi||Tirupur: DMK M P Kanimozhi attacked the AIADMK government for its alleged failure to protect the interests of farmers, even as chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was campaigning in Tirupur.Addressing the public at Annur, which falls in Avinashi assembly segment, Kanimozhi said it was DMK president M K Stalin, who announced in January that farm loans would be waived in the state once DMK comes to power. “EPS woke up only because of the DMK announcement and hurriedly made the farm loan waiver promise.”She said it was to hide the failure of the government in protecting the farmer’s rights and interests by supporting the three farm laws brought by the Centre that EPS had made the loan waiver announcement. “On the other hand, the DMK has always been a friend of the farmers.”Even in the case of kudimaramathu scheme, Kanimozhi said, the AIADMK government had failed the farmers. “None of the waterbodies were properly desilted. The scheme was implemented only for the benefit of the AIADMK men to loot money,” she said taking a jibe at AIADMK men in Tirupur who hailed EPS as `kudimaramathu nayagan’.Hitting out at EPS, she said the BJP-AIADMK combine has not only left farmers in the lurch, but other downtrodden sections too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eps-borrowed-farm-loan-waiver-idea-from-dmk-says-kanimozhi/articleshow/80869112.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Coimbatore||‘Yet to decide on offline classes for classes 1 to 8’||ERODE: The school education department is yet to decide on conducting offline classes for students of class 1 to 8, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan said here on Thursday. “We will take a decision on this after discussing with the chief minister,” the minister told reporters after inaugurating Rs 2 crore worth of projects in Nasiyanur and Naruvalur panchayats in Gobichettipalayam assembly segment. The minister said about 98.5% of students were attending classes across the state. He said the school education department was taking steps to issue ‘tabs’ to students of class 6,7 and 8 instead of laptops. The school education minister reiterated that public examination dates for classes 10 and 12 would be announced after the dates for assembly election were announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/yet-to-decide-on-offline-classes-for-classes-1-to-8/articleshow/80869146.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore top cop takes vaccine, sets example for others in force||COIMBATORE: City police commissioner Sumit Saran took the vaccine against Covid-19 on Thursday and tweeted a picture of him getting vaccinated. He said, “It (vaccine) is a great help for frontline workers.” According to city corporation officials, the top cop took the shot at the SLM Urban primary health centre in the afternoon. Health department officials said the number of frontline workers coming forward to get vaccinated was extremely low and hoped the top cop’s tweet would prompt more police officers to take the jab. In total, 18,235 frontline and health workers have been vaccinated in the district since January 16. However, the number of vaccinated frontline workers is just 1,138, including 471 police officers and 667 revenue officials. The drive to vaccinate the frontline workers was started on February 2. The vaccine is being administered at all block primary health centres and eight urban primary health centres. Meanwhile, a physical education teacher with Kinathukidavu Government Higher Secondary School was tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The 38-year-old woman volunteered for testing after developing fever and mild cough. The primary health centre at Nallattipalayam is monitoring the school and has asked all the faculty members, who met the teacher and family, to isolate themselves and get tested, if they were to develop symptoms. “While the infected teacher said she hadn’t interacted with any students, we are monitoring the students and teachers as well,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-top-cop-takes-vaccine-sets-example-for-others-in-force/articleshow/80869139.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Couple get jail for duping nine investors of Rs 18 lakh||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) (TNPID) Act court here sentenced a couple to three years of imprisonment on Thursday for cheating nine investors of Rs 17.68 lakh. The court also slapped a fine of Rs 10.80 lakh on them.A court source identified the convicts as R Chellamani, 37, and her husband K Ramalingam, of Perundurai in Erode district. “They had started a poultry farm named KPRS at Perundurai in 2012 and lured people to invest with them by offering attractive returns. In one of the schemes, they offered to provide 200 country chickens with shed, a return of Rs 6,000 monthly for three years and a yearly bonus of Rs 10,000 on an investment of Rs 1.5 lakh.”The firm managed to draw many investors during 2012-2015. When it failed to stick to its promises, nine investors lodged complaints with the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) police in Erode district. Police registered a case against the couple in 2016 and arrested them under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of TNPID Act. The couple, however, came out of jail on bail. The case trial was held before the TNPID court.On Thursday, judge AS Ravi pronounced the verdict, sentencing the couple to three years’ imprisonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/couple-get-jail-for-duping-nine-investors-of-rs-18-lakh/articleshow/80869135.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kochi||Shahjahan guilty in Vithura rape case||Kottayam: A court here on Thursday found the first accused in the Vithura rape case Suresh alias Shahjahan, 51, native of Kadakkal in Kollam district, guilty. Additional district court judge Johnson John will pronounce the quantum of punishment on Friday. The survivor was a minor when she was lured by Suresh in 1995 with a job offer and was instead sold off into the flesh trade. The girl was raped at various places between November 1995 and July 1996. The court verdict is in the first of the 24 cases against him. The court found him guilty under IPC section 344 for wrongful confinement for ten or more days, 372 for selling minor for purposes of prostitution, Section 3(1) of the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act for running a brothel, Section 5(1) (d) of Immoral Traffic Prevention Act for inducing a person to carry on prostitution. The survivor was handed over to Suresh by Vithura native Ajitha, who later died, in 1995. The incident came to light in July 1996 when the survivor landed in police custody along with one of the accused. Suresh went into hiding after several persons with political, cinema links were found accused in the case. Suresh surrendered in court after 19 years after the court let off the other accused in the case. He again went into hiding after the trial in the case began. He was later arrested from Hyderabad. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shahjahan-guilty-in-vithura-rape-case/articleshow/80869155.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||In faceoff again, Maharashtra denies waiting governor use of govt plane||MUMBAI: Tensions between the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari came to the fore again on Thursday as the governor was denied use of the state government aircraft to fly to Dehradun for an official event. A senior bureaucrat said CM Uddhav Thackeray’s additional chief secretary Ashish Kumar Singh spoke to the governor’s principal secretary Santosh Kumar, saying the government would allow use of the VVIP aircraft for Koshyari provided he personally spoke to the CM. But since there was no communication between the governor and Thackeray, the CMO declined permission. Singh did not respond to TOI’s message. According to a Raj Bhavan statement, the governor was to preside over the valedictory function of the 122nd induction training programme of IAS officers at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration at Mussoorie, Uttarakhand, at 10 am on Thursday. The governor’s secretariat had on February 2 written to the state seeking permission to use the plane, and the CMO was informed about Koshyari’s itinerary. Koshyari reached the airport around 9am. “As the governor is the head of state, the CM’s approvals for his flights are a given. Often the approval comes at the last minute, so the governor arrived,” said a source. Bureaucrats in Raj Bhavan at fault, says CMOGovernor B S Koshyari was on Thursday morning denied use of state government aircraft to fly to Dehradun. After the governor’s entourage reached the Mumbai airport’s general aviation terminal in Kalina at 9 am, Koshyari boarded the government’s Cessna Citation XLS aircraft. He was then informed that permission for use had not been received from the CM. Koshyari then left for Dehradun by a commercial aircraft. The CMO, in a statement, blamed the Raj Bhavan bureaucracy, saying it had failed to ensure permission for travelling by the state aircraft had been obtained from the CMO before the governor reached the airport. “It was expected that Raj Bhavan officials would take adequate care, particularly when it comes to the Governor. Government has taken serious note of the dereliction of duty. The CM has asked the administration to fix responsibility for the fiasco,” it said. The CMO further stated, “Government is not at fault. It was the responsibility of the Raj Bhavan secretariat to ensure that proper permissions were obtained.” The CMO admitted that Raj Bhavan had sought permission for use of the aircraft and noted that as per rules, the aircraft is made available only after permission is granted. On February 10, Raj Bhavan was informed that so far, no permission had been granted. It was expected the travel plan would be finalized only after securing all permissions, which was not done, the statement said. Ex-CM and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP alleged that it was unfortunate that “Uddhav Thackeray was treating the government as his private property.” “Koshyari is constitutional head of the government, and the CM should have allowed him to use the aircraft. The CM’s ego has been hurt, hence he is indulging in such undemocratic acts,” Fadnavis said. The MVA and the governor have been at loggerheads over several issues, including reopening of shrines in the unlocking phase. Recently MVA leaders complained that the governor had not approved the list of nominees recommended by the state government for the legislative council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bureaucrats-in-raj-bhavan-at-fault-says-cmo/articleshow/80869160.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
February 12, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra’s first ‘mega vaccine drive’ in Solapur today||PUNE: A ‘mega Covid vaccination drive’ is set to be held across Solapur district on Friday. Officials said they are hoping to vaccinate 7,500 registered beneficiaries in a single day. The number of sites holding the drive has also been increased to 75, from the regular 75. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services, Pune region, said if the pilot in Solapur is successful, such ‘mega drives’ — to be held at least once a week with maximum sites and maximum recipients — can be replicated in other districts. The state has been asked to finish administering all first doses by February 20 and all second doses by March-end. As for frontline workers, the first-dose round has to be completed by March 15, according to guidelines issued by the Centre. In Solapur, all government and private medical establishments have been roped in for the pilot mega drive. The district has 20,200 registered frontline workers and 32,373 healthcare workers. “The special drive, which will cover both healthcare and frontline workers, will give the vaccination programme more momentum,” said Deshmukh. Vaccine coverage in Solapur is nearing 60% of the target beneficiaries. But the state overall is yet to reach 60% coverage. “These mega drives will help us increase coverage,” said Archana Patil, state director of health services. Pune circle — Pune, Solapur and Satara — had achieved 50% coverage till Wednesday, with Pune completing 45% and Solapur and Satara both at 59%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/states-first-mega-vaccine-drive-in-solapur-today/articleshow/80869137.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 12, 2021||Erode||‘Yet to decide on offline classes for classes 1 to 8’||ERODE: The school education department is yet to decide on conducting offline classes for students of class 1 to 8, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan said here on Thursday. “We will take a decision on this after discussing with the chief minister,” the minister told reporters after inaugurating Rs 2 crore worth of projects in Nasiyanur and Naruvalur panchayats in Gobichettipalayam assembly segment. The minister said about 98.5% of students were attending classes across the state. He said the school education department was taking steps to issue ‘tabs’ to students of class 6,7 and 8 instead of laptops. The school education minister reiterated that public examination dates for classes 10 and 12 would be announced after the dates for assembly election were announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/yet-to-decide-on-offline-classes-for-classes-1-to-8/articleshow/80872628.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Portion of Ukkadam bus stand to be demolished||Coimbatore: A significant portion of the Ukkadam bus stand will be demolished for constructing a ramp for the Ukkadam flyover.State highways department officials said shops at the bus stand will also be removed. High-tension (HT) lines near the facility will be removed within two months.The state government had sanctioned Rs 233 crore for the 1.4km flyover that will connect Ukkadam and Karumbukadai. It later sanctioned Rs 265 crore to extend the flyover for two kilometres from Karumbukadai to Athupalam. Construction work is expected to be completed within three years.Meanwhile, the city traffic police held a meeting with state highways department, telecom operators and city municipal corporation officials to remove the bus shelters on Avinashi Road as construction of pillars for the elevated corridor has started. The municipal corporation will remove bus shelters and the telecom department was asked to remove poles on the stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/portion-of-ukkadam-bus-stand-to-be-demolished/articleshow/80869154.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan govt playing politics over farm laws: Rajendra Rathore||JAIPUR: Deputy leader of Opposition in the assembly Rajendra Rathore, during a debate on the governor’s address, took a sharp dig at the state government for misleading people on the Centre’s farm laws and “playing politics” over it. He also hit out at Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot for failing to fulfill his promise in waiving the debt of farmers who took loans from nationalized, scheduled and RRB banks. Rathore said, “A debt-ridden farmer named Sohan Lal ha d committed suicide and blamed the chief minister and the then deputy chief minister (Sachin Pilot) for failing to deliver on the promise to waive farmers’ loans. If Rahul Gandhi, former Congress president, during his visit to Pilibanga (Hanumangarh) on Friday, takes the effort of going to the farmer’s Thakri village (Ganganagar) and expresses solidarity, then it is okay.” “Of the total loan of Rs 99,996crore, the state government has only waived farm loans taken from cooperative banks amounting to Rs 6,000 crore. The CM has failed to keep his promise to waive loans of all the farmers in the state,” added Rathore. Opposing the motion during the debate on the Governor’s address, Rathore said, “There is no framework for development, no willpower for good governance in the address. It is directionless, disappointing and lacks desire for development of the state.” Taking a dig at the state government for passing three bills countering farm laws enacted by centre, he said, “The bills were passed via brute majority only to ensure its welfare (kalyan) and not that of the farmers. As per provisions of the Constitution, the law passed by the Parliament shall be considered valid on a subject pertaining to the concurrent list, and not the law that is passed by the state assembly. As Rathore raised the issue of Republic Day violence at the Red Fort, it led to an uproar in the house and Congress MLAs protested his remarks. “The CM while delivering a speech recently had said that democratic institutions were being weakened and destroyed. This is the same party during whose rule Emergency was declared and all constitutional rights were suspended.” He went on to say they were the “same people who supported those who insulted the national flag at the Red Fort.” The Speaker had to intervene to bring the house in order as the Congress MLAs protested, saying “it was an attempt to sabotage the farmers’ agitation”. Attacking the government on the rise in number of rape cases, crime against women, deteriorating law and order situation, increase in corruption cases and unemployment, he said the government has failed in all these aspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/govt-playing-politics-over-farm-laws-rathore/articleshow/80872368.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Coimbatore||BJP leader Kalyanaraman held under Goondas Act||Coimbatore: BJP state executive committee member R Kalyanaraman, 54, has been detained under Goondas Act as per an order issued by collector K Rajamani on Thursday.In the detention order, the collector said Kalyanaraman was found indulging in activities prejudicial to the maintenance of public order and public peace. He will be detained at the Central Prison, Coimbatore, the order said.Kalyanaraman is currently lodged at the Gobichettipalayam sub-jail. While speaking at a public meeting in Mettupalayam on January 26, Kalayanasundaram used inflammatory words against Prophet Muhammed and Muslims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-leader-kalyanaraman-held-under-goondas-act/articleshow/80869158.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan govt playing politics over farm laws: Rajendra Rathore||JAIPUR: Deputy leader of Opposition in the assembly Rajendra Rathore, during a debate on the governor’s address, took a sharp dig at the state government for misleading people on the Centre’s farm laws and “playing politics” over it. He also hit out at Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot for failing to fulfill his promise in waiving the debt of farmers who took loans from nationalized, scheduled and RRB banks. Rathore said, “A debt-ridden farmer named Sohan Lal ha d committed suicide and blamed the chief minister and the then deputy chief minister (Sachin Pilot) for failing to deliver on the promise to waive farmers’ loans. If Rahul Gandhi, former Congress president, during his visit to Pilibanga (Hanumangarh) on Friday, takes the effort of going to the farmer’s Thakri village (Ganganagar) and expresses solidarity, then it is okay.” “Of the total loan of Rs 99,996crore, the state government has only waived farm loans taken from cooperative banks amounting to Rs 6,000 crore. The CM has failed to keep his promise to waive loans of all the farmers in the state,” added Rathore. Opposing the motion during the debate on the Governor’s address, Rathore said, “There is no framework for development, no willpower for good governance in the address. It is directionless, disappointing and lacks desire for development of the state.” Taking a dig at the state government for passing three bills countering farm laws enacted by centre, he said, “The bills were passed via brute majority only to ensure its welfare (kalyan) and not that of the farmers. As per provisions of the Constitution, the law passed by the Parliament shall be considered valid on a subject pertaining to the concurrent list, and not the law that is passed by the state assembly. As Rathore raised the issue of Republic Day violence at the Red Fort, it led to an uproar in the house and Congress MLAs protested his remarks. “The CM while delivering a speech recently had said that democratic institutions were being weakened and destroyed. This is the same party during whose rule Emergency was declared and all constitutional rights were suspended.” He went on to say they were the “same people who supported those who insulted the national flag at the Red Fort.” The Speaker had to intervene to bring the house in order as the Congress MLAs protested, saying “it was an attempt to sabotage the farmers’ agitation”. Attacking the government on the rise in number of rape cases, crime against women, deteriorating law and order situation, increase in corruption cases and unemployment, he said the government has failed in all these aspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/govt-playing-politics-over-farm-laws-rathore/articleshow/80872369.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt playing politics over farm laws: Rajendra Rathore||JAIPUR: Deputy leader of Opposition in the assembly Rajendra Rathore, during a debate on the governor’s address, took a sharp dig at the state government for misleading people on the Centre’s farm laws and “playing politics” over it. He also hit out at Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot for failing to fulfill his promise in waiving the debt of farmers who took loans from nationalized, scheduled and RRB banks. Rathore said, “A debt-ridden farmer named Sohan Lal ha d committed suicide and blamed the chief minister and the then deputy chief minister (Sachin Pilot) for failing to deliver on the promise to waive farmers’ loans. If Rahul Gandhi, former Congress president, during his visit to Pilibanga (Hanumangarh) on Friday, takes the effort of going to the farmer’s Thakri village (Ganganagar) and expresses solidarity, then it is okay.” “Of the total loan of Rs 99,996crore, the state government has only waived farm loans taken from cooperative banks amounting to Rs 6,000 crore. The CM has failed to keep his promise to waive loans of all the farmers in the state,” added Rathore. Opposing the motion during the debate on the Governor’s address, Rathore said, “There is no framework for development, no willpower for good governance in the address. It is directionless, disappointing and lacks desire for development of the state.” Taking a dig at the state government for passing three bills countering farm laws enacted by centre, he said, “The bills were passed via brute majority only to ensure its welfare (kalyan) and not that of the farmers. As per provisions of the Constitution, the law passed by the Parliament shall be considered valid on a subject pertaining to the concurrent list, and not the law that is passed by the state assembly. As Rathore raised the issue of Republic Day violence at the Red Fort, it led to an uproar in the house and Congress MLAs protested his remarks. “The CM while delivering a speech recently had said that democratic institutions were being weakened and destroyed. This is the same party during whose rule Emergency was declared and all constitutional rights were suspended.” He went on to say they were the “same people who supported those who insulted the national flag at the Red Fort.” The Speaker had to intervene to bring the house in order as the Congress MLAs protested, saying “it was an attempt to sabotage the farmers’ agitation”. Attacking the government on the rise in number of rape cases, crime against women, deteriorating law and order situation, increase in corruption cases and unemployment, he said the government has failed in all these aspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-playing-politics-over-farm-laws-rathore/articleshow/80869157.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan govt playing politics over farm laws: Rajendra Rathore||JAIPUR: Deputy leader of Opposition in the assembly Rajendra Rathore, during a debate on the governor’s address, took a sharp dig at the state government for misleading people on the Centre’s farm laws and “playing politics” over it. He also hit out at Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot for failing to fulfill his promise in waiving the debt of farmers who took loans from nationalized, scheduled and RRB banks. Rathore said, “A debt-ridden farmer named Sohan Lal ha d committed suicide and blamed the chief minister and the then deputy chief minister (Sachin Pilot) for failing to deliver on the promise to waive farmers’ loans. If Rahul Gandhi, former Congress president, during his visit to Pilibanga (Hanumangarh) on Friday, takes the effort of going to the farmer’s Thakri village (Ganganagar) and expresses solidarity, then it is okay.” “Of the total loan of Rs 99,996crore, the state government has only waived farm loans taken from cooperative banks amounting to Rs 6,000 crore. The CM has failed to keep his promise to waive loans of all the farmers in the state,” added Rathore. Opposing the motion during the debate on the Governor’s address, Rathore said, “There is no framework for development, no willpower for good governance in the address. It is directionless, disappointing and lacks desire for development of the state.” Taking a dig at the state government for passing three bills countering farm laws enacted by centre, he said, “The bills were passed via brute majority only to ensure its welfare (kalyan) and not that of the farmers. As per provisions of the Constitution, the law passed by the Parliament shall be considered valid on a subject pertaining to the concurrent list, and not the law that is passed by the state assembly. As Rathore raised the issue of Republic Day violence at the Red Fort, it led to an uproar in the house and Congress MLAs protested his remarks. “The CM while delivering a speech recently had said that democratic institutions were being weakened and destroyed. This is the same party during whose rule Emergency was declared and all constitutional rights were suspended.” He went on to say they were the “same people who supported those who insulted the national flag at the Red Fort.” The Speaker had to intervene to bring the house in order as the Congress MLAs protested, saying “it was an attempt to sabotage the farmers’ agitation”. Attacking the government on the rise in number of rape cases, crime against women, deteriorating law and order situation, increase in corruption cases and unemployment, he said the government has failed in all these aspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/govt-playing-politics-over-farm-laws-rathore/articleshow/80872367.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Uproar in House over attack on RSS worker in Kota||JAIPUR: The assembly was adjourned twice after the question hour on Thursday following opposition uproar over the attack on RSS worker in Kota a day before and the alleged proximity of UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal with the accused. BJP MLA Vasudev Devnani moved an adjournment motion on the incident during Zero Hour but Speaker C P Joshi did not allow him to speak on which the party members led by deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore stormed the well of the House. The speaker allowed only independent MLA Sanyam Lodha and opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria to speak for two minutes on the adjournment motion. This infuriated the opposition members. BJP MLA Satish Poonia displayed a newspaper cutting carrying the picture of minister Shanti Dhariwal with an accused. Speaker Joshi said he could not be forced by the BJP members and speaker’s decision on such matters could not be questioned. He invited them to the chamber if they had any objection with his ruling. A defiant speaker continued with the listed business after repeated efforts by him to pacify them fell on deaf ears. The speaker said he had allowed leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria to speak on the law and order situation and that the opportunity could have been used to raise this incident. Referring to the uproar by Rajendra Rathore and BJP MLAs, he said, “It is unfortunate that there is competition among you to prove who is more loyal.” On allegations against Dhariwal’s alleged involvement, the speaker said there are rules raise such issues in the House. The BJP MLAs then sat on a dharna in the well of the House following which the speaker adjourned the House for half an hour at 12.22pm. Seeing that the opposition is unrelenting on its protest and the House was again adjourned for the second time till 1:30 pm. When the House resumed, Joshi asked Kataria to meet him in his chamber to resolve the deadlock. Kataria said they were willing to go back to their seats provided the chair give an assurance that the chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who is holding the home department, would reply to the incident in the House instead of UDH minister as he himself is under a cloud. Dhariwal is used to replying in the House on behalf of chief minister on the matters related to home department. The house then began discussion on the governor’s address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/uproar-in-house-over-attack-on-rss-worker-in-kota/articleshow/80869161.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Gold worth Rs 2.9 crore seized from 5 passengers at airport||Coimbatore: Sleuths of the directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) have arrested five men, who smuggled gold worth Rs 2.85 crore from Sharjah through the Coimbatore International Airport.The officials had seized the gold on February 1, but revealed the details on Thursday.The arrested people were identified as Mustafa, Abdul Kuthus, Mohideen Abdul Kadar, Mohammed Ali Jinnah and Sheik Mohideen, natives of Sivaganga, Trichy, Ramanathapuram and Chennai districts. They had concealed gold in their rectum and one of them had swallowed 28 capsules that contained gold in paste form.The sleuths were on alert on February 1 after receiving a tip-off, DRI deputy director G Sathish said. “We monitored the passengers who arrived in an Air Arabia flight from Sharjah and intercepted five, who came out of the green channel after completing customs formalities. As they appeared nervous, we segregated them and subjected them to personal search. We recovered 6,318g gold in paste form concealed in their rectum. We interrogated one of them, who was still nervous. He told us that he had swallowed 28 capsules that contained gold in paste form,” he said.After obtaining an order from a judicial magistrate to retrieve the gold swallowed by the passenger under medical supervision, the officials took him to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, and retrieved the capsules containing 324g gold over the course of three days. DRI recovered 6,642.4g gold in total, Sathish said. “The gold paste was subjected to extraction process and we recovered 24 carat gold weighing 5,747g valued at Rs 2.85 crore. The arrested people were frequent fliers and were working as carriers. Smugglers are carrying gold in paste form to dodge metal detectors and x-ray machines,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-worth-rs-2-9-crore-seized-from-5-passengers-at-airport/articleshow/80869156.cms||A Subburaj
February 12, 2021||Pune||Daily cases top discharges for 2nd day on the trot in PMR||Pune: The daily Covid-19 cases stayed above recoveries for the second consecutive day in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday.PMR added 554 new cases as against 421 recoveries in the last 24 hours, taking its total caseload and discharges to more than 3.91 lakh and 3.77 lakh, respectively.For the day, highest 256 infections were reported in the PMC limits as compared to 113 discharges. The PCMC and rural areas reported more recoveries than new cases. The daily death count in the region dropped to two on Thursday. The PMC and rural areas reported one death each. No death was reported in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the active cases in the region increased to 4,594 on Thursday owing to two-day rise in positive cases. As many as 1,785 patients were admitted in various hospitals for Covid-19 treatment in PMR, while 2,809 were in home isolation till Thursday evening. The daily testing of samples in the region also increased to 6,006 on Thursday. The testing has been on the rise for the last four consecutive days. The total sample testing in the region has reached above 21.68 lakh.For the second day in a row, the state got over 3,000 new Covid-19 cases. A total of 3,297 cases and 25 fatalities were added on Thursday, taking Maharashtra’s total caseload to 20,52,905 and toll to 51,415.There has been a significant dip in active cases in the state. With the discharge of 6,107 patients on Friday, Maharashtra had only 30,265 active cases, of which 4,197 were in Mumbai. Total discharges in the state were over 19.7 lakh, with the rate of recovery touching 95.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-cases-top-discharges-for-2nd-day-on-the-trot-in-pmr/articleshow/80869164.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 12, 2021||Pune||Pune: Eight-year-old briefly loses vision after rare nCoV strike||PUNE: A little-known Covid-linked neurological problem caused sudden loss of vision in an eight-year-old Pune girl, over two months after she contracted the illness. Fortunately, the child went on to regain her vision within a week of being put on intravenous steroids and immunity-boosters. Doctors who treated the girl said her case is an extremely rare example of a Covid-led autoimmune attack that went on to damage the optic nerve’s covering — medically termed myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) — resulting in sudden loss of vision. Autoantibodies, responsible for such attacks, can stay active in the body for months after infection recovery, studies have shown. The girl was admitted to hospital on December 16, a day after first complaining of a headache and then losing vision in the left eye — all within 24 hours. Treating doctors at the Unique Children’s hospital in Chinchwad said the girl was asymptomatic when her parents tested positive two months before she was admitted. In fact, because she had no discernible symptoms at the time, she was not even tested. At the hospital, doctors ran a battery of tests until two revealed Covid-specific blood and MOG antibodies. Her blood investigation report did not indicate the presence of any other viral infection. Paediatric neurologist Vishwanath Kulkarni said, “We diagnosed the child with optic neuritis owing to swelling (inflammation) of the covering over the optic nerve. This covering is formed of MOG cells. The MOG antibodies, produced by the body to protect against infections, had attacked the child’s optic nerve. It resulted in sudden but transient vision loss.” For the next five days, doctors treated the girl with liquid steroids via drip, followed by immunoglobulins to boost the immune system. By the sixth day, she had completely recovered her sight. “There have been reports of Covid-related neurological complications, including brain-stroke and Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS). But this could be the first case of MOG optic neuritis, secondary to Covid-19, in India,” Kulkarni said. A review of research showed there have been at least four investigated cases of SARS-CoV-2-associated optic neuritis around the world. Experts studying the cases said the problem has been associated with other viral infections and added that their evidence suggests the SARS-CoV-2 virus has joined that list of causes. Paediatric neurologist Surekha Rajadhyaksha, president of the Child Neurology Society, said, “The child’s case in Pune underscores why doctors need to now have a high index of suspicion while treating patients with optic neuritis. In addition to other viral illnesses, the involvement of Covid-19 needs to be ruled out for better recovery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eight-year-old-briefly-loses-vision-after-rare-ncov-strike/articleshow/80869171.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Diya Kumari lauds Union Budget||Jaipur: BJP MP Diya Kumari on Wednesday said the Union Budget has given special attention to issues related to basic issues like education, skill development, health and sanitation. Speaking in the Lok Sabha, she said this would further increase economic growth as well as employment opportunities. Congratulating Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Amit Shah, the MP said the Budget reflected the government's resolve to make the country truly ‘Atmanirbhar’ and a ‘Vishwa-guru’. The MP thanked the government for allocation of Rs 40,000 crore for Rajasthan out of Rs 99,312 crore under human resource development. The MP said the pandemic made us understand the importance of health institutions. Therefore, the health expenditure has increased by 137% which is commendable. The success of the production of two Covid vaccines in India has strengthened the thinking of ‘Made in India’, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/diya-kumari-lauds-union-budget/articleshow/80869167.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nashik||Chorus grows for med college in Parbhani||Aurangabad: The state cabinet on Thursday approved a new medical college for Nashik but Parbhani from Marathwada has been left out despite a long-pending demand. Sharad Advant of advocacy group Marathwada Janta Vikas Parishad said a medical college in Marathwada is a must to address the backlog in the education sector. “The demand for opening a medical college at Parbhani is older than that of Nashik We have no issues if any new medical college is coming in any other part of the state, but it is unfortunate that Parbhani has been neglected again,” he said. Leftist leader from Parbhani, Vilas Babar, said that lack of political will among public representatives to have a medical college was the reason behind Parbhani getting repeatedly ignored. “None of the public representatives from Parbhani district has been vocal about the demand. Such apathy is responsible for poor progress of the district,” he said. With the recent announcement of a new medical college at Osmanabad, the total number of such state-run institutions imparting medical education has gone up to five in Marathwada. It includes government-run medical college in Aurangabad that has intake capacity of 200 and medial college at Ambajogai (Beed district), Nanded and Latur having intake capacity of 150 each. The new college at Osmanabad is proposed to have intake capacity of 100 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/chorus-grows-for-med-college-in-parbhani/articleshow/80866427.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Pune||Betelgeuse to shine bright again in the night sky on Valentine’s Day||PUNE: Star gazers are in for a treat this Valentine’s Day. Betelgeuse, a red supergiant star that had dimmed out last year, can be clearly spotted in Orion the Hunter constellation. The star, one of the brightest in the night sky, is 700 times bigger than the sun, and about 500 to 600 light years from earth. It will be seen in the south of the sky with a group of seven stars. Director of Nehru Planetarium, Nehru Centre, Arvind Paranjpye, said, “Citizens can face the south of the sky and look well above the horizon. Observers will be able to see three stars in a row surrounded by four bright stars forming a rectangle. These seven stars together make up the Orion constellation called Mrugha (stag or male deer) in Indian astronomy. The star at the upper left corner of the rectangle, wi th a distinct red colour, is Betelgeuse. Its Indian name is Kakshi.” Paranjpye said, “If this star were to replace the sun, Earth would be engulfed. That’s how big Betelguese is. The light from the star reaching us now is at least 500 years old.” Last year, observers around the world had noticed that the star had dimmed out. It was then believed that the star threw out some of its outer material into space which blocked light from the star. The dip in brightness was because of stellar pulsations, expansions and contractions in the outer layer, and dust clouds. Betelgeuse is expected to explode some time in the future. Some scientists say it would be 1,00,000 years away from explosion as it is still in its early core helium-burning phase. “When it explodes, it will be brighter than the moon as seen from earth,” Paranjpye added. Scientists say Betelgeuse is a red supergiant that has evolved from an O-type main sequence star, a continuous and distinctive band of stars that appears on plots of stellar colour versus brightness. Its core will eventually collapse, producing a supernova explosion and leaving behind a compact remnant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/betelgeuse-to-shine-bright-again-in-the-night-sky-on-valentines-day/articleshow/80869202.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||UPRERA deregisters 2 Ansal projects for deceiving buyers||LUCKNOW: The real estate regulatory body has taken punitive action against a prominent developer for failing to complete housing projects and leaving scores of homebuyers in the lurch. The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UPRERA) has ordered to deregister two projects of Ansal API while putting four projects under observation. According to UPRERA, the real estate developer has been involved in serious financial irregularities. The order dated February 10 deregistered projects in pocket 2, sector P and J, in Sushant Golf City under section 7 of RERA Act. Further, for pocket 3, sector A, the authority instructed the promoter to complete remaining work and upload the completion certificate by March 20 on the UPRERA website. Senior officials of UPRERA said that 224 home buyers had filed a complaint in six projects of Ansal API in Sushant Golf City. The developer was first served a notice in the first quarter of 2019 and then an extension was given for completion. However, the company failed to comply. “During forensic audit, it was found that there were severe financial irregularities in the project besides diversion and siphoning of funds amounting to Rs 606 crore,” said UPRERA in a statement. Complaints from allottees included issues like non-possession of units, non-refund of amount deposited, violating terms and conditions of sales contract/allotment letter, among others, the statement added. “For the pocket 3 project, the promoter has been ordered to deposit Rs 9.4 crore in respect of the funds received from the allottees within three months to complete the other projects registered. The promoter has also been charged a penalty of Rs 1.6 crore lakh, which is 5% of the total cost of the project,” it said. UPRERA chairperson Rajive Kumar said, “Deregistration order was served based upon information, inspections, complaints registered and non-compliance of provision of RERA Act. While the authority had already given strict warnings, this decision was taken after we gave them ample time to respond after repeated notices. This step should be seen as a warning to others”. He added that there were compliance issues in managing accounts and audit and the developer should have delivered projects phase-wise. Instead, the developer expanded hugely, leading to mismanagement of resources and mortgaging of land. “We also found that there was surplus money in the project, which should have been utilized towards project completion,” said Kumar. Responding to the action, Anurag Singh, a member of the legal team of Ansal API, said, “We are looking into the matter for legal options and a decision will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uprera-deregisters-2-projects-of-ansal-api-4-under-observation-for-siphoning-of-rs-609cr/articleshow/80870671.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 12, 2021||Coimbatore||I will be back as CM to inaugurate Avinashi-Athikadavu scheme: Edappadi K Palaniswami||TIRUPUR: Asserting that it was he who laid the foundation stone for Avinashi-Athikadavu water project, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said he would be back as CM with people’s support and inaugurate the scheme once completed. Addressing an election rally in Tirupur on Thursday, the CM recalled the long history of struggle for the project. EPS said though it was fully funded by the state government, AIADMK took it up for the welfare of the farmers as announced by late chief minister J Jayalalithaa in the run up to the 2016 assembly election. He said it was AIADMK which has consistently chalked out schemes for the welfare of farmers. Alleging that DMK president M K Stalin was getting restless because of AIADMK’s announcement of farm loan waiver, EPS said the DMK had launched a false propaganda that the promise would not be kept. “Stalin says AIADMK would not implement the poll promise of farm loan waiver. A government order would be issued soon and receipt for farm loan waiver would be issued in 10 days,” he said. AIADMK has a history of fulfilling election promises in 2006 and 2011, whereas DMK has never kept promises, he said. Choosing to be silent about V K Sasikala and her nephew T T V Dhinakaran, EPS continued to train his guns on Stalin accusing him of dynastic politics and duping the public with ‘unfeasible’ assurance. “He has never addressed public grievances during his stint as MLA, minister and deputy chief minister. Now he is collecting petitions promising to sort out those complaints in 100 days. How can he sort out all those complaints in 100 days?’’ he asked. In Tirupur district, which has a mix of agriculture, industry, weaving and sizeable Muslims in few pockets, EPS listed out contributions of AIADMK for farmers, the industries brought in by his government, promised 10,000 free houses for weavers and assured the minority community not to be apprehensive about AIADMK because it has allied with BJP. He said Muslims need not worry because of the alliance and added that the AIADMK would not give up its policy of minority welfare. “Each party will have a policy. We will not give up the policy because of political alliance. AIADMK is for people’s welfare and is beyond caste, creed and religion. No one needs to worry that they will suffer because of our alliance,” he told a gathering of Jamaath representatives at a wedding hall on Kangeyam Road and sought their support in the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/i-will-be-back-as-cm-to-inaugurate-avinashi-athikadavu-scheme-eps/articleshow/80869224.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mhada lottery: BDD tenants go from 150sqft to 500sqft||MUMBAI: The long-awaited redevelopment of the city’s BDD chawls finally got off the ground on Thursday. State housing board Mhada conducted a lottery to allot apartments to eligible tenants of the old, dilapidated structures in Lower Parel. Construction of the buildings is yet to begin though. The entire project constitutes the largest resettlement undertaking in the country, given the sprawl of these old buildings in south Mumbai. This particular lottery was drawn for 272 tenants of the five-hectare BDD chawl plot at NM Joshi Marg, Lower Parel. They have been granted transit accommodation until their structures are rebuilt. A total of 2,560 residents live in 32 chawls in this location. So far, 607 tenants out of 800 living in 10 chawls have been deemed eligible for resettlement. Their new homes will be 500 square feet in size with individual toilets. The current size of their 1RK accommodation is 150-160 sq ft. Residents S Nandgaonkar and one Kesarkar became the first winners of the computerised draw and were felicitated at the event. Ministers Aaditya Thackeray and Aslam Shaikh, state housing minister Jitendra Awhad, mayor Kishori Pednekar and senior Mhada officers attended the draw that was held at the housing board headquarters in Bandra (East). Thackeray said the redevelopment marked a milestone in the history of BDD chawls that have sheltered two or three generations of each family. He said the construction would be of high quality and would be completed in a timely manner. Awhad expressed the hope that the bhoomipujan of the resettlement would take place within 15-20 days. He said to TOI: “The project was delayed because people had lost faith in the government. They insisted that the allotment and flat details be embedded in their agreement and now their faith has been restored because we are doing so.” Awhad said Mhada held the distinction of being the biggest landowner in the city. “Still, land stocks are fast depleting. Given the needs of the city’s population, we are bringing new provisions whereby Mhada can engage in joint ventures with private land bankers to develop low-cost housing for the public as our predecessors envisaged. Ideally, the plan is to develop a bank of 5,000 acres in the MMR region in the next five years,” he said. He further said the historic BDD chawls are the oldest and largest settlements in the city. As a result, their redevelopment is the largest resettlement project in the country. This lottery was to have been conducted in March 2020 but was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mhada-lottery-bdd-tenants-go-from-150sqft-to-500sqft/articleshow/80866340.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
February 12, 2021||Meerut||Two held for using fake receipts in name of Ram Mandir trust to dupe people||MEERUT: Two men were held in UP's Bulandshahr district for allegedly seeking donations using fake receipts in the name of Shri Ram Janambhoomi Teerth Kshetra, the government trust tasked with the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Local police received a tip-off about the racket when the fresh receipts from a printing press were sent for binding. Police landed at the printing press and made inquiries. While the owner of the printing press is on the run, masterminds Deepak Thakur and Rahul were arrested. This was the first attempt by the suspects to fleece money from gullible people by using fake receipt books. “We were alerted by a person at the binding store who got suspicious after seeing the receipts. We registered an FIR and later, arrested the two suspects. The owner of the press, Iklaq Khan, is still absconding,” said Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police. In September last year, a trust run by an individual in Meerut had come under the scanner and a case was registered after a group of activists from Vishwa Hindu Parishad visited the office of the trust which claimed to be “government approved”. A donation drive is currently on wherein Sangh Parivar members have been drumming up support for funds through motorcycle rallies and begun door-to-door collection drives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-held-for-using-fake-receipts-in-name-of-ram-mandir-trust-to-dupe-people/articleshow/80867546.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Notices issued to over 4.4L electricity bill defaulters||Nashik: The Nashik zone of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has started serving notices to 4.40 lakh defaulters asking them to clear their outstanding dues, amounting to a total of Rs 427 crore, within 15 days or face power disconnection.“We have already started sending notices through SMS on the registered mobile numbers along with a hard copy. So far, we have issued notices to around 2.04 lakh consumers in Nashik circle for outstanding dues of Rs 229 crore,” Pravin Daroli, superintendent engineer of Nashik MSEDCL, said. There are 4.40 lakh consumers across Nashik Zone — comprising Nashik and Malegaon Circles (in Nashik District) and Ahmednagar Circle —who have not cleared their dues.There are 2.06 lakh consumers in Nashik Circle that owe Rs 229 crore to the , while 52,841 consumers in Malegaon Circle owe Rs 49.8 crore and Ahmednagar Circle has 1.81 lakh consumers who owe Rs 148 crore.“Since the lockdown was in place, the MSEDCL did not take any action against the defaulters. But now we have started sending notices to the consumers asking them to clear their dues and failure will attract action in terms of power disconnection,” the official said. The MSEDCL started sending the notices from the beginning of February. “Of the people who have been notified, as many as 80% are those who have not paid a penny for the last 10 months,” the official added. The defaulters include residential, commercial and industrial consumers. The sub-division level officials will now start disconnecting power supply at the end of the notice period for the same.The official pointed out that the recovery has been started but would take some time to get the consolidated figure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/notices-issued-to-over-4-4l-electricity-bill-defaulters/articleshow/80869223.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 12, 2021||India||First India Toy Fair-2021 to be held between Feb 27-Mar 2||NEW DELHI: Aimed at boosting toy manufacture in India and improving its global market share, the government on Thursday announced the first ‘India Toy Fair-2021’ to be held from February 27 to March 2, 2021 Bringing together all stakeholders of the Indian toy industry, the fair was jointly inaugurated by the respective ministers of education, textiles and commerce and industry with the launch of its official website. The website for the ‘India Toy Fair 2021’ will enable children, parents, teachers, exhibitors, etc. to register themselves to participate in the virtual fair and showcase various facets of the ‘Indian toy ecosphere’. It is the first ever digitally accessible exhibition and platform which will provide an opportunity to not only explore and buy a variety of toys from over 1,000 exhibitors across states and UTs, but also to participate in insightful webinars, panel discussions and activities and network with various stakeholders of the toy industry. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in line with the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign launched by him had last year highlighted the importance of toys in moulding a child’s mind. Modi said toys aligned with Indian culture and ethos should be used as pedagogical tools across all anganwadi centres and schools for all-round development of children. Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said that about a year back, complaints were received about poor quality toys being imported into the country which on examination by a committee were found to be true. This, he said, led to the issue of quality control of toys, an initiative that will ensure Indians get access to quality toys. Later the government increased the import duty of toys by 20% to 60%. The toy market is one of the several, flooded with Chinese products. However, Goyal said that the initiative is not driven by any other interest but to make a mark for Indian-made quality toys in the world. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said Indian toys have been the building blocks of a happy childhood and that play-based, discovery-based and activity-based learning plays an integral role in bridging the gap between day-to-day studies and practical hands-on learning and is a a prime focus of the National Education Policy 2020. Minister of textiles and WCD, Smriti Irani stated that six ministries of the Union government have joined hands to make ‘India Toy Fair 2021’ a grand success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-india-toy-fair-2021-to-be-held-between-feb-27-mar-2/articleshow/80871538.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nashik||Farmers get stalls at Nanded dist collectorate||Aurangabad: Nanded district administration has set up free and permanent stalls on the premises of the district collectorate to facilitate the direct sale of their agricultural produce. Ravishankar Chalwade, the superintendent agricultural officer of Nanded, on Thursday said space would be offered to farmers and their groups on a rotation basis. “Each stall is of 100 sft and offers sufficient space for farmers to exhibit and sell their produce. Day one of the initiative witnessed excellent response with almost all the vegetables and fruits being sold. The direct sale of agricultural products to consumers cuts down the chain of middlemen and benefits farmers and consumers,” he said. He said the sale of products made by self-help groups (SHGs) in rural areas will also be sold in these stalls. “Considering the growing demand, we have reserved one stall for the sale of only organic products. Among other items, the stalls are also expected to promote and sell food items that are synonymous with local culture,” he said. Nanded district collector Vipin Itankar said, “On the occasion of Republic Day, we had arranged a direct sale of agricultural produce as part of the government welfare programme for farmers. After witnessing the response, we decided to set up such permanent stalls for the benefit of farmers and citizens.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-get-stalls-at-nanded-dist-collectorate/articleshow/80866433.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Conservation of Gadisar Lake: HC summons official||Jaisalmer: Rajasthan High Court Jodhpur bench of justice Sangeet Lodha and Rameshwar Vyas, hearing the petition of conservation of Gadisar Lake and not giving status of lake to other lakes in the state and delay in their conservation, on Tuesday expressed their annoyance and ordered principal secretary, local self government to be present on the next hearing on February 16. On behalf of the petitioner, advocate Ranchod Khatri and advocate Sunil Paliwal argued in the affidavit submitted in the court. According to the information received from RTI, Gadisar Lake and 10 other districts in the state were included by the Union government in national lake conservation policy in 2010 and a DPR was prepared for making a plan for conservation of Gadisar Lake with the help of IIT-Roorkee. In this, Gadisar Lake was told to be of religious importance along with being social and cultural heritage. Hearing the petition, the bench ordered local self government principal secretary to be personally present on February 16 on behalf of the state government. The principal secretary of local self government has been appointed as chairman of lake development authority Jaipur by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/conservation-of-gadisar-lake-hc-summons-official/articleshow/80869231.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||4th batch of 1.9L vax doses arrive in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand on Thursday received the fourth batch -- consisting 1.93 lakh vaccine doses -- of Covishield vaccine from the Centre that are expected to be used for inoculation of frontline workers deployed in Kumbh. “We have received 1.93 lakh doses of Covishield, which were immediately sent to respective districts. Only Uttarkashi will get the vaccine consignment tomorrow (Friday). We are also starting the second round of registration of frontline workers in the Covin portal from February 17, and administration of the second dose of the vaccine will start from February 19,” said Saroj Naithani, director, National Health Mission (NHM). Till February 10, a total of 1,81,205 health and frontline workers have been registered on the Centre's Covin portal. Meanwhile, 48 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state on Thursday taking the coronavirus tally to 96,673. Two Covid deaths were also reported in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,676. At the same time, 77 patients have been recovered from the infection. Total active cases have now gone down to 669.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/4th-batch-of-1-9l-vax-doses-arrive-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/80867555.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||Absence of firefighting kits claims lives of two forest officials in Pauri wildfire||Dehradun: Two forest personnel lost their lives while they were dousing wildfire in Lavintha village of Pauri forest division —where 106 forest fire incidents were recorded from October till date. A senior IFS officer claimed that the two officials died due to “absence of firefighting kits”.The incident took place on Wednesday. This comes days before the wildfire season in the state officially commences on February 15. During this time, the spring sets in due to which trees shed dry leaves and the soil loses moisture as a result of a rise in temperature. The forest fire season continues till mid-June.According to officials, deceased Harimohan (51), a forest guard, and Dinesh Lal (55), a forester, slipped down from the cliff while dousing flames and died due to head injuries.Head of state’s forest force Rajeev Bhartari said they are working on a war-footing to prevent the spread of jungle fires.“The forest department has released funds to tackle forest fires on Wednesday. A meeting will be organised on Friday to have a state-wide review of fire protection measures, which will be attended by all the district magistrates and police officials from each district. In the meeting, we will come up with a robust strategy to tackle wildfires. We have already released Rs 5.75 crore for upgrading the firefighting facilities of the personnel,” said Bhartari.However, the state nodal officer of forest fires, chief conservator of forests, Man Singh, who is closely monitoring the forest fires in the state, claimed that the deceased were not given safety kits and were not adequately trained to tackle forest fires.“This incident actually highlights the unavailability of appropriate fire extinguishing kits and training. Had they been given adequate firefighting equipment and training, they would have survived with just minor injuries. We have to standardise and codify the forest fire fighting measures so that our staff is well-equipped to deal with these situations," he told TOI.Prior to this, two villagers, Saraswati Devi (60) and Hema Devi (25), both from Thana Matena village of Almora, died when the wildfire reached their village on January 24.So far, the wildfires have claimed four lives since October in the state. Till date, 287 wildfire incidents have been recorded and 247.97 hectares of forest cover were burnt. A cumulative loss of over Rs 16 lakh was estimated by the forest department while over 5,500 trees were burnt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/absence-of-firefighting-kits-claims-lives-of-two-forest-officials-in-pauri-wildfire/articleshow/80867567.cms||Shivani Azad
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||A movement to liberate farmers, Guj people: Tikat||Jaipur: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, while addressing a kisan mahapanchayat at Alwar district’s Jhalatala village in Lachhmangarh area, said, “The farmers’ movement was a struggle to achieve their freedom and liberation of Gujarat people who are tied by different forms of bondage.” He said farmers’ agitation would continue till legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) was ensured and the farms laws were withdrawn. Tikait made this remark in a veiled attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who belonged to the state of Gujarat. Coining a fresh slogan for the movement, Tikait said, “The slogan of the movement will be ‘Humhi Kisan Hai, Humhi Jawaan Hai’ (We are the farmers, we are the soldiers)”.“This is a movement to ensure farmers’ freedom…Gujarat, too, has to be liberated. The people of Gujarat are still tied by different forms of bondage. Gujarat is cut off from the rest of the world. Farmers and the people there are in a state of fear, and nobody can communicate with them. The farmers are being intimidated by state police if they board a train to participate inthe protest in Delhi. We will go to Gujarat to liberate them from all forms of bondage,” said Tikait.“After Rajasthan, the next meeting will be held in Gujarat. The central government is trying to break this movement, but this will continue till the three farm laws are withdrawn,” he added.Tikait further said this movement was dedicated to the poor of this country. “This movement is fought to ensure foodgrains are not stored in the chests. We will not allow people’s bread (roti) to be hoarded. This movement will continue until a law is enacted to ensure MSP for crops. The government will have to concede (to their demands). This movement is for the farmers of the whole country and not just one state. The farmers will not bow before anyone.”“This movement belongs to that roadside shopkeeper in a city who sells his goods on credit, this also belongs to that farmer who has no power connection and sells goods at a cheap rate. This belongs to every farmer and labourer. He further said, it has been declared that he holds total assets of Rs 82 crore. “They said, I have 8 petrol pumps. In fact, it is more than that. To assess the valuation of my property, they will have to appoint bank officials, SDMs, tehsildars and patwaris. I have been wrongly accused of indulging in politics. Neither will I contest elections nor have I come to Rajasthan to make a mark for myself,” he said.Meanwhile, a statewide Kisan Adhikar Yatra, under the leadership of Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Rampal Jat, started off from Jaipur on Thursday. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has also announced that the toll collection at the plazas will not be allowed in Rajasthan from Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/a-movement-to-liberate-farmers-guj-people-tikat/articleshow/80869257.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||Time & money running out, kin of those stuck in tunnel stay put||Tapovan/Nainital: For five days, Sachin Saini, a daily wage labourer from Kalsiya village in UP’s Saharanpur, has been camping at the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project site in hopes that his uncle, Pramod, will emerge from the tunnel he has been trapped in with 33 others. Every passing day chips away at that hope and the means he has to keep waiting. On Sunday, when he heard of the flood in Uttarakhand, he could not tell if it was a rumour. The videos were terrifying. He called up his uncle, who is in his 40s and who had been working with the mechanical department of the team at the project site news reports said had caved in. The call wouldn’t go through. “At least five people from my village worked at this plant. We pooled in Rs 15,000 to hire a cab and travelled nearly 400km to get here,” the 25-year-old told TOI on Thursday. “But after two days, we had to let the cab go. We didn’t have the money to keep it here.” Some 20 people like Sachin, families of those stuck in the tunnel, have cut down on what they’d need to get by in a day just so they can manage to stay on. They sleep in tents, eat what the district administration provides and share what little they have with one another. But most say no one bothers to tell them how much progress has been made. “We don’t know if the rescue teams are anywhere near our people. I keep going to the tunnel through the day, hoping someone will say something. But no one does,” said Ashraf Ali, whose son Naumaan is one of the 34 trapped inside. Yet, many don’t leave. Like Sati Bisht, whose brother Parminder is stuck in the tunnel. “I can’t do anything except watch the teams do their work. But we are running out of patience now,” Sati said. What makes it worse, many said, is the way they are told off. “A few times a day, some of us go to the police to check if there is an update. The officials ask us to leave,” said a relative of one of those stuck inside. “They just don’t want to help. There is no clarity on what is happening.” When Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya visited the rescue site on Thursday, the families sought her help and said the rescue work has been very slow. She, in turn, spoke to the rescue agencies, asking them to speed things up as much as possible. Sachin said despite all odds, they are not leaving until they get a definite answer about their loved ones: “Yes, we are short of money and no one is helping. But we will stay on as long as the rescue operations go on and as long as there is hope.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/time-money-running-out-kin-of-those-stuck-in-tunnel-stay-put/articleshow/80867582.cms||Prashant Jha
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Arrested from protest site, Nodeep Kaur to get Punjab legal aid||CHANDIGARH: Punjab women’s and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary on Thursday said the state government will give legal assistance to Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan’s Nodeep Kaur (23), who was arrested on January 12 from the farmers’ protest site at Kundli in Haryana. Chaudhary also requested the National Women’s Commission (NCW) to intervene for the release of Nodeep, whose medical examination after the arrest had revealed injuries to the private parts. She told the NCW that the Punjab government will provide Nodeep with legal assistance through the state women’s commission but Haryana needed to be directed to give the Punjab delegation an access to her. The minister said that the BJP government in Haryana was against the farmers’ agitation and it had picked up Nodeep and other labour unionists at the behest of the Union government. She said Nodeep was charged with attempt to murder and extortion, which was “unacceptable”. She also said: “Her family has laid horrifying allegations that her modesty was outraged in police custody and she continues to be denied bail after four weeks. The injuries revealed in the medical examination prove sexual assault in custody.” She accused the Union government of violating the democratic rights of protesters by sending them to jail as anti-nationals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nodeep-to-get-punjab-legal-aid/articleshow/80869258.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||Manish Jha, former head coach of Sikkim, named replacement of Wasim Jaffer who resigned as coach of U’khand cricket team||Dehradun: After the controversial exit of Wasim Jaffer as the head coach of Uttarakhand senior men’s team ahead of the Vijay Hazare Trophy, Manish Kumar Jha has been named as the new coach. Jha represented the Services team in domestic cricket and played 12 Ranji Trophy matches in his domestic career which concluded in 2008. Till now, Jha was serving as the coach of the state’s U-23 men’s team but Jaffer’s exit just a day ago on Tuesday, it is believed, prompted the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) to appoint Jha as the replacement on an urgent basis. The 43-year-old has previously coached Sikkim’s senior team as well. CAU officials meanwhile said that since the post of head coach can’t be left vacant for long as the Vijay Hazare Trophy was coming up, the appointment of Jha was finalised on priority. They added that they are “quite confident that Jha will help the players in giving good performances at the tournament.” Uttarakhand is going to play its first Vijay Hazare Trophy match against Meghalaya in Chennai on February 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/manish-jha-former-head-coach-of-sikkim-named-replacement-of-wasim-jaffer-who-resigned-as-coach-of-ukhand-cricket-team/articleshow/80867574.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||UK PIO MPs push for debate on safety of farmers in British Parliament||London: Two Indian-origin MPs are pushing for a debate in the British Parliament on the safety of the farmer protesters and on press freedom in India. Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, whose family hail from Jalandhar, and Valerie Vaz, who has Goan roots, both Labour, on Thursday pressed Leader of the House of Commons Jacob Rees-Mogg for a debate to happen on the petition, which is on the UK government and parliament site with 115,000 signatures and calls for the UK government to urge India to ensure the safety of farm protesters and that press freedoms are maintained. The petition reached the 100,000 threshold on February 2, meaning a debate on it would be held in Westminster Hall, and a government minister would have to attend and respond. It was started on December 17 by Liberal Democrats Maidenhead councillor Gurch Singh, whose family is from Ludhiana. But on January 13 MPs agreed to temporarily suspend Westminster Hall debates owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. On Thursday, in the Commons chamber, Dhesi asked Rees-Mogg, who is responsible for scheduling business in the House, to make an exception and facilitate the debate in the main chamber as he said the “peaceful farmers’ protest in India” ongoing for some months now, is “currently the largest protest on the planet”. “Given our serious anxieties, more than 100 hon. members signed a letter to the prime minister seeking his intervention. Well over 100,000 constituents — incredibly, from every single one of the 650 UK constituencies — have signed an online petition. Given those facts, and given the arrest of journalists, peaceful protesters and human rights activists such as Nodeep Kaur, who, it is alleged, has been tortured and endured sexual assault while in police custody, will the Leader of the House please facilitate a debate on this important matter,” Dhesi asked. Rees-Mogg responded that the protests were a matter of concern across the House and across constituencies. “The right to peaceful protest is a fundamental one, along with freedom of speech and internet freedom. India is a very proud democracy and a country with which we have the strongest possible relations.” “As India is our friend, it is only right that we make representations when we think that things are happening that are not in the interests of the reputation of the country of which we are a friend,” he said. He confirmed that the foreign secretary had discussed the farmers’ protest with his Indian counterpart in December and said the UK government will continue to follow the farmers’ protest closely and “continue to champion human rights globally”, but that agricultural reform “is a domestic policy issue for India”. Vaz also asked Rees-Mogg if he could find time for the debate, even if virtually. “Satyagraha is the Gandhian peaceful protest that is in the Indian DNA, but we have seen scenes of terrible violence against those who are protecting their livelihoods,” she said. Councillor Singh, whose family members are at the protest sites, told TOI he had written to the petitions committee putting pressure on them to hold the debate. “I am a proud Indian. I have nothing against the Modi government. I just want them to listen to farmers and come to a sensible resolution and prevent any further loss of life,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uk-pio-mps-push-for-debate-on-safety-of-farmers-in-british-parliament/articleshow/80869249.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 12, 2021||Meerut||Missing UP woman found working in Gujarat||MEERUT: A woman, in her late 30s, from Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut, who went missing and was claimed to have been kidnapped over two years ago, was finally found living in Gujarat’s Surat. It took the local cops two complainants, two court orders and over 25 months to realise that the two suspects – one of them got bail after a year in jail while the other remains behind bars – were innocent. Meanwhile, the woman, in her statement to court, claimed that she had disappeared on her own will and doesn't want to press charges against anyone. A resident of Loni area in Ghaziabad, the woman got married to Gajendra Singh, a cab driver in Meerut, in 2002. In December 2018, her mother approached police claiming that her daughter had gone missing and feared that she might have been kidnapped. The local police waited for another year and a court order before an FIR was registered. According to police, in October 2019, an FIR of kidnapping based on the mother’s complaint was registered at TP Nagar police station in Meerut against three suspects, including two relatives of the missing woman, following the court order. The victim’s two relatives were arrested and sent to jail. While Sachin, one of the jailed relatives, secured bail, the other, Om Prakash, continues to be behind bars. With no clue to the missing woman, police also filed a charge-sheet in the case in March 2020. However, as the woman was not found even over two years after her disappearance, her husband, Gajendra Singh, approached the Allahabad high court on January 5 this year and alleged that “no efforts were made to trace her by the local police”. “The court directed police to recover the woman and file an affidavit within a month,” TP Nagar SHO Vijay Gupta said. When the police finally traced her to Gujarat’s Surat, they got to know she wasn’t kidnapped at all and had disappeared on her own will. Police have now begun the process to expunge charges against the accused, two of whom have spent a year each in jail while one of them continues to languish there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-woman-missing-for-over-2-years-found-working-in-guj-man-spends-year-in-jail-for-kidnapping-her/articleshow/80867579.cms||Piyush Rai
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Four vultures die in Jaisalmer after hitting windmill, wires||JAISALMER: Four vultures died in different incidents in Degrai pasture land in Jaisalmer district on Wednesday. While two Himalayan vultures died after hitting a windmill at Bheeksar, a Himalayan vulture and Egyptian vulture died after hitting high-tension electric wires at Sodhiasar. Last Friday, too, two Egyptian vultures died after hitting high-tension electric wires at Rasla border. Since January, more than 36 migratory and rare birds have died. Around 15 days ago, two cinereous vultures and a Tony eagle had died after hitting the wires. These incidents have created resentment among bird enthusiasts. Earlier there was a demand to remove the wires in the pasture land and in Great Indian Bustard (GIB) habitat areas or to put up bird diverters. Around four months ago, a GIB had died after hitting the wires. Degrai Ushth Sanrakshan president Sumer Singh Bhati said he and his colleague Parth Jagani were on a routine visit to the pasture land and found two vultures — a Himalayan and an Egyptian — dead under a 132kv high tension pole. The forest department was informed about it. They said it is really worrying as a lot of migratory birds were dying after hitting the high-tension wires. He said it was probably the first case in which two Himalayan vultures died after hitting a windmill. He said a lot of migratory birds are camping at Lathi, Bhadaria, Khetolai, Dholia and pasture lands in Jaisalmer which is a good news, but increasing incidents of birds hitting the wires poses a threat to them. Deputy conservator of forest Kapil Chandrawal said recent orders of NGT about overhead power transmission lines of energy projects have brought respite to the bird enthusiasts. The said order pertains to fitting bird diverters on ‘existing solar and wind power lines’, especially in the Thar Desert area. He said a bird diverter is a device installed along the overhead power transmission lines at regular intervals and is designed to help make the power lines more visible to birds and discourage contact with the lines. The device spins by aligning with the wind flow direction. It is painted in bright colours to make it conspicuous from far away in mid air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-vultures-die-in-jaisalmer-after-hitting-windmill-wires/articleshow/80869260.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Dawood Ibrahim & Iqbal Mirchi were close, met at latter’s restaurant, witnesses tell ED||MUMBAI: Fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim and late druglord Iqbal Mirchi used to have a rendezvous at the latter’s Haweli restaurant at Imperial Suites Hotel in the 90s, according to statements of witnesses in the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) money laundering case against Mirchi and his family members. Mirchi’s nephew Nadeem Abdul Kadar, a UK citizen, who was working with Imperial hotel, told ED that the hotel was a den for flesh trade. He said that he often saw Dawood visiting the hotel to meet Mirchi and it was known as ‘Dawood’s hotel’. He further stated that Dawood and Michi often went to Haweli restaurant for ‘entertainment’. Nadeem admitted that Mirchi was into illegal business after referring to an instance when the two went to a godown to check offloading of second-hand clothes, when suddenly one bales broke open and he found dollars concealed inside. Mirchi told Nadeem to shut up. It was alleged that Mirchi was handling the narcotics business of Dawood, who is wanted accused in 1993 Mumbai blasts case. However, Mirchi had always claimed that he had no association with Dawood, and that he was a businessman and not into drug trafficking. Mirchi fled from India in 1993 and started his narcotics business from Dubai, but when authorities turned the heat on him, he shifted his base to London where he died in 2013. Despite poor occupancy of the hotel, Mirchi would inflate the occupancy rate thus legalising his profits earned from narcotics. The ED is investigating a money-laundering case against Mirchi, his family members and DHFL promoters Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan. Mirchi and Dawood were extended support by the Pakistani intelligence agency, officials said. Saleh Mahmood, a Jordanian citizen of Palestinian origin, told the ED in his statement that he was working as PRO for Imperial hotel, and once he met Dawood at Mirchi’s house during his frequent visits to Dubai. When Mirchi’s sons —Asif and Junaid—recently learnt that Saleh had given a statement to the ED, they asked him to withdraw it after threatening to kill his family. Mukesh Bakshi, general manager of Imperial hotel, also told the ED that he saw Dawood in a birthday party of Mirchi’s second wife actress Heena Kausur in Dubai, and also in Haweli. After shifting to London, Mirchi befriended Mohamed Sardar Hameed, a British citizen and real estate agent, with whom he would discuss real estate investment possibilities. They often met at Mirchi’s house or Hameed’s office. Hameed told the ED that during their meetings, Mirchi told him about him being close to Dawood and Tiger Memon, another wanted accused of the 1993 blasts, and said they were based in Karachi. Mirchi told Hameed they would make all arrangements for him in case he wanted to visit Karachi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dawood-mirchi-were-close-met-at-latters-restaurant-witnesses-tell-ed/articleshow/80869270.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Car mows down three devotees||Ajmer: Three devotees died while one was grievously injured when a car ran over them when they were coming to Ajmer on foot from Jaipur to offer prayers at the dargah here on the occasion of Urs on Thursday evening.The driver fled from the scene and police later caught him from Pushkar. According to police, devotees were coming all the way walking from Jaipur and reached Gagwana between Ajmer and Kishangarh. A speeding car ran over the walkers and crushed them. The car driver then fled from the scene. One devotee died on the spot while three were taken to JLN Hospital where two more died while being treated. The condition of one injured is critical. According to police, Mohammad Salaam, 25, a resident of Chomu in Jaipur, died on the spot while Sohel, 22, resident of Jaipur and Mohammad Moin, 19, a resident of Lal Havelli of Jaipur, died during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/car-mows-down-three-devotees/articleshow/80869255.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||2 teachers shunted out after parents allege misbehaviour||Ajmer: The residents of Rawala ka Badiya in Masuda block of the district on Thursday locked the main gate of government middle school demanding removal of two teachers.The villagers staged a protest accusing the teachers of misbehaving with parents. Later, the block education officer on the directions of senior officials removed both teachers from the school and put them under APO.Villagers accused the teachers Ramji Lal and Kiran Kurdiya of misbehaving and threatening students. A parent Sikander Kathat said they complained of such behaviour to the principal, but no action was taken. Villagers also urged the teachers to change their behaviour, but that didn’t work too. Angry villagers on Thursday morning gathered at the school and locked the main gate demanding removal of both the teachers.“Whenever we went to them asking about the performance of our children, they would never reply properly,” said a parent. Principal Yogesh Bhati informed about the incident to senior officials. Block education officer Aditya Pandey assured the villagers of taking action against the teachers.Officials said on the demand of villagers the teachers were shifted, but no inquiry has been initiated against the teachers as no formal complaint was received by the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-teachers-shunted-out-after-parents-allege-misbehaviour/articleshow/80869251.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nashik||Classes at Nashik GMCH may start from next year||Nashik: The maiden government medical college hospital (GMCH) in Nashik is likely to start classes from next year. The state cabinet in its meeting on Wednesday approved the proposal to set up a 430-bed GMCH in Nashik at a cost of over Rs 627 crore. It will be the fourth government managed medical college in North Maharashtra. The districts of Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar already have GMCHs. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal told TOI that the Nashik GMCH will impart medical education in both undergraduate and post graduate courses. The college will be affiliated to Nashik based Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS). “I will be having a meeting on Friday with all the authorities involved about taking the GMCH project forward after the cabinet’s approval,” he added. Officials involved in the project credited Bhujbal for taking efforts to get approval for the proposal. MUHS sources said that the admissions of first batch of students and classes in the GMCH is likely to start from next year. “Till the time that the GMCH gets its own building, the theory classes will be held at the MUHS premises and the practicals at Nashik civil hospital, which has good infrastructure like operation theatres and other facilities,” added officials. According to MUHS sources, the next step would be get the formal approval from the state medical education department, the National Medical Commission (NMC) and Union ministry of health and family welfare. “A team from NMC will make an inspection to ascertain the facilities available to start the college before it gives its approval for the project,” added MUHS officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/classes-at-nashik-gmch-may-start-from-next-year/articleshow/80866478.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
February 12, 2021||Meerut||Three members of auto-lifters’ gang injured in encounter||MEERUT: In Khekra region of Baghpat on late Wednesday evening, a three-member gang stole a car of trader Rohit Jain. As soon as the incident was reported to police, they swung into action and cordoned off the area, forcing the criminals to abandon the vehicle and take cover in sugarcane fields in Sankrod village. The ensuing gun battle that lasted for three hours left the three gang members and two policemen injured. The massive operation saw forces from three police stations and a company of PAC exchanging fires with the criminals, lobbing chilly bombs and firing tear shells to smoke the criminals out. All three were arrested and heavy quantity of ammunition seized from their possession, said police. According to Baghpat SP Abhishek Singh, “A routine checking was underway when our team received a flash about the stolen car. We immediately cordoned off the area and spotted the car as well, but instead of surrendering, the occupants turned the vehicles towards the fields in Sankrod village and took shelter in thick standing sugarcane crop. We made an announcement, asking them to surrender, but they returned fire in reply prompting us to ask for additional forces, including a company of PAC. We surrounded the entire field. Since it was dangerous to send our men into the thick standing crop, we resorted to chilly bombs and tear shells to smoke them out.” Police sources further divulged that two criminals —Ritesh Singh and Puneet Kumar — were arrested after getting injured in the early hours of the crackdown, but the third one was still missing and had been opening fires at the police team at regular intervals, but as he came out of the field in a bid to escape, police shot him in his legs. The criminal — Gaurav Kumar — received two bullet injuries and is critical. The trio was admitted to a hospital. “The preliminary inquiry ascertains that the criminals hail from Ghaziabad. Further investigation is on to find out whether they are associated with any other gang,” added the SP. Police are, however, on a lookout for the fourth member of the gang — the mastermind behind the loot. “The three arrested criminals have indicated that there is a fourth person — the kingpin. We will arrest him soon and disclose his identity,” added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-members-of-auto-lifters-gang-injured-in-encounter/articleshow/80867576.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 12, 2021||Jodhpur||Rahul Gandhi to address farmers at 5 places in 4 dists of Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would be addressing farmers at five different locations in four Rajasthan districts on February 12 and 13. On the second day of his tour, he may participate in a tractor rally too to highlight farmers’ fight against the three controversial Union farm laws. Rahul would begin his tour from Pilibanga in Hanumangarh district where he would address a ‘Kisan Sabha’ at the Krishi Upaj Mandi on Friday morning. He would then travel to the neighbouring Sriganganagar district to address another Kisan Sabha at the Krishi Upaj Mandi in Padampur late afternoon. Both districts are known for their agricultural produces and adjoin Punjab and Haryana, the states that are flash point of current agitation against the Union farm laws. Farmers have been protesting at different places on the New Delhi borders since November 26 to oppose the three farm laws enacted by the Centre last year. On the second day of his tour, the Congress leader would fly to Ajmer’s Kishangarh town from where he would travel to nearby Sursura to address a Kisan Sabha on Saturday. Rahul is likely to participate in a tractor rally from Roopangarh in Ajmer to Parbatsar in Nagaur district. At Parbatsar and Makrana in Nagaur, Rahul would be addressing two more Kisan Sabha before flying back to New Delhi on Saturday evening. Senior Congress leaders, including AICC in-charge of the state Ajay Maken, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot reached Hanumangarh on Thursday to oversee preparations for the farmers’ rally. The Congress had already stepped up protests against the Centre’s farm laws by organising rallies in different parts of the state. Pilot addressed two major farmer rallies in Dausa and Bharatpur districts in past seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rahul-to-address-farmers-at-5-places-in-4-dists/articleshow/80872197.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Fee authority slaps notices on 50 colleges in Maharashtra for overcharging||MUMBAI: The Fee Regulating Authority (FRA) has issued notices to about 50 private professional colleges in the state for overcharging in excess of fees. Of these, notices sent to private medical colleges have sought a justification for charging around Rs1-2 lakh as caution money alone. Some colleges have been pulled up for not disclosing the fee structure on their college portal. An FRA official said there are medical colleges that charge up to Rs 2 lakh as caution money, besides library deposits of Rs 25,000-50,000. “It doesn’t end there. There are laboratory, hostel and gymkhana deposits. At some colleges, deposits run into Rs 2-3 lakh. These days, students do not even use library books worth Rs 25,000, leave alone damaging or misplacing them. The duration for the course is four and a half years and till then, students lose interest on the deposit money too,” he added. A college was found to be charging Rs 1 lakh as refundable deposit for an academic club. TimesViewWhile the Fee Regulating Authority (FRA) has been introducing measures to ensure fees in private professional colleges are kept in check, many are finding ways to circumvent the rules. State universities need to bring in some directive to cap deposits charged during admissions, else it would dissuade many meritorious students from pursuing professional courses in these colleges.A private medical college in the state has been charging Rs 2 lakh caution money, Rs 10,000 library deposit, Rs 40,000 for laboratory and Rs75,000 for hostel and mess deposits. At yet another college, students have been coughing up total refundable deposit of Rs 2.3 lakh, of which caution money alone is Rs 1 lakh.  Caution money is a security deposit charged by colleges. “Maharashtra Unaided Private Professional Educational Institutions (regulation of admissions and fees) Act, 2015, is silent on caution money. Hence, managements of private colleges have been arbitrarily charging these amounts. There are colleges which do not charge caution money, or charge a nominal sum. If they can manage, others can too,” said the official, adding they will be asking universities to fix an amount for caution money. In response to the FRA notices, some colleges have claimed the deposit amount has been fixed by their managements. Sudha Shenoy, a parent representative, said there is no guarantee that students will be refunded the entire deposit money after four and a half years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fee-authority-slaps-notices-on-50-colleges-for-overcharging/articleshow/80869283.cms||Yogita Rao
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Police arrest 2, recover 9 pistols||Jodhpur: Police arrested two persons, including a minor, and recovered nine pistols from them here on Thursday.The minor accused had come from Madhya Pradesh to supply the pistols to a local buyer in Mathania area of Jodhpur. In a special operation of the DST along with police from Mathania and Dangiawas stations, both were arrested while engaged in the deal on Thursday afternoon.DCP (East) Dharmendra Singh Yadav said that four pistols were recovered from the minor accused and five from the local buyer identified as Bhajan Lal, 23, hailing from Lohawat area of Jodhpur. “Preliminary interrogation revealed that the minor accused had been regularly coming to Jodhpur with arms from MP and supplying to local buyers and suppliers,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-arrest-2-recover-9-pistols/articleshow/80869267.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nashik||Marathi signboards must in shops: NMC||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has made it mandatory for all shopkeepers to display Marathi language signboards as per the state government norms. “Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has directed all the six divisional officers of the civic body to serve notices to shops that do not have signboards in Marathi,” said Pradeep Chaudhari, the deputy commissioner (tax) of the civic body. “The divisional officers of all six divisions of the civic body will conduct a survey to ensure that the shops have the signboards in Marathi. If not, they will serve notices on the spot, directing the shopkeepers to immediately follow the rule,” he said. “If these shops ignore notices, then we will approach the deputy labour commissioner for cancellation of their licences for violation of government norms on signboards in Marathi,” said the official. Rahul Daga, director, Nashik Dhanya Kirana Ghauk Vyapari Sanghatna, an association of wholesale merchants for grains and grocery, said he completely agrees with the NMC move. “In states like Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, the signboards are written in the local languages,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/marathi-signboards-must-in-shops-nmc/articleshow/80866493.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Sarpanch, tout held for taking bribe||Kota: A sleuth of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) Jhalawar arrested a sarpanch and a tout for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 20,000 from deputy sarpanch of Titarwasa in Jhalrapatan tehsil of Jhalawar district on Thursday evening. Additional superintendent of police (ASP), ACB, Jhalawar Bhawanishankar Meena said, the sarpanch of gram panchayat Titarwasa of Jhalrapatan tehsil, identified as Kalulal Bheel (36) and the tout Ramlal Prajapat, were on Thursday evening arrested for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs, 20,000. The deputy sarpanch of the same gram panchayat, Rai Singh Gurjar had on December 30, 2020, lodged a complaint with ACB Jhalawar and alleged the sarpanch of his gram panchayat was involved in corruption by carrying out the MGNREGA work in Sheopur village through JCB instead of 40 labourers, with an intention to grab their wages of 10 days’ work of Rs 80,000. The sarpanch mounted pressure upon the complainant to pay the labourers only Rs400-500 for their 10 days’ work at site and to withdraw the remaining amount from their accounts to hand it over to him, he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sarpanch-tout-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/80869274.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||CM orders probe into irregularities to tune of crores of rupees in irrigation canals construction||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday ordered a probe into alleged irregularities to the tune of crores of rupees in the construction of irrigation canals in Haridwar and Rudraprayag districts. Following the CM directions, the irrigation department constituted a three-member committee to probe the matter. The committee will submit its report to the department in two weeks.In 2012, the construction of an 18-km-long canal worth Rs 9.84 crore was approved in Jhakholi block of Rudraprayag. Similarly, an irrigation canal worth Rs 6.95 crore was approved in Subhashgarh area of Laksar town in Haridwar district, but the farmers allegedly did not get the benefit of the project. After the irregularities were brought to the knowledge of the CM, he ordered a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-orders-probe-into-irregularities-to-tune-of-crores-of-rupees-in-irrigation-canals-construction/articleshow/80867608.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 12, 2021||Udaipur||Rahul Gandhi to address farmers at 5 places in 4 dists of Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would be addressing farmers at five different locations in four Rajasthan districts on February 12 and 13. On the second day of his tour, he may participate in a tractor rally too to highlight farmers’ fight against the three controversial Union farm laws. Rahul would begin his tour from Pilibanga in Hanumangarh district where he would address a ‘Kisan Sabha’ at the Krishi Upaj Mandi on Friday morning. He would then travel to the neighbouring Sriganganagar district to address another Kisan Sabha at the Krishi Upaj Mandi in Padampur late afternoon. Both districts are known for their agricultural produces and adjoin Punjab and Haryana, the states that are flash point of current agitation against the Union farm laws. Farmers have been protesting at different places on the New Delhi borders since November 26 to oppose the three farm laws enacted by the Centre last year. On the second day of his tour, the Congress leader would fly to Ajmer’s Kishangarh town from where he would travel to nearby Sursura to address a Kisan Sabha on Saturday. Rahul is likely to participate in a tractor rally from Roopangarh in Ajmer to Parbatsar in Nagaur district. At Parbatsar and Makrana in Nagaur, Rahul would be addressing two more Kisan Sabha before flying back to New Delhi on Saturday evening. Senior Congress leaders, including AICC in-charge of the state Ajay Maken, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot reached Hanumangarh on Thursday to oversee preparations for the farmers’ rally. The Congress had already stepped up protests against the Centre’s farm laws by organising rallies in different parts of the state. Pilot addressed two major farmer rallies in Dausa and Bharatpur districts in past seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rahul-to-address-farmers-at-5-places-in-4-dists/articleshow/80872196.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Ajmer||Rahul Gandhi to address farmers at 5 places in 4 dists of Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would be addressing farmers at five different locations in four Rajasthan districts on February 12 and 13. On the second day of his tour, he may participate in a tractor rally too to highlight farmers’ fight against the three controversial Union farm laws. Rahul would begin his tour from Pilibanga in Hanumangarh district where he would address a ‘Kisan Sabha’ at the Krishi Upaj Mandi on Friday morning. He would then travel to the neighbouring Sriganganagar district to address another Kisan Sabha at the Krishi Upaj Mandi in Padampur late afternoon. Both districts are known for their agricultural produces and adjoin Punjab and Haryana, the states that are flash point of current agitation against the Union farm laws. Farmers have been protesting at different places on the New Delhi borders since November 26 to oppose the three farm laws enacted by the Centre last year. On the second day of his tour, the Congress leader would fly to Ajmer’s Kishangarh town from where he would travel to nearby Sursura to address a Kisan Sabha on Saturday. Rahul is likely to participate in a tractor rally from Roopangarh in Ajmer to Parbatsar in Nagaur district. At Parbatsar and Makrana in Nagaur, Rahul would be addressing two more Kisan Sabha before flying back to New Delhi on Saturday evening. Senior Congress leaders, including AICC in-charge of the state Ajay Maken, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot reached Hanumangarh on Thursday to oversee preparations for the farmers’ rally. The Congress had already stepped up protests against the Centre’s farm laws by organising rallies in different parts of the state. Pilot addressed two major farmer rallies in Dausa and Bharatpur districts in past seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rahul-to-address-farmers-at-5-places-in-4-dists/articleshow/80872198.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Rahul Gandhi to address farmers at 5 places in 4 dists of Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would be addressing farmers at five different locations in four Rajasthan districts on February 12 and 13. On the second day of his tour, he may participate in a tractor rally too to highlight farmers’ fight against the three controversial Union farm laws. Rahul would begin his tour from Pilibanga in Hanumangarh district where he would address a ‘Kisan Sabha’ at the Krishi Upaj Mandi on Friday morning. He would then travel to the neighbouring Sriganganagar district to address another Kisan Sabha at the Krishi Upaj Mandi in Padampur late afternoon. Both districts are known for their agricultural produces and adjoin Punjab and Haryana, the states that are flash point of current agitation against the Union farm laws. Farmers have been protesting at different places on the New Delhi borders since November 26 to oppose the three farm laws enacted by the Centre last year. On the second day of his tour, the Congress leader would fly to Ajmer’s Kishangarh town from where he would travel to nearby Sursura to address a Kisan Sabha on Saturday. Rahul is likely to participate in a tractor rally from Roopangarh in Ajmer to Parbatsar in Nagaur district. At Parbatsar and Makrana in Nagaur, Rahul would be addressing two more Kisan Sabha before flying back to New Delhi on Saturday evening. Senior Congress leaders, including AICC in-charge of the state Ajay Maken, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot reached Hanumangarh on Thursday to oversee preparations for the farmers’ rally. The Congress had already stepped up protests against the Centre’s farm laws by organising rallies in different parts of the state. Pilot addressed two major farmer rallies in Dausa and Bharatpur districts in past seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rahul-to-address-farmers-at-5-places-in-4-dists/articleshow/80869272.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Sarv Khap Panchayat honours Abhay for solidarity with farmers||Rohtak: Indian National Lok Dal senior leader Abhay Chautala, who quit as Ellenabad MLA in support of ‘Kisan Andolan’ was honoured by the Sarv Khap Panchayat at the historic Meham Chaubisi Chabutra here on Thursday. On the occasion, the khap panchayat also moved three proposals — repeal the three central farm laws, bring a law on MSP for foodgrains and withdrawal of cases registered against farmers and release of those arrested during the ongoing agitation against the three laws. Speaking on the occasion, the INLD leader targeted former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who is also the leader of opposition in Haryana, saying the no-confidence motion to be tabled by the Congress would not survive in the state assembly. Calling Hooda an agent of BJP, Abhay claimed that he may claim to be a well-wisher of the farming community but is scared of from raising their voice and taking their issues forward. “Hooda will succumb to the pressure, of BJP government’s threat to open his corruption case files,” he alleged. On February 3, the Haryana Congress Legislature Party had decided to move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government in the next assembly session on the Centre’s farm laws issue. It had also decided to move a resolution in the assembly to reject all the three central farm laws. Abhay also hit out at the BJP, saying the party was known for engineering riots and had never held any agitation in support of the people. The BJP-JJP combine government in Haryana has earned such a bad for itself that people may not even like to invite their leaders for marriage functions, he added. Meham Chaubisi head Tulsi Grewal gifted a plough to the INLD leader. However, prominent farm leaders Gurnam Singh Charuni and Rakesh Tikait, who had been invited for the felicitation ceremony, termed it as a political event and did not attend it. Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu also did not attend the function. At a mahapanchayat in Bhiwani’s Kitlana toll plaza, Kundu had reminded the people of the Chautala family’s history and raised the 1990 Meham violence during assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sarv-khap-panchayat-honours-abhay-for-solidarity-with-farmers/articleshow/80869273.cms||Sat Singh
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||BJP MLA Madan Dilawar booked for breach of Section 144||KOTA: BJP legislator from Ramganj Mandi Madan Dilawar was booked for breach of Section 144 and Covid-19 guidelines on Wednesday night in Ramganj Mandi police station of Kota. Dilawar along with his supporters staged protest against the government over worsening law and order situation. He also called for bandh after a local RSS volunteer was shot at by three youths over past enmity on Tuesday. Kota (rural) SP Sharad Choudhary said Dilawar and his supporters staged protest in the market over attack on RSS volunteer without taking permission from the district administration. Three accused involved in the crime have already been arrested. Further investigation into the case against the MLA was forwarded to CID-CB, he said. Meanwhile, the police produced three accused of firing identified as Imran alias Ashu Paya (23), the key accused, his aides Bhavik Chawda (20) and Sameer alias Sufian (21) before the court on Wednesday evening that ordered to hand them over to police on two-day remand for interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-mla-booked-for-breach-of-sec-144/articleshow/80869266.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||Decomposed bodies of couple found in Roorkee village||Roorkee: Two decomposed bodies of a couple were recovered from a sugarcane field by the police in Moulna village near Jhabreda in Roorkee on Thursday morning.A villager had spotted the body on Wednesday evening and informed the cops. The victims belonged to Moulna village.Even though many villagers claimed it to be a case of honour killing since the couple belonged to different communities, the police said it has yet to verify all the details. Moreover, additional forces were deployed in the village to avoid any untoward incident. “We have identified both the bodies. One of deceased, Ankit Tyagi (25), had been missing from the village since January 24. Our forensic team have collected samples from the crime spot and have launched an investigation," Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai K Raj S told TOI. When asked about honour killing angle being attributed to it, the SSP said, “It can only be established after a thorough investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/decomposed-bodies-of-couple-found-in-roorkee-village/articleshow/80867595.cms||Tapan Susheel
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Govt assures to complete computer teachers’ recruitment by March 15||Jaipur: School education (principal secretary) Arpana Arora on Thursday appeared in the high court and assured that the recruitment of computer teachers would be completed by March 15.The court had summoned the principal secretary following a PIL. Advocates Poonam Chand Bhandari, Indrajit Kathuria and T N Sharma objected, but the court gave time till March 15 relying on the assurance of the advocate general who appeared for the government.They said computer education is being imparted in about 15,000 government schools of the state, but not a single regular computer teacher has been recruited till date.Lawyers told the court that on January 17 last year, the high court had ordered the cadre to be made in two months in the presence of the then education secretary, Manju Rajpal, but it was not complied with. On September 16, 2020, again the court in its order directed the department to make rules within four weeks, but the government ignored it.The high court expressed displeasure at the hearing held on January 27 on the utter disregard of the orders of the high court while expressing concern for the future of government schoolchildren. The court then summoned the principal secretary to be personally present in the court on February 11.Former Baran collector’s bail pleaThe high court postponed the hearing on former Baran collector Inder Singh Rao’s bail plea for February 15 after prosecution opposed it on the ground of being a habitual offender.Baran district collector Inder Singh Rao was arrested by the ACB in December last year after his personal assistant was arrested with a bribe of Rs 1.40 lakh. According to ACB officials, Rao, a 2007 batch IAS officer, was found prima facie to be involved in the case after his personal assistant Mahaveer Nagar accepted the bribe for issuing NOC for a petrol pump.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-assures-to-complete-computer-teachers-recruitment-by-march-15/articleshow/80869261.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||3 FIRs against Nodeep not uploaded on police website: Advocate||Amritsar: A senior advocate and member of recently constituted Advocate for Farmers, a group comprising around 300 lawyers from across the country alleged that the police have not uploaded three FIRs registered against activist Nodeep Kaur on its official website. Advocate Navkiran Singh said he had launched a campaign for uploading of the three FIRs registered against Nodeep Kaur on the official website of the police. “Police have registered three criminal cases against Nodeep Kaur but the amazing part is that none of the three FIRs have been uploaded on the official website of the police, which shows the bias against her,” alleged Navkiran Singh, adding that refusing to upload FIRs on the official website meant that she was denied her right. Navkiran said he was coordinating with lawyers to provide free legal aid to those behind the bars. He said they were working to ensure that they were not tortured and got early bail. Advocate Neena Singh, member of Delhi-based Sikh Legal Aid, said she had written to the National Commission for Women, chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana and Chief Justice of India, seeking their intervention to ensure the early release of Nodeep Kaur. She said they also demanded departmental action against the police officers allegedly responsible for the brutal assault on Nodeep. Advocate Neena alleged that Nodeep, a 23-year-old activist, was publicly beaten up by male police officers at Kundli border and arrested on January 12, 2021 while she was protesting against denial of wages to workers. She alleged that Nodeep sustained injuries. “If glamour film actresses have the right to openly speak up on Twitter and other social media platforms and use derogatory language spreading hatred and branding people and lady film producers can make vulgar films and still call themselves as ‘daughters of this great nation’ and are accepted by the public as liberal and advanced women, why is a lady activist, hailing from a poor family and speaking up for legitimate wages of dalit workers, be subjected to torture and implicated by the police,” she wrote to chief ministers and Chief Justice of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-firs-against-nodeep-not-uploaded-on-police-website-advocate/articleshow/80869263.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||CM approves relocation of villages in 4 districts, approves funds for 15 earthquake sensors||Dehradun: Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday approved the relocation and rehabilitation of families living in hyper-sensitive disaster-prone areas of four districts of Uttarakhand and given a nod to Rs 45 lakh for installing 15 earthquake sensors (detectors) in the state. Residents of Raini village, which faced natural disaster on Sunday, have now demanded to be shifted to a safer location as the area was prone to natural disasters. As river level increased on Thursday, demand for relocation and rehabilitation of villagers of Raini and nearby areas gained momentum. Earlier, the elderly of the village were in panic. However, the river level rose suddenly on Thursday, the pradhans and other active members of the village have started demanding rehabilitation more strongly. “Administration should move all of us out of this place. We are under the fear of getting drowned as water level has risen again. This place is no more safe for us and our loved ones. Even if we go to our relatives, that is equally risky because they all stay on the river banks in Chamoli, Nandprayag, Devli,” said Sohan Rana, grandson of Gaura Devi. Rana has three kids and has been sleeping out in the forest since Sunday. The gram pradhans of other cut-off villages like Paing and Moranda are demanding relocation as well. “Our village is the closest to the glacier and we were the first to see the disaster. We don’t want to stay here, we want to move out from these hills. Nearly 15 bridges here have been damaged. In case of another disaster, we would all be gone,” said Rani Devi from Paing village. Meanwhile, the CM has cleared shifting of families living in Tehri, Bageshwar, Chamoli and Uttarkashi to safer areas. Directions have been given to release the funds for the project at the earliest. Under the project, four families living in Bethan Naame Tok of Tehri district are to be located to a safer location. For the house construction, Gausala and relocation allowance of the four families, the CM has approved a fund of Rs 17 lakh. While two families are staying in the same house, they would be provided separate houses when relocated. Four families of Malladesh village of Bageshwar district are to be relocated. After a natural disaster in the area in 2018, the belt was included in the hyper sensitive disaster prone list. This area is affected by landslides, earthquakes and heavy rains. Following the proposal, the CM has given his consent for the shifting to a safer location. In Chamoli district, 12 families living in Faldiya village are to be shifted. For the relocation, CM has approved an amount of Rs 51 lakh. For the house construction of each family an amount of Rs 4 lakh has been approved. Similarly, Rs 15,000 has been approved per family for Gausala and Rs 10,000 for the relocation allowance. Similarly, residents of Saned Laga Jingoda of Chamoli area will be shifted to another location. An amount of Rs 1.25 crore has been cleared for relocation of 30 families of Astal in Uttarkashi. Rs 4 lakh for house construction, Rs 15,000 for Gausala and Rs 10,000 for relocation allowance has been approved for each family. The CM has also given a nod for installing 15 earthquake sensors. The project would be carried out with the help of IIT-Roorkee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-approves-relocation-of-villages-in-4-districts-approves-funds-for-15-earthquake-sensors/articleshow/80867601.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Man’s body found buried inside hut||Udaipur: A man’s decomposed body was found buried in a hut in Robiya village of Kherwada block in Udaipur district on Thursday. The body was identified to be of one Baggu, son of Rupsi, who had moved to Gujarat some years ago and lived there with his family. Kherwara SHO Shyam Singh said the deceased had three daughters and three sons. Two of the daughters had been married off, but the villagers didn’t know anything about the grooms or even Baggu's whereabouts as they rarely came to the village. According to the officer, Baggu was only in contact with his brother Ramesh who sometimes called him over phone. Ramesh said it had been quite some time that he spoke to his brother and hence he went to his house to find if there was someone. SHO said body was sent for an autopsy and later given to his brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mans-body-found-buried-inside-hut/articleshow/80869277.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Stamp duty mop up shoots by 15%, hints at realty revival||Jaipur: Stamp duty collections have surged by over 15% so far in the current fiscal indicating a revival in the real estate market. In fact, the growth has been steady from June onwards after the washout in April and May due to lockdown.During April to January, the collections have risen to Rs 4,118 crore compared to Rs 3,569 crore in the first 10 months of 2019-20. Real estate developers in the city confirmed that there is a revival in demand for housing.N K Gupta, chairman of a leading real estate company said, “The revival has started some 5-6 months ago and thankfully the demand is holding up. After the pandemic, people have realized the importance of a spacious house.”Going forward, Gupta said the demand will sustain. “The growth we have seen in the past few months is fuelled by end users. And the pattern of the demand is organic. That’s why we believe the upward trend is organic and will be sustained.”Leading developers said the buyers’ sentiment has improved and all areas of the city are witnessing demand. “We see demand coming from all the areas of the city which is a good sign. The presence of investors are negligible,” said Anand Mishra, director of one of the oldest real estate firms.When asked if the lower returns on commercial properties driving demand for housing projects, Mishra said, “In general situations, the returns are higher from commercial projects which attract investors. They enter housing market if the demand is high and the outlook for price appreciation looks promising. The pandemic has hit the commercial space and may be they will also return to the housing market by looking at the current demand,” added Mishra.On pricing, Gupta said there is no decline in prices. “Prices have either stabilised or risen marginally by 5% or so. May be there is a fear that prices may go up which is one of the factors driving the market.”More than 90% of the stamp duty collection comes from property transactions. In the financial year 2019-20, the stamp and registration department had an income of Rs 5,350 crore. Senior officials in the department said that they will not only crossthe last year’s levels but post a handsome growth.Stamp duty collection on riseMonth 2019-20 2020-21April 295.21 7.77 May 375.79 118.92June 366.63 460.37July 413.95 517.27August 338.21 468.48September 333.82 480.46October 366.20 520.39November 345.62 428.63December 396.57 605.20January 337.85 511.09Total 3569.85 4118.58(All figures in rupees andcrore; Source Registration and Stamp Dept)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stamp-duty-mop-up-shoots-by-15-hints-at-realty-revival/articleshow/80869275.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Rise in mercury gives respite from shivering cold||Jaipur: There has been a steady rise in mercury for the past week across the state. Jaipur Met office said winter would start showing withdrawal symptoms within a fortnight. On Thursday, Sikar remained the coldest in the state with a minimum temperature of 5°C while Barmer recorded 34.2°C, the highest in the state. Attributing the climatic change to active northerly winds and arrival of western disturbance, weathermen said in the next couple of days, there is a possibility of mild showers. People in Jaipur woke up to a chilly morning at 10.6°C. However, by the afternoon, a maximum temperature of 29.6°C made the day a little warmer. Jaipur Met office said there has been a gradual increase in maximum temperatures. “Within next fortnight, many places in the state will start seeing maximum temperatures of around 35°C,” said weathermen. Many places in the state including Barmer, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Sawai Madhopur and Karauli have started witnessing maximum temperatures on and above 30°C. Due to the continued rise in mercury, foggy conditions have vanished from the state. With no fog and mist, traffic on highways connecting Jaipur to Ajmer, Jaipur to Sikar and Jaipur to Delhi was smooth. Sikar was followed by Bhilwara where a minimum temperature of 6.6°C was recorded, Chittorgarh 8.6°C, Sriganganagar 8.9°C, Churu 9.0°C, Udaipur 9.4°C, Pilani 9.9°C, Bharatpur 10.1°C, Vanasthali 10.5°C, Jaipur 10.6°C, Ajmer 12.0°C, Bikaner 12.5°C, Jodhpur 13.5°C, Jaisalmer 13.6°C and in Barmer, 15.4°C was recorded. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office said mercury will take an upward swing across the state, while some places in eastern Rajasthan are likely to witness mild showers in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rise-in-mercury-gives-respite-from-shivering-cold/articleshow/80869285.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||Robbers strike another ATM in Roorkee, second bid in a month||ROORKEE: A few unidentified miscreants attempted to break open an ATM in Roorkee in the wee hours of Thursday, but they could not succeed in their efforts. It was the second incident in the town in one month. According to police, the robbery bid took place around 3 am in Mohanpura. Incidentally, the currency was loaded into the ATM only a day earlier. Sources said the CCTV cameras inside the ATM cabin were defunct when the crime took place. SBI bank manager Manoj Kumar has registered a complaint with Civil Lines police station. The first robbery incident took place on January 16. A few robbers damaged an ATM at the SDM Chowk, their bid to decamp with cash was thwarted by a police team, which was on a night patrolling duty and arrested one of the criminals, while others escaped. “In the first incident, we identified all the criminals who are at large and are conducting raids on their homes. Whereas in the Thursday incident, we are collecting all the pieces of evidence,” said inspector Rajesh Sah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/robbers-strike-another-atm-in-roorkee-second-bid-in-a-month/articleshow/80867632.cms||Tapan Susheel
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Two cops in ACB net for accepting bribe in Dausa||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Thursday arrested the in-charge of Mandwar police station along with a head constable in Dausa for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000 in lieu of giving benefit to an accused in a loot case. The in-charge was also promising the accused that he will settle the case in such a manner that the victim of loot will agree for compromise. Additional director general (ACB) B L Soni said the complainant had approached the sleuths of the bureau and stated that the in-charge identified as Lal Singh, the sub-inspector and in-charge of Mandawar police station was pressurising the accused in a loot case. “The accused sub-inspector had demanded a bribe of Rs 20,000 from the complainant in lieu of not registering the case of loot, despite the fact that the amount looted from a woman was also been recovered from him,” said Soni. Based on the fact, a verification by the team of Dausa, ACB was done and finally a trap was laid in which the accused Lal Singh was arrested along with the head constable Bhupendra Singh. “We have also initiated raids at the houses and the offices of the accused for further recovery,” he added. The head constable was arrested since he had accepted the bribe at the time of verification on behalf of the in-charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-cops-in-acb-net-for-accepting-bribe-in-dausa/articleshow/80869287.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Protesters of 2002 return to the front||Jind: Fired from the public health department in 2003 for joining the farmers’ three-month-long protest in 2002 against the INLD, Kandela’s Azad Singh (69) now fights yet another government for them. Even a 17-year battle for justice in the Punjab and Haryana high court hasn’t exhausted this senior. Azad Singh said: “In the 1980s, I was a general secretary of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (which leads the current agitation) before I picked up a government job in 1984 for a normal life. In 2001, it was a similar biting cold of December-January when the-then Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala refused to waive the farmers’ electricity bills despite his election promise and cut the power supply of Kandela and its next village of Shahpur.” In 2002, the farmers blocked the Jind-Chandigarh highway at Kandela. Being a former farmer union leader, Azad Singh attended their peaceful protest. But when the government came to know, it suspended him and then kicked him out in 2003. He continues to fight for his dues. The INLD government had to step down after three months of protest in which 70 farmers of Kandela and other villages took police bullets. All the families who suffered now camp on Delhi’s Tikri border, determined to win again. Azad Singh tills 2 acres. Fellow villager Bijender Singh (40) said: “I also got a bullet in 2002. Police must have fired 700 rounds that day. I was 22. I tried to rescue a cop from a burning police vehicle but, as soon as he came out, he opened indiscriminate fire and a shot hit me in the thigh. We keep going to the Tikri border. There will be no retreat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protesters-of-2002-return-to-the-front/articleshow/80869278.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||168 missing; only 4 bodies recovered in past 2 days||Dehradun/Tapovan: The teams of ITBP, SDRF, NDRF and Indian Army on Thursday combed locations along the course of the Rishiganga, Dhauliganga as well as Alaknanda rivers in order to search for an estimated 170 people still missing in the flash floods. Till Thursday evening, a total of 36 bodies of the disaster victims had been recovered, as per information provided by the State Emergency Operation Centre. While two bodies were found on Thursday, two had been recovered on Wednesday whereas the rest had been found on the preceding days. Out of the 36 recovered bodies, 10 have been identified while 26 are yet to be identified, police said on Thursday. Rescue personnel said that it was “a big challenge to search for the missing persons as the expanse of the river is large and it is feared that those who were swept away would have been carried away swiftly downstream.” On Thursday, five specialised teams of ITBP conducted an operation to search for missing persons along river banks and river bed of Dhauliganga and Alaknanda river between Joshimath and Helung in Chamoli district."ITBP teams have been carrying out combing operations near the Tapovan barrage where 8-10 workers fell off after being swept away by the flash floods. On Thursday, our teams looked for missing persons in the debris and slush accumulated on the river side. We are also taking help of sniffer dogs in the whole operation," said Vivek Pandey, spokesperson, ITBP. Indian Navy divers were also pressed into service to carry out search operations in the waters downstream, according to officials. Besides, seven SDRF teams equipped with rafts, motor boats and underwater sonar system carried out search in the riverine stretch from Raini village to Srinagar, according to the SDRF officials. Assistance in the search operations was also being provided by Indian Air Force’s recently acquired Chinook helicopter which carried men and material to Chamoli to facilitate rescue operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/168-missing-only-4-bodies-recovered-in-past-2-days/articleshow/80867654.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Cops produce Papla in court via video conference||Jaipur: Taking into account the history of gangster Papla’s escape from police custody in Haryana and Rajasthan, the police produced the criminal before two courts of Neemrana and Mundawar through video conference on Thursday.The Neemrana court sent him to jail, while Mundawar court granted his police custody till February 24.Bhiwadi police and senior officers of Jaipur Range citing the security reasons had pleaded before the magistrates to have his appearance in the court through video conference.“The court granted us the permission to produce Papla through video conference. We got connected to two different magistrates in different cases against him. After firing at the Behror police station, Papla and his gang had also broken barricading on the way. Thus, we had different cases against him,” said Hawa Singh Ghumeria, inspector general of police, Jaipur Range.Outside the police station, Papla’s father has been roaming around since the day he was lodged. “My son is not a terrorist like Ajmal Kasab. Police are not allowing me to meet,” he alleged.Meanwhile, Papla has been sent to police custody till February 24 by the court of Mundawar where a separate case of breaking the police barricading was lodged against him.On the other hand, police presented Mahipal Gujjar, an aide of Papla, in the court and asked for his police remand of one day which was granted by the court.He was arrested from Haryana on Wednesday allegedly for facilitating Papla financially while the latter was on the run.Senior police officers interrogating the notorious gangster maintained that they are hopeful to make more arrests in this case.“We have got some more details through Papla on his aides who helped him prior to his escape from the Behror police station and thereafter. We are trying to make a solid case and making grounds for a strong chargesheet against the gangster,” said an officer.Papla along with a woman was arrested by the special team of Rajasthan police from Kolhapur of Maharashtra almost 14 months after he escaped from Behror police station after firing on the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-produce-papla-in-court-via-video-conference/articleshow/80869281.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Women safety will be my top priority: Hyderabad mayor||HYDERABAD: Ensuring the safety of women in the city will be one of the top priorities during her tenure, said Gadwal Vijaya Laxmi after taking over as Hyderabad’s 26th mayor, on Thursday. The other two important issues on her agenda: healthcare and education. Speaking to TOI, hours after being elected to the post, Vijaya Laxmi said that she will strive hard to make sure the city becomes a safe haven for women across all age groups. “Women safety is my utmost priority...I am saying this to all the women of Hyderabad, you have elected a woman and she will ensure that you are taken care of...I am saying this as a woman because I know the problems that one has to face as a woman,” said the mayor, as she thanked Telangana chief minister, K Chandrashekar Rao and municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) minister, KT Rama Rao for giving her the opportunity to serve her people. “They have chosen women for both the posts...it is extremely commendable,” she added Apart from issues of women, Vijaya Laxmi said she will also strengthen education and healthcare. “I am also passionate about the development of the city and want to enhance the education system further. Healthcare is also an area that I vow to work very hard at,” she said. The daughter of senior TRS leader, K Keshava Rao, also said that she will take members of all political parties, along with her, while discharging her duties as mayor. “Not only will I involve those from by party, but will also take along women and members of all political parties — be BJP or AIMIM — with me on this journey,” said Vijaya Laxmi while assuring to complete all pending GHMC projects and improve the sanitation system of Hyderabad. “I will try to ensure pending projects are completed on time and work towards improving the city’s Swachh Survekshan ranking,” the newly elected mayor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/women-safety-will-be-my-top-priority/articleshow/80869289.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 12, 2021||Pune||Pune: Three years on, pay-&-park pilot project remains on paper||PUNE: The civic body’s pay-and-park proposal is confined to papers, three years after it was announced in March 2018. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had to finalise five roads to run a pilot project. But it is yet to finalise them. “The civic administration has given the proposal to the elected members. The corporators will decide on the five roads where the pilot project would be implemented. Once we get the list of these roads, we shall implement it,” said a senior official of the PMC. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said the roads would be finalised after consultation with the leaders of all the parties. “The vehicular movement was almost at a standstill for almost a year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Very few people were venturing out on roads. So, the pay-and-park proposal was not considered as a primary priority. Now, we shall again hold discussions on it and take a call accordingly,” he told TOI. The idea of introducing the pay-and-park system had faced opposition from the citizens’ groups. Their members argued that inadequate public parking space in the civic limits was leading to parking of vehicles on roads. Lack of good public transport was making people use more private vehicles, they claimed. The civic body had approved the parking policy in March 2018, giving details about on-road and off-road parking facilities. Along with the daytime parking fee, the administration had also introduced night-time parking charges. Nearly 26 pay-and-park lots, including the mechanised parking lot on J M Road, have been set up in the city. Many of the private operators running them had not paid the rent to the PMC on time, said a source. Parking fee exemptions were given to some vehicles, including autorickshaws, ambulances, vehicles of specially abled people and all buses of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML). According to the proposal, bicycles can be parked anytime without any charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-years-on-pay-park-pilot-project-remains-on-paper/articleshow/80869292.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: TRS offers deputy mayor post, but MIM rejects it||HYDERABAD: Notwithstanding the AIMIM’s open support to the TRS at the mayoral election by way of raising hands, the big question doing the rounds is: Why did the Majlis party reject the deputy mayor post offered to it by the ruling TRS? AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi’s tweet thanking the TRS for offering the post and congratulating the new mayor and deputy mayor was explicit, but it wasn’t forthcoming as to why he chose to reject the offer. “I hope that GHMC will carry out its works with honesty & financial propriety. Also appreciate TRS for offering us Deputy Mayor’s post (sic),” tweeted Asaduddin on Thursday. Asaduddin, who is in Delhi attending Parliament session, was unavailable over phone when TOI tried to reach him. What came as a surprise was the Majlis party’s total support and ensuring a smooth sailing for the TRS after a bitter electioneering during the December polls wherein both the parties went their separate ways and traded charges and counter-charges against each other. For that matter, the AIMIM did not even nominate its members for both mayor and deputy mayor posts. AIMIM leaders said the corporators were instructed by Asaduddin to support the TRS. They were not aware of the reasons behind the party rejecting deputy mayor post offer. “We were instructed by Asaduddin Owaisi,” said Yakutpura MLA Ahmed Pasha Quadri, who was appointed to issue the whip order. Goshamahal MLA T Raja Singh of the BJP said the true colours of both the TRS and the AIMIM have come out. “Both thieves got together and elected the mayor. They cheated people by claiming that they do not have any pact. Had the TRS and AIMIM contested together, they would not have bagged even 15 wards,” the MLA said. Earlier inside the GHMC council, BJP corporators raised slogans against an ‘unholy’ tie-up between the TRS and AIMIM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-offers-deputy-mayor-post-but-mim-rejects-it/articleshow/80869301.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand schools reopen for students of Classes VI to IX & XI||DEHRADUN: Schools in Uttarakhand have been reopened for the students of Classes VI to IX and XI earlier this week. The state education department had issued fresh SOP’s before the reopening of the schools for the above classes. However, attendance in private schools remained low, but the scenario at government schools was a bit better. According to parents, it’s still quite risky to send their children to school. They said private school students have better access to online education as compared to the students of government schools. Members of Principals Progressive Schools’ Association, a body of private schools, said the government has taken the right decision by reopening the schools for the students of non-board classes. “Reopening the schools is a right step forward with our lives gradually returning to normal. Besides, in a ruling, the Supreme Court has also asked the schools in Rajasthan to charge the fees the same way they had charged the last year in six installments. We will also approach the state education department with a request to apply the SC ruling in our state as well,” said Prem Kashyap, president of PPSA. Notably, the education department had approved the reopening of the schools for the students of Classes X and XII in November last.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-for-students-of-classes-vi-to-ix-xi-reopened-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/80873561.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Over 150 ambulances sent to Delhi borders||PATIALA: The All Ambulance Operator Welfare Association (AAOW) sent over 150 ambulances to agitation sites on Delhi borders to cater to farmers in need. AAOW members gathered in Rajpura and moved towards Delhi borders where farmers have been camping for over two months to get the three contentious agri laws repealed. Association members said three ambulances each have been stationed at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders of the national capital to provide services free of cost. Inderjit Singh, president, AAOW association said, “We have over 400 ambulances across Punjab. On Thursday, a roadshow was carried out before the ambulances left for Delhi borders. Around 100 ambulances from Punjab under our association and around 50 from Haryana were sent. Though after a day or two, most of these ambulances will return, 10 ambulances each at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders of Delhi will remain there for an indefinite period.” He said one of the 10 ambulances will have advance life support facility and trained two-member team, including driver, while the remaining nine ambulances at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders will have only basic life support (BLS) trained driver. Inderjit said the entire expense were being borne by their association by collecting Rs 200 to Rs 500 from each member on monthly basis. So far, the association has spent more than Rs 5 lakh to ferry patients or deceased farmers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/over-150-ambulances-sent-to-delhi-borders/articleshow/80869296.cms||Bharat Khanna
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Miscreants loot Rs 1L from petrol pump||Kota: Four miscreants looted Rs 1 lakh from a petrol pump near toll plaza in Mandana town under Mandana police station of Kota at around 3.30 am on Thursday. No one has been arrested so far. Mandana police station SHO Mahesh Karwal said four persons with covered faces barged into the office cabin of the petrol pump. Four employees of the fuel station were there. The miscreants looted Rs 1 lakh at gunpoint. They also took away mobile phones of the employees, he said. Karwal said police have lodged a case in this connection under relevant sections of IPC against unidentified miscreants who were stated to be between 20–25 years old and initiated investigation into the matter. The footage of the CCTV cameras installed near the petrol pump is being examined, but no clue of the accused has surfaced so far, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/miscreants-loot-rs-1l-from-petrol-pump/articleshow/80869294.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||No special train for bathing festivals during the Kumbh Mela||Haridwar: The Indian Railways will not run special trains for the main bathing festivals during the Kumbh Mela owing to Covid-19 situation. DRM Moradabad Tarun Prakash told TOI, "No special trains will be run during the Kumbh mela as per the state government request. All the passengers who want to come to Haridwar during the fair by train will be informed by sending a message through IRCTC website and no passengers will be allowed without registration and negative Covid-19 RT-PCR report. Two holding areas have been also prepared at railway stations for crowd management and a quick response centre has been also started by the railways."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-special-train-for-bathing-festivals-during-the-kumbh-mela/articleshow/80867667.cms||MS Nawaz
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Doctors from different states offer voluntary medical services at Singhu||Ambala: The teams of different specialist doctors from several states are offering voluntary and on-salary medical services to the farmers protesting at Singhu border. They have set up two field hospitals and a lab for treating the peasants and providing them required medical aid. Specialist doctors have reached the Singhu border from Delhi, Punjab, Tripura, West Bengal, Haryana and others, on the call of organisations like Life Care Foundation and Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Mission. Dr Shambhu Kumar Gupta, a physiotherapist from the National Institute of Locomotor Disabilities, Kolkata, said, “I am offering the physiotherapy services at Singhu border since January 12, and helping the farmers who are protesting for their rights. I have checked and advised the farmers with problems, including cervical spondylolysis, knee pain, low back pain, frozen shoulder sciatica, pain after fracture or surgery, neurological problem and others. I will be serving here till this agitation is ongoing.” Dr Balbir Singh from Patiala said, “We treat ourselves as the heirs of Bhai Ghanaiya Ji, for serving everyone without any discrimination. When the farmers are fighting for their rights, it is our job to give them relief from their medical problems. This is our mission. I came here first on November 27, after the farmers got injured from water cannons and tear gas shells on their way to Delhi on November 26. At that time, we had come with the arrangements of giving first-aid treatments. But as the agitation continued to grow, our needs also increased and we roped in more doctors to offer the services here.” According to Dr Balbir, Avtar Singh from Dera Bassi contributed in setting-up make-shift hospital here. “A large number of farmers and serious patients are now being treated on a daily basis and we have made arrangements for medicines, oxygen, ECG, and other required equipment,” added Dr Balbir. A pharmacist Avtar, 36, who is also a farmer from Karkaur village of SAS Nagar district and associated with Life Care Foundation said, “We reached Shambhu border on November 30, for organising a two-day medical camp and detected a large number of diabetes and trauma medicine patients. We observed that there is a need for medical assistance to the farmers. So, we decided to continue our services free of cost with the support of sangat. We went trolley to trolley and started conducting diabetes and blood tests and gave medicines accordingly. Seeing the need, we also set up a lab here for conducting different tests and pharmacy services were made available for 24 hours.” “We received several emergency patients of stone pain, asthma and other ailments and we had to refer them to the private hospitals nearby that charged them hefty. We felt a need and decided to set up a field hospital to handle emergency cases and provide them free medical services,” said Avtar. They also hired a general physician from Dera Bassi, Dr R M Sharma, and deputed him at Singhu border, added Avtar. The doctors have also been roped in from different states including Delhi, Punjab, Tripura, West Bengal, Haryana and others, who are offering voluntary and on-salary services, said Avtar. Avtar added that they have set up two field hospitals in tents and from March onwards due to increase in temperature, they are planning to rent a building nearby to set up a 20-30 bedded hospital to assist the protesting farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/doctors-from-different-states-offer-voluntary-medical-services-at-singhu/articleshow/80869291.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||B-school submits students’ letter withdrawing plaint, FRA rejects it||Mumbai: The Fee Regulating Authority (FRA) refused to take cognizance of a complaint withdrawal letter submitted by the management of a private B-school and ‘purportedly’ signed by the students/complainants. The authority insisted the complainants should directly approach them, if they wish to withdraw the complaint. Two students from the 2019-20 batch of the management programme at NL Dalmia Institute of Management Studies in Mira Road had approached the FRA with a complaint that the college had charged Rs 2.3 lakh, over and above the tuition fees of Rs 1.9 lakh approved by the authority. When the FRA sought an explanation from the institute, they sought a review of the fee structure fixed by the authority in 2018. The FRA then ruled institutions cannot retrospectively seek review of fees. The college had not sought an upward revision in fees of 2019-20. The matter was being heard for the past few months and is now adjourned by two weeks. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/b-school-submits-students-letter-withdrawing-plaint-fra-rejects-it/articleshow/80869298.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nashik||NMC removes over 60 illegal hoardings in city||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started taking action against illegal hoardings in the city by removing more than 60 hoardings over the past two days. As the illegal hoardings have increased in Nashik city during the last few days, municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav took serious cognizance of this and directed the encroachment department of the civic body to take action against it. Moreover, the municipal commissioner has also directed the officials concerned to file FIR against those responsible for installing the illegal hoardings in the city if required, as it is defacing the city due to which the NMC is losing revenue. “We have already started the drive to remove illegal hoardings across the city for the past two days,” said Vijay Pagar, the deputy commissioner (encroachment) of NMC. This is the third time that the NMC is carrying out a drive against illegal hoardings in the last 17 months. In January last year, NMC had taken up a month-long drive and had removed over 250 illegal hoardings in the city. In August 2019, NMC had undertaken a similar drive and removed over 100 illegal hoardings erected on dividers, electric poles and traffic islands. Most of the illegal hoardings were related to political leaders. But the illegal hoardings have again mushroomed in various parts of the city even after the action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-removes-over-60-illegal-hoardings-in-city/articleshow/80866584.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Ngp, Amt dists drive Vidarbha cases past 1k-mark for second day in a row||Nagpur: For the second consecutive day, Vidarbha reported more than 1,000 new cases of Covid-19, with most of them coming from Nagpur (500) and Amravati (315). This includes a fresh spike in municipal corporation areas where Covid restrictions have been relaxed to a great extent and citizens are becoming careless. All the five districts in Amravati division reported a Covid death each on Thursday. Nagpur district reported five deaths and Chandrapur one. The fresh surge in Nagpur and Amravati, which are two prominent cities of Vidarbha, has put the health administration on high alert. The number of under-treatment patients has increased in most districts. The highest 3,547 active cases are in Nagpur district, followed by Amravati at 937. Now, 6,826 patients are under-treatment in Vidarbha. Though most of these patients are under home isolation, an increase in their number is another cause of worry for the administration. Washim, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur and Gondia also have less than 100 patients under-treatment. The last three days have seen new cases increasing in urban (municipal corporation) areas while rural-dominated districts are showing good control over the infection. The region reported 1087 new cases on Thursday. Out of the 694 recoveries, Nagpur district contributed highest 216, followed by Amravati at 155. Now, 2,67,246 patients have recovered in the region and the recovery rate is just over 95%, which is lower than state and national average. It was about 95.3% three days ago. Wardha: With 44 new cases of Thursday, district’s Covid count reached 10,516 while recoveries touched 9,802 after 51 patients were discharged during the day. There are 397 patients under treatment.Out of the 627 reports received on Thursday, new cases came from Wardha (34), Karanja (5), Hinganghat (3), Arvi and Ashti (one each). No death was reported, keeping the toll at 317.Amravati: The district reported 315 cases on Thursday — a spike of over 300 cases for the second consecutive day — prompting the district collector to order equipping Covid centres with medicines and other facilities. He also ordered rapid antigen tests and house surveys in Rajapeth, Belpura, Camp and Dastur Nagar localities of the city and Achalpur, Nandgaon Khandeshwar, Chandur Bazar and Warud tehsils which, according to a central team, are high-risk places.The caseload has reached 24,150 while 155 recoveries took the total to 22,785. One death increased the toll to 428, leaving 937 active cases.Chandrapur: There were 15 new cases and 19 recoveries, leaving 82 active patients in the district. A lone death reported during the day after over a week took the toll to 393. The caseload has risen to 23,175, including 22,700 recoveries.Yavatmal: A 31-year-old person from Ghatanji died on Thursday, taking the Covid toll in district to 440. Out of the 388 reports received by the administration during the last 24 hours, 51 came positive. Currently, there are 470 active cases. The caseload has reached 14,947 while recoveries touched 14,040, including 66 on Thursday.Akola: A 68-year-old man from Hiwarkhed (Telhara), who was under treatment from August 7, died on Thursday, taking the district’s toll to 342. Out of 500 plus tests conducted during the day, 77 came positive, thus increasing the Covid count to 12,061. Recoveries touched 11,039 after discharge to 108 more patients, leaving 680 patients under treatment. Akola now has third highest number of under-treatment patients in Vidarbha after Nagpur and Amravati.Buldhana: Out of the 425 reports received on Thursday, 65 came positive, taking the caseload to 14,535. On the other hand, 41 patients recovered to take the recovery count to 13,954. An 84-year-old man from Chaitanyawadi in Malkapur died on Thursday. This took toll to 174. Now, 407 patients are under treatment.Washim: The district was the only one in Amravati division where more recoveries and fewer cases were reported on Thursday. Washim reported nine new cases which took caseload to 7,266. With 15 more patients declared recovered, number of recoveries touched 7,010. One patient died during treatment, taking toll to 156. Now, Washim has 99 patients under treatment.Gadchiroli: Out of the 400 tests conducted in district, none came positive on Thursday. Case count remained unchanged at 9,393. With four patients recovering, the district’s recovery count improved to 9,565. The recovery rate here is more than 98%. The toll remains 105 as no death has been reported this month so far. With only 23 patients under treatment, Gadchiroli is fast moving towards becoming the first Covid-19 free district of Maharashtra.Bhandara: Seven new patients tested positive while 10 recovered in Bhandara district on Thursday. No death was reported. Now, Bhandara has 13,334 cases, including 12,908 recoveries, 326 deaths and 100 active cases.Gondia: The district reported four new cases and nine recoveries on Thursday. Now, Gondia has 14,275 cases, 14,007 recoveries and 85 patients under treatment.High Alert - From 5,085 tests, Nagpur district reports 500 new cases, which means near 10% samples tested +ve - All 5 districts in Amravati division reported deaths for the first time this year- Amravati reported 315 new cases out of 1,251 tests — 25% positivity rate- In Amravati division, 4 out of 5 districts have 400+ patients under treatment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngp-amt-dists-drive-vidarbha-cases-past-1k-mark-for-second-day-in-a-row/articleshow/80867726.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Pro-Khalistan leader to take out tractor rally in Pak||Amritsar: Pakistan-based pro-Khalistan activist Gopal Singh Chawla has announced a tractor rally to be taken from Lahore to Wagah (Pakistan) border in support of the farmers protesting against the agri laws in India. In a video message uploaded on social media, Chawla, who is known to have close relations with Mumbai blast mastermind Hafiz Saeed, said besides Sikhs, Muslims would also join the tractor rally. He said Sikh groups would arrive in Lahore from across Pakistan and they would leave for Wagah border together. Chawla is yet to announce the date of the tractor rally and has sought suggestions for the date. Sources said Sikh leaders, including Mahesh Singh will bring tractor jatha from Sindh, Jasbir Singh from Balochistan, Pratap Singh from Peshawar, Gurmail Singh from Panja Sahib and Pappal Singh from Nankana Sahib to Lahore. A tractor jatha from Lahore would be led by Ajit Singh. In the message, Gopal Singh Chawla, believed to be on ISI payroll, accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of causing problems for Indian farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pro-khalistan-leader-to-take-out-tractor-rally-in-pak/articleshow/80869302.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Rlys ensure no deaths at level crossings since 2016||Nagpur: It has been almost 1,780 days, since March 29, 2016, when the last level crossing (LC) death took place in Nagpur division of Central Railway (CR). The South East Central Railway (SECR), Nagpur division, has ensured no LC deaths since May 22, 2014. The decision of the railways to ensure LCs are manned and illuminated have paid rich dividends as fatalities at these locations have been almost done away with. There have also been efforts to replace LCs at various places with limited height sub-ways (LHS), road under bridge (RUB), road over bridge (ROB), road over rails (ROR) and rail over road (ROR). SECR officials said their 219 LCs are both manned and also illuminated, which has helped keep accidents at bay. In 2020-21, three LCs were replaced with RUBs while another three would be closed down by March this year. The Nagpur division of SECR enjoys a record of no deaths at LCs for 2,457 days on the trot since the last incident between Gondia and Waraseoni in May 2014. Senior divisional commercial manager (Sr DCM) Vikas Kashyap said the vision of the railways is to minimize fatalities at LCs and replace them with alternative means and measures, especially on the busy routes. “We have started putting up fencing, girders and such measures to ensure there is no place for trespassers to sneak into the LCs with bikes and so on when closed, inviting accidents. In coming days, we would try to replace as many LCs as possible with alternative options,” he said. CR Nagpur division has 194 manned level crossings as of now, which are both manned and illuminated. In 2020-21, one LC was replaced with LHS. The authorities expect to close down another eight by March this year. Sources said work to replace 22 LCs is underway with 17 near Itarsi, four between Sevagram and Ballarshah and one between Butibori and Umrer railway stations. “We are planning to create further awareness at LCs with street plays and so on involving pressure groups. There had also been awareness campaigns at schools and gram panchayats in the vicinity of LCs, which too helped minimize accidents,” said a CR source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rlys-ensure-no-deaths-at-level-crossings-since-2016/articleshow/80869483.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Some upset with TRS mayor choice||HYDERABAD: Some TRS party corporators were unhappy with the party leadership’s choice for mayor. Khairatabad corporator and former minister P Janardhan Reddy’s daughter P Vijaya Reddy, former mayor Bonthu Rammohan and a couple of corporators, who lobbied for the mayoral post, reportedly were unhappy with the decision of the party, but did not comment on it. TRS president and CM K Chandrasekhar Rao told the party corporators, who met him on Thursday, that there were many eligible candidates for the mayor post, but the party cannot accommodate all of them. According to sources, the party leadership did not assure any candidate of mayor post but told them that it would definitely ‘consider’ their name. In the meanwhile, it started its own exercise. “After weeks of exercise on caste, educational qualifications and multiple surveys, the TRS zeroed in on the candidature of Vijaya Laxmi for the mayor post. The party earlier considered another corporator for the post before finalising Vijaya Laxmi’s name. Lack of educational qualifications made the party rethink on offering the post to her,” a senior party leader said. To avoid trouble from other aspirants, the CM said the mayoral candidate’s name would be given in a sealed cover and all corporators and ex-officio members will have to vote for the candidate. The names were kept secret till Thursday morning. KCR is believed to have consulted the AIMIM leadership seeking their support for which the Majlis party agreed. Interestingly, AIMIM MLAs and corporators were informed to vote for TRS candidate in the only on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/some-upset-with-trs-mayor-choice/articleshow/80869305.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Sight of co-workers being swept away still haunts labourers||NAINITAL: The horrific sight of friends and co-workers being swept away by waves of a raging river continues to haunt labourers, mainly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, who were working on the barrage of the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydro-power project of NTPC when the flash floods ravaged the area on Sunday morning. Some of them escaped death by a whisker but helplessly watched their friends disappear into the river. “I heard a massive sound around 10:30 am. It was as if a mountain had collapsed. When I looked up, I saw the river water cascading towards us. I shouted to my other friends and we used ropes to climb on to the nearby hills. The debris came just minutes later and swept away the entire barrage and with it, over two dozen workers, many of whom were from our area,” Krishna Rai, a native of Lakhimpur Kheri, recalled. A group of around 60 men – 35 from Bihar’s Chhapra district and the rest from Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri - was working on the barrage when the water came speeding down the Dhauliganga river. While the group working on the upper part of the barrage saw the floods and used ropes to climb up to higher grounds, they could see at least 30 of their friends – working in the lower part – shouting for help as the water came dangerously near, but they could do nothing about it. Another survivor, Aarif Khan said that the sight of his friends being swept into the water in front of his eyes will haunt him forever. “We lost over two dozen of our friends within a matter of seconds. It’s a sight I will never ever forget in my life,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sight-of-co-workers-being-swept-away-still-haunts-labourers/articleshow/80867717.cms||Prashant Jha
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||Another lake formed upstream, poses danger: Experts||DEHRADUN: Geologists of the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garwal University (HNBGU) who are conducting a survey of the Rishiganga area — from where the flash floods started on Sunday — have said a water body has formed near the Rishiganga which can cause floods again. This revelation came even as water levels of the Rishiganga, which was flowing as a small channel on a stretch near the disaster site for the past four days, rose on Thursday, leading to a temporary halt in rescue operations and an alert being issued to villagers in the area. In a video that he released, with the hope that authorities see it and are aware of the potential threat, professor Naresh Rana from the earth sciences department of HNBGU can be seen pointing at what he termed "a blue-coloured lake" that had formed near the Rishiganga. “I am here at a peak from where I can see the Raunthi and the Rishiganga streams clearly. It seems that the flash floods have come from the Raunthi stream. The flood created a temporary dam and because of this dam the Rishiganga is still blocked. I can also see a blue-coloured lake having formed in the distance, which means that water has been ponding here since long. This ponding is very stable and hence, I can assume that this lake extends far. From the point I am standing however, I cannot see its full extent,” he says in his video. Rana added that the formation of the lake is a serious matter as “this means that the Rishiganga will breach again and this can impact rescue operations too... We will pass on this information to the administration so that necessary action can be taken. On our part, we will also try and go to the site where the lake has been formed to get a better idea of its size". Confirming the formation of a water body upstream of the Rishiganga, Kalachand Sain, director of Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), said that water accumulation was seen after an aerial view of the region was recorded by a WIHG team that is presently at the spot. “We cannot say as of now whether that water accumulation has triggered the current rise in the water level of the Rishiganga or Dhauliganga. I am yet to get the details of the size of the pond and reason of its formation. This can either be a new lake or an old one,” he said. Explaining what has happened in the valley on February 7, director of the institution said, “A rock-mass at 5,600 meters above sea level broke from the main rock-mass. The hanging glacier overlying this chunk of rock also got broken and entire mass fell downstream. This has created a temporary dam and later converted into the disaster which was witnessed by the valley,” added the director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/another-lake-formed-upstream-poses-danger-experts/articleshow/80867691.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||Vehicles with over 16 tonnes of load will not be allowed in the hills||Dehradun: In the wake of a number of bridges having collapsed in the state due to overloaded vehicles in the last few years, the Public Works Department (PWD) has decided to not allow vehicles with loads of more than 16 tonnes in the hills. There are around 2,265 bridges in the hills of Uttarakhand.Chief secretary Om Prakash presided over a meeting with the PWD officials, which was also attended by senior police and transport department authorities. In the meeting, a decision was taken to permit vehicles with a total weight capacity not exceeding 16 tonnes in the hills.Engineer-in-chief of PWD Hari Om Sharma told TOI, “We have 1,601 bridges of 'A' category (with 25 tonnes capacity) and 664 bridges of 'B' category (with 16.2 tonnes capacity). However, it is a complicated process as vehicles divert on other smaller routes which makes it difficult to track them. On a 'B' category bridge, we need to ensure that trucks with 16.2 tonnes capacity are at a distance of 30 metres. There are instances when such heavy vehicles stand one behind the other in a straight line. Therefore, complying with the norms becomes extremely difficult.”Sharma pointed out that the new bridges being built are of the 'A' category. “Therefore, a decision was taken to permit heavy vehicles with a total weight capacity of 16 tonnes. It will be safe for the bridges as all our bridges have a capacity to hold the weight,” the senior PWD official said.He, however, said that in special cases, permission can be given to vehicles carrying heavier loads. “For such a movement, we need to be informed in advance. Our teams will decide the importance of materials being transported and a route – which would have capacity to hold higher load – would be finalised. These permitted vehicles would not be permitted to divert from the allotted routes,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/vehicles-with-over-16-tonnes-of-load-will-not-be-allowed-in-the-hills/articleshow/80867697.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Bag with Rs 20L stolen from bizman’s dining table||Mumbai: A person stole a bag with Rs 20 lakh kept on the dining table of a Jogeshwari (E) businessman’s 4th floor flat at Hansa Building on February 9. Vinay Tripathi (32) learnt about the theft only when he sent his employee to get the money he wanted to pay a client in the afternoon. The amount was written with a red pen on the white gunny bag, which could have attracted the attention of the thief. Andheri police are scanning CCTV footage near Rameshwar Mandir in Sarawati Baug to identify the thief. Tripathi, who imports garments and then sells them in the local market, had kept the money on the table in the hall on February 8 after he returned from office. “Building residents said no one noticed any outsider entering the building. Even Tripathi’s wife and his two daughters did not notice anyone strange, and did not know when the bag was stolen. It is learnt that the complainant’s flat door is kept open as his daughters play in the corridor. The thief seemed to be aware of this, which made it easier to carry out the theft,” said an officer of Andheri police station. Tripathi said, “I kept the bag around 8.30pm on the table and the amount was written with a red sketch pen on it. I left for office the next day around 9.30am. Around 3pm, I sent my staff to collect the money, as I wanted it to make a payment. I got a call from my wife around 3.15pm that she could not find the bag.” Tripathi then rushed home and later complained to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bag-with-rs-20l-stolen-from-bizmans-dining-table/articleshow/80868132.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS-AIMIM alliance exposed: BJP||Hyderabad: The BJP party believes it succeeded in exposing the TRS-AIMIM alliance. A few hours ahead of polling, the party announced Radha Dheeraj Reddy as the mayor candidate and issued a whip. On Thursday, Radha Dheeraj Reddy said that the election was unethical and so was the ‘alliance’. “There was no need for the TRS to take the help of AIMIM. Unless there was internal trouble, it means old friends joined together,” she said. BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar also said it was expected that both the parties joined hands. “Both parties said there was no understanding between them during the GHMC election, but when the time came they got together. What we have been saying has come true,” he said. He also said that now AIMIM will have control over the TRS as the latter, without taking help of exofficio members, got AIMIM support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-aimim-alliance-exposed-bjp/articleshow/80869309.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 12, 2021||Pune||Pune: Fuel prices continue to rise, cabbies count losses||PUNE: Chetan Padwal returned to the city from a village in Beed district barely two months ago with the hope to resume his job as a private cab driver following relaxation in the lockdown norms and is already planning to go back to his hometown again. Padwal survived the lockdown by working in the agricultural fields of landowners back in Beed. But the man living in the Sinhagad Road area doesn’t know how to survive after being back on the wheels and the rising fuel prices eating into his profit margins. “I increased the fares following the exorbitant rise in the fuel prices. But the number of passengers is few. If the diesel price does not come down, I think I have to wrap up my stay in Pune and return to Beed,” Padwal said. Fuel prices in the city increased for the third consecutive day on Thursday, with a litre of petrol and diesel costing Rs94 and Rs83.31, respectively. Ali Daruwalla, national spokesperson of the All India Petrol Dealers Association, said the current petrol prices were the highest-ever in Pune. Cab driver Arvind Ogale said he would stop taking the vehicle out from next week. “I would return to what I was doing during the lockdown — selling dry fish and some vegetables from my cab. A month ago I decided to resume driving the cab. But the rise in the fuel prices has been a disaster.” Guru Katti, president of the Swarajya Vahan Chalak Sanghatna, said, “Many cab drivers have increased the per kilometre fares. But most of them complain that the number of customers is less. We cannot afford a strike, because the sector is opening up after a prolonged lockdown.” Kondhwa-Khurd resident Saajan Parte, who has a cab and five months of EMIs pending, said, “Representatives of the finance company constantly call me to pay the EMIs. I tell them that I will pay back the money. But the chances of business improving under such circumstances look bleak.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fuel-prices-continue-to-rise-cabbies-count-losses/articleshow/80869327.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 12, 2021||Bareilly||Stopped for eve-teasing, father-son duo thrash on-duty cop, 1 arrested||Bareilly: A police constable with the anti-Romeo squad of Moradabad police was assaulted by a father-son duo — both history-sheeters with several criminal cases against their names — after the cops stopped the son for allegedly passing lewd remarks at women in public. According to the complaint lodged by constable Kuldeep Kumar, when he intercepted Hammad for eve-teasing, the accused thrashed the constable, tore off his uniform and then called up his father and aides, who again assaulted the cop and also misbehaved with a woman constable on duty. Constable Kumar wrote in his complaint: “While discharging duties on Wednesday evening, our team spotted Kotwali-resident Hammad passing lewd comments at women passersby near the S Kumar crossing under Mughalpura police jurisdiction.” “When we tried to stop him, he started misbehaving, and physically assaulted me. After he tore off my uniform, he called up his father who arrived with his aides who beat me up again. They also misbehaved with the lady constable who was on duty with me,” the constable further wrote. Moradabad police said heavy police force from Mughapura, Nagphani and Kotwali police stations rushed to the spot to rescue the cops. “One Laeeq has been arrested. His son Hammad, the main accused, is at large. A probe is on and stringent action will be taken against both for assaulting police personnel on duty,” said the SP (city). Moradabad SP Amit Kumar Anand said a complaint has been lodged in the matter and FIR registered against the accused under sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stopped-for-eve-teasing-father-son-duo-thrash-on-duty-cop-1-arrested/articleshow/80865903.cms||Maria Khan
February 12, 2021||Rajkot||Ganja cultivation found near Chotila||Rajkot: The special operations group (SOG) in Surendranagar busted a cannabis (ganja) farm in Piparadi village of Chotila and arrested one person on Thursday. According to police, the contraband was being grown in the farm of Gordhan Bambhaniya, a resident of Piparadi village, who was detained. “Bambhaniya himself consumes cannabis and had sown it in his farm to sell it to others and earn money. There were 108 plants in the farm which were cultivated alongside lemon trees,” said a SOG sleuth. “We have seized a total of 129 kg cannabis from the farm and launched further probe,” he added. The accused was handed over to Chotila police where a complaint was filed under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ganja-cultivation-found-near-chotila/articleshow/80866986.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||BMC splurges on Sena constituency, now buys 30 food trucks for Rs 5 crore||Mumbai: After buying 84,000 jute bags for Rs 1.4 crore, the BMC now plans to purchase 30 food and vegetable trucks worth Rs 5 crore for distribution in Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav’s constituency in Byculla. This comes at a time when the BMC’s food truck policy is yet to be approved. The BMC is also buying indoor gym equipment worth Rs 2 crore for Jadhav’s ward using civic funds. BJP corporator Vinod Mishra said tenders were floated using powers that are arbitrary. “Ward officers can’t float tenders in such an arbitrary manner. \ They don’t have any expertise in buying food trucks. There is also no such policy. Where are they going to run 30 food trucks in one ward? Who is going to drive and where will the trucks be parked? It looks like constituency no. 209 is being given special treatment… at a time the BMC is facing a cash crunch,” Mishra said, demanding a vigilance inquiry and the scrapping of the tenders. Last month, the BMC had bought 84,000 jute bags, each for Rs 161. They were to be distributed in Jadhav’s constituency, which has around 50,000 voters. According to documents reviewed by TOI, tenders were floated to buy 30 food and vegetable trucks by E ward (the Byculla belt) for constituency no. 209 at an estimated cost of Rs 5 crore. Similarly, tenders were also floated to buy gym equipment worth Rs 2 crore, CCTV cameras worth Rs 1 crore, solar street lights for Rs 50 lakh and high mast lights for Rs 1 crore. “We floated the tenders as per procedure. As per a May 2016 circular, deputy municipal commissioners have powers to approve tenders for Rs 5-10 crore. So, for all these tenders we have taken administrative and technical approval. There are no irregularities,” said Makarand Dagadkhair, assistant municipal commissioner, E ward. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal said he has asked additional municipal commissioner (city) Sanjeev Jaiswal to look into the issue. “I got the funds from standing committee amendments. The trucks are going to be given to differently-abled and needy people.  All these items are part of the BMC’s schedule and listed as items that can be distributed. I got the maximum funds for my constituency. Nothing is illegal in that,” Jadhav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-splurges-on-sena-constituency-now-buys-30-food-trucks-for-rs-5-crore/articleshow/80869317.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||MBBS exams rescheduled||Mumbai: Final year undergraduate exams for health science courses, including MBBS, were rescheduled by Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS). Around 10,000 students take the exams, which will be held from March 8, instead of February 24. Exams to the first, second and third years of the programme will, however, commence from March 23. Ajit Pathak, controller of exams, MUHS, said there have been requests from final year students seeking postponement. “Exams for lower classes, also given by repeaters, got over on January 15 and results are being announced now. Many students who are now eligible to appear for final year exams after clearing the lower exams, have asked for more time for preparation,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mbbs-exams-rescheduled/articleshow/80869332.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||I ravaged nature for years, but a tree saved my life: Uttarakhand flash flood survivor||DEHRADUN: “My job has always been to cut the mountains, or plough the earth. I never conserved nature. But today, I am grateful that nature came to my rescue in the form of a tree,” Vikram Chauhan, 49, an excavator operator who survived the Rishiganga flash flood, told TOI. Now Chauhan has a different outlook towards nature. “I respected trees as they gave us oxygen, nothing more than that. But that morning taught me a lesson. Nature has both the powers to save or to kill.” Dr Sanjay Chaudhury, who is treating Chauhan at a local hospital, said, “Nature saved him. First that tree and then the hot water spring treatment for his body that actually revived him. He is showing improvement compared to the first day.” Still in severe pain due to injuries to his head and ear, Chauhan recalled the events preceding his hospitalization in Dehradun. He said it was “an encounter with death”. “I was at work as usual and had filled my excavator with sand from the riverbed on that bright Sunday morning. Suddenly, icy-cold water came gushing down and all of us who were there at the site were swept away. I hit a tree and held it tightly, very tightly. For the next 30 minutes I was clinging on it. Then help arrived. Some villagers from Raini spotted and rescued me. I was shivering due to the freezing cold water. They put me in a hot spring nearby to revive me,” Chauhan, one of the few fortunate survivors at Rishiganga hydel power project, said. “My nose, ears and clothes were all muddy. I heard loud and desperate voices. Everything around was black and brown due to the muck,” Chauhan recalled, fighting hard to hold back tears. He was upset over losing two friends. “The water was held for a while due to the dam’s thick walls. Then, suddenly, it charged towards us. I was thrown to a corner where I found a tree to hang on. I wish Anoop Thapliyal and Rajesh Thapliyal were also lucky. They both were supervising the labourers, just a little ahead of me. They were my good friends. We knew each other for so many years,” he said. The three belonged to Lambagarh village of Chamoli and had been working at the plant for the last over five years. Razing trees and digging earth was all they knew. But Chauhan still clings on to hope. “We will be able to find them, the rescue work is on. I am sure I will be able to see my friends again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/i-ravaged-nature-for-years-but-a-tree-saved-my-life-survivor/articleshow/80867737.cms||Shivani Azad
February 12, 2021||Vadodara||Govt employee prefers bill waiver over newborn||Vadodara: Soon after she was born on February 6, her mother passed away and father abandoned her in the hospital only to use her as a pawn to for compensation. Let alone take her back home, the baby’s father did not even care to have a look at her when she was born. After being in the care of the hospital for five days, the man, who is a government employee living in Chansad village near Padra, finally came to take his daughter on Thursday evening when police intervened. A day after delivering her third child, the girl’s mother died at SSG Hospital during treatment. She was shifted to the government-run hospital as her health had deteriorated. Instead of taking his daughter home, the girl’s father reached Kalpana Uma Diagnostic Hospital on February 8 with 25 of his relatives and created a ruckus. Hospital administration said that he was unwilling to take the daughter home and forcibly took away his wife’s case papers. The hospital administration contacted the man, but he did not turn up till Wednesday when he came a mob. They raised slogans and threatened the staff following which the hospital made a complaint to the police commissioner. In the complaint, the hospital administration has claimed that while raising slogans on Wednesday, somebody from the mob even said that had it been a baby boy, they would have taken him along but since the woman gave birth to baby girl, they are not worried. On Thursday, some of the relatives reached the hospital asking the staff to hand over the infant. But the hospital refused since the father had not come and he had not authorized anyone. Finally, police had to intervene because of the complaint and the man agreed to come and take his daughter. “The man claimed before police that he was expecting some monetary compensation for his wife’s death from hospital, so he did not take his daughter home. The hospital has agreed to forego the outstanding bill on humanitarian grounds,” said the hospital’s lawyer Hitesh Gupta. “The man was demanding compensation from the hospital which the hospital denied as the woman died of natural reasons. But he agreed to take the daughter home when the hospital agreed to forego the bill,” said inspector V N Mahida of Raopura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/govt-employee-prefers-bill-waiver-over-newborn/articleshow/80866533.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Visit bastis, remain simple in public life, Telangana CM to councillors||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the newly elected mayor, deputy mayor and corporators to visit bastis (localities), understand the plight of people and resolve their problems. He warned them to be cautious while they speak and behave in publiclife. “Those who are in power should have patience, maintain composure and be simple. There should not be any change in attire, language or behaviour after getting posts. If you indulge in unnecessary and irrelevant talk there will be no gain, but you may land in trouble,” Rao said when the newly elected mayor Gadwal Vijaya Laxmi, deputy mayor Mothe Srilatha and other corporators met him at Pragati Bhavan on Thursday. The CM said among crores of people, only a few get a chance to become public representatives. “What is more important is how you utilise the opportunity given by people as a public representative and earn a good name. These are times where even if you are good, charges are levelled against you. If you give even a small chance, you will get a bad name. Hence, act with caution,” CM told them. He asked them to listen to the song — Galli Chinnadi Garibolla Katha Peddadi (the street is narrow but the problem of poor is big) — by Goreti Venkanna an, an MLC, folk singer and writer. “I have heard it more than a hundred times. Problems of people living in Bastis are there in the song which need to be resolved and attended,” KCR said. KCR asked the mayor and others to strive to enhance the image of Hyderabad. He said the state government will also initiate new programmes to develop Hyderabad and extend all help to the GHMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/visit-bastis-remain-simple-in-public-life-kcr-to-councillors/articleshow/80869322.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 12, 2021||Nashik||NMC to provide funds for Nashik metro project||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has done a turnaround on its stand about funding the city’s metro project. It has now agreed to provide funds for the project. The tyre-based Nashik metro project is estimated to cost Rs 2,092 crore. The project is partially funded by the state government, which had earlier asked the civic body to chip in with some amount. However, the NMC had then told the government that it would not be possible to provide funds. The NMC had also written a letter to the state government, citing its inability to provide funds of its share,which is estimated at Rs 102 crore, as it will be providing land for creating infrastructure for the project. “We had earlier urged the government to exempt the civic body from any financial burden of the project as it will be providing land for the project. But since it is an ambitious project and will fuel the growth of the city, we have decided to follow the further instructions of the state government,” said municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav. “We will provide funds of our share for the project if the state government asks us for it. We are awaiting instructions from the state government on the issue,” he added. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has announced allocation of Rs 2,092 crore for the Nashik metro project. During his visit to Nashik on Wednesday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the state government will also allocate funds for the project although the quantum is yet to be decided. The Nashik metro model, called the Metro Neo, has been touted as the prototype to be followed by tier II cities. The rubber-tyred AC electric coaches with a capacity to carry around 300 passengers will ply on two elevated corridors, stretching 32 km. One elevated corridor with a length of 22-km will stretch from Gangapur to Nashik railway station with 19 stations, via Satpur colony, CBS and Dwarka and towards Nashik Road. Another elevated corridor will be of 10-km stretch between Gangapur and Mumbai Naka with 10 stations. Apart from the two elevated corridors,there will be two feeder routes with a total length of 24 km.Battery-powered feeder buses will run on the feeder routes and also on the elevated wires.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-provide-funds-for-nashik-metro-project/articleshow/80869329.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||SOPs for Kumbh Mela issued, but doubts over its schedule still prevails||Haridwar: Even though the state government has issued the final SOPs for the Kumbh Mela, doubts surrounding its commencement still prevails as the government has not released the notification schedule so far. Many local traders, hoteliers, priests and even pilgrims have been waiting anxiously for the mega event to begin but don’t know when it will officially commence. Local priest Nitin Kaushik told TOI, “Government is creating panic among the locals and pilgrims. We know about the Covid-19 guidelines for the Kumbh Mela, but no one knows when the mega fair will start. Even the devotees are still confused about the SOPs and have been asking us whether they can come with the Covid-19 RT-PCR test or not. We have requested the government to come forward with a clear plan.” Earlier, Ganga Sabha, the apex body of teerth purohit of Haridwar, had requested the government that SOPs should be only applicable on bathing festivals and no restriction should be imposed on other days. Meanwhile, Akhara Parishad has said all adequate precautions would be taken for the mela. “We are ready to follow the government’s guidelines, but we will not compromise on the religious customs that have been taking place, president of ABAP Mahant Narendra Giri told TOI. Meanwhile, urban development minister and local legislator Madan Kaushik told TOI, “CM Trivendra Singh Rawat will take a final decision on the notification of Kumbh Mela. I hope it will be announced soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sops-for-kumbh-mela-issued-but-doubts-over-its-schedule-still-prevails/articleshow/80867757.cms||MS Nawaz
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||Villagers hold bhajans and prayer sessions to console kin of those missing||DEHRADUN: Villagers in Raini and Tapovan areas have rallied around each other and taken to organising bhajans and prayer sessions to keep the morale high. A total of 12 locals — 8 from Raini and 2 each from Tapovan and Karchon — are still missing. While it is a race against time, the family members and locals are optimistic about their return. Yashapal Singh, who had been missing since Sunday, became a father barely three months ago. Singh was working in a farming field when he was last spotted before the tragedy occurred. His wife Pushpa, who is still in shock, is yet to come to terms with the facts. The 13 villages that have been disconnected with other areas after five bridges were damaged have a total population of around 4,500. Shankar Rana, a resident of Raini, told TOI, “All the villagers have come together to provide food to the family of missing persons. People gather at the residence of missing persons to extend support to the grieving families.” In the evening, the locals sing bhajans and offer prayers for the safe return of those missing. Besides, the locals are also interacting with the district authorities to question them about the search operations and the likely return of the missing persons. Shobha Rana, pradhan of Raini, said, “These are extremely testing times. On the one hand, the challenge is to find the missing persons and on the other hand we face the uphill task of convincing the authorities to relocate us to another location.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/villagers-hold-bhajans-and-prayer-sessions-to-console-kin-of-those-missing/articleshow/80867758.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Unique feat: Four ‘first’ woman mayors for Hyderabad in 70 years||HYDERABAD: Call it a coincidence or ordained destiny, every time Hyderabad elected a woman mayor, the geography of the city or the state had changed. Hyderabad elected four woman mayors in the last 70 years and all of them had the ‘first woman mayor’ tag in a unique way. Incidentally, three of the woman mayors elected earlier had served for less than three years though the tenure was five years. First, it began with Rani Kumudini Devi, a politician with a royal lineage, when she was elected the first woman mayor of the Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad (MCH) in 1962. The MCH, during her tenure, had a larger jurisdiction having the municipality of Jubilee Hills and the Municipal Corporation of Secunderabad merged with Hyderabad Municipal Corporation a few years earlier. When Sarojini Pulla Reddy, who would later become a minister, took the reins of the MCH in 1965, the jurisdiction of the city had just been expanded with newer areas added to the city municipal body. In a way, Sarojini also qualified for the tag, the first woman mayor, of the expanded MCH. Her tenure ended in 1966. Kumudini Devi too had served for just two years. Incidentally, their elections were preceded by change in the geographical area of Telangana region in undivided Andhra Pradesh. Aswaraopet from West Godavari and Bhadrachalam from East Godavari were added to Khammam district following recommendation of the Fazal Ali Commission on reorganisation of states. Munagala in Krishna district was added to Nalgonda district. For a little over four decades, between 1966 and 2009, there was no woman mayor. In 2007, MCH was expanded to form Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and the civic body polls were held in 2009. Banda Kartika Reddy, who was then with the Congress, was elected the first woman mayor of GHMC. When elections to the GHMC was held in December 2020, there was no change in the municipal limits, but the geographical area of the state had changed with the bifurcation of AP to form Telangana in 2014.  The newly-elected mayor, Gadwal Vijaya Laxmi is also the first woman mayor of Hyderabad after the formation of Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unique-feat-four-first-woman-mayors-for-hyderabad-in-70-yrs/articleshow/80869340.cms||Syed Akbar
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||BMC website to be down on Feb 13 & 14||In order to upgrade the existing BMC website https://portal.mcgm.gov.in/, a 24-hour downtime has been scheduled at 7pm from February 13 to 14. During this time, services on the website will not be available to citizens and contractors. Citizens are therefore requested to seek online services before or after the timeframe. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-website-to-be-down-on-feb-13-14/articleshow/80869377.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||Rescue operations at Uttarakhand tunnel hit a wall, alternative plan fails too||TAPOVAN/DEHRADUN: Twice in the course of a day, rescue operations at the Tapovan hydel project site hit a wall — first, when the new plan to dig straight down to an underground tunnel and reach the 34 trapped workers didn’t work and later when waters of the Dhauliganga river started swelling again. “The water started rising around 2pm and orders were issued to vacate the rescue site and downstream areas,” DGP Ashok Kumar said on Thursday. While there was no immediate estimate of exactly how much the water had risen, it was well above the 21-m safety mark. All equipment — excavators, drilling machines, power generators — had to be moved quickly. Police teams were also deployed to empty the other rescue site, at the Rishiganga project, where more than 50 personnel from the Border Roads Organisation and National Disaster Response Force were at work. “And drone cameras were used to monitor the increased water level and see if causes could be found out,” ITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey told TOI. “The rescue operations resumed when the Dhauliganga water level subsided again.” This was around 4.30pm. For the rescue team at the Tapovan site, it was the second disruption of the day, with a mere three-hour window between the two. Operations at the site have been slow, with the swamp-like debris posing a challenge — carrying it out has not been easy. And while search teams have been at work along other parts of the flood trail — two more bodies were found on Thursday, taking the toll to 36, while 168 remain missing — the rescue operations have been concentrated on this site. In the morning, around 11am, they had been forced to abandon the new plan they had framed to reach the trapped workers -- digging vertically to reach an underground tunnel, about 12-13m deep, that runs parallel to the main structure. The silt flushing tunnel, meant to carry debris from the tunnel to the river, could take them to the workers. They started around 2am. But nine hours later, just 7m in, the drill hit a rock. “The teams had to suspend the drilling operations … The machines could not drill any further. Any attempt to continue forcefully could have caused damage,” ITBP commandant Hom Bahadur Gurung said. Another official involved in the rescue operation told TOI that they had to go back to the original plan — of scooping out slush and debris — after that. The rising waters, however, brought back fears among locals about the lingering effects of whatever caused the first flood. “Those from villages higher up the hills called up and alerted us about the river. We were terribly frightened. We don’t want to relive what we went through on Sunday. Those we knew and saw every day are still missing,” said Himmat Singh, a resident of Tapovan. A resident of Raini Chak Suwai said, “We are being told that ice melt during the day caused this. We don’t understand. We can’t help but worry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rescue-ops-at-ukhand-tunnel-hit-a-wall-alternative-plan-fails-too/articleshow/80867787.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 12, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Youth held for stealing Shivalinga and throwing it into dirty pit||ALMORA: Police on Thursday claimed to have solved the case of the theft of a Shivalinga, which had been broken off from a temple next to NH 109 in Dwarahat on February 10, and arrested the perpetrator, Tara Singh Rana (24) of village Chitaligad Dwarahat. Police also recovered an idol of Lord Bhairav, which was stolen the same day from the Mahamrityunjaya temple within the same temple complex, built by the Katyuri kings in the 11th century. In their report, lodged after a complaint by archeology department officials, police said the idol had been stolen by some “anarchists”. The idol was found inside another temple in the complex. SSP Pankaj Bhatt said Tara Singh Rana was identified from CCTV footage in which a young man could be seen running away. By tracking bags and shoes left at the temple, police caught the youth, who confessed to the act. Rana told police that years ago, when he was studying in Class XII, he started experiencing severe pain in his legs. According to local belief, chanting Lord Shiva’s name and worshiping Him at the Bhairav temple relieves one of all physical pain. Since then, he spent years worshiping the Shivalinga at the Bhairav temple. But when he did not recover, he decided to throw away the Shivalinga. On February 10, he came to Dwarahat market on the pretext of getting a haircut, went to the temple, broke the upper part of the Shivalinga, hid it in his bag, and went to his former school in village Bakhli of Chaukhutia area. Here, he dumped the broken Shivalinga and three tongs he had also stolen from the temple into an open pit overflowing with urine next to the school latrine, and returned home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/youth-caught-for-stealing-shivalinga-from-11th-century-temple-throwing-it-into-pit-of-urine/articleshow/80867768.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||HC slaps Rs 5k fine on petitioner for wasting ‘judicial time’||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has slapped Rs5,000 cost on the petitioner for wasting precious judicial time. Dismissing his plea, justice Rohit Deo asked the petitioner to deposit the amount with the high court legal aid sub-committee.Petitioner Rajendra Yadav sought quashing of order of issuance of process and proceedings in a criminal case instituted under provisions of Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1938. Filed on November 24, 2017, it pertains to a cheque of Rs14.24 lakh. He contended that the proceedings fall foul of provisions of Section 300 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and that the principle of double jeopardy comes into play.“In view of the averment in complaint that two proceedings pertaining to different amounts, different cheques and different periods are filed, precious judicial time ought not to have been wasted. In the interest of restraint and as a matter of courtesy, I refrain from making any further observation. Suffice it to record that this application is as gross as an abuse of the process of law,” the judge said.The judge further directed HC registrar (judicial) to ensure that the cost is deposited within 15 days. “In case of failure, the registrar shall communicate a copy of this order to the collector, who shall within 30 days, recover the amount of cost as arrears of land revenue from the petitioner,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-slaps-rs-5k-fine-on-petitioner-for-wasting-judicial-time/articleshow/80866667.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Begin new session in April: CBSE||Kolkata: The Central Board of Secondary Education has in a notice to principals and school heads advised them to begin the academic session 2021-22 from April 1 to ensure that the next session is streamlined and ensure that there is sufficient time to address learning gaps, if any. The board has also suggested schools to introduce a bridge course for students of classes IX and XI at the beginning of the new academic session to address learning gaps that are found after conducting the terminal examination. In Bengal, the government has allowed schools to allow only students of classes IX to XII to return to the campus. For the remaining classes, the education department has said further instructions will be issued at a later date. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/begin-new-session-in-april-cbse/articleshow/80869373.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Tikait to address farmers’ rally in Yavatmal on Feb 20||Yavatmal: Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader and spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), spearheading the anti-farm laws agitation on the borders of the national capital for over two months, will address a mega rally at the local historic Azad Maidan on February 20.“The rally has been planned to unite all farmers from the region to demand repeal of the draconian agriculture laws, introduced by BJP government, and to demand a law that guarantees procurement of farm produce on the minimum support price (MSP),” said district president of Shetkari Warkari Sanghatana Sikandarbhai Shah here on Thursday.The decision to organize a mega rally was taken on Wednesday during a meeting of farmers under the chairmanship of Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh coordinator Shrikant Taral of Amravati. Explaining how the laws are detrimental to the interest of the farmers across the country, Taral briefed the leaders about the road map of the agitation and preparations for the rally. Prominent among others who attended the meeting include Shetkari Sanghatana leader Manish Jadhav of Mahagaon, Vilas Patil Chopde of Amravati, Mahesh Pawar of Ghatanji, Santosh Dhawale and others. The leaders have appealed to the farmers to attend the rally in large numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tikait-to-address-farmers-rally-in-yavatmal-on-feb-20/articleshow/80866677.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||‘Cov monitors’ set to debut in new normal times||Kolkata: In almost every school, Covid squads or task forces are in place to help maintain discipline of spacing and sanitising in the new normal times. Schools feel that this job cannot be done by teachers alone and students have to be part of the squads because they will be able to handle their fellow classmates better. So, boys and girls have been selected to be part of the Covid teams who will ensure that there is no crowding, sharing of tiffin, taking off masks while kids are on campus. Some schools like DPS Ruby Park are giving special breaks in between classes so that kids can take off their masks, refresh themselves and then put on fresh masks. While teachers will be constantly there in the classrooms to monitor that no one moves here and there while in school, they concede that it will be of great help if a student leader is chosen from among each small group to constantly remind others of the do’s and don’ts. “It is quite a difficult thing to follow all the Covid induced norms on campus without the co-operation of students,” said Indrani Chattopadhyay, vice principal of the school. At Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, after the students have walked in and are settled in their classrooms and laboratories, class teachers will select the leaders who would be inducted to help teachers of the Covid squad. Looking at the progress the squad is making, after a week or 10 days, rotational duty among students might be given. Birla High School has already inducted two senior boys in the team, who will monitor the situation along with the teachers. A video shot by the school on the new norms shows how the two boys are doing the drill inside the school, along with the teachers, to ensure safety for everyone on the campus. Ram Mohan Mission has decided that after students come and settle down on Friday and counselling of the new norms are done, students will be asked to talk about how well versed they are about the dos and don’ts. “Once we test their exposure we will choose some students to help out. After all, these are young children, we need to first see whether they are able to comprehend the change and how they perceive the change,” said head of the school, Sujoy Biswas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-monitors-set-to-debut-in-new-normal-times/articleshow/80869402.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt to fit GPS in vehicles to control illegal mining||JAIPUR: Addressing a state-level task force of mining department, chief secretary Niranjan Arya said that more than 34,072 cases have been registered since 2017 against illegal mining of bajri and sand stone. He said the state government has already collected penalty of Rs 207 crore from illegal mining and urged various departments including police, transport and mining to work in coordination to check the menace. Principal secretary, mines and petroleum, Ajitabh Sharma said that department is working on a action plan to check illegal mining. As part of the plan, he said, vehicles carrying bajri or stones will be fitted with GPS systems so that illegal activities can be reined in. He said this will also increase the revenue for the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-to-fit-gps-in-vehicles-to-control-illegal-mining/articleshow/80869381.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Cops find way through crowd, rush ailing woman to hospital||Nagpur: Head constable Chandrashekhar Pimpalghare and constable Mohd Hadees, attached to the Sitabuldi police station’s control room (CR) mobile team, on Tuesday swiftly responded to an alert received by the CR and rushed an ailing 45-year-old woman to a private hospital where she was admitted in the ICU. The cops had to find their way through the crowded market road and jump signals before bringing the woman to the hospital in the police vehicle.Earlier in the day, the duo had won accolades for saving a vagabond scrap collector who nearly got hit by the speeding convoy of deputy CM Ajit Pawar near Mayo hospital Square. Later, Pimpalghare and Hadees were alerted about a woman having collapsed due to chest pain at Modi no. 2 during the rush hour. The cops, who were patrolling within couple of kilometres from Sitabuldi police station, rushed towards the main market road. They managed to reach the spot within 10 minutes despite the heavy traffic. “There was hardly any space for walking due to people and hawkers on the road. We relentlessly used the public announcement system and siren to wade through the crowd,” said Pimpalghare. Pimpalghare said he has been awaiting elevation to the post of sub-inspector since 2013 even though he had qualified for it through departmental examinations. “We admitted the woman in the ICU and informed the family too. Before leaving, we ensured that she was stable and the family had reached the hospital,” he said.The woman told TOI that her sugar level had dropped all of a sudden and she felt breathlessness and heaviness in head. “I collapsed and had a sinking feeling. The shopkeepers offered me glucose water while a woman offered me a candy but there was no response even as I was shouting for ambulance,” she said.“The cops too were initially hesitant to lift me and started inquiring with the police station for some woman constable. On my insistence they picked me up and took me to hospital,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-find-way-through-crowd-rush-ailing-woman-to-hospital/articleshow/80866721.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 12, 2021||Nashik||Petrol, diesel prices reach all-time high in Nashik||Nashik: Fuel prices in Nashik city increased again on Thursday. This has been the fourth fuel price hike in Nashik so far in February. While petrol rose by 53 paise to reach Rs 94.75 per litre, diesel too saw a 57 paise increase and was selling for Rs 84.02 per litre on Thursday. This is also an all-time high in the city. “There has been a continuous rise in fuel prices over the past two months. The prices of petrol and diesel have increased four times between Feb 1 and 11,” said Vijay Thakare, the vice-president of the Federation of All Maharashtra Petrol Dealers’Association (FAMPEDA). The recent high fuel prices across the country have started taking a toll. Chetan Padwal, who had returned to Pune city from a village in Beed district barely two months ago — with the hope to resume his job as a private cab driver following a relaxation in the lockdown norms — is now planning to go back to his hometown again. He is uncertain about his survival as the rising fuel prices are eating into his daily profit margins like never before. “I increased the fares following the exorbitant rise in the fuel prices. But there are still very few passengers. If the diesel price does not come down, I think I have to end my stay in Pune and return to Beed,” Padwal said. Fuel prices in Pune city rose for the third consecutive day on Thursday, with a litre of petrol and diesel costing Rs94 and Rs83.31, respectively. Ali Daruwalla, national spokesperson of the All-India Petrol Dealers Association, told TOI that the current petrol prices were the highest-ever in Pune. —With inputs from Joy Sengupta in Pune||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/petrol-diesel-prices-reach-all-time-high-in-nashik/articleshow/80869396.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||23% rise in daily Covid-19 cases||Ahmedabad: In four days, the daily Covid-19 positive cases rose from 232 on February 8 to 285 on February 11, recording 23% rise. Since February 8, Gujarat is witnessing upward trend for the first time since Diwali surge. Analysis of the daily cases reveals that 74% of the 285 cases were recorded from eight municipal corporation areas. February 11 recorded 14-day high for Rajkot, seven-day high for Surat and four-day high for Vadodara and Ahmedabad cities. The weekly average share of the municipal corporations is 71%, revealed the analysis. Experts said that the cases have come down after a lot of efforts, and it’s still not the time to throw caution to the wind. “We are passing through a crucial phase of fight against Covid-19, and one must not let their guards down,” said Dr Manoj Vithlani, an internal medicine expert. “The motto of SMS – social distancing, mask and sanitizing – should be followed strictly. One must avoid unnecessary meets or relax just yet about reduction in cases to ensure that the gains of past couple of months are not lost.” On positive note, the cases have remained concentrated on urban areas. The state health department said that 13 districts out of 33 recorded zero cases. As on Thursday evening, two districts — Porbandar and Dang — had zero active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/23-rise-in-daily-covid-19-cases/articleshow/80869416.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Pune||Pune: Cashless travel on PMPML buses by this month-end||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will provide commuters the option of cashless fare payment by the end of this month, officials said. “We are working on the final details and EbixCash, an Indian subsidiary of US-based Ebix, has been chosen as a facilitator. Commuters will have the option of cashless payment, including a QR code-based payment system. Earlier, we had an agreement with the Central Bank of India for fare payment, which has ended,” a senior official in the traffic department of PMPML told TOI. “This is for the first time that the PMPML is offering a different mode of payment. There were talks of ‘one card-one payment’ system in the form of MI cards, but it has not picked up. The entire fare payment system is going through an overhaul and the conductors are being trained. The pandemic has forced the transport body to recognize the importance of cashless payment,” the official said. Commuters said that while the QR code payment was common, using it to pay fares would be something to look forward to. “Does the PMPML have the infrastructure to introduce it? Many bus shelters still don’t have fare charts,” said Nikunj Maghe, a regular commuter. PMP Pravasi Manch activist Sanjay Shitole questioned the choice of a US-based company for cashless payment. “Why did they choose a US-based firm when there are many Indian companies which can offer the same expertise and there is stress on Made in India products?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cashless-travel-on-pmpml-buses-by-this-month-end/articleshow/80869411.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Prosecution opposes bail plea of 18-yr-old Khar murder accused||Mumbai: Opposing the bail plea of Diya Padalkar (18), an accused in the murder of her childhood friend Jhanvi Kukreja, the prosecution told the sessions court on Thursday the force used to cause the injuries she suffered in the alleged attack could not be due to a minor scuffle. The prosecution alleged the incident was premeditated and the two accused helped one another. “It cannot be considered an act of negligence or a sudden act that happened due to their fight,” the prosecution said. The body of Kukreja (19), a psychology student, was found in a pool of blood on the ground floor of Bhagwati Heights building in Khar (West) on January 1. She had gone there with the accused to attend a New Year’s party. Padalkar, a second-year college student, who was arrested along with Shree Jogdhankar (23), is lodged in Byculla jail. The reply submitted by special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat said the victim had suffered 48 injuries from head to toe and the majority of them were grave. The prosecution said this showed they were not caused in a scuffle but inflicted with the intention of causing death. “During the probe, the accused have accepted that the injuries they suffered were sustained during the incident. The fact that they suffered injuries in the same incident is a prima facie evidence of their involvement in the crime. Hence this is sufficient to show that she should not be granted bail,” the reply said. The prosecution said investigations showed the trio left the party around 1.45am and took the stairs from the eight floor. It further alleged the fight started on the fifth floor with the accused assaulting and dragging the victim. The reply said a trail of blood stains was found starting from the fifth floor while the murder occurred on the second floor. Kukreja’s body was found at the end of the staircase on the ground floor. The reply also said a ring was found on the fifth floor. While one sandal was found on the fourth floor, the second was found on the ground floor. Additionally, earrings and a hair band were found on the third and second floors. The reply claimed these belonged to Kukreja and Padalkar. The prosecution also said clumps of hair were found on the grill on the second floor. The prosecution also refuted Padalkar’s defence that she suffered injuries to her lips as she fell down the stairs. In her bail plea. Padalkar said she left the party so that she could use the washroom in the second floor flat of the host as she was feeling dizzy and nauseous. She further said she was helped by friends to reach the flat. The prosecution said no witness had supported these claims. The prosecution feared if granted bail, Padalkar may influence witnesses. Meanwhile, on Thursday, the court allowed a plea submitted by the victim’s mother, Niddhi Kukreja, to intervene and assist the prosecution. Niddhi submitted the plea through advocate Rizwan Merchant who appeared with advocates Trivankumar Karnani and Gayatri Gokhale. The bail plea will come up for hearing on February 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/prosecution-opposes-bail-plea-of-18-yr-old-khar-murder-accused/articleshow/80868444.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 12, 2021||Bhopal||Infra booster to improve Bhopal traffic||BHOPAL: The volume of traffic in the city is rising day by day with the increase in population and rising number of vehicles. The traffic police have prepared an elaborate plan to improve the city traffic conditions in the coming years.  The report was compiled after reviewing traffic problems at various roads and squares and suggestions for long-term measures which need to be implemented. Police have shared the findings with construction agencies concerned along with the suggestions for countering the problems. Many suggestions have already been accepted and are in the pipeline. ASP (Traffic) Sandeep Dixit said there are suggestions to construct six flyovers for a smooth flow of traffic. Police have suggested construction of an ‘X’ shaped 5-km-long flyover at Roshanpura connecting Roshanpura Square to Jawahar Chowk, Polytechnic Square, Apex bank and Lily Talkies Square in Jehangirabad. A lot of political protests take place at Roshanpura Square and it is a major junction between the Old City and New Bhopal, so the traffic flow is high here. The flyover will help shifting load from the area. Speaking on the traffic chaos on Hamidia Road, he said that police have suggested the construction of a 1.3-km-long and 11.9-metre-wide flyover, which will start from Hamidia Road Durga Mandir to Nadra Bus Stand - Bhopal Talkies and reach Shahjehanabad police station square. He said that the flyover will help in shifting major traffic load from Hamidia Road. ASP Dixit said that to solve traffic problems in Kolar area, police have suggested building a 5-km-long and 50-feet-wide flyover from Chunabhatti Square to D Mart in Kolar. The flyover will help in shifting major traffic load in Kolar area. Due to unplanned development, it becomes difficult to drive on Kolar Road during the peak traffic hours. He said that to ease traffic flow at Govindpura turning near ISBT, police have suggested building a flyover from Gautam Nagar-Govindpura turning-ISBT. The spot has been an accident-prone zone for long and the flyover will help in controlling the traffic. ASP Dixit said that similarly police have suggested to build a flyover from Kamla Park to Retghat connecting VIP Road. It will help in movement of traffic coming directly from VIP Road. Apart from building new flyovers, police have also suggested construction of the left and right arms of Veer Sawarkar Setu which will help in shifting traffic load from surrounding roads in the area. He said that similarly, police have suggested building an elevated road for Bairagarh Market which will provide a separate way to vehicles going to and coming from Indore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/infra-booster-to-improve-city-traffic/articleshow/80869418.cms||Sudeept Mishra
February 12, 2021||Business||Startup jobs grew 14% during the pandemic year: Govt data||Chennai: Despite the pandemic, the country’s startup sector registered strong headcount growth — employing around 14% more employees in 2020 compared to 2019 — as digitization took centre stage during Covid-19 pandemic. The total number of people employed in India’s startups increased from nearly 1.53 lakh to 1.74 lakh, as per data shared by the Commerce ministry in the Lok Sabha. This data relates to just startups that have registered under the Startup India initiative. While startups and large enterprises alike felt the initial shock of the pandemic, HR firms said that being digital natives, startups were able to record robust jobs growth in the second half of the year, especially those in edtech, fintech, e-commerce, SaaS and others. At 34,008 employees, Maharashtra-based startups employed the most number of people as of December 2020 increasing employment by around 22% from the previous year. Second-largest employer base was in Karnataka, where startup jobs grew by 13%, and total people working at startups stood at 28,840. Another major startup hub Delhi registered a 20% jobs growth in the pandemic year. Despite being highly industrial, Tamil Nadu recorded just a marginal increase in the number of people working at startups from 8274 in 2019 to 8619 in 2020. Among other industrial states, Telangana and Gujarat saw a 10% and 9% dip in the number of people working at startups as of the end of 2020. Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh saw the highest increase in job creation at 55% and 58% respectively. As per a recent study by staffing firm Xpheno, around 243 companies that raised funding across Series A and beyond rounds in 2020 currently employ close to 115,000 employees in direct roles. These companies registered a 18% growth in headcount over the second half of 2020 with a net addition of over 17,000 people in July to December 2020 period. “Having battled the onset of pandemic and partial recovery earlier in the year, these companies registered an overall headcount growth of 35% over the year. Owing to remote learning, edtech emerged as the top sector for head count growth in 2020 accounting for nearly 50% of the total head count additions for the year,” Kamal Karanth, co-founder, Xpheno, said. The commerce ministry also informed the house that the government had approved the Startup India Seed Fund Scheme in January 2021 with a corpus of Rs 945 crore for next 4 years starting from 2021-22. “The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to startups for proof of concept, prototype development, product trails, market entry and commercialization,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startup-jobs-grew-14-during-the-pandemic-year-govt-data/articleshow/80840814.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
February 12, 2021||Pune||Pune cop’s son among two held on charge of extortion bid||PUNE: Officers of the city police’s crime branch on Thursday arrested two men, including the son of a constable, on the charge of attempting to extort Rs2.5 lakh from a liquor shopowner in Vimannagar following a dispute over a cricket betting deal. The police are searching for an accomplice of the arrested duo. Crime branch inspector Rajnish Nirmal and his team arrested Ajay Shinde (36), a resident of Khadak police colony, and Gaurav Ahuja (21) of Shukrawar Peth following a first information report (FIR) lodged on Wednesday evening by Umesh Mulchandani (23) with the Vimannagar police. “Shinde is a criminal on police record and has body offences to his name. Ahuja’s family runs a restaurant and wine shop in Shukrawar Peth, while Ahuja also runs a cricket betting racket, accepting bets online through a website,” said Nirmal. “The third accomplice, who is on the run, is also a criminal on police record and has murder cases in his name,” Nirmal added. Offences punishable under Sections 387 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions under the Gambling Act have been registered with the Vimannagar police. Nirmal said, “Mulchandani’s friend Rajat Grover wanted to place online bets on cricket matches. Through Mulchandani, Grover came in contact with Ahuja and the two became friends. However, Grover lost heavily in betting and paid some dues to Ahuja but did not pay the remaining dues worth Rs2.5 lakh. Grover then left the city and was not traceable. However, Ahuja wanted his money back and started demanding the same from Mulchandani.” The officer said, “On Tuesday night, Ahuja went to Mulchandani’s place and threatened him with dire consequences. Ahuja also got his good friend, Ajay Shinde, to call Mulchandani and threaten the latter. Shinde threatened Mulchandani that his family members will be killed if he failed to pay Rs2.5 lakh to Ahuja.” The threat prompted Mulchandani to approach the police with a complaint of extortion. “We are in pursuit of the third accomplice and hope to arrest him soon,” Nirmal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-son-among-two-held-on-charge-of-extortion-bid/articleshow/80869419.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Agra||Kasganj cop killing: Illicit liquor smuggler was active for 7 years, ‘wielded considerable influence in Agra’||Agra: There was a strange silence in Kasganj’s Nagla Dhimar village but hushed voices drew curious parallels between slain gangster Vikas Dubey of Kanpur Dehat and Moti Dhimar-- a spurious liquor maker who allegedly killed a policeman and left his superior seriously injured two days ago. They both enjoyed “patronage”, wielded influence and operated with impunity, locals claimed. Dhimar, 35, is still on the run while his elder brother, Elkar, was killed in an encounter with police on Wednesday. Sources said that Dhimar had been operating from the forest area around Kali river for the last seven years. He was operating over 20 illegal liquor manufacturing units around Nagla Dhimar village of Sidhpura police station. Sources said that Dhimar had a network spread across the Agra region. In the last seven years, 11 criminal cases were registered against him and he was also declared a history-sheeter. A licensed country-made liquor seller in Kasganj said, “Dhimar and Elkar had been operating over 20 illegal manufacturing units involving people of his village and nearby areas. They used to sell spurious liquor made using ammonium chloride at Rs 150 per litre. Dhimar had a stronghold in six villages. Even after repeated complaints, the excise department didn’t take any action against their units.” On Thursday afternoon, police arrested a close aide of Dhimar who was allegedly involved in killing of constable Devendra Singh and wounding sub-inspector Ashok Kumar. Nawab Singh, 27, a resident of Nagla Dhimar, was arrested from Etah district. Over 100 policemen and special operation group teams have been tasked to arrest Dhimar. On Wednesday evening, IG Aligarh range Piyush Mordia had declared Rs 50,000 for any information leading to his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/kasganj-cop-killing-illicit-liquor-smuggler-was-active-for-7-years-wielded-considerable-influence-in-agra/articleshow/80866751.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Covid-19 cases up, but vaccination going down||Nagpur: The city alone reported 445 new cases of Covid-19 on February 11, and this number will touch 500 if we add cases from Nagpur district (rural) to it. In contrast, the response to vaccination against Covid-19 is going down day by day. On Thursday, only 12 out of the scheduled 100 took Covaxin at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) — the only centre for Covaxin in Nagpur division. Response to Covishield was also poor. Total 609 out of scheduled 1,700 turned up to get Covishield in city, which comes to less than 36%. Only four vaccination centres in city could manage to pass even 50% of the target. As far as Nagpur district is concerned, 32% target of vaccination was achieved on Thursday. In division, the figure was 44%, thanks to comparatively good show at Chandrapur (64%), Bhandara (59%) and Gondia (48%). On Thursday, chairman of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s medical services and health committee Virendra Kukreja visited three major corona vaccination centres in the city — Pachpaoli Maternity Hospital, Indira Gandhi Hospital and Alexis Hospital. Kukreja also raised concerns about decline in number of vaccination beneficiaries. He also interacted with the beneficiaries. Kukreja appealed to those whose names are on the list for vaccination to go to the concerned vaccination centre and get vaccinated.On the other hand, doctors and health workers at private hospitals met municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Thursday and handed over a memorandum to get them registered for vaccination.The delegation mainly comprised health professionals apart from modern medicine faculty. These included Ayurveda Professionals Association, Pharmaceutical Vendors Front, National Integrated Medical Association (NIMA), Paramedical Association, Medical Representatives, Homoeopathic Medical Association of India, and Soham Foundation. As the doctors who were registered on priority are not interested in taking vaccine, the administration should make a waiting list of these health workers who are ready to get vaccinated, reads the memorandum submitted by this delegation. Interestingly, the authorities have registered doctors and health workers in government as well as private hospitals including support staff in hospitals. But these hospitals are predominantly of the modern medicine stream. Many AYUSH practitioners and other health workers are also at risk of Covid-19 as they deal with various kinds of patients but they were not registered. BOXBOOSTER DOSE FROM SATURDAYThose who received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on first day (January 16) will be due for the booster dose on February 13, which is the 28th day of vaccination. However, how many of the beneficiaries will turn out up the second dose a big question. District Vaccine TargetAchievement Percentage Nagpur 3300104832%Wardha130061547%Chandrapur1800115664%Bhandara60035359%Gondia80038348%Gadchiroli120036530%TOTAL9000392044%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-cases-up-but-vaccination-going-down/articleshow/80867906.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 12, 2021||Lucknow||IIM-I director gives tips to cops on managing stress||Lucknow: In a first of its kind initiative, IIM-Indore director Himanshu Rai chaired a session on stress management and self-motivation for UP police here on Thursday. The event was part of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between IIM-I and the state police in January 2020. Additional director general of police, UP 112, Asim Arun said this is the first time that the state police force will partner with IIM for training. He said that world renowned educationist and management expert Himanshu Rai interacted with cops and told them how to tackle stress. In all, 2,000 police personnel deployed in 75 districts of UP 112 and its police response vehicles (PRVs) took part in the virtual session. In the online lecture, Rai said that stress comes from fear, inaction, relationships and envy. Stress damages both body and mind. There are two types of stress. One is good which comes from zeal or good news and the other is negatively affected. Rai further said that every person may have stress due to different reasons. Symptoms of stress can be back pain, headache, feeling tired, frequent forgetfulness at work, impacting decision-making ability. Rai said if anyone has any grief, pain or tension, they should share it. It is important for the body to be healthy to relieve stress. For this it is necessary to have a good sleep. “Besides, , eat food 2-3 hours before bedtime. Exercising for some time is also necessary to stay away from stress. We must understand our responsibilities. Do the work that you do with full potential,” he added. Later, talking to TOI, Rai said that studies have indicated higher stress levels in police personnel. Police are expected not merely to maintain law and order, but also interface with the public for conflict resolution, mostly under high pressure situations. Given this interplay of expectations, it is essential to provide appropriate training and counselling interventions to the police force to help them cope with pressure. Many cops from Shamli, Gorakhpur, Pilibhit, Jhansi and Kanpur also asked questions from the director on how to handle stress. Arun said that tips by the director will surely help cops to effectively handle stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iim-i-director-gives-tips-to-cops-on-managing-stress/articleshow/80870711.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Pune||Sheffield region to partner with Pune on transport, environment||Pune: Dan Jarvis, the mayor of Sheffield city region, who led a “virtual delegation” to the city, said his office was interested in cooperating with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on issues relating to public transport and environment, while pursuing other areas of cooperation through the UK-India Business Council (UKIBC). Jarvis spoke to Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol on a wide range of issues ranging from technology cooperation and exchange, investments in businesses, transport infrastructure, planning and environment. In an interaction with TOI, Jarvis said that he was expecting more cooperation, including a possible sister city partnership with Pune, and mutual visits. “There is a huge degree of complementarity between Pune and the Sheffield City Region, and that is why it is the Indian city with which my team and I are engaging with. I am delighted to accept an invitation from the mayor to visit Pune, and I’m really looking forward to being there in person later this year. Likewise, I hope that mayor Mohol and his team will be able to make an official visit to my city,” Jarvis said. Jarvis earmarked transport and mobility as one of the key areas of cooperation, praising the electric buses, cycle lanes, and river regeneration programmes in Pune, as well as the construction of the Pune Metro. “We look forward to exchanging technical expertise in the months and years ahead. Our short and long-term plans include installing electric vehicle charging points; electric bikes/scooters and ‘mobility as a service’; an emission-free public transport system, with hydrogen and electric buses; and investing in green infrastructure to manage flooding,” he added. Planning authorities in the UKare elected by popular vote in local elections, which helps in better coordination and planning. “The benefits of having an elected planning authority are that we can be more proactive in getting things done. We can tackle major challenges, such as encouraging more sustainable forms of transport and more active mobility around our region,” said Jarvis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sheffield-region-to-partner-with-pune-on-transport-environment/articleshow/80869430.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
February 12, 2021||Pune||Transport utility hits back at civic body over automated doors’ dispute||Pune: The rift between the Pune Municipal Corporation and Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) widened on Thursday, a day after the former said it would not install automated doors at bus stops on the Katraj-Swargate BRTS corridor.On Wednesday, PMC road department chief V J Kulkarni said they saw no point in spending Rs1 crore on automated doors, as PMPML tended not to use them properly. He had also said the BRTS buses lacked RFID tags that would help the automated doors open or close as needed.On Thursday, PMPML hit back, accusing PMC of trying to save money.PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap dismissed claims that the automated doors were not operated properly. “If that were the case, why did PMC float tenders for the automated doors to begin with? How do BRTS corridors in PCMC limits have functional automatic doors? If the plan was to set up manual gates, what about the remainder of the allotted Rs1 crore for automated gates?” Jagtap said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transport-utility-hits-back-at-civic-body-over-automated-doors-dispute/articleshow/80869433.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Civic chief orders restarting aggressive contact tracing, testing||Nagpur: Amid lowering of guard by civic health teams and citizens alike, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Thursday ordered aggressive tracing and Covid testing of close contacts of positive persons.After gradual dip in daily new Covid cases, the numbers have rapidly began to spiral in the last one week and even touched 500-mark on Thursday, first time after December 5. Number of daily tests, which had been ranging between 2,500 and 3,500 for the last two months, too increased to 5,085.Alarmed over the spike in Covid cases, the civic chief held a damage control meeting with additional municipal commissioners Jalaj Sharma, Ram Joshi, and Sanjay Nipane, chief medical officer Sanjay Chilkar, Dr Narendra Bahirwar, and Dr Tikesh Bisen at the corona war room.The rapid response teams had stopped contact tracing because of the fall in cases, though no orders to that effect were issued, said officials. In the evening, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) decided to increase contact tracing and Covid testing in general. However, targeted testing would be done for those coming in contact with more people. This group includes household maids, milkmen, vegetable sellers, cooks and food stall owners, security guards, shopkeepers etc. Earlier in the day, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray too had called for increased testing. Central government team had observed that far less testing was being done daily in Maharashtra as compared to Delhi having a population of over 2 crore, officials said.The NMC would also facilitate rapid antigen test (RAT) at all its 55 centres across the city. Those testing negative in antigen test will have to take RT-PCR at the same centre, in case they have symptoms.The civic chief also appealed to private hospitals to not to refer serious Covid patients to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College & Hospital (IGGMCH) or Government Medical College & Hospital (GMCH), but try and save their life at their establishment only. Radhakrishnan said citizens must be Covid warriors themselves and use mask, maintain distancing, hand hygiene, and elderly people must avoid going out.The civic chief also called up police commissioner Amitesh Kumar to discuss casual approach of citizens towards Covid norms. He requested the CP to initiate action against people who violate distancing norms, and do not use mask. Radhakrishnan also told Kumar that following unlocking of movement control restrictions, citizens have become careless, resulting in spike in Covid cases.Free RT-PCR/antigen test55 centres | All primary health centres, civic health posts, mobile vans in each zone, Mahal diagnostics centre, Badkas Chowk, Dattatreya Nagar NMC school (in place of Ravi Bhavan), Narendra Nagar Samaj Bhavan (in place of Morris College), Central Railway Community Hall, NMC hospitals at Gandhi Nagar, Isolation Hospital at Imambaba||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-chief-orders-restarting-aggressive-contact-tracing-testing/articleshow/80866770.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 12, 2021||Bhopal||Twice as many cops turn up to get the jab than UAD staff||Bhopal: Twice as many of policemen, compared to urban development department (UAD) employees are turning up across Madhya Pradesh to get vaccinated against Covid-19. Overall, vaccination is picking up pace across the state where an average number of beneficiaries turning up to get the vaccinated is a healthy 153. After three days of vaccination more than 25% of frontline workers (FLWs) have been vaccinated across the state, according to a health department review. There are an estimated 3.5 lakh FLWs in the state registered to get vaccinated. The above analysis is based on Co-WIN database as of 9 PM on February 10.Serving from the front during the pandemic, policemen (and their families) were among the most-affected lot from the pandemic. According to health department review, 34% of policemen got the jab at the end of day three of vaccination. Sessions have been scheduled for 78% of policemen (registered beneficiaries). Policemen account for about 1.3 lakh of beneficiaries. Compared, urban development employees, session were planned for 82% of registered beneficiaries planned and 17% have come forward to get vaccinated. The coverage is better for 31% for revenue department. Coverage of Panchayati Raj officials is a low 11%. However, only 30% of their beneficiary sessions were planned until Wednesday. In that pretext, more than half of the Panchayati Raj workers turned up to get vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/twice-as-many-cops-turn-up-to-get-the-jab-than-uad-staff/articleshow/80869421.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Leopards proliferate, Gujarat seeks to start sterilization||AHMEDABAD: The leopard population in the wild is estimated to be about 3,200 in Gujarat. This is more than double the number in the last census carried out in 2016. “The number has increased to over 3,200. The census is due anytime and once the official count is taken, the state will have the exact number,” said a senior forest official. While the state government’s next census is expected to take place this year, an official announcement on the same is awaited. Gujarat has a total population of 1,395 leopards as per the statewide census carried out five years ago. The population estimates of the wild cat have been under-reported mainly due to the counting methodology used by the Gujarat forest department, said sources. TimesViewThe latest leopard census released by Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar in 2020 does not take into account the population in Gujarat. Although the state ranks second after Madhya Pradesh in the number of leopards, it did not figure in the official countrywide figures, as the state does not follow the camera-trap method used for the census of big cats, including tigers. Gujarat instead uses a direct-sighting method for counting leopards and lions as well. The state should start using this new scientific method for its future census so that accurate numbers can be revealed.The state forest department’s proposal to the Centre for sterilization of leopards to control their population is yet to be cleared, two years after submitting it. Gujarat is the only state in the country where the two big cats — lions and leopards — have co-existed. Their numbers have also consistently grown for a long time now. Despite the rise in numbers, the man-animal conflict in the area has been under control. There are not more than 15 human deaths every year and about 45 cases of human injury due to conflict with the wild cat, said a forest official. Leopards play a vital role in controlling populations of feral dogs, nilgais and wild boars. “The number of deaths caused by leopards is far less than caused by feral dogs or feral cattle,” according to the official. To further reduce man-leopard conflict, the forest department has decided to radio-collar five leopards. “This is done to study their movements, their behaviour and their territory. There will be research conducted on these radio-collared animals,” the official added. According to the latest leopard census released by Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar last year, the leopard population in the country has increased from 8,000 in 2014 to 12,852 in 2018. The list does not include the leopard population in Gujarat. Madhya Pradesh (3,421) is estimated to have the highest concentration of leopards followed by Karnataka (1,783) and Maharashtra (1,690). The surge in leopard numbers in Gujarat is thanks to good conservation efforts taken by the state forest department. A reduction in prey base and fragmented habitats have led to leopards moving around in urban areas. In a study published in March 2020 in the journal PLOS One, researchers from Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), highlighted how lions and leopards divide time and space in Gir to coexist. The study is a collaborative effort between the Gujarat forest department and the department of wildlife sciences, AMU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/leopards-proliferate-state-seeks-to-start-sterilization/articleshow/80869425.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Many pay cuts restored post-Covid, but PF contributions remain down||Nagpur: Close to a year after the Covid outbreak, pay cuts are fast becoming a thing of the past in many sectors in the region, with corporates even planning pay hikes for the next fiscal. However, the number of jobs where provident fund is deducted is still down in the region.TOI contacted a cross section of industries, ranging from manufacturing, textile, IT, health care, infrastructure, SMEs and trade. There were reports that salaries were fully or partially restored, with some also having given pay hikes. Checking other parameters, though, showed that even if industrial activity was in full swing, the number of jobs is far from the pre-Covid days.The monthly contribution toward employees provident fund (EPF) in Vidarbha has come down to Rs520 crore odd from over Rs930 crore before Covid. The number of employees in whose accounts the contribution is received remains in the range of 3.25 lakh odd as against well over 5 lakh before the Covid outbreak. The IT sector is a major contributor with contributions running into lakhs, said an industry source.Reduction in amount of contribution shows that the salaries themselves would have been reduced, in turn bringing down PF liability. If the number of employees is reduced it means that manpower could have been cut. EPFO covers over 17 lakh employees here, out of which regular contributions came for over 5 lakh before Covid. This is down to 3 to 3.25 lakh, said sources. One of the main reasons for fall in contributions is pay and job cuts, said sources.Anand Sancheti of SMS Group, a key player in industrial waste management business, said the company’s revenues from solid and effluent management have reduced marginally. In the last three months, it has surpassed same period level of pre-Covid times.Sources say this is an indication industrial activity is running at normal levels. Though it cannot be denied that units may have cut down on workforce.Sancheti said in his group there were delays in salary payment during initial months but the backlog has been cleared. There were no pay cuts and salary disbursal has also normalized now.Sameer Bendre, chief people’s officer of Persistent Systems Limited, said there were pay cuts in the range of 5% to 8% but salaries were restored post July. There have been increments too after that.A senior employee of an engineering unit of a listed company said pay cuts were in place till June. The salaries were restored after that, and appraisal process for next increment has been started.Representatives of two major units at the Amravati textile park said salaries have been partially restored, with full restoration planned by March.K Sujatha from Wockhardt Hospitals said in months when Covid was at its peak the staff was asked to come on alternate days, and salaries were paid accordingly. “It’s a thing of past now. The due increment of last year has also been paid,” she said.Dipen Agrawal, secretary of Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT), said salaries are not back to Covid level exactly, but on the path to recovery.Nitin Lonkar, former president of Butibori Manufacturers Association (BMA), said around 25% units may still be facing cash crunch, but salaries are back to normal in rest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-pay-cuts-restored-post-covid-but-pf-contributions-remain-down/articleshow/80866760.cms||Shishir Arya
February 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Citizens exhorted to take buses in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Amid public outcry over rise in fuel prices, the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL) has appealed to citizens to use public transport like the city bus service to beat the hike. Prasahant Bhusari, chief operations manager of smart city bus division, said on Thursday the public transport in Aurangabad was among the cheapest in the state. “The cost of travelling in city buses is around Rs 4 for every 2km. The network of city buses is spread not only in the municipal limits but also in the fringe areas. Amid rising prices of petrol and diesel, citizens should opt for public transport instead of using personal vehicles as the former is both economical and safe,” said Bhusari. The ASCDCL, which is currently operating a fleet of 50 buses, has offered different passes for the benefit of travellers. “We have introduced a single-day pass of Rs 60, using which citizens can travel as much distance as possible within 24 hours. In order to attract office-goers and other working population, we have introduced schemes where in citizens pay fare for five, 20 and 60 days and avail of the city bus service for seven, 30 and 90 days respectively,” he said. As key component of the Intelligent Transport Management System (ITMS), the ASCDCL has recently introduced a state-of-the-art multi-functional ‘My Smart City bus’ mobile app which offers benefits like real-time updates on expected time of arrival (ETA) of buses, helping passenger plan journey by source and destination and facilitate bus-tracking service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/citizens-exhorted-to-take-buses-in-aurangabad/articleshow/80869426.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Bhopal||Jr docs’ strike for ‘rights of patients’ hits OPD, surgeries||Bhopal: The Gandhi Medical College (GMC) administration has sought a fortnight’s time to address issues highlighted by the junior doctors’ association (JUDA), which went on a one-day stir here on Thursday. Besides 60 planned surgeries being postponed, OPD treatment was affected due to the stir. Even medicine dispensation, a major demand of JUDA, was adversely impacted through the day. There have been many agitations at the state capital’s largest tertiary care hospital. But the one on Friday stood apart as JUDA went on a stir demanding better patient services and highlighted issues like non-availability of medicine, diagnostics and demanded refund for the amount spent on Covid-19 recovery. The last demand pertains to dispensation of Remdesivir injection, a vital lifesaver in Covid-19 treatment. Though the one-day stir was for the benefit of the patients, the same community was at the receiving end of the strike. Earlier on Wednesday, the hospital administration claimed that alternative arrangements were in place. On Thursday, patient admissions and OPD numbers were at a bare minimum. GMC-associated hospitals, Hamidia hospital and maternity care Sultania hospital, reportedly postponed 60 operations. “Patient services were not affected. Covid-19 treatment and emergency care was not interrupted. OPD numbers were low. Consultant and senior residents were at the OPD providing regular services. Some planned operations were postponed,” said Hamidia hospital superintendent, Dr ID Chaurisia. JUDA president, Dr Arvind Meena, alleged, “Basic and essential medicines and drugs are not available. We have constantly notified the GMC administration about the situation. We had no option, but to go on a stir to highlight the issue.” JUDA claims that around 80 doctors were diagnosed with Covid-19 infection during the pandemic. Some doctors have even been infected twice. The government has not yet reimbursed the amount spent on their treatment and purchase of injections like Remdesivir. An estimated Rs 30,000 worth of Remdesivir has been purchased for each treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jr-docs-strike-for-rights-of-patients-hits-opd-surgeries/articleshow/80869431.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Keep Shiv Jayanti celebrations low-key: Govt||Mumbai: The state home department issued a circular on Thursday appealing that Shiv Jayanti, the birth anniversary of Maratha warrior King Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj on February 19, should be observed in a simple and low-key manner, following Covid norms. The state appealed to people not to hold processions, bike rallies or any cultural event on the occasion but only garland the portrait of Shivaji Maharaj, with only 100 participants. The government said blood donation or medical camps and awareness programmes on preventive measures of Covid-19, dengue and malaria should be organised to mark the day, by following social distancing norms, the circular stated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/keep-shiv-jayanti-celebrations-low-key-govt/articleshow/80868128.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Let hostel students take exams near their homes’||Ahmedabad: A proposal for students of Classes X and XII living in hostels away from their homes should be allowed to take their board exams this May at examination centres close to their home towns, was submitted to the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) by Dr Priyavadan Korat, a former board member. His letter has also suggested that practical examination for Class XII science students be taken at the schools they are enrolled at, to avoid travel during Covid-19 times. The board is looking at the proposal and will soon decide on it after consulting the state government, sources in GSHSEB said. After being shut for over nine months due to Covid-19, the government had on January 11 allowed the reopening of educational institutions in the state in a staggered manner, starting with Classes X and Class XII. Earlier this month, the government also allowed coaching classes for competitive examinations to reopen. The necessary precautions such as social distancing, thermal screening, and other measures have been put in place in schools. More than 17 lakh students are enrolled in Classes X and XII and a sizeable number of them have begun going back to schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/let-hostel-students-take-exams-near-their-homes/articleshow/80869432.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Fake certification: Plant trying to export antibiotics raided in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: On Thursday, Gujarat’s food and drugs authority raided a pharmaceutical plant in Hajipur, in Kalol taluka of Gandhinagar district, that was packing antibiotics to Nigeria, based on a fake certification, said food and drugs commissioner H G Koshia. He added that the raw material seized from the location has been sent for laboratory tests. “We have seized raw material and packaging items worth Rs 63 lakh. The alleged factory, Sunlovis Pharmaceutical LLP, Ahmedabad, was allegedly packing antibiotic drug called “Exaclav-625 Co-Amoxiclav Tablet BP” and was using an alleged fake certification of Ms Finecure Pharma, a company based in Uttrakhand, Koshia said. “What has intrigued us was that the cartons and other packaging material had printed on them that the drug was manufactured by Nicholson Healthcare and was marketed by Exagon Pharmaceuticals located in Abuja in Nigeria. We are investigating whether these spurious antibiotic drugs were pumped into the Indian market as well,” Koshia added. The carton also claimed that the drug was manufactured under licence from Brussels Laboratories Pvt Ltd. “Sunlovis also manufactured another drug for which they had no approval for, called Exatil,” Koshia said. He said that the company was functional for last three years. “The extent of the scam is being analysed by a team of Gujarat FDCA. The owner of the alleged firm Pravin Chaudhary is being questioned, which will help us understand its extent,” added Koshia. A senior FDCA official revealed that all the cartons had manufacturing date as January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-certification-plant-trying-to-export-antibiotics-raided/articleshow/80869460.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Bhopal||New Covid cases in double digits confined to just 3 dists||Bhopal: In the week from January 4 to January 10, new coronavirus cases in double digits have been confined to just three districts -- Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur -- except for January 4, when Gwalior, too, had more than 10 new coronavirus patients. Similarly, Bhopal has always been at the top of the chart in the state, except for January 10, when Indore -- with 39 new patients -- was at the top, followed by Bhopal with 35 new cases.During the period, there have been one or more deaths in the state every day due to Covid-19, except for January 7, when there was no coronavirus death reported from anywhere in the state. New Covid-19 cases in any one district never touched 100 and the total cases in the state were always less than 200. Bhopal --with 90 new coronavirus patients on January 6 -- had the highest one-day tally of new coronavirus patients in the state while Indore had the highest one-day tally of 49 on January 7. The highest coronavirus tally in the state during the period was 197 on January 6. Jabalpur has been the third constant district in the list of 10 or more than 10 new coronavirus patients during this period, while Gwalior never figured in the list after January 4. In all, there were 11 coronavirus deaths across the state during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-covid-cases-in-double-digits-confined-to-just-3-dists/articleshow/80869455.cms||---
February 12, 2021||India||Got rid of 340 ‘deadwood’ officials in 6 years: Govt||NEW DELHI: As many as 340 officers of the central government, including those belonging to the All India Services, have been subjected to Fundamental Rule 56(J), which provides for compulsory retirement of employees over non-performance or for being ‘deadwood’, and similar provisions between July 2014 and December 2020, the government informed the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. As per the information/data provided by different ministries/departments/cadre controlling authorities(CCAs), provisions of FR 56(J)/similar rules have been invoked against 171 Group-A central government officers, including All India Services(AIS) officers, and 169 Group-B officers of different ministries/departments during the period from July 2014 to December 2020, minister of personnel Jitendra Singh said in written reply to a question. In January 2020, all the ministries/departments of the central government were requested to take timebound action to fill the existing vacancies in respective ministries/departments and their attached/subordinate offices, said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/got-rid-of-340-deadwood-officials-in-6-years-govt/articleshow/80871586.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Two clear UPSC prelims from GU’s Shodhan centre||Ahmedabad: Two students from the very first batch of the Shodhan UPSC Coaching Centre at Gujarat University have cleared the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) prelims, sources in GU said. After remaining closed for almost a decade, the Shodhan UPSC Coaching Centre began admissions last year. For this, the varsity roped in the Jain International Organization (JIO) to provide students of Gujarat an opportunity to become IAS/IPS officers. The institute aims to enrol 200 students every year by conducting an entrance exam. Shodhan UPSC Coaching Centre has become the second such institute in Gujarat after Sardar Patel Institute of Public Administration (SPIPA), to provide coaching for civil services exams. The institute was forced to close about a decade ago after it failed to find faculty members. The entrance exam for admission to this institute is to be of 200 marks and students who are in their final year of graduation or have a higher degree will be eligible, it said. The centre was established in the late seventies with an independent building of its own. The centre used to select 60 candidates for the preparatory programme for civil services examination of the UPSC through admission tests and interviews.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-clear-upsc-prelims-from-gus-shodhan-centre/articleshow/80869475.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Pune||Pune: Devendra Fadnavis moots hill station development for biodiversity park areas||PUNE: Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday stirred up a hornet’s nest when he said biodiversity park (BDP) areas could be developed like hill stations where up to 15% development can be allowed. “We are on the same page where we agree that densification should not be allowed in BDP areas. A majority of the land available here is privately owned. If a policy is not finalised about the BDPs, it will lead to encroachments. Already, people are trying to find ways to sell their lands in BDPs. So, a policy should be formed and implemented which is satisfactory for all stake holders,” he said. TimesViewSince the merger of the 23 villages in the PMC limits in1997, political parties have time and again tried to throw open the 987 hectares of the hilltop/ hill slope zones in these villages for construction. Puneites have unanimously rejected every such proposal in the last two decades. After the official objections raised by citizens, the civic body resolved to preserve these hills as biodiversity parks and recommend the state to impose a cap of 0.4 Floor Space Index on permissible constructions. Any idea or proposal to allow relaxations in the set norms that were decided after a prolonged debate amounts to breach of the citizens' trust and should be rejected forthwith.He was speaking at a press conference after reviewing big ticket projects the Pune Municipal Corporation has undertaken. “Building a consensus on the BDP issue is a hurdle for a final call about them. But, it is necessary to build common ground. When we were in power in the state, we had given thought to such a policy, something on the lines of Matheran and Mahabaleshwar, to resolve the BDP issue,” Fadnavis said. He added that there are different opinions on allowing constructions in these reserved areas. Currently, around 0.8% construction of the total land size is allowed. But, people will not give up their land. So, some rules must be finalised, he said. However, Fadnavis’s words have upset conservationists, activists and citizens who want the BDPs protected. They have time and again expressed concern about illegal constructions in these green spaces and opposed corporators and politicians who have sought permissions for constructions in them. Rajya Sabha member Vandana Chavan said allowing more construction in the BDPs is not a good idea and must be opposed. “The topography and other environmental aspects of Pune are not same as a hill station’s. So, comparing them with a hill station is not the right way of resolving the matter. It shows poor vision towards planning,” she said. Urban planner Anita Gokhale Benninger said she was disappointed that such a possibility is being considered. “Hill stations have at least 90% forest and only 10% construction. This is not the case in Pune. The decision to protect BDPs should be followed. Saving them should be considered a mission,” she added. Water Supply PlansThe former chief minister added that the civic administration should lay optical fibre cables along with pipelines for the 24x7 water supply project which will be completed by 2023. Water consumption in Pune is among the highest in the country, and loss of water amounts to around 40%, he said. A special purpose vehicle for the riverfront development project will be formed. Work will start in May after the state government approves it, Fadnavis added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fadnavis-moots-hill-station-development-for-bdp-areas/articleshow/80869465.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Pune||Police must expose truth in suicide case: Devendra Fadnavis||PUNE: Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday demanded that the Pune police should thoroughly investigate and bring to the fore the truth behind the mysterious death of a 22-year-old woman after falling from the first-floor balcony of a society building at the Mohammadwadi area during the wee hours of Monday. The police prima facie said it was a case of suicide. But the social media is abuzz with posts about the girl’s relationship with a minister in the state government as the possible cause of her taking the extreme step. “This is becoming a serious issue. I am told that there are several posts on social media related to the incident. I expect the Pune police to immediately investigate the matter and bring out the truth before people,” Fadnavis told reporters when asked about the incident. Without naming any individual, he said, “The Pune police, in no manner, should try to suppress the matter considering that a young woman has died by suicide and there is suspicion about the circumstances leading to her death.” The young woman, an arts graduate who had shifted from Parli in Beed district to Pune on January 30 for undertaking a spoken English course, had died of head and spinal cord injuries after falling from the first-floor balcony of the society building around 1.30am on Monday. The balcony was at a height of 15 feet. Senior inspector Deepak Lagad of the Wanowrie police had then said, “Based on prima facie circumstances, we suspect it to be a case of death by suicide and have registered a case of accidental death.” Lagad told TOI on Thursday, “We have recorded statements of the girl’s parents, her brother and her friend but none of them have named or levelled any allegation of the kind circulating on the social media. We are conducting an inquiry into the social media posts related to the girl’s death to identify their source.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-must-expose-truth-in-suicide-case-fadnavis/articleshow/80869495.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Trichy||Posters in Karur call chief min Palaniswami revolutionary leader||Trichy: Posters have cropped up in Karur district projecting chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as Vazhum Puratchi Thalaivar (living revolutionary leader), a prefix with which former chief minister M G Ramachandran used to be addressed.The posters show EPS in MGR’s attire with the trademark fur cap and dark glasses. Words of praise have been showered on the CM for waiving farm loans and bringing happiness to farmers. Karur district AIADMK MGR youth wing secretary N Dhanesh @ Muthu Kumar, who pasted the posters across the district, said CM EPS is indeed a “living MGR due to his good governance.” It was not just the farm loans, but people were happy with the way the CM was leading the state. “Be it in terms of giving Pongal gift or other beneficial schemes, he stands for the welfare of the people as party founder MGR did,” said Muthu Kumar. He said DMK party members in the district had told him that the decision on farm loan waiver had spoiled the prospects of the opposition party in the election. Muthukumar had depicted EPS as Bahubali in posters he released during new year in which the latter was shown taking oath for a second term in office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/posters-in-karur-call-chief-min-palaniswami-revolutionary-leader/articleshow/80869461.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Tilak Nagar, Mulund see spurt in cases as residents flout Covid protocols||MUMBAI: Nine of the city’s 24 civic wards are registering a higher growth rate of Covid-19 cases than the city’s average. While Covid-19 cases in Mumbai grew 0.13% over the past one week, five wards from the eastern suburbs, three from western and one from central Mumbai recorded a growth rate of 0.14% to 0.21%. Importantly, cases are mainly from non-slum areas. Areas reporting most cases from central suburbs include Tilak Nagar, Mulund, Nehru Nagar in Kurla, Ghatkopar, Vikhroli and Bhandup. In the western suburbs, more cases are being reported from Bandra, Khar, Andheri and Jogeshwari (East). The only ward showing a higher growth rate from central Mumbai is F-North (0.15%) that includes Matunga and Dharavi. Civic officials said the spurt in cases couldn’t be linked to local train access to all as people were already commuting by buses and other modes. In M-West Ward that covers Chembur and Tilak Nagar and currently has the highest growth rate at 0.21%, average detections have doubled from 15-20 cases daily till last week. Dr Bhupendra Patil, medical officer of health (MOH), said 98% cases are from highrises in Tilak Nagar, Subhash Nagar, Sindhi Society and Bhakti Park. “In several cases, people have wasted 4-5 days to get tested, by which time the family members got infected too,” he said, adding they have intensified contact tracing. Microanalysis of rising cases points towards non-adherence to Covid protocols, said civic officials. At L Ward (Kurla), which has the third highest growth rate (0.17%), there has been an around 3% jump in daily detections since last month. Between February 2 and 9, the ward has seen 141 new cases. Medical officer Dr Jeetendra Jadhav said their ward-level analysis has traced 80% cases to highrises where patients had a history of commuting. Nehru Nagar is a hotspot. “We have also found violations of containment rules.” Assistant commissioner Kishore Gandhi from T Ward, which has seen a high growth rate, said most cases are being reported from Mulund highrises. He, though, said daily addition of 20-30 cases was not as drastic as 50-60 in October and November. Yet, this ward has the second highest sealed floors at 198 after K-West. K-West that includes Andheri (West) recorded the highest addition of cases last week at 238. A civic official said, “What we are seeing is most cases are mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic.” Jadhav said many are detected prior to medical procedures when a test is carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tilak-ngr-mulund-see-spurt-in-cases-as-residents-flout-covid-protocols/articleshow/80868009.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 12, 2021||Bhopal||MP love jihad: 23 cases in 23 days||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh averaged one case a day under the Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020 — commonly called the ‘love-jihad’ law — in the first month of its inception. “Twenty-three cases were registered under the newly passed Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020 in January in Madhya Pradesh,” home minister Narottam Mishra said on Thursday. The ordinance came into force on January 9. Bhopal, with seven cases, tops the list, followed by five in Indore Range, four each in Jabalpur and Rewa and three in Gwalior. “We maintain that this is a serious issue and such forces are active across the country. An effort has been taken in Madhya Pradesh to stop them,” Mishra said. The first case under the new law was registered on January 17 in Palsud police station of Barwani district. A married man, Sohail Mansiri alias Sunny, was arrested for allegedly sexually abusing a girl of another community for four years by hiding his original name. Three days later, the state capital had its first ‘love jihad’ case, and clocked six more in the next 11 days. In Mandleshwar of Khargone district, a 21-year-old college girl complained that a man named Sahil Qureshi had posed as a Hindu and when his true identity was revealed, started pressuring her to change her religion. Sahil has since got bail. Bhopal, with 7 cases, tops list, followed by five in Indore rangeThe majority of the complaints are by women who allege they were duped into a relationship, but a few are over alleged attempts at conversion through force or allure. In Indore on January 27, nine people were arrested on the complaint of a 25-year-old woman for allegedly forcing her to embrace Christianity at a mass prayer service held right behind a police station. Among those arrested are the woman’s parents. In the most recent case, a pastor and two others were booked in Seoni for allegedly luring villagers with Rs 10,000 to embrace Christianity. The FIR was registered on a complaint from a villager named Sumat Lal. The new ordinance — which will have to be approved by the MP assembly within six months — has jail terms ranging from 1-5 years with a minimum penalty of Rs 25,000. The maximum prison term rises to 10 years and the fine to Rs 50,000 if the victim is from an SC-ST community or is a minor. Only those related to the victim, such as parents and siblings, can register an FIR while all other complainants, including guardians, need to approach the district court, say officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/23-cases-in-as-many-days-under-love-jihad-law-in-mp/articleshow/80869469.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||15,807 receive C-jabs, West sees max jump||New Delhi: Although the number of healthcare and frontline workers who turned up for the Covid shot on Thursday touched the single-day highest mark at 15,807, the turnout percentage was just 62.4% as against 80.5% on Wednesday. The number of adverse events was 12, all of them minor. The turnout count increased in North, New Delhi, North East, Shahdara, South and West districts, with the biggest jump over the previous day seen in West district that vaccinated 2,460 people as against 1,880 on Wednesday. The turnout marginally decreased in East and South East districts. The count has been increasing in the past few days as Delhi Police and paramilitary personnel are turning up in large numbers. However, the percentage fell on Thursday as the number of vaccination centres went up from 183 to 253, said an official. The target of single-day vaccination has been increased from 18,300 to 25,300. The government has added more vaccination centres to accommodate the beneficiaries due for the second dosage from the end of this week. This exercise is likely to start on February 13. The number of total vaccinated people in Delhi is now 1.62 lakh. In the first phase, the vaccine will be given to 51 lakh people, including 2.5 lakh healthcare and 6 lakh frontline workers, and over 42 lakh people either above 50 years of age or below 50 but with comorbidities. The number of vaccination centre increased to 38 from 30 in Central district, from 19 to 34 in West, from 19 to 28 in South East, from six to 14 in North, from 22 to 27 in North West and from 14 to 24 in Shahdara district. All districts have reported far less than the total expected number of beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/15807-receive-c-jabs-west-sees-max-jump/articleshow/80868111.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Pune||PMPML tickets to be printed in Marathi||Pune: The PMPML officials said that bus tickets will soon be printed in Marathi, instead of English. “Conductors are being trained on the use of new ticketing machines. There is a plan to introduce tickets in Marathi. We have been asking for it since long, but things didn’t materialise,” a PMPML official told TOI. Many conductors and commuters don’t understand English. There has been a longstanding demand from many commuters about tickets in Marathi, the official said. More than 80% of daily commuters of PMPML opt for daily tickets rather than monthly passes or MI cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-tickets-to-be-printed-in-marathi/articleshow/80869538.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 12, 2021||Trichy||We were forced to take vax: Anganwadi staff||Karur: Tension prevailed at an anganwadi centre in Karur district when a section of anganwadi workers were allegedly forced to take Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday. The incident happened at Thanthonimalai in the district where about 90 anganwadi workers were asked to take the vaccine by a team of district health staff. “The workers were not forced but only encouraged to take the vaccine,” district social welfare officer Ravi Bala told TOI. “However, some of them were not willing to take the vaccine. We took it in writing from them and didn’t vaccinate them,” she added. The workers said that they were not informed by the integrated child development services (ICDS) scheme staff about the vaccination drive. “Only after arriving at the anganwadi centre, we were told about the vaccination drive,” said a staff on request of anonymity. “We have apprehensions as those with heart ailments and other comorbidities were asked not to take the vaccine. Many of us are over the age of 40 and not sure about having heart ailments. Therefore, we refused. ,” said the worker. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/we-were-forced-to-take-vax-anganwadi-staff/articleshow/80869544.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Greylag goose tagged in Mongolia seen near Gujarat's Patdi||AHMEDABAD: A greylag goose with a satellite tag from Mongolia was been spotted at the Navatalav wetland near Patdi in Surendranagar district. This has established that these birds migrate to the state in the winter. This is the second sighting of the same individual bird, in December it had been sighted at Nalsarovar. Devvratsinh Mori, an ornithologist who photographed the bird in the Navatalav wetland, said he had an in-depth discussion with officials of The Bombay Natural History Society, who said that this bird had been tagged in Mongolia. He said that he had opened communications with experts in Mongolia and is waiting for a reply from them. The Mongolia Conservation Centre, which had satellite tagged the bird, will have information of the current location. Mori said this species is shy and if one gets too close they will fly away. Mori says that earlier, a ringed houbara bustard had been spotted in Surendranagar, which was possibly tagged in Pakistan. Greylag geese are always spotted in groups and it appears the entire flock has come from Mongolia. Sources said the Conservation Centre of Mongolia is involved with an international bird migration study and many of these tagged birds are migrating to India. The bird was tagged in the Khar Us Nur National Park, which is a wetland on the East Asian-Australasian Flyway Site network. “The greylag goose movement betwen Khar US Nur and Nalsarovar demonstrates a vital connection between these sites. The sighting established that Gujarat is an important destination on the Central Asian Flyway. Greylag geese are largely herbivorous and feed chiefly on grasses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/greylag-goose-tagged-in-mongolia-seen-near-patdi/articleshow/80869517.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Pav bhaji, vada pav cross borders, land on Pakistani plates||NAGPUR: Just 300 metres from Muhammad Ali Jinnah’s birthplace, the narrow bylanes of Kharadar in old Karachi now have a whiff of desi Indian tadka, which is only adding to the pull factor. The new hotspot here, named "Mumbai Pav Bhaji", has the latter two words written in Hindi on its flex board. The shop has pictures of Mumbai skyline, Haji Ali Dargah, and Gateway of India adorning the walls. Mumbai Pav Bhaji of Pakistan | Indian Street Food | KarachiPav bhaji and vada pav, the staple street food of Mumbai, are finding a place on the plates, and hearts, of many Pakistanis. So much so, Rizwan Shah, owner of "Mumbai Pav Bhaji", is short of hands these days. Rizwan, who started the shop in July after the lockdown norms were relaxed in Pakistan, is surprised by the response. “I was in Dubai a few years ago when I first had pav bhaji in an Indian restaurant. An Indian chef friend of mine shared its recipe with me. When I came back to Karachi, I thought of starting this restaurant,” Rizwan tells TOI on phone from Karachi. Rizwan said he wanted to give due credit to Mumbai and hence named his shop "Mumbai Pav Bhaji". “That is why my shop has photos of iconic places of the city,” he adds. Indian food in general has had its fans in the neighbouring country. The legacy of Bombay Bakery in Sindh’s Hyderabad stands testimony to it. “People still queue up outside the shop for their famous coffee cake,” says renowned Pakistani food blogger Zia Tabarak. Though there have been some protests recently against the name "Karachi Bakery" in Mumbai, Rizwan hasn’t encountered any such reaction till date. While Rizwan says his shop is the "only one in Karachi to sell pav bhaji", Zia remembers seeing a few pav bhaji stalls in Lahore too. “People here mostly eat non-veg street food. So, pav bhaji came as a refreshing change. Earlier, some 5-star restaurants used to have pav bhaji on their menu, but it wasn’t in demand. The street food version of it has found many takers, surprisingly,” Zia, whose roots are in Lucknow, says. The success of Indian street food has encouraged first time restaurateurs like Rizwan to have vada pav on the menu too. “Pakistanis draw vada pav’s similarity to the famous bun kebabs here. They say vada pav is just a tweaked version of bun kebab but a dose of spiciness is making it a hit,” says Zia. Zia is expecting many food start-ups to start similar stalls selling Indian street food. “As clichéd as it may sound, food has no religion or boundaries. If it satisfies your cravings and appetite, who cares about the name and the origin,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pav-bhaji-vada-pav-cross-borders-land-on-pakistani-plates/articleshow/80868073.cms||Sudhanshu Bisen
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Cops to lay 66 nakabandi traps across city to nab goons||Nagpur: Taking serious note of nine murders taking place since January this year, city police top brass has formulated fresh strategies to kick-start the latest version of ‘Operation Crackdown’ to put a brake on the crime rate in city. Under the new strategy, main focus has now been laid on goons with past history of assaults, murders etc. As part of the crackdown, regular nakabandi (security check points) at 66 places, apart from other measures would be enforced across the city, which would also double up as traps. The cops are calling these otherwise routine checks as traps as undercover crime branch personnel would be present in the vicinity of these check points to identify goons passing through masquerading as regular bikers or motorists. In addition, the cops are planning ‘surprise nakabandis’ near vulnerable crime spots, slums and a few other strategic places. Following instructions of complete crackdown by CP Amitesh Kumar, alleged ‘Don’ Raju Bhadre was picked up by crime branch sleuths sending ripples down the mafia on Wednesday. Around 491 preventive actions were initiated on the first day of the two-week-long drive beginning February 9 and 43 goons were checked. On the following day, 269 goons were slapped with preventive action and 73 goons checked. Elaborate combing operations in slums in the wee hours with substantial manpower too has been planned. Crime branch, under DCP Gajanan Rajmane and additional CP Sunil Phulari, has been assigned special task of taking on dreaded gangsters and notorious goons. Special squads of Zonal DCPs and crime branch have been activated across the city with specific targets allotted to each for action. According to a senior officer, the CP has decided to take action on beat officers and personnel of police station if crime branch manages to bust a criminal syndicate in any locality. The beat officers in different localities would be entrusted with the list of goons in their localities who would be required to be picked up and slapped with preventive action apart from filing up dossiers of their present and past antecedents. “Around 3,600 persons involved in murder in the last 20 years have been earmarked for stringent preventive actions,” said a top cop. Top cop Kumar along with DCPs had started the groundwork prior to initiating the crackdown. Kumar has also ensured that zonal DCPs also take up the leadership of the crackdown in different parts of the city from the ground zero.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-to-lay-66-nakabandi-traps-across-city-to-nab-goons/articleshow/80869547.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Canteens to remain off limits for now||KOLKATA: Though schools are re-opening, much of the fun has been taken out of it. Not only will the new normal seating arrangements make it difficult to be boisterous like earlier, another prime attraction — the canteen — will not serve the lip-smacking samosas, chowmein, chilli chicken, rolls, etc. Most schools have either sealed their canteens or are allowing the sale of only packed food like cakes and biscuits for the time being. All schools have asked parents to send lunch boxes and water bottles. Some have even scheduled the day in such a way that the classes end before lunch. Students for generations have drooled over the rolls and chowmein at the South Point School canteen. “But times are not conducive and we cannot allow the canteen to operate now as it will cause crowding,” said principal Rupa Sanyal Bhattacharjee. Almost every school has its own version of the food and students swear by these. The ‘chief’s chowmein’ at La Martiniere for Boys has been a favourite not only for the students since ages, but also their parents. “Our canteen remains crowded all the time and we keep checking the quality. However, we shall not be allowing it to run now,” said principal John Rafi. Some of the new age schools, like DPS Ruby Park, serve fancy items at their canteens — such as vegetable corn soup, burgers, Chinese samosa, pasta and grilled sandwich. “Having canteen food is totally safe and my parents did not object ever, but now we shall miss the fun,” said Ayushman Sarkar, a Class-X student. At some schools, like Heritage, where food is served by the school is an incentive, only fruits that can be peeled and eaten and some dry packed snacks will be served. “We are keeping the pantry closed for fear of the infection,” said principal Seema Sapru. Nava Nalanda principal Arijit Mitra said that the canteen will be shut and the school will get over before lunch time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/canteens-to-remain-off-limits-for-now/articleshow/80868083.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 12, 2021||Nashik||Imposter siphons Rs 18L using email of ‘preferred’ customer||Nashik: A public sector bank in Nashik was allegedly cheated of Rs 18.7 lakh by an imposter claiming to one of the “preferred” clients of the bank. A case of cheating has been registered with the cyber police station of Nashik city.According to the police, an unidentified man called up the bank and using forged documents asked the bank to transfer money from the account of a popular vehicle showroom to two different accounts on February 4 and 5, 2021.Devraj Borse, the cybercrime police inspector, said, “The bank had registered a case of cheating against a person who claimed to be preferred customer and allegedly sought the transfer of Rs 18.7 lakh to two accounts.”The police said that the bank claimed its executive received a call from a mobile phone, requesting the issuance of a cheque book and immediate payment to two accounts. The customer also said that he would send an email to this effect, which is a common practice for the bank and the preferred customer.The bank claimed that it received an email from the office of the reputed showroom with the request to issue a cheque book and immediately transfer funds into the accounts — the details of which were mentioned in the email and it also carried the request on its letterhead. The scanned copy of the mail was attached along with all necessary details required for authentication and verification.The bank, as per the request, transferred the money to two different accounts and also generated other documents as required.However, this came to the notice of the actual customer. When the customer checked back with the bank, it was revealed that the bank had received an email that had a very minute change from the original email and even the letterhead was forged.The bank has now registered the complaint against the accused under section 420 (cheating), 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 465- (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (fraudulent and dishonest use as a genuine document or electronic record) and other sections under cybercrime laws.Police said they have got some clues and are likely to nab the accused in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/imposter-siphons-rs-18l-using-email-of-preferred-customer/articleshow/80869533.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 12, 2021||Pune||Pune: Citizens fume as concrete waste gathers on scenic tekdi; many decry the eyesore||PUNE: Residents of the Kothrud area are distressed over the accumulation of construction waste and garbage on Cummins Hill. “At least two trucks dump waste in the quarry on a daily basis. Most of this is concrete and construction waste. It is not treated or removed. We fear that the accumulating waste will soon cover most of the remaining clean area,” a resident and regular visitor to the tekdi said. “There is so much garbage accumulating in the quarries on the tekdi that soon it will be all over the hill and there will be no space for residents to walk or play games here,” said another resident. Kunal Khemnar, additional commissioner, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said it was the responsibility of construction site supervisors to dump debris in authorized places. “If construction waste is being dumped at a government property, we need to find out who is responsible for it. I will bring this to the notice of the departments concerned and tell them to carry out necessary inspection. Trucks bringing in debris will also be fined along with those responsible for dumping of waste,” Khemnar said. PMC deputy commissioner (solid waste management) Ajit Deshmukh said they would visit the hillock and speak to the ward officer concerned about removing the garbage. “A contractor has been appointed to collect and deposit concrete waste at a plant in Wagholi. Recently, a contractor for the construction of the Metro corridor at Dhole Patil Road was fined for dumping waste at an unauthorized location. This was brought to light by the local ward officer,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-fume-as-concrete-waste-gathers-on-scenic-tekdi-many-decry-the-eyesore/articleshow/80869594.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Private hospitals may be allowed to hold vaccination drives from next week||MUMBAI: The civic body may allow private hospitals to hold vaccination drives within their premises from next week. A delegation of private hospital heads met civic chief I S Chahal on Thursday to seek permission to vaccinate their staffers in their own facilities.  Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said a final decision will be taken on Friday. “We have asked about their human resource and vaccine storing capacity. We may allow them if they meet the criteria,” he said. Dr Gautam Bhansali, who is coordinating between private hospitals and BMC, said hospitals such as Tata Memorial have 4,000 staffers to be vaccinated while Bombay Hospital has 3,000. “One of the reasons why the turnout has been low is lethargy or lack of time to commute to another hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pvt-hospitals-may-be-allowed-to-hold-vax-drives-from-next-week/articleshow/80868086.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Nahargarh gets lioness from Sakkarbaug zoological park||Jaipur: The state forest department on Thursday brought a lioness from Sakkarbaug Zoological Park, Junagadh, after receiving a nod from the Central Zoo Authority (CZA). The lioness named Shristi is one and half years old. An official said, “As per the protocol, the lioness will be quarantined for 21 days before displaying it to the public. The medical examination of the big cat was conducted and it was found healthy.” The move will give a fresh lease of life to the lion safari project at Nahargarh biological park, which was on the verge of getting jeopardised after recent wild cats’ deaths. “At present, the park houses one Asiatic lion and two lionesses. Other than this, we have a hybrid lioness at the park. Visitors coming for safari could see these wild cats,” added official An official said, the forest department will soon install CCTV cameras in cages for 24x7 monitoring at Jaipur’s Nahargarh Biological Park. This was recommended by experts from Punjab’s Chhatbir Zoo. “The funds for installing the camera were received. The work will be initiated next week,” he added. The experts were called to Jaipur after the authorities were unable to understand the cause of the death of big cats at the park. Many big cats have died at the park due to leptospirosis. “Leptospirosis is a bacterial infection traced to rat and mongoose urine. The disease was reported in Chhatbir Zoo and Jodhpur zoo in 2011. As the park is situated on the foothills, both rat and mongoose are in abundance. To fight with the menace, decision has been taken for proper monitoring,” said the official. The experts from Punjab shared their protocol with the park authorities in dealing with the disease. They also recommended CCTV camera monitoring inside the cages to examine the health of lions, especially at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nahargarh-gets-lioness-from-sakkarbaug-zoological-park/articleshow/80869573.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Wilson ‘proof planting’ has Andhra ‘reference’||MUMBAI: There is an Andhra Pradesh ‘reference’ to the alleged planting of evidence in the laptop belonging to Elgar Parishad case accused Rona Wilson, as mentioned in a digital forensics report. The US-based report said when the laptop was first “compromised” in 2016, the hacker had named the first malware sample “Puttakota.exe.” It turns out that Puttakota is in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh and near it lie the ruins of a 13th-century hilltop Kondaveedu Fort. Wilson has relied on the digital forensic report by Arsenal Consulting to file a petition before the Bombay high court to quash the 2018 criminal proceedings against him. The Pune police had submitted a chargesheet against Wilson alleging Maoist links, a conspiracy to disrupt communal peace, waging war against the nation and several terror offences under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The NIA took over the probe in January 2020.  The private cyber forensic report from the US said “this particular sample first connected to its C2 (command control) server on June 13, 2016 at 7.14 pm…and appears to have been customized on June 11, 2016.” “Generally speaking and not commenting on this case, attackers usually name targeted malware based on what they perceive the target will find interesting enough to click upon. The name is the bait,” said Samir Datt, founder of Forensics Guru and president of Digital Investigators Association in India, on Thursday The report by Mark Spencer of Arsenal Consulting said the “attacker” had a “naming convention” for the malware. “The NetWire (malware) sample ‘Puttakota.exe’ was launched from a folder named ‘requisition1302,’” said the report. “It appears that the attacker included customization dates within ‘Host Id’ values to better identify particular Netwire samples deployed to victims such as Wilson,” the report by the consulting firm said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/malware-sample-in-wilson-case-named-after-place-in-ap/articleshow/80869608.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||JDA to strip ownership of landlords who developed illegal colonies on agri land||Jaipur: In a first, Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) is all set to strip the ownership of land owners who have illegally developed colonies on agriculture land. So far, the civic body has prepared the list of 31 such colonies. Following the direction of Jaipur Development Commissioner (JDC) Gaurav Goyal, the zone commissioners have written a letter to tehsildars and subdivision officers. An official said, “To discourage such practice in future, proceedings for cancellation of ownership has been implemented under the Section 175 of Rajasthan Tenancy Act against the land holders.”To protect residents from getting duped, the JDA has also directed the enforcement wing to again conduct zone-wise physical survey of illegal colonies. The civic body has also issued an appeal to the public and buyers to thoroughly verify the ownership documents of the land before purchasing any plot.With a spurt in population and increase in demand for land, the illegal construction and development of colonies in the city is on the rise. Cracking down heavily on the illegal colonies and encroachments in the state capital, the (JDA) in the past three months demolished a total of 79 establishments, which were being developed on over 1,000 bighas in separate areas. These illegal colonies were developed either after encroaching the government land or on agriculture land without the civic body’s approval. After land mafias became active and developed many illegal colonies during the pandemic, the JDA in October conducted a meeting to tackle the issue.Directions were issued to the enforcement wing to act against these illegal establishments after dividing it into three categories. An enforcement wing official said, “There has been zero tolerance against encroachment on government land. Second point in our agenda was to act against the mafias who are using agricultural land for non-agricultural and commercial purpose after illegally developing a colony.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-strip-ownership-of-landlords-who-developed-illegal-colonies-on-agri-land/articleshow/80869549.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Trichy||NRCB signs deal to utilise banana waste||Trichy: To manage the humongous quantity of banana bio-waste, the National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB), Trichy has signed a memorandum of agreement (MoA) with IIIT-DM, Kancheepuram and Industry Gencrest, Mumbai on Thursday. The MoA was signed in partnership with Mylswamy Annadurai, former director, Indian Space Research Organization (Isro) and the present vice-president of Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology (TNSCST), to develop pilot scale machinery for extracting more than three tonne of banana fiber every day and utilize the sap, central stem and scutcher for producing a variety of products. Banana is cultivated in more than one lakh hectares in Tamil Nadu and more than 10 million tonne of waste is generated after the harvest. Addressing the event, Mylswamy highlighted that banana cultivation produces approximately 80 million tonne of pseudostem waste per year, however it was not used well despite its huge industrial potential. “Banana fiber can be used in textiles and scutcher waste generated after extracting the fiber can be used as acoustic and aircraft panels and self-healing composites. Gencrest should adopt the products developed by the NRCB like central stem-based juices, biscuits, etc, for large-scale production in view of their nutraceutical potential. Banana sap can be used as an organic liquid nutrient for enhancing the yield of fruits and vegetables and further reducing the carbon footprint,” he added. Director of ICAR-NRCB, S Uma highlighted the potential use of banana central core stem as a suitable candidate for the development of future food and functional foods as more than 150 tonne of central stem will come out during the extraction of the fiber. Ravindra Naik, principal scientist from ICAR-CIAE, Coimbatore, demonstrated the high throughput semi-automatic fiber extraction on-farm machine which was developed by ICAR- CIAE regional centre, Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nrcb-signs-deal-to-utilise-banana-waste/articleshow/80869554.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Trichy||NHAI begins work on toll plaza on semi-ring road||Trichy: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has commenced civil work on a toll plaza that is to come up near Thuvakudi on the semi-ring road stretch connecting the Trichy-Thanjavur and Trichy-Pudukottai national highways. This will be the fifth such toll collection centre in Trichy district. The six-lane plaza will come up near Palanganamkudi village on the Thuvakudi (Thanjavur NH)-Mathur (Pudukottai NH) stretch. While two-wheeler and autorickshaws will not be charged, other vehicles including those heading to the Trichy International Airport will have to pay a fee. NHAI will identify a contractor soon to manage the toll plaza. A NHAI official said the new toll plaza will come into operation only after the road overbridge (RoB) at Kumaramangalam is completed which will take at least six months. However, locals have expressed displeasure over the civil work as it may discourage people from using the semi-ring road, which is aimed at decongesting Trichy city. Since the Valavanthankottai toll plaza on the Trichy-Thanjavur NH is not that far from the proposed site, the need for another toll plaza within a short distance was questioned. “People visiting Bharathidasan University and other educational institutions on both national highways will frequent the road. Collecting toll fee will be a burden. People may continue to use the existing congested road instead of the semi-ring road,” P Lenin, district secretary, DYFI said. “The location of the toll plaza was decided based on the usage potential. It is not new. Collecting toll fee in ring roads is in practice,” a senior official with NHAI said. The fee collection may impact even the MSME industry as Mathur has about 150 units mostly owned by the Thuvakudi and Thiruverumbur based entrepreneurs. Besides, Bhel employees also frequently use the Pudukottai highway to reach their unit in Pudukottai district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nhai-begins-work-on-toll-plaza-on-semi-ring-road/articleshow/80869583.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Graduate MLC polls in Telangana on March 14||HYDERABAD: The Graduate MLC polls in Telangana will be held on March 14. The The Election Commission has announced the schedule for the polls on Thursday. The poll notification would be issued on February 21. The last date for filing of nominations is February 23, while the scrutiny of nominations would be done on February 24. The late date for withdrawal of candidate is February 26. Polls would be held on March 14 between 8am and 4 pm. The counting of votes would be taken up on March 17. The election process would have to be completed by March 22. In a notification issued on Thursday, the Election Commission said the term of office of two MLCs from graduates constituencies in Telangana would expire on March 29. In this context, the election notification was issued for polls to be held to fill up the two posts. Those retiring are N Ramachandra Rao from the Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad graduates constituency and Palla Rajeshwar Reddy from Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda graduates constituency. Though the poll announcement was made on Thursday, political parties were busy with their campaigning for the last one month or so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/graduate-mlc-polls-on-march-14/articleshow/80869548.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||JMC-Greater to organise camp for pet registration||Jaipur: The craze of having dogs as pets is rising in the city and JMC-Greater is extending its support. To increase the number of pet dog registration, the civic body will be organising a camp Valentine’s Day where dog owners can get their pets registered. According to the data provided by the civic body, there are only 350 dogs registered in the city although the actual number of dogs will be around 80,000. During lockdown, a sudden spike was seen in pet sale especially dogs in Jaipur, as locked in homes made people realise the positivity a pet can spread. The lower number of registrations is due to lack of awareness spread by JMC. Abha Beniwal, head of animal husbandry at JMC-Greater, said registration of pet is helpful for every one as this would help a pet owner from legal trouble. “According to the Rajasthan Municipal Act, every pet which comes under the domesticated category list has to be registered by the owners or else if someone complains, action can be taken against the owner. This is very beneficial but people in Jaipur are not aware about it. With the help of an NGO we will organise a camp where registration will be given on spot,” said Beniwal. The registration of pet is valid for a year because the rabies vaccination is valid for 12 months. To register a pet, a form worth Rs 10 from JMC-Greater has to be filled along with the identity proof of the owner, photo of a dog, vaccinated certificate and an affidavit has to be submitted in JMC-Greater. In 2016, a total of 167 pets were registered, which came down to 80 in 2017 and 57 in 2018. To encourage people to register their dogs, JMC-Greater along with NGO Protection of Animal and Welfare Society (PAWS) will organise a camp on February 13 and 14 where people can get their dogs registered. PAWS secretary Viren Sharma said, “This is a unique initiative by JMC to facilitate people for getting their pets registered on spot with a certification of JMC and Kennel Club of Rajasthan. Through this people can avoid paperwork at JMC and have an easy access of dog registration. The camp will be organise at Panch Batti where registration, vaccination and even street dog adoption will take place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-greater-to-organise-camp-for-pet-registration/articleshow/80869546.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Funds unlikely for Telangana infra projects||HYDERABAD: With a major dent in state’s own income due to Covid-19-induced economic slowdown, many infrastructure projects may be brought under zero budget category. An obvious step to make for budget estimations, the state government is likely to propose a cut in capital expenditure this time for the next fiscal. The state said there was a shortfall of about Rs 52,000 crore for the budget estimates of the 2019-20. The government had presented budget of Rs 1.82 lakh crore, but has not been able to generate income, partly because of recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission and also reduction in transfer of state’s share of funds from the Centre. The only respite for the state in terms of own income seems to be excise revenue thanks to increase in the prices despite no sale during the lockdown. Due to temporary freeze, the income from registration has touched around Rs 3,500 crore whereas budget expectation was around Rs 10,000 crore. Excise income has reached the expected level, the budget expectation was about Rs 16,000 crore. It has already crossed Rs 10,000 crore. Ever since the formation of Telangana, there has been consistent increase in excise income . For the financial year 2018- 19, the state had earned Rs 1,000 crore more than expected revenue. “There will not be any cut in welfare schemes as they were promised to people, but we can certainly wait on building infrastructure till finances improve. The expenditure on infrastructure like expansion and building of roads, projects like irrigation are covered under the capital expenditure,” a top source told TOI. They might be under zero budget category with no allocation. Sources say there was a possibility of increasing the number of bars in the state and increase in prices to make up for losses. The land registration prices might also go up in the mean time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/funds-unlikely-for-state-infra-projects/articleshow/80869596.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Covid positivity rate goes below 1%, no sero-surveillance in state to assess herd immunity||JAIPUR: While Tamil Nadu, Delhi and some other states are claiming that they are moving closer to achieving herd immunity against Covid, Rajasthan has not launched any sero-surveillance to assess how many people in the state developed antibodies against the virus. Across the state, daily Covid cases have gone down over the past two months, indicating that a large number of population has developed antibodies against the virus. A senior health department official said they have not conducted sero surveillance but they have been doing large number of RT-PCR tests in the state daily. On Thursday, 19,288 RT-PCR tests were done and out of those 111 samples tested positive. The positivity rate has gone down to 0.5%, which means that for every 200 tests done, 1 person is found infected. Health department officials said cases are not being reported in clusters, like they were reported earlier. Sporadic cases are being reported, which is a good sign. However, officials said they were alert as a mutated strain of Covid has become a headache for health authorities in some European countries. Doctors in hospitals are claiming that even those persons who did not have symptoms of Covid have been found containing antibodies against the virus, which means at some point of time they got infected but did not develop symptoms or developed minor symptoms and recovered. “I think that the cases have gone down due to developing herd immunity, acceptance of use of masks and hand hygiene by people of the state. Also, efforts by the government in containing spread of the virus has also helped in containing spread of the virus,” said Dr Ashish Jain, director critical care and incharge of Covid care at a private hospital. While daily new infections have reduced, two persons died of the virus in the state taking the toll to 2,779, while 111 others tested positive on Thursday taking the overall tally to 3,18,602. Districts which reported new cases are Bhilwara (12), Kota (11),Alwar (11), Jaipur (11), Jodhpur (9), Banwara (7), Udaipur (7), Chittorgarh(6), Ajmer (5), Barmer (5), Sriganganagar (5), Rajsamand (4), Bharatpur (3),Nagaur (2), Jhalawar (2), Baran (2), Sikar (2), Bikaner (2), Bundi (1),Dungarpur (1), Pratapgarh (1), Sirohi (1) and Tonk (1). Jodhpur reported its 305th Covid-19 death, while Udaipur reported its 122nd Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-positivity-rate-goes-below-1-no-sero-surveillance-in-state-to-assess-herd-immunity/articleshow/80869591.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Covid-19 down, but not out; why you must keep mask on||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 142 cases of Covid-19 and two more deaths due to the infection on Thursday. At 0.22%, the positivity rate is also low, prompting many people to give up Covid-appropriate behaviour — wearing masks, washing hands regularly and maintaining physical distance. “New cases and mortality due to Covid-19 have drastically reduced. But the pandemic isn’t over yet. Still, I see people roaming around everywhere without masks. It puts the vulnerable population at higher risk of getting the infection,” said Shamik Ghosh, who lives in Greater Kailash. “I don’t want any family member to get it; especially since I have a baby, my mother is diabetic and my father suffers from a serious lung disease. And we all live together.” The latest serological survey in the capital showed that more than 56% of the population has antibodies against novel coronavirus. Still, said Dr Sanjay Rai, professor of community medicine at AIIMS, a significant percentage of the population remains susceptible. “People shouldn’t get complacent. They should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get the jab when their time comes for additional protection,” the AIIMS professor said. Delhi’s positivity rate has been below 1% for over a month now. New cases and deaths due to the infection are also coming down in other parts of the country. But Dr N K Mehra, former dean of AIIMS and emeritus scientist at Indian Council of Medical Research, also warned against any complacency. “In 1918, too, many parts of the world went into lockdown to reduce the spread of H1N1 influenza virus that had led to a major outbreak, also referred to as Spanish Flu. This led to reduction in cases,” Dr Mehra said. But people got so upset with restrictions that as soon as the lockdown was eased, they came out in hoards, leading to a second wave, he added. “Similar instances have been observed in the current pandemic in the US, the UK and many other European countries. We need to keep our guard up to prevent a similar crisis.” The US and the UK had started opening up their economy and even educational institutions last September when the first wave of the Covid-19 outbreak started receding. However, the cases peaked up again, leading to stricter measures. Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director of internal medicine at Max Super Specialty Hospital Saket, said wearing masks in public places, maintaining physical distance and washing hands regularly were the basic steps that everyone should follow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-down-but-not-out-why-you-must-keep-mask-on/articleshow/80868181.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 12, 2021||Pune||Co-working spaces ring in cash amid office makeover||Pune: As organisations start re-imagining offices in the post-pandemic world to ensure safety, firms managing co-working spaces are witnessing a big demand boost. “Our occupancy rate was up to 90% before the pandemic. It slumped to 75% due to the pandemic, with many firms vacating their office spaces to save costs in the early phase of the pandemic. The narrative started changing when people realized that office spaces will remain an integral part of professional life. At least half the workforce of a firm will continue to commute to office on a regular basis. So when companies are looking for an office again, as they are now, they are looking for smaller co-working spaces,” Rishi Das, whose firm Indiqube runs a number of co-working spaces in Bengaluru, Pune, and Hyderabad, said.The demand for co-working and managed spaces is reflected in year-end real estate reports. Property consultancy firm Knight Frank reported that co-working and managed spaces had taken up almost 42% of all commercial real estate in the PMR in 2020.Largely, co-working spaces charge monthly rates “per desk”, which helps smaller firms in keeping their offices to their ideal sizes. “We get a good mix of companies among our clients, such a startups, banks, firms from overseas, as well as NGOs. Some of the larger clients require a lot more customizations than we have, including fitting it out in their corporate identity or if they want to have their own server and LAN set-up. But we still manage the space with the help of third-party entities, who implement our cleanliness and sanitation standard operating procedures,” said Robin Chhabra, the founder of Dextrus that is operating co-working spaces at the Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai, and setting up another at Lower Parel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/co-working-spaces-ring-in-cash-amid-office-makeover/articleshow/80869636.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
February 12, 2021||Jaipur||Raj at 13th place in vax drive||JAIPUR: The state has slipped to the 13th position in the list of states and UTs which have vaccinated over 67% of the registered health careworkers (HCWs). Bihar currently tops the list with over 79% of the registered HCWs vaccinated. The other states which are ahead of Rajastahn are Tripura (78%), Madhya Pradesh (76%), Odisha (74%), Uttrakhand (74%), Himachal Pradesh (73%), Lakshwadeep (71%), Kerala (71%), Mizoram (70%), Chhattisgarh (69%), Uttar Pradesh (68%) and A&N Islands (68%). On the completion of 27 days of Covid inoculation drive, as many as 5,90,320 HCWs and frontline workers (FLWs) have been vaccinated against the target if 8,69,031, which is 68% achievement of the target. The number of persons vaccinated on Thursday was 31,000 against the day’s target of 57,972, which is 54% achievement of the day’s target. The percentage achievement of target of Covaxin was higher than of Covishield. The achievement of Covaxin was 78% as 14,610 persons got the Covaxin jab against the target of 18,759. In all, 23,776 persons received Covishield against the target of 47,721, which was 50% achievement of target of the day. A camp for mop up round for HCWs for the first dose of vaccine was organised at health directorate where director Dr KK Sharma got the first jab at the camp to encourage the other HCWs to get the jab. A health department official said they would start giving second dose to HCWs from February 13, who will complete 28 days of getting the first dose on that day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-at-13th-place-in-vax-drive/articleshow/80869601.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Trichy||Online lottery: 13 arrested in Thanjavur||THANJAVUR: The city police busted an online lottery racket and arrested 13 people and seized Rs 3 lakh from a gang in Thanjavur on Thursday. The gang had been running the illegal lottery business for few months across the district and collected lakhs of rupees from the people, police said. Acting on a tip-off, intelligence police visited four places in city limits in Thanjavur. During the process, they secured Hameed, 36, Sathish, 40, Govindaraj, 62, Ramachandran, 51, Govindan, 42, Karthi, 35, Natarajan, 54, Matharanthagam, 37, Srinivasan, 62, Pandiyan, 54, Balakrishnan, 27, Vinodh, 28, Sivaraj, 44. During the interrogation, it came to light that they had been indulging in online lottery sale for the past few months. Police also recovered five mobile phones from 12 people. A case has been registered and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/online-lottery-13-arrested-in-thanjavur/articleshow/80869597.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Kolkata||Muted response from parents for carpool and bus services||Kolkata: Pool car associations and buses ferrying schoolchildren have decided to start operations from the day senior sections begin, but very few parents have got in touch with them. Even schools that have their own fleet of buses have decided not to operate them as senior students hardly avail the service. They believed that since only a small section of the seniors will come for practical sessions, it did not make sense to operate their own buses. “Most students of classes X and XII do not avail of the bus service as they have coaching after school,” said Sarmistha Banerjee, principal of Vivekananda Mission School. Either parents ferry their children to schools or those from senior classes commute on their own. “There have been a lot of queries, but the parents have not finalized anything yet,” said Arupam Dutta, vice-president of Pool Car Owners’ Welfare Association. “More parents will start availing of the services once the initial apprehensions wane.” Private bus owners who ferry children to different schools also reported a muted response from parents. Several parents seemed nervous. Many parents decided to take leave from work on the first day, while others with cars at their disposal decided to hire drivers. “We do not want to take any risk. This situation is likely to remain the same. So using personal car made sense,” said Mallika Sengupta, whose son is in Class X.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/muted-response-from-parents-for-carpool-and-bus-services/articleshow/80868112.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Nashik||Kin of 10 farmers to get govt aid of Rs 1L each||Nashik: The kin of 10 farmers, who died by suicide, will get relief from the state government after the proposal was approved by the district panel. The panel, under the chairmanship of district collector Suraj Mandhare, met on Thursday to discuss the farmers’ suicide issue in the district. So far this year, 14 farmers have died by suicide. The district panel, which comprises officials of health, police, cooperative and revenue departments, discussed the reasons behind the suicides. “Of the 14 cases, we found that 10 farmers had a genuine reason to take the drastic step. Hence, the kin of 10 farmers will be given an aid of Rs 1 lakh each,” said Mandhare. Niphad taluka topped the chart with seven famer suicides. Kin of six farmers were sanctioned government help while a re-investigation was ordered in one case. One farmer suicide case each in Yeola, Malegaon and Kalwan were rejected by the panel. Three cases in Baglan and one case in Dindori were also approved by the district panel. The government gives an aid of Rs 1 lakh to the kin of the farmers who die by suicide only if they fit the criteria – including coercive action taken by the banks after the farmers have defaulted loan repayment, problem related to crops among other problems. Of the total aid, Rs 25,000 is give in cash while the rest of the amount is made into a fixed deposit in a bank for long duration of time. It may be noted that the loan that farmers take from the bank before ending their lives remains as it is and the government does not waive it off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kin-of-10-farmers-to-get-govt-aid-of-rs-1l-each/articleshow/80869632.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Trichy||Construction projects on hold as cement, iron prices skyrocket||Trichy: Customers have requested builders to temporarily suspend construction projects until the price of raw materials comes down. Builders claim that the price rise was artificially created after easing of lockdown restrictions when the construction sector was eyeing for a recovery. According to the Builders’ Association of India (Trichy centre), the cost of a cement bag has skyrocketed from Rs 325 to Rs 420 while the cost of steel has increased from Rs 45 per kg up to Rs 72 per kg. The hike in cost of two major raw materials took place between November and February. After being hit by the pandemic, the construction sector was looking for a relaunch after October. The continuing price rise has made common public to withhold their dream house plans, the builders said. “For about seven months since March 2020, our projects had stalled due to the pandemic. Now, the price rise of raw materials is causing great damage. Except for affluent business people, other consumers have asked us to temporarily stop the construction activities,” R Saravanan, chairman, builders’ association of India (Trichy centre) said. Out of the 15,000 total residential and commercial construction projects in Trichy district, only 2,000 projects are active as the other property owners could not cope up with the double blow from lockdown and price rise of raw materials. “To cut down the cost of the construction, we had to reduce the workforce involved. As a result, the duration of the projects is prolonged,” Saravanan added. To attract the attention of government, the builders association has planned a protest at Trichy on February 12, Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/construction-projects-on-hold-as-cement-iron-prices-skyrocket/articleshow/80869626.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Pune||Weather conditions in north India delay several flights to & from Pune||PUNE: Poor visibility in north India, especially in Delhi, delayed a majority of flights to and from the city on Thursday. Between 9am and 4pm, 10 departing flights — to Delhi, Ahmedabad, Patna, Lucknow, etc — faced delays ranging from two to four hours. In addition, around 10 inbound flights from Delhi, Kolkata, Prayagraj, etc, saw similar delays through the day. To compound matters, flyers claimed some airlines did not provide them any refreshments. “I have been waiting at the airport since the morning. The airline officials have not offered even tea to passengers, unlike other airlines. I did not expect such poor service from the national carrier,” Lalita Bindra, who was waiting for an Air India (AI851) flight from Pune to Delhi, said. The flight, which was scheduled to arrive from Delhi around 8.40am and leave an hour later to Ahmedabad, was delayed by over six hours. Passengers said airlines staff were also not very forthcoming. “The wait was made more frustrating by a lack of proper information by airlines staff,” a passenger waiting in Kolkata to catch a GoAir flight to Pune said. The flight, scheduled for a 1.15pm take-off, was delayed by over five hours. The passenger added that such delays inevitably cause crowding at the airports. “We can’t really complain as the delay was weather-related,” the passenger said. Given that flights are operational only for 12 hours, between 8am and 8pm, at the Loegaon airport every day, any delay would cause bunching of flights, leading to crowding in the facility.  Meanwhile, airlines like IndiGo and SpiceJet issued alerts on social media about poor weather conditions at several airports. “Due to bad weather in Delhi (DEL), all departures/arrivals and their consequential flights may get affected,” a SpiceJet alert read. The airline issued similar notices for flights from Bengaluru, Varanasi, etc. Nimish Kadam, whose flight to Delhi was delayed by over three hours, said, “I had an important meeting in Delhi but entire plan has been thrown into disarray. I will now have to stay back for a day and come back on Friday evening, which means paying more money.” Last September, the airport officials began recarpeting the 2.5km runway at the Lohegaon airport. To enable the work, the airport is shut for 12 hours every day. On January 31, the airport officials announced that here would be no flight operations from the airport for 14 days from April 16 to May 9 this year to give a boost to the recarpeting work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/weather-conditions-in-north-india-delay-several-flights-to-from-pune/articleshow/80869635.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||Gorewada safari gains from int’l park across road||Nagpur: Backed by Balasaheb Thackeray Gorewada International Zoological Park, Gorewada jungle safari on Katol Road too is turning out to be a wildlife tourist hotspot within the city limits. The jungle safari is situated just across the road less than one km from the international park, which was inaugurated on Republic Day this year. The revenue receipts, though not in crores like other wildlife parks, from the 16km Gorewada jungle safari in the last three months are more than what the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) generated during the last financial year, i.e. 2019-20.  FDCM divisional manager Pramod Panchbhai says, “Getting a push from the recently-launched zoo safari is one issue, but the jungle safari is drawing sizeable visitors since it started after November. Tourists are curious about intermittent leopard sightings in the wild. Several bird watchers are also among the visitors.” As per official figures, in the last three months from November 2020 till January 21, 2021, FDCM earned over Rs5.81 lakh. This is more than what the park earned (Rs5.40 lakh) in entire the nine-month tourism season of 2019-2020. At this speed, the FDCM expects to generate revenue of around Rs30 lakh this year. Gorewada RFO Pandurang Pakhale says, “The number of visitors and earnings in the last three months are despite the safari remaining closed from April to October 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, the carrying capacity used to 20 vehicles, but now it has been increased to 64 vehicles per day (32 in each shift).” Panchbhai says the launch of the international safari is also drawing visitors, who missed the bus to the jungle safari. Last Sunday, a record 118 vehicles entered the park during the day. The weekends and holidays see a big crowd at the jungle safari. “As there are only 16 guides, the carrying capacity is fixed at 32, with two vehicles per guide. There are only six Gypsys and we are considering procuring 2-3 canters for the safari,” said Panchbhai. The park not being a tiger reserve or wildlife sanctuary is not governed by National Tiger Conservation Authority guidelines and hence entry to the park is flexible. However, as a good habitat management activities have been carried out, there is sighting of animals and various bird species. Pakhale adds one of the reasons for the rush is that people were bored indoors due to Covid-19 restrictions. Secondly, the safari is affordable as Rs550 only are charged and private vehicles are also allowed. The recently opened zoological park is also drawing surplus visitors here. Panchbhai informed the zoological park has been visited by 6,141 people generating revenue of Rs16 lakh in 14 days of its operation. GO GOREWADA * Timings: 6am to 11am & 2pm to 5pm * Fee: Rs350 * Guide: Rs200 * Gypsy: Rs900 * Capacity: 64 vehicles * Closed: Thursday * Online: wildgorewada.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gorewada-safari-gains-from-intl-park-across-road/articleshow/80869620.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||YSRC MLA Alla meets Sharmila||Hyderabad: In an interesting development, YSRCP MLA from Mangalagiri Alla Ramakrishna Reddy met YS Sharmila at her Lotus Pond residence here on Thurday. Though the meeting raised eyebrows, Sharmila’s associates said that it was only a courtesy call. “There is no truth in saying that the visit was prompted from YSRCP camp. Ramakrishna Reddy was closely associated with her in the past,” Konda Raghava Reddy, who is coordinating political activities of Sharmila, told TOI. While speculation about Sharmila undertaking a padayatra is doing the rounds, her meeting with the MLA assumes importance as he was the coordinator for her walkathon covering more than 3,000 km when AP was a united state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ysrc-mla-alla-meets-sharmila/articleshow/80869660.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 12, 2021||Surat||Mumbai porn case: Videos shot in Bardoli bungalow||SURAT: A few of the several porn movies in the porn video racket were shot in a bungalow of Bardoli town around 35 km from the Diamond City. This was revealed by the property cell of Mumbai crime branch after the arrested accused Tanveer Hashmi alias Tan (40) spilled the beans on the details. Hashmi, who was arrested by Mumbai crime branch from Bhatpor near Hazira on Tuesday was produced in a court in Mumbai on Wednesday and remanded to police custody for five days. A resident of Saiyedwada in Saiyedpura area, Hashmi had started his career around 15 years ago as a model in the city and later went to try his luck to Mumbai. There he, however, couldn’t establish himself and had to work in some lesser known TV shows and movie. Thereafter, he started acting in C-grade movies and then became a producer and director of such C-grade movies. “From preliminary investigation police found that Hashmi had made around 15 such porn videos. A majority of these had been made in and around Surat,” said a police officer. Hashmi sold the videos to OTT platform and got payment per video. “The videos are not full-length movies but of different durations which Hashmi himself directed and filmed,” said an officer. Police also found that like Hashmi, a few other individuals also worked for the OTT platforms and supplied videos. The OTT platforms earned from subscriptions for their applications and provided access to the videos to their subscribers. Bardoli, popularly dubbed as NRI town, has a large number of people from the town and neighbouring villages settled in the US and the UK. Several farmhouses and bungalows owned by these NRIs in Bardoli and surrounding areas remain closed throughout the year. Some properties are also given on rent for short stay or for picnic purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mumbai-porn-case-videos-shot-in-bardoli-bungalow/articleshow/80866857.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||Power supply to 16,400 more cut: MSEDCL||Mumbai: Nearly 16,400 more MSEDCL consumers faced temporary power disconnections in Mumbai metropolitan region due to non-payment of bills since lockdown. They include residential and commercial users from Bhandup-Mulund, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Panvel-Pen. With this, the total temporary disconnections have gone up to 23,000, sources said. Sources said arrears in these areas have gone up to Rs 175 crore for 1.6 lakh consumers not paying bills for eight to 10 months. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/power-supply-to-16400-more-cut-msedcl/articleshow/80868225.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Pune||Gaining traction for flexibility, affordability & accessibility||Pune: More accessible, flexible and affordable, co-working spaces have gained huge traction among working-from-home professionals struggling with connectivity, privacy and space issues. Pune has a number of co-working spaces like The Daftar on Baner Road, WordLab in Aundh and Model Colony, Hive on Raja Bahadur Mill Road, among many others. Jayendra Joshi, founder of En2ex Consultants, said, “I opted for The Daftar because of the good atmosphere, efficient housekeeping services, strong wifi connectivity and a stress-free environment that helps me concentrate on my work. It also gives me great networking opportunities.” Jagdish Panday, regional head of CarDekho.com, said the management in such co-working spaces provide everything that would be available in your regular office, and more. Ameesh Sharma, a freelance digital artist, said, “It creates a better impression on clients when I meet them in a professional co-working spaces rather than calling them to a café or home. I can pay on daily or weekly basis.”  — Anjali Jhangiani||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gaining-traction-for-flexibility-affordability-accessibility/articleshow/80869673.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Pune||Report of Arsenal private, not official document: Ex-CM||Pune: Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday said the US digital forensic firm Arsenal Consulting’s finding indicating planting of evidence on the computer of Elgar Parishad accused Rona Wilson was a private report and not an official US agency document. “I have myself gone through the report and the opening para itself states that the firm has been employed by Wilson for conducting the digital forensic exercise. This means, it is not an independent report or a report by an official US state agency, but a report done at the behest of one of the accused who is in jail and is facing trial in the Elgar Parishad case,” Fadnavis told reporters. The senior BJP leader said the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is investigating the case, had clarified its position in the matter. An NIA official involved in the investigation of the case said, “We have submitted our report in the court and we stand by the same. I cannot divulge any more details.” Senior Pune police officers associated with the investigation of the case before it was transferred to the NIA in February last year also said they stood by their investigation. A senior Pune police officer, who did not wish to be named as the case was now being investigated by the NIA, told TOI, “We stand by our investigation. We analysed the hard disk and two pen drives seized from the residence of Wilson and the incriminating evidence was recovered from a digital forensic exercise.” He said, “The evidence was further physically corroborated during the questioning of the accused and more documents were seized in the raids carried out in different parts of the country. We shall also study the report of the US digital forensic firm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/report-of-arsenal-private-not-official-document-ex-cm/articleshow/80869671.cms||Gitesh Shelke
February 12, 2021||Trichy||MPs urge rly minister to resume train services||Trichy: On behalf of rail users, MPs Su Thirunavukkarasar (Trichy), SS Palanimanickam (Thanjavur) and Karti P Chidambaram (Sivagangai) submitted a memorandum to railway minister Piyush Goyal demanding to operate trains on the Karaikudi-Pattukottai-Tiruvarur section, which was gauge converted in 2019. Due to staff crunch to man over 70 level-crossings on this 149 km section, railway authorities had suspended train services on this section, rail users alleged. “We have been waiting several years for regular train services to resume on this section. After completion of gauge conversion, a passenger train was operated for some time. However, due to staff crunch to work manned level crossing gates, passenger train was too suspended. Based on the requests, MPs from the central region met the railway minister in Delhi on Wednesday and appealed him to operate regular trains on this section. We also met railway board chairman Suneet Sharma,” said N Jayaraman, president of Federation of Tiruvarur-Pattukottai-Karaikudi Broad Gauge Line Rail Users Association. Nagapattinam MP M Selvaraj, Ramanathapuram MP K Navaskani and few more functionaries of rail users’ associations from Aranthangi, and Athirampattinam were also present during the meeting, he added. The memorandum also included operation of Kamban Express train at night to Chennai from Karaikudi, operation of passenger train to Karaikudi and Madurai from Mayiladuthurai via this new gauge converted line and Thambaram - Sengottai express and Ernakulam-Velankanni express trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mps-urge-rly-minister-to-resume-train-services/articleshow/80869637.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 12, 2021||Delhi||North Delhi Municipal Corporation gives relief to guesthouses||NEW DELHI: The final budget of the BJP-run North Delhi Municipal Corporation for the financial year 2021-22 has many ambitious plans to increase revenue collection. However, the opposition AAP called the proposals disappointing and far from reality. Leader of House Yogesh Verma on Friday not only announced plans to increase the councillors’ discretionary funds but also shared proposals to provide them health facilities at CGHS rates. Due to its poor financial condition, the corporation could not pay any discretionary funds in 2020-21 and paid Rs 50 lakh in 2019-20. “Though the situation has not improved yet, but we expect the revenue collection to increase and accordingly funds can be allocated to councillors,” said Verma. The corporation already spends under various heads such as horticulture, sanitation, schools and parks, but councillors can always use their discretionary funds to improve civic infrastructure, he added. The health facility at CGHS rates will not add to the corporation’s financial burden, Verma claimed. Among the new moves are issuing guidelines for health licences to guesthouses of up to 12-metre height, amnesty scheme for 1,500 godowns — mostly of paper and foodgrains, allowing multiple weddings or social events at 1,352 farmhouses and motels after desealing, and collecting licensing fees from 29 refugee markets. “Huge farmhouses or motels, which were desealed on the Supreme Court’s direction, can hold multiple events by establishing temporary pandals, provided they abide by all building bylaws,” said Verma. “But the total coverage can’t be more than the permissible limit and facilities can be availed only after paying the annual tax.” On guesthouses of up to 12-metre height, he said no special exit and no fire NOC would be required. To simplify operation of factories in the conforming areas, a list of industries allowed on upper floors after paying the conversion charges and licensing fees has been released. “Only four documents will be required,” said Verma. The traders at 29 refugee markets, transferred to the corporation years ago, haven’t been paying licensing fees for seven years, but the issues have been sorted out, pointed out the councillor. “They will be allowed to transfer their properties after paying requisite fees.” The corporation is also waiting for completion of 13 major multilevel parking projects, including the Omaxe parking-cum-commercial complex at Chandni Chowk, to generate revenue. To tackle the problems of stray cattles, the civic body has started imposing Rs 5,000 environmental compensation per day on their owners from Thursday and already penalised 78 people. The standing committee has already passed a resolution to tag a microchip on these strays to identify their owners. Leader of Opposition Vikas Goel, however, alleged none of the points raised by them was incorporated in the final budget. “Their projects are ambitious and far from reality. We recommended to focus on recovering pending dues from government bodies, including south corporation and Delhi Development Authority, and advertising agencies. But there is no mention of it,” Goel said. “Unfortunately, the Leader of House didn’t even come up with a plan to pay the pending salaries and resolve the issue in the long run,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-gives-relief-to-guesthouses/articleshow/80888254.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 12, 2021||India||Twitter complies with govt request, blocks 97% handles||NEW DELHI: There were signs of a thaw in Twitter’s tussle with the government after the social media giant took down over 97% of the handles that the IT ministry had sought to be censured for carrying “inflammatory content” related to farm protests such as ‘farmers’ genocide’ hashtag and accounts backed by Pakistan and Khalistan sympathisers. Of the 1,435 handles flagged by the government through two separate requests, 1,398 have been taken down, top sources said on Thursday. The breakthrough in the deadlock came after IT secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney’s meeting with Twitter executives Monique Meche and Jim Baker late Wednesday evening, following which the American social media giant started to act against the users. “The compliance has come in for almost the entire list of accounts that we had asked to be taken down. For the remaining, Twitter has said that it is following due process, which includes sending notice to users and other such steps,” a government source told TOI. All the 1,178 handles that the government had flagged for possible links with Khalistani and Pakistani elements have been blocked. Read also: Twitter should stick to its guns in India - BloombergOf the 257 handles that were sought to be blocked over the controversial hashtag, 220 have been taken down. “Some of the accounts could be duplicates,” the source said. However, some accounts such as that of CPM leader Mohammed Salim (@salimdotcomrade) and Caravan magazine (@thecaravanindia) remain functional. “We view this as a positive step that Twitter has taken. It does culminate from the meaningful and healthy conversations that we had with the global executives of the company,” the government source said. A spokesperson for Twitter in India did not respond to a questionnaire from TOI. While the social medial platform had earlier refused to comply with the government’s requests, on Wednesday, the IT secretary expressed displeasure over “differential treatment” by Twitter in its handling of the problems on Capitol Hill in the US and Red Fort in Delhi and insisted that “lawfully passed orders are binding” on any business entity. “They must be obeyed immediately. If they are executed days later, it becomes meaningless,” Sawhney had said. He had also made it clear that the use of the controversial hashtag was neither journalistic freedom, nor freedom of expression as such “irresponsible content could provoke and inflame” the situation. Sources said during the meeting, Baker, Twitter’s vice-president for legal matters, assured government representatives that the company would be mindful of the concerns. “Baker said that the global management of Twitter can be approached directly in case of violations that are sensitive in nature. This is seen as a massive reassurance to tackle hate, inflammatory and irresponsible messaging,” the government source said. Watch Twitter complies with govt request, all handles with 'Pak links' blocked||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/twitter-complies-with-govt-request-blocks-97-handles/articleshow/80871588.cms||Pankaj Doval
February 12, 2021||Nagpur||SC notice to Maha govt, convict in ‘skin-to-skin’ verdict||Nagpur: After staying Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court’s “skin to skin contact” verdict, the Supreme Court of India on Wednesday issued notice to Maharashtra government and city-based accused Satish Ragde, on a bunch of petitions filed by the National Commission for Women (NCW), attorney general KK Venugopal and others, including the government itself, according to lawyers here. The bench led by Chief Justice Sharad Bobde, however, refused to entertain SLPs filed by NGO’s Bhartiya Stree Shakti and Youth Bar Association asking them to approach the attorney general with their contentions, which he may include in his plea. The bench observed these NGOs don’t have any locus standi in the case. The bench also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian was also reluctant to hear out NCW’s case initially but after it pleaded that it was the organization’s statutory duty under the NCW Act, they agreed to listen. The petitioner pointed out that being a statutory body, NCW is under obligation to take up cases related to violation of women’s rights’. All the petitioners challenged the controversial verdict delivered by Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of Bombay HC, who held that mere groping of breasts from outside wouldn’t fall under the ambit of sexual assault, unless there’s a skin-to-skin contact with sexual intent. The judge reduced the three years’ rigorous imprisonment (RI) awarded to Ragde under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act, 2012, to one year by convicting him under Section 354 of IPC related to outraging of modesty and fined him Rs1,000 fine. The January 19 judgment sparked massive furore across the social and mainstream media with women and child rights groups expressing resentment and terming it as “bizarre”. Venugopal then submitted the judgment before CJI led bench and requested him to stay it with a warning that it would set a “dangerous precedent”. Even the legal experts had termed it as a bad one that will encourage the molesters. The top court stayed the judgment on January 27 while asking Maharashtra government to file a reply. Terming Nagpur bench’s verdict as “unwarranted” and having “derogatory and defamatory” observations in utter disregard to the laws governing sexual assault on children, the petitioners prayed for quashing and setting it aside. They also pointed out that the HC judge had named the girl in one of the paragraphs in judgment in clear violation of law. The 39-year-old accused had allegedly groped a 12-year-old girl by luring her to his home in December 2016 and then pressed her breast and even made an attempt to remove her clothes. Justice Ganediwala observed, “The act of pressing of breast of the child aged 12 years, in the absence of any specific detail as to whether the top was removed or whether he inserted his hand inside the top and pressed her breast, would not fall in the definition of sexual assault.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sc-notice-to-maha-govt-convict-in-skin-to-skin-verdict/articleshow/80869694.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Bamboo plantation planned on 4,000ha in M’wada this monsoon||Aurangabad: With the aim to supplement the income of farmers, bamboo, which is hailed as ‘green gold’ due to multiple benefits, will be cultivated on around 4,000 hectare area in Marathwada under the National Bamboo Mission. As part of this mission, bamboo plants will be given to farmers in the rural areas of the region for free. Kaustubh Diwegaonkar, Osmanabad district collector, said five farmers would be identified in every village who could undertake bamboo cultivation on a minimum of 1 hectare land. “Bamboo cultivation is expected to improve the financial condition of farmers. Both the state and the Centre have distinct policies for encouraging bamboo cultivation and farmers should take benefit of it,” he said. Former president of State Commission for Agriculture and Prices Pasha Patel said each of the eight districts in Marathwada would have bamboo cultivation on minimum 500 hectare. “Besides non-forest government and private lands of farmers, bamboo plantation will be also encouraged on the banks of rivers. The banks of Godavari river and its tributaries make up for around 2,250km in Marathwada. The river banks adjoining the farmlands will be used to cultivate bamboo,” said Patel. The cultivation drive is scheduled to begin from next monsoon and expected to get over within four months of the rainy season. Referring to bamboo as the ‘green gold’ of the 21st century, Patel said the National Bamboo Mission aimed at restoring the importance of bamboo in daily life. “We, as a society, have turned our back to the eco-friendly option of bamboo during modernisation by switching to new age materials. The central mission aims to bolster bamboo cultivation, which in turn, will empower the rural economy,” he said. Patel, who is also an EX MLC, said official case studies have proved that farmers can gain annual income of Rs 1 lakh by cultivating bamboo on one hectare. “Besides supplementing the income of farmers, bamboo trees help mitigate the effects of climate change. As compared to many other trees and plants, bamboo effectively brings a check on carbon levels, produces more oxygen and helps control soil erosion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamboo-plantation-planned-on-4000ha-in-mwada-this-monsoon/articleshow/80869700.cms||Prasad Joshi
February 12, 2021||Mumbai||5 years after woman dies in mishap, sons get Rs 19L||Mumbai: The family of a 72-year-old woman, who had been severely injured and later died after she was hit by a car driving in the wrong direction in 2015, awarded a compensation of Rs 19 lakh by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal. Surekha Sinkar, a housewife, had submitted the claim in 2015 against the car owner, Shekhar Kanchan, but died during it’s pendency. At the time of the accident she earned Rs 10,000 every month by giving tuitions. Sinkar was on a walk near her house at Andheri when the incident occurred. In the application, it was stated that on October 11, 2015, at about 3.15 pm, when Surekha was walking by the side of road with care and caution, the car came from the opposite direction in a rash and negligent manner. It was alleged that the car came to the wrong side of the road and dashed Surekha. While she suffered severe injuries and was rushed to the hospital, a case was registered at Versova police station. Surekha was admitted in the hospital in three different spells as she suffered fractures in the ribs and limbs. She also underwent surgeries. It was submitted that at the time of the incident, Sinkar was in a normal physical condition. However, due to the injuries that she suffered, she had to take bed rest for 6 months. It caused her some disability and thus affected her life.  The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal has directed The New India Ass Co Ltd to pay the amount to Surekha’s sons, Manoj and Nitin Sinkar. The tribunal said that the insurance company was at liberty to recover the money from Kanchan. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-years-after-woman-dies-in-mishap-sons-get-rs-19l/articleshow/80869775.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi hospital sees 900 vaccinations in two days, walk-ins help||NEW DELHI: After an initial hiccup, which saw sub-par turnouts in the first few days at hospitals designated as Covid vaccination centres in the city, the fear factor may now well be over. At Mata Chanan Devi Hospital in Janakpuri, 900 people have got inoculated over the last two days. The hospital says it vaccinated 470 personnel on Thursday, extending the drive beyond 5pm in order to accommodate all voluntary walk-ins. On Wednesday, 430 people had been vaccinated, while 320 were vaccinated on Tuesday. With frontline workers now being vaccinated, including civil defence personnel, police, teachers and corporation staff, the hospital says it has been targeting the top management to lead by example. Ishan Sharma, nodal officer at the hospital, says while frontline staff may have had some fear initially, all that disappeared after higher rank officials were roped in. “While we are calling in people based on the application, others are being encouraged to walk in and get themselves vaccinated. The third battalion of Delhi Police has over 2,000 personnel and we are coordinating with the top officers to help motivate others. DCP Hareesh HP was among those who were vaccinated first and this motivated people under his battalion to also get vaccinated,” said Sharma, further referring to similar examples of reserve inspector Vikram Singh Rathi, reserve inspector Satish Kumar and ACP Poornima leading by example. “Buses of police personnel from each battalion are now coming in to get vaccinated and we try to extend the time to accommodate them all,” he added. Constable Jagbir Yadav, who was vaccinated at the hospital on Thursday, said he wanted to secure himself as soon as possible. “We are out on duty each day and therefore, the threat of Covid is always there. Once you are vaccinated, you feel safer mentally,” said Yadav, who decided to voluntarily walk in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/janakpuri-hosp-sees-900-vaccinations-in-2-days-walk-ins-help/articleshow/80868219.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 12, 2021||Trichy||Nagore Dargah tank gets makeover at Rs 4.3 crore||NAGAPATTINAM: The foundation stone for the renovation of the four side retaining walls of the Nagore Dargah tank in Nagapattinan district was laid on Thursday. The walls collapsed in rain triggered by Cyclone Nivar in November 2020. Minister for handloom and textiles O S Manian and minister for backward classes and minority welfare, S Valarmathi, laid the foundation stone for the work to be carried out at an estimated cost of Rs 4.34 crore. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami during his tour of the delta districts on December 9, to examine the crop loss caused in the aftermath of the cyclone, visited the Nagore Dargah and inspected one side of the retaining wall of a tank, which had collapsed due to rain. He assured to allocate funds to renovate the damaged wall. The event was organized by the dargah authorities with prayers. Nagapattinam MLA Thamimun Ansari and member of the Tamil Nadu Waqf Board, A Tamil Magan Hussain participated. In another function held at the new bus stand in Nagore on Thursday, Manian laid the foundation stone to construct a Yatri Nivas at a cost of Rs 1.40 crore to benefit devotees visiting the dargah. Yatri Nivas is going to be constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram (PMJVK) scheme, which addresses he development deficits of identified minority concentration areas. The nivas will come up on a plinth area of 6,000sqft with all the required facilities. A total of 300 devotees can stay at the nivas, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nagore-dargah-tank-gets-makeover-at-rs-4-3-crore/articleshow/80869675.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Forest officials seal illegal coal depot at Amberpet||Hyderabad: Forest officials on Wednesday sealed an illegally operating coal depot at Amberpet. The officials were alerted about the illegal activity by a local resident, who noticed that the business was being operated causing pollution in the area. During an inquiry, it was also found that the depot owner, Abdul Aleem, was regularly importing coal from Maharashtra. “We have also seized a coal-laden lorry belonging to Maharashtra stationed outside the depot and booked a case against the depot owner,” Hyderabad district forest officer M Joji said. The forest officials stated that the owner initially took permission to run a saw mill, but has started a coal depot instead. A further investigation revealed that the depot was being operated without following any fire safety regulations. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forest-officials-seal-illegal-coal-depot-at-amberpet/articleshow/80869676.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Ranchi||State farmers to draw benefits of Union govt’s power scheme||Ranchi: Farmers of Jharkhand can now produce solar energy on their barren fields and earn by selling the power produced to the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) under the Union government’s flagship scheme, Kusum Yojana, which aims at promoting clean energy in rural India. The Jharkhand State Electricity Regulation Commission (JSERC) has approved JBVNL’s tariff petition for solar power to be bought from the farmers after a public hearing last month. As per the approved tariff, farmers can sell power to JBVNL at the maximum rate of Rs 3.09 per unit. Under the scheme, farmers are entitled to a financial subsidy of nearly 60% of the equipment costs to set up a solar plant. “The state and the Centre have a 30:30 cost sharing arrangement while the rest has to be borne by the beneficiary,” K K Verma, director of Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Authority (JREDA), told TOI. Verma said the Centre has envisaged to augment India’s solar power production capacity to 450 gigawatt through the scheme. Jharkhand, which has a cumulative capacity of producing 29MW solar power at present, will add another 50MW to its kitty in the coming years. JBVNL officials said the infrastructure will be laid out to connect the solar power producing units to its grid networks. As per estimates, a power plant of 5MW capacity will need 10 acres of land and an investment of up to Rs 5 crore. Each farmer can produce a minimum of 0.2MW and a maximum of 2MW power through its plants, which will be set up by a private agency, which, in turn, will be hired by JREDA through an open tender in the coming weeks. JBVNL will purchase the power at the rate fixed by JSERC and will avail a subsidy of Rs 0.50 per unit from the Centre. “As many as 30 farmers, mostly from Garhwa, Latehar, Palamu and Lohardaga, have expressed interest in availing the scheme,” a JBVNL official said. On February 9, Union power minister R K Singh, replying to a query raised by BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash in Parliament, said Jharkhand’s solar power production capacity is much lower than other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-farmers-to-draw-benefits-of-union-govts-power-scheme/articleshow/80868312.cms||Dhritiman Ray
February 12, 2021||Ranchi||Submit details of vacancies, infrastructure: HC to Rims||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Thursday ordered the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) to furnish details of vacancies of doctors and other staff in the autonomous hospital along with a list of equipment it had bought recently to improve the healthcare services provided to the common people. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) taken up suo moto by the HC, a division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayaran Prasad directed Rims to furnish a "point-wise detailed report" on the vacancies and backlog in appointments apart from the furnishing details of the hospital infrastructure. In the report, Rims has to specify details of the shortage of doctors, nurses and other staff in its different departments. It must also specify what steps have been taken up to fill the posts and whether advertisements have been issued for any appointment. The PIL, which was taken up by the court after various media reports that Rims has to rely on outside labs for pathology and CT scan reports, the HC also queried what medical equipment have been purchased in the recent past to improve medical services and to help the general public at large. The court had earlier asked Rims to furnish what equipment have been bought during the initial stage of the pandemic last year. The matter will come up for hearing again after four weeks. The media reports had highlighted negligence and deprivation of services provided to the patients in Rims. Taking a serious note of these reports, the HC observed that the Rims, being an autonomous hospital, should have these facilities and took up the PIL on its own to improve the functioning of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/submit-details-of-vacancies-infrastructure-hc-to-rims/articleshow/80867524.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Ranchi||Bidyut seeks new trains to B’luru, Bihar||Jamshedpur: BJP MP from Jamshedpur, Bidyut Baran Mahato, on Thursday said he has sought introduction of new trains between Tatanagar and Jaynagar in Bihar and between Tatanagar and Bengaluru along with the resumption of rail services stopped since the lockdown began. Mahato said he met Railway Board chairman Sunil Verma at his office in Delhi and submitted his demands, including the resumption of train services between Tatanagar and Bhagalpur in Bihar. The MP said the demands are long-pending from a large number of people, including many from his constituency, who travel between the two states daily and the services would help them immensely. He further said Verma assured to talk to the respective heads of the two rail divisions as their agreements are required to start the services. "Many passengers from Jamshedpur also travel to Bengaluru every day and I have put up a demand to introduce a train service between the two cities. Besides, I have sought implementation of the proposed trains passing through my constituency to improve connectivity in the region," Mahato added. Meanwhile, Congress MP from West Singhbhum, Geeta Koda, demanded immediate resumption of passenger and MEMU train services in the region. She said most of the train services in the area, the lifeline of the region, were stopped during the lockdown, creating a lot of problems for the daily commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bidyut-seeks-new-trains-to-bluru-bihar/articleshow/80867328.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt prepares for legal fight with Centre on Ghats report||BENGALURU: With uncertainty dogging implementation of the K Kasturirangan Committee report on Western Ghats, the Karnataka government is preparing the legal grounds to take on the Centre in the Supreme Court. Even as the National Green Tribunal (NGT) hears a case filed against the Union government by Goa Foundation to notify the ecologically sensitive areas (ESA) as proposed in the report, legislators from Uttara Kannada, Kodagu, Shivamogga and parts of Dakshina Kannada have urged the government to prepare for a legal fight if an adverse directive is issued. “The government told us it’ll invite legislators to discuss the legal way forward to ensure the report is not implemented. We’re waiting for it,” said Virajpet BJP MLA K G Bopaiah. According to the former speaker, the government has no option but to approach the apex court or become a party in the case being fought in the NGT over delay in implementing the report that has been rejected by almost all states along Western Ghats. “The only option for the government is to approach the Supreme Court or NGT and seek relief,” said Bopaiah. According to a reply tabled by the Karnataka government at the recently concluded assembly session, the law department has been directed by the cabinet sub-committee studying the report to prepare legal grounds to challenge it. “As per the decision of the cabinet sub-committee on December 28, 2020, the government has decided to reject the report in its entirety and in the present form. The government has also resolved to prepare the legal grounds for challenging the implementation of the report by the Centre if the NGT directs the Union government to do so,” said the reply. Sources in the environment and ecology department suggest it’ll consider a legal remedy like filing a special leave petition only if the Centre gets an adverse verdict from the NGT and forces Karnataka to challenge the implementation. Forest minister Arvind Limbavali reiterated that the government has rejected the report and there’s no question of implementing it. “If required, we’ll fight a legal battle,” he said. Environment and ecology minister CP Yogeshwar said he’s yet to look into the matter. Additional chief secretary (environment, ecology and forests) Sandeep Dave and law minister Basavaraj Bommai were not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-prepares-for-legal-fight-with-centre-on-ghats-report/articleshow/80868174.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
February 12, 2021||Vadodara||BJP to contest on only 24 of 44 seats in Godhra municipality||VADODARA: The BJP declared its list of candidates for the Godhra municipality on Thursday. The party has fielded candidates on all the four seats in six wards of the municipality thus contesting only 24 of the 44 seats in the civic body. The BJP has been traditionally fielding candidates only in the six wards that are dominated by voters from the majority community. In the remaining five wards, dominated by the minority community, winning candidates have been contesting as independents. The BJP has not fielded any candidate from the minority community despite their sizeable the population of in Godhra. The BJP has been getting a majority in the board with the support of the independent corporators from the minority community. On some occasions, even independents have managed to get the seat of the municipality president. The party this time is stuck with the policy of not giving tickets to relatives of party leaders on important positions. The only exceptions were sons of two former corporators who were given tickets. Persons who had been corporators for three or more terms and those above the age of 60 years were also ignored along with former presidents of the municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-to-contest-on-only-24-of-44-seats-in-godhra-municipality/articleshow/80866603.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Ranchi||Rims paperless project begins with 1st meet||Ranchi: Taking the first step towards the integration of health services with technology and making the state's largest medical college and hospital a paperless institute, the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) director Dr Kameshwar Prasad convened a high-level meeting with stakeholders concerned on Thursday. Earlier on January 28, the Rims governing body had approved digitization of health services through the e-hospital portal and installation of computers for the process at different locations of the hospital. Addressing media persons after the meeting, Prasad said: “The meeting was aimed at making our stakeholders aware of the change and accept it widely. It would enable us to implement the process smoothly. Once the digitization is done, our hospital will become a paperless institute." According to phase one of the digitization project, Rims will buy 150 computer sets for installation across wards, clinical units, OPDs as well as laboratories. All clinical units and laboratories will be connected with the e-hospital portal, after which the data of the patients will be uploaded. Deputy medical superintendent of Rims, “A few of our departments, including gynaecology, have been using the online portal to keep records of patients and after we connect all departments and laboratories, it will ease the clinical process as a patient will have to go around the labs to collect their reports. Moreover, doctors will be able to access them on their desktops and they can also refer the patients to other departments with their remarks so that the hassle of moving around the hospital with papers is removed.” The two-hour meeting, which sought suggestions from doctors of the institute on the process, was attended by heads of departments and senior officials of Rims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-paperless-project-begins-with-1st-meet/articleshow/80868266.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Ranchi||Modi’s EWS housing scheme hits displacement stir hurdle in Ranchi||Ranchi: After over a month of Prime Minister Narendra Modi laying the foundation online for the Light House Project, a centrally sponsored housing scheme for the economically weaker section (EWS) in Jagarnathpur area here, residents have opposed it fearing large-scale displacement. On January 1 this year, Modi laid the foundation for construction of nearly 1,000 houses on about seven acres of land with an estimated budget of Rs 133.99 crore. The state urban development department has zeroed in on the 3-acre Mitra Mandal ground spread in Jagarnathpur here to begin the first phase work of the scheme. However, the administration could not start the work after protests by the locals who are agitating under the banner of Basti Bachchao Sangharsh Samiti (BBSS). On Thursday, the Ranchi Municipal Corporation had scheduled a meeting to pacify them but it was cancelled after the residents did not turn up. Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra said efforts are on to pacify protesters. “The protesters are ignorant about the benefits of this project. Today, we had scheduled the talks with the locals but we had cancelled them as most had gone for work and none turned up. We will try to re-schedule it on a Sunday or some other holiday. We are sure of solving any issue through talks,” she said. Mintu Paswan, the convener of BBSS, which represents 26 localities in and around Jagarnathpur, said they have appealed to the state government to shift the project to another vacant site saying that the earmarked site is the only playing ground for their children. Talking to TOI, Paswan said there are several concerns among the residents after the announcement of the project. “First, the earmarked site has historical significance as international football matches were held here earlier. Moreover, this is the only open ground in the area for playing and other cultural activities. A highrise will end that.” He further said, "None of the officials took us into confidence before selecting this site and we came to know of it only when the foundation stone was laid. Besides, the site is only of three acres and the project is proposed on seven acres. It meant the localities around the area will be acquired and several families will be displaced in future. We will not allow that to happen." Paswan added, "Most importantly, the government is claiming that the houses are meant for the EWS, but the price of each unit is quite high and none of us who live in the localities nearby will be able to afford it." According to the provisions in the project, the Centre will invest Rs 5.5 lakh per unit, which has about 350 sqft area, while the state's government's share is Rs 1 lakh. Each selected beneficiary will have the bear the remaining price amount of Rs 6.79 lakh. According to Paswan, the majority of the two lakh residents of the 26 localities would not be able to afford the amount and said, “Most of us are casual workers who have a hand-to-mouth existence. The houses are definitely not meant for us, so for whom are these houses coming up? We are not against the project but we are against acquiring of the village land and future displacements. The government should consider our genuine demands.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/modis-ews-housing-scheme-hits-displacement-stir-hurdle-in-ranchi/articleshow/80868210.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 12, 2021||Ranchi||45 Cov cases, 53 recoveries & zero deaths in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Jharkhand reported 45 cases of Covid-19 and 53 recoveries and the number of active cases stood at 456. As no casualties were recorded, the overall death toll stood at 1,081. Of the 24 districts, only six districts reported fresh infections with Ranchi reporting the highest, 24, followed by East Singhbum, 10. The rest witnessed cases in single digits. As per government data, as many as 1,19,206 people have been infected by the virus till date, and 1,17,669 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.71%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03% against the national average of 0.07%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 2155.74 days against the national figure of 938.28 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.90%. Meanwhile, a total of 13,588 beneficiaries, including 4,744 health workers and 8,844 frontline staff, were inoculated on Thursday across over 200 session sites in Jharkhand, out of the registered 26,329 beneficiaries. The overall turnout for Thursday stood around 52%. As per health department data, a total of 1,74,501 beneficiaries, out of 3,49,819 registered ones, have been inoculated till date. A total of 256 AEFIs have been reported till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/45-cov-cases-53-recoveries-zero-deaths-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80867448.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Ranchi||2 CRPF men injured in Bokaro Maoist encounter, 1 critical||Bokaro: Two CRPF jawans were injured in an encounter with CPI Maoists in Tutijharna forest in the foothills of Luggu under Gomia block in Bokaro on Wednesday night, police said on Thursday. “The incident took place when CRPF, SAT, Jharkhand Jaguar and district police personnel were jointly conducting anti-naxal search operations in the forest and as soon as the security forces reached Tutijharna, the Maoists opened fire. More than hundred rounds of bullets were exchanged,” Bokaro SP Chandan Kumar Jha said. The injured jawans are in the rank of hawaldars in 154 battalion, of which one, identified as Satyendra Singh who sustained injuries in his stomach, is critical and has been admitted at Medica Hospital in Ranchi. Another jawan named Vishnu sustained minor injuries as the bullet brushed passed his chest. The security personnel seized a weapon, several live cartridges, snacks and other items from the spot. The naxals, however, managed to flee. “We have launched combing operations in the forest,” Jha, who is monitoring the combing operation along with CRPF officials, said. The Maoist squad involved in the firing is suspected to be of Birsen who is active in the Jhumra area. According to sources, Birsen holds the post of regional committee member in the outfit which has around 16 members, including women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-crpf-men-injured-in-bokaro-maoist-encounter-1-critical/articleshow/80868094.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Ranchi||‘All 14 missing Jharkhand workers in Chamoli could be dead’||Ranchi/Ramgarh: The state control room set up to trace persons from Jharkhand, who went missing after the Chamoli glacier burst in Uttarakhand, has so far received photographs of 35 mutilated bodies since the disaster struck on Sunday, but none of them could be identified so far, officials said on Thursday. It has also said all missing persons from the state could be dead. On the other hand, the state disaster management department has sent a final list of 14 missing persons from Jharkhand to its counterpart in Uttarakhand. The list included four from Ramgarh, one from Bokaro and nine from Lohardaga. As many as 29 others from Jharkhand — Latehar (10), Jamtara (7), Hazaribag (2), Bokaro (3) and Ramgarh (7) — were stranded at different places in the hill state after the disaster. The state disaster management secretary, Amitabh Kaushal, said: “We have forwarded the list of our missing men to the Uttarakhand government. At the moment, 14 are missing,” he said. On the deaths, he said officially, none from the state could be identified. “The pictures that we are receiving through WhatsApp groups are very poor in quality. Solely based on the photographs, it is very difficult to ascertain anything at the moment,” he added. Another official at the control room said since February 8 when they set up the helplines, they had registered missing complaints of about 51 persons in connection with the mishap in Chamoli. Of them, 29 were found safe by Thursday. Notably, the family members of Vicky Oraon (30), one of the nine workers missing from Lohardaga, had reportedly identified his body on Wednesday night, probably making him the first casualty from the state. All the nine workers hailed from Bathet village in Lohardaga’s Kisko block and worked at the NTPC’s power plant project site in Chamoli. When the glacier broke triggering an avalanche and flash floods, they were said to be inside an under-construction tunnel, which was washed away. Bahadur Oraon, a resident of Bathet, who had first contacted the state control room to report about the nine persons from his hamlet, said over the phone, “There is a general feeling among family members now that none of the workers is alive. We are hoping against hope. The district administration has asked to nominate four persons who wanted to visit Chamoli to trace the workers so that arrangements can be made, but none of the villagers or anyone’s family members is ready to go now.” Lohardaga deputy commissioner Dilip Kumar Toppo said they were in touch with their counterparts in Chamoli but to no avail. “We have forwarded details of those missing along with their photo IDs. Let’s hope for the best,” he said. Officials in both the state departments of disaster management and labour, however, were of the view that all 14 could be dead. “Considering the situation in Chamoli, it is unlikely that anyone is alive by now unless there is divine intervention. The more time it takes to trace them, the more their chances of survival diminish,” said a senior official unwilling to be named. Meanwhile, a five-member team from the family of a missing worker from Ramgarh’s Chokad village was on its way to Tapovan. Dilip Mahto, a relative of missing worker Kuldeep Mahto, said, “We are on our way to Tapovan from Delhi on a bus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/all-14-missing-jharkhand-workers-in-chamoli-could-be-dead/articleshow/80867997.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Ranchi||Lac to be listed as agri produce: Hemant||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday declared that the state government would soon pull out lac from the minor forest produce list and classify the resin as an agricultural produce. The announcement by the chief minister, which was greeted by a thunderous applause at the Kisan Mela organised by the Indian Institute of Natural Resins and Gums (IINRG) at its campus at Namkum in Ranchi, would be a blessing for lac cultivators throughout Jharkhand, as income from the sale of lac would no longer be taxable under the Income Tax Act, once the resin is declared a farm produce. While agricultural incomes are tax-free, incomes from the sale of minor forest produce like lac are taxable. “Thousands of farmers are agitating for the past two months seeking the inclusion of minimum support prices for agri produce in the recently passed farm bills. The state government stands committed to put farmers on their own feet. Over the past one year, farmers have been demanding that lac be removed from the list of forest produce and treated as agricultural produce. Bowing to the wishes of the farmers, the state government would soon initiate steps to declare lac as a farm produce in Jharkhand,” the chief minister said while inaugurating the two-day Kisan Mela. The chief minister added, “No proper farm infrastructure exists in Jharkhand. Cold chains, efficient transport facilities, godowns, storage facilities etc are still non-existent. Over the past 20 years, there have been no investments to improve agri infrastructure in Jharkhand. But our government stands committed to bring about a profound change in the farm and forest sectors to give a big boost to improve rural purchasing power.” “The state government would also roll out a scheme to declare the minimum support price for lac. We have already launched a scheme to construct 500 storage facilities throughout the state and to train at least 50,000 farmers and their families in poultry farming, piggery, dairy farming etc. All required farm infrastructure would be put in place in a time-bound manner,” the chief minister said. Agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, who was also present on the occasion, said over the next four years, at least 24 lakh farmers in the state would be provided with training on latest farm techniques to boost farm production. He added that extensive plans are being drawn up to undertake tree plantation that would be appropriate to boost the production of lac and resins in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lac-to-be-listed-as-agri-produce-hemant/articleshow/80867291.cms||Tapas Biswas
February 12, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand health secy inspects hosps on 1st official visit to Steel City||Jamshedpur: State health secretary K K Soan visited the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH) in the Steel City on Thursday. He took a tour of all the departments at the hospital premises and the college during his visit. The top health official enquired about the two defunct ambulances and an inoperative machine at the OPD wing of the MGMMCH from the hospital authorities. He also did not seem satisfied with the state of cleanliness at the hospital. Later, the secretary inspected the college at Dimna. He asked the college authorities about the status of the upcoming 500-bed capacity building at the college campus. “I have come here to make an inspection, talk to the officials and learn about the requirements of the MGMMCH,” said Soan, who visited Jamshedpur for the first time after taking over the charge of the health department. The MGM hospital superintendent, Sanjay Kumar, raised the issue of shortage of trained medical professionals at the hospital. Besides, he also flagged the issue of irregular supply of medicines to the secretary. A senior official at the hospital said on the condition of anonymity that owing to the shortage of funds, the restoration of high-end machines like cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR), CT scanning machine and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) could not be carried out on time. The health secretary also visited the sadar hospital in Pursudih during his stay in the Steel City. Notably, a bid to improve the condition of the MGM hospital was made with much fanfare in 2020 by the state health minister, Banna Gupta, but the exercise had to be suspended mid-way due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The MGM hospital is mostly frequented by patients from the three districts of the Kolhan division. Over 200 people visit the OPD at the hospital on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-health-secy-inspects-hosps-on-1st-official-visit-to-steel-city/articleshow/80867382.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||Goa||Mapusa bus stand project an election stunt, says Cong||Saligao: The North Goa Congress committee has alleged that the foundation stone laid for the proposed Mapusa bus stand on Wednesday is only an election stunt to woo people. Committee president Vijay Bhike told reporters on Thursday that the Rs 3.5 crore set aside for the project was not sufficient for the proposed works listed. Congress members held black flags at the proposed site as a mark of protest against the laying of the foundation stone. The proposed work includes basic infrastructure and a bus stand with provisions for a KTC office, drivers’ room, canteen, kitchen area, toilet block, parking for 11 tempos, parking bays for 50 buses, shed for travellers, parking area for 44 four-wheelers, 64 two-wheelers and 15 rickshaws along with a highmast light.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-bus-stand-project-an-election-stunt-says-cong/articleshow/80869761.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Goa||Pending projects in BicholimTo be completed soon: Sawant||Bicholim: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that all the pending projects in Bicholim will be completed by this year.  He said the foundation stone for the administrative complex, housing all government offices, will be laid soon. Sawant was speaking after inaugurating the first phase of the road beautification project spanning from Bicholim to Vhalshi undertaken by the Bicholim municipal council. “There were some hurdles regarding the land acquisition which have been cleared now,” he said.  He also informed that the building for fire brigade and the central government primary building will be completed by December 2021. He said that the construction of the new KTC bus stand in place of the old one will be completed during this tenure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pending-projects-in-bicholimto-be-completed-soon-sawant/articleshow/80869847.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Business||Ruia eyes strategic partner to bid for Air India||Kolkata: Pawan Kumar Ruia, who came to fame by acquiring Dunlop from Jumbo Electronics in 2005, is likely to induct a strategic partner in an attempt to acquire Air India (AI). Ruia Group has already submitted a bid for the state-run carrier. The other bidders are known to be the Tata group and AI Employees Association backed by some private equity funds. Ruia though was not available for comments, sources in the industry said that he was open to inducting a partner after the financial bid. The bid for Air India was made through Kanti Commercial, Enormous Nivesh and Fragment Nivesh. In the last decade, Ruia was known for acquisitions. Sources also claimed that it met the Rs 3,500 crore networth criteria. He made a few acquisitions domestically as well as overseas and was on the fray for many more. Sources pointed out that after keeping a low profile for almost five-six years following the closure of Dunlop factory, the group is again becoming active. During the Covid -19 lockdown, Ruia introduced N95 musk under the Dunlop brand as well. “Pawan Ruia has taken over many companies and made turnarounds also but due to political and other reasons some of them were affected,” added sources. Ruia’s first major takeover was Jessop when it was divested by the Central government in 2001. The buyout had evoked a lot of controversies but initially he managed to made a turnaround in Jessop though later it was closed. Ruia also participated in the divestments of Bharat Wagons and NBCC which later were scrapped. The takeover specialist was also in the fray for SsangYong Motor Company, which later was taken over by Mahindra. Ruia also shortlisted for the bidding of Kumho tyres of South Korea. The biggest acquisition of Ruia was Dunlop along with Falcon tyres for over Rs 200 crore. Later on, the group also did two overseas acquisitions in 2010 Turkey’s Standard Profil AS and Germany’s Meteor Gummiwerke KH Badje GmbH and Co. KG||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ruia-eyes-strategic-partner-to-bid-for-air-india/articleshow/80869849.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Goa||HC constitutes panel for garbage mgmt||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has appointed a committee to look into facilities to treat dry and wet waste in panchayats and municipalities. Observing that panchayats have been passing the buck to other agencies and giving excuses for not setting up these facilities, the court appointed a committee with the managing director of the Goa Waste Management Corporation as chief executive and director of panchayats, member secretary of Goa State Pollution Control Board, an executive engineer from PWD nominated by the chief engineer, and under secretary (revenue) as members. The committee has been directed to submit its preliminary report to the high court by March 9. “It is expected that the committee verifies whether the MRF (materials recovery facility) and composting facilities have been actually set up by the village panchayats who claim that they have set up these facilities or in any case the status of the construction,” the division bench comprising Justices M S Sonak and Bharati H Dangre observed. Only 57 out of 191 panchayats and three out of 14 municipalities have complied with directions for setting up of the MRF and composting facilities. The director of municipal administration has been directed to hold a meeting with chairpersons/chief officers of non-compliant municipal councils to ensure compliance and initiate action against erring councils. Considering showcause notices were issued to 14 out of 44 hotels who generate waste of over 100 kg per day without making their own arrangements, the court directed the member secretary of the pollution board to indicate the names of the 14 non-complaint establishments. For the limited purpose of dealing with the issue of black spots, the court posted the matter for February 16. The court also made it clear that only the municipal councils or the panchayats, who are concerned with the issue of black spots, need to attend this hearing. The issue of black spots in village panchayats of Merces, Chimbel and Santa Cruz was raised before the court. The court noted that it is not sufficient for these panchayats to only clear the black spots, but also to suggest some measures to prevent such black spots from mushrooming. Further, the panchayats are required to take action against those who dump the garbage in an unauthorised manner, the court added. The panchayats of Sancoale and Colva have also been asked to file their applications to which the director of panchayats and GSPCB will have to respond which will be taken up by the court on March 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-constitutes-panel-for-garbage-mgmt/articleshow/80869895.cms||---
February 12, 2021||Goa||To showcase govt reforms, IPB plans webinars||Panaji: Jumping onto the webinar bandwagon, the Goa Investment Promotion and Facilitation Board (Goa-IPB) has decided to launch a webinar series as part of an effort to rebrand Goa’s image as a great investment destination. Goa IPB plans to host a webinar on 11 consecutive Fridays till April where different government departments will speak about the reforms undertaken and also resolve queries pertaining to ease of doing business. “The schedule of the webinars is available on the Goa IPB website. A total of 11 webinars have been planned every Friday evening till April. Every department on their respective time will engage with participants to handle queries about their services,” said the government in a statement. IPB is implementing the Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP) 2020 to improve the state’s ranking in the Ease of Doing Business evaluation. In the ranking report published by the Centre’s department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade in 2019, despite having an implementation score of 91%, Goa received nil feedback score, resulting in a rank of 24 amongst participating states. The government has urged people to join the webinar series every Friday to learn about the reforms undertaken by the state and share their feedback directly with the government. The state government is disappointed with previous ease of doing business rankings, and has planned a media blitz this time around to “inform potential users” about the reforms introduced in Goa. Departments have been asked to issue “extensive newspaper advertisements” and to “leverage” social media accounts such as Twitter and Facebook to reach the maximum number of people. Just a few days earlier, Goa IPB floated a tender to appoint a social media agency, which will develop a “brand identity for Ease of Doing Business” and manage Goa’s brand image.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-showcase-govt-reforms-ipb-plans-webinars/articleshow/80869945.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 12, 2021||India||Wilson ‘proof planting’ has Andhra ‘reference’||MUMBAI: There is an Andhra Pradesh ‘reference’ to the alleged planting of evidence in the laptop belonging to Elgar Parishad case accused Rona Wilson, as mentioned in a digital forensics report. The US-based report said when the laptop was first “compromised” in 2016, the hacker had named the first malware sample “Puttakota.exe.” It turns out that there is a place called Puttakota. It is in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh and near it lie the ruins of a 13th century hilltop Kondaveedu Fort. The place was also in the news in February 2016 after two persons were shot dead by AP anti-Naxal police in the Puttakota forest. Police had refuted claims by tribals that the deceased were “innocent hunters.” Wilson has relied on the digital forensic report by Arsenal Consulting to file a petition before the Bombay high court to quash the 2018 criminal proceedings against him. The Pune police had submitted a chargesheet against Wilson alleging Maoist links, a conspiracy to disrupt communal peace, waging war against the nation and several terror offences under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The NIA took over the probe in January 2020. The private cyber forensic report from the US said “this particular sample first connected to its C2 (command control) server on June 13, 2016 at 7.14 pm…and appears to have been customized on June 11, 2016.” “Generally speaking and not commenting on this case, attackers usually name targeted malware based on what they perceive the target will find interesting enough to click upon. The name is the bait,” said Samir Datt, founder of Forensics Guru and president of Digital Investigators Association in India, on Thursday The report by Mark Spencer of Arsenal Consulting said the “attacker” had a “naming convention” for the malware. “The NetWire (malware) sample ‘Puttakota.exe’ was launched from a folder named ‘requisition1302,’” said the report. “It appears that the attacker included customization dates within ‘Host Id’ values to better identify particular Netwire samples deployed to victims such as Wilson,” the report by the consulting firm said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wilson-proof-planting-has-andhra-reference/articleshow/80871594.cms||Swati Deshpande
