February 13, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Manipal alumna 1st desi woman to head Oxford Student Union||MANIPAL: Rashmi Samant, from Manipal in Karnataka, was elected president of the Oxford Student Union on Thursday — becoming the first Indian woman to occupy the position. The alumna of Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), MAHE, bagged more votes than the combined count of the other three contestants. An MSc student in energy systems at Linacre College, Oxford University, Rashmi received 1,966 of the 3,708 votes cast for president. The election this year saw a record turnout of 4,881 students who cast 36,405 votes for all posts combined. T She was largely behind launch of Manipal HackathonRashmi has listed four main priorities: decolonisation and inclusivity, Covid interventions for all, access to quality mental health resources and decarbonising the university. As per her manifesto, Rashmi intends to lobby the university and Conference of Colleges to remove all statues proven to be imperialist, including that of Christopher Codrington, a Barbados-born colonial governor who attended Christ Church College in 1685. She has also sought residency requirements to be waived till WHO declares the end of the pandemic. Daughter of Vathsala and Dinesh Samant, Rashmi did her schooling in Manipal and Udupi. Dinesh is a businessman at Parkala near Udupi while Vathsala is a homemaker. Rashmi completed graduation in mechanical engineering at MIT (2016-2020) and was technical secretary of the student council. She was largely behind the launch of Manipal Hackathon, an event to incubate modern digital solutions for societal challenges. Rashmi’s father said her course ends this year but she is expected to serve a year in the union post which she will take up in June-July. “She is expected to return to India next year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/she-was-largely-behind-launch-of-manipal-hackathon/articleshow/80886799.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||23 yrs of Wandhama massacre and reply to terror||CHANDIGARH: As you read the newspaper this morning, 23 years back to the time a bloody battle was on in the high snows of the Kashmir valley. The blood of seven terrorists, including a Pakistan Army regular, was seeping into the ivory snows of Safapora, outside their cave hideouts blasted by infantry’s 84-millimetre Carl Gustav rocket launchers. The crack team of 3 Kumaon and 9 Dogra had released Russian-made special incendiary munitions deep into the recesses of snow and rock, and any terrorist who fled the ‘crematory fire’ was nailed by the troops who slithered and slid down the slopes in hot pursuit. The souls of 23 Kashmiri Pandits slaughtered by this Harkat-ul-Ansar gang 19 days ago on January 25, 1998, had found partial peace. The tactical battles waged in high altitude to nail the Wandhama killers spilled over to Valentine's Day, 1998. The brilliance of these operations would foreshadow the similar eviction in the Kargil War the very next year. Phones rang in the Army headquarters as the victorious troops dragged the seven bodies down from 11,000 feet in moonlight, the clothes ripped off by the abrasion of stone and hard soil. ‘Operation Safapora’ was reported over two days and nights live by this correspondent from those heights, accompanying troops in fire contact with the terrorists. The Prime Minister's Office was relayed the news through the Defense Ministry. The Army had kept its promise of swift retribution made to the-then prime minister, I K Gujral, on January 28, 1998. The Wandhama massacre had shaken India. On January 28, 1998, a worried Gujral and his principal secretary, N N Vohra, flew down to Ganderbal in a helicopter to take stock of the situation, which had seemed returning to normal with an elected state government in place freshly. The VVIPs joined the mourners at Wandhama the same day. They were received at the Ganderbal helipad by the-then general officer commanding (GOC), 8 Mountain Division, Major General J B S Yadava. "After briefing the dignitaries on the critical situation, I assured them that within a month, the killers would be dealt with. True to that and within a month of the massacre, the Army had nailed 11 of the 12 terrorists responsible,” Lieutenant General (retd) Yadava told TOI. ISI’s messageThe Wandhama massacre was no ordinary incident of terror. Its brutality dovetailed with the ISI’s politico-strategic aims. “The situation was fast returning to normal in the Valley, January 26 was Republic Day, and January 27 the start of the winter games at Gulmarg. The massacre’s timing was ISI’s message to the world that the situation was far from normal, contrary to what the winter games were slotted to convey. To the Kashmiris, the message was that the terrorists called the shots. “The operational instructions that I got after the massacre from the late 15 Corps commander Lt Gen Krishan Pal were to restore peace in the area and facilitate the elected government in carrying out its mandate,” said Lt Gen Yadava, whose first move after the massacre was to realign the area of responsibility of 5 Sector RR and 70 Infantry Brigade and get the latter formation to take charge of Wandhama. Target lockedAfter the informers located the terrorists in the remote caves of Safapora outside Ganderbal, just 3 kilometres from Wandhama, 70 Brigade was tasked with settling the score. Even though his troops were neither trained nor oriented towards offensive operations in high altitude, the-then 70 Brigade commander, R K Shivrain of the Parachute Regiment, seized the opportunity with the innovative and bold idea of surprising the enemy from the least expected and most difficult approach. The brigade moved, later, to Kargil in 1999 under the command of Chandigarh-based Brigadier Devinder Singh, now retired, and evicted the Pakistani soldiers from their extensive and penetrative lodgements in the Batalik sector. The dark climbThe operational plan of Safapora was to climb to the highest points (3138 and 3297) at night and then roll down on to the terrorist hideouts from above. Dehradun-based Maj Gen Shivrain (retd) told TOI: “Initially, CO, 3 Kumaon, Colonel Sudhir Uppal, was not very enthused about its tactical salience but I was convinced it would work. I offered to accompany Uppal and the troops in their 5,000 feet ascent to Point 3297. That settled the doubts and the operation was launched. The 3 Kumaon troops hit the terrorists at first light on February 13, 1998, and a battle raged in 4-5 feet of snow, as the latter tried to flee. Possibly, three escaped or were burnt alive in the caves, while seven were accounted for by 3 Kumaon and 9 Dogra.” (Tomorrow: In waist-deep snows, the chase for Pandit murderers)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/23-yrs-of-wandhama-pandit-massacre-and-reply-to-terror/articleshow/80886785.cms||VIKRAM JIT SINGH
February 13, 2021||Business||Volatile gold prices dim sales; silver shines in some hubs||NEW DELHI: Physical gold demand eased this week in India as volatility in domestic prices put off buyers, while interest for silver remained strong in Singapore and Japan. Activity in top hub China, meanwhile, was subdued due to the Lunar New Year holiday. Local gold futures in India slipped to around Rs 47,300 per 10 grams on Friday, after rising above Rs 48,000 earlier this week. Last week, prices fell to a near eight-month low of Rs 46,600. “Prices are attractive, but consumers are hoping they could fall further. They are delaying buying,” said Ashok Jain, proprietor of Mumbai-based gold wholesaler Chenaji Narsinghji. Dealers charged premiums of about $5 an ounce over official domestic prices, inclusive of 12.5% import and 3% sales levies, versus last week’s $6 premium, a six-month peak. Jewellery demand is quite volatile, but investors are taking advantage of lower prices, said a Mumbai-based dealer with a bullion importing bank. Chinese customers were charged premiums of $5-$8 an ounce over benchmark spot rates.. The retail market was quiet ahead of the holiday, but some investor activity on the Shanghai Gold Exchange lifted premiums, Peter Fung, head of dealing at Wing Fung Precious Metals, said. In Hong Kong, dealers sold bullion between a discount of $3 an ounce and a $1 premium. In Singapore, premiums of $1.4-$1.8 were charged. Retail buying increased due to Chinese New Year gifting after a slow start this week, said Brian Lan, managing director at dealer GoldSilver Central in Singapore. Vincent Tie, sales manager at another Singapore dealer, Silver Bullion said interest in silver remained resilient. Silver has seen an influx of fresh interest, following a brief spike in spot prices triggered by a retail frenzy last week, with analysts also betting on a further upside this year from industrial demand. Japanese buyers too bought silver, dealers said. Gold premiums in Tokyo were around $0.50-$1 an ounce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/volatile-gold-prices-dim-sales-silver-shines-in-some-hubs/articleshow/80886898.cms||---
February 13, 2021||World||UK regulator Ofcom fines Khalsa TV Ltd £50,000 for broadcasting content that glorifies terrorism linked to Khalistan||LONDON: Media watchdog Ofcom has fined Khalsa Television Limited (KTV Ltd) £50,000 for broadcasting a music video that advocates violent action against the Indian state and glorifies violent acts linked to Sikh secessionism as well as a discussion programme that encourages violence towards those who criticise the Sikh faith and legitimises a terrorist organisation. The video for a song called “Bagga and Shera”, by the musical artiste Nav Sandhu, broadcast in July 2018 on TV channel KTV, contains a caricature of Indira Ghandi with blood dripping from her mouth, accompanied by the caption “You drank the blood of innocents you evil woman”, and the lyrics “Warriors will destroy your kingdom”, along with images of flames superimposed on the Red Fort in Delhi. “In Ofcom’s view, these images and text reinforced the music video’s narrative advocating violent action against the Indian state, and glorifying those who carry it out,” Ofcom said in its breach decision on Friday. KTV Ltd holds the licence for KTV, a TV channel that broadcasts Sikh-related issues to a Sikh audience in the UK. The licensee has been fined £20,000 for broadcasting the music video three times. Ofcom found the video “implicitly condones the violent actions of Sikh militants”, including the murders of people who had been instrumental in Operation Bluestar, and other murders and terrorist acts allegedly committed by members of the KLF. Ofcom said the video included subliminal messages and “indirectly encouraged others to commit violence, up to and including murder”. The NIA has indicted a number of individuals linked to the KLF, includingSikh activists Ramandeep Singh Bagga and Hardeep Singh Shera, for their alleged participation in a transnational conspiracy to carry out targeted killings in India, Ofcom said. In the video two characters are preparing to carry out assassinations in the UK, juxtaposed with images of real people who have been convicted of or charged with committing murders for political reasons. Those referred to in the video include Bagga and Shera, British Sikh activist Jagtar Singh Johal, and former leaders of the KLF, the regulator said. The video begins with a sequence in which one man shows anther a video of protesters burning an effigy of Sant Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, then gives him a hooded sweatshirt bearing statements in support of achieving Sikh secessionism through violence. Ofcom considered that the sequence was likely to have been understood by viewers as depicting a man recruiting another man to join a group advocating the use of violence in pursuit of the political aim of the creation of Khalistan. Ofcom considered the video was an indirect call to action for Sikhs living in the UK to commit violence, up to and including murder, against people who did not support the creation of Khalistan. The licensee was also fined £30,000 for broadcasting a live discussion programme, “Panthak Masle”, on KTV on March 30, 2019, which contained statements by spiritual and community leaders known as the “Five Beloved” which amounted to implicitz threats of violence towards Harnek Singh, a Sikh radio presenter resident in New Zealand who has allegedly “criticised” the Sikh faith. Ofcom also found the programme had the potential of legitimising the aims and actions of a proscribed terrorist organisation. During the show one of the panelists, Baldev Singh, referred to the Babbar Khalsa, saying: “We have no arguments with anybody…Babbar Khalsa, we eat and drink with them, we have good links with all of them”. The licensee said the reference to Babbar Khalsa was not as Ofcom had translated it, but as follows: “As for different organisations, we are with the Sikh Federation of the UK. As for Bab[b]ar Khalsa and Akhand Kirtani we are separate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-regulator-ofcom-fines-khalsa-tv-ltd-50000-for-broadcasting-content-that-glorifies-terrorism-linked-to-khalistan/articleshow/80887146.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 13, 2021||Goa||FC Goa bank on fighting mentality to qualify||FC Goa are now on a nine-match unbeaten run – six of them draws -- in the Indian Super League (ISL) and it all kicked off after an agonising 1-2 loss against Chennaiyin FC. Close on the heels of a defeat against ATK Mohun Bagan, this was their second successive loss. But while Goa were made to look out of place by an impressive Chennaiyin in the first-leg clash, coach Juan Ferrando feels there will be no repeat as they face off at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Saturday. For starters, the tables since then have turned. Goa are fourth with more than just a decent chance of making it to the playoffs. Chennaiyin are out of the race with three rounds still left to be played. “This one will be different from the first round,” Ferrando told TOI on Friday. “Against Chennaiyin, we had only two days to prepare. The team was very tired, and, of course, the mentality is totally different. Now we are better. The team is more ready.” Goa’s mentality was there for all to see in the previous game when they fought for a 3-3 draw against league leaders Mumbai City FC. From two goals down inside the first 25 minutes and another setback in the 90th, Goa did well to snatch a point. It is this fighting mentality that Goa would need for the remainder of the league as they jostle Hyderabad FC and NorthEast United for the two remaining playoff slots. “For me, it’s important that the players know we have some plans. Everyone knows our style, but there are two or three ways with this (style). Day by day, the players believe in the team and their teammates. You can see it with the players. “Sometimes, in this case with Edu (Bedia), maybe it’s necessary to change No 10. Sometimes it’s (Jorge) Ortiz, Alberto (Noguera), even Devendra (Murgaonkar), in the previous game. The players are not scared during difficult moments. It’s good for the mentality of the dressing room,” said Ferrando. It will be interesting to see Chennaiyin’s mentality, given they are out of the race for a playoff spot. Having lost their previous clash against Jamshedpur FC with a last-minute own goal, last year’s finalists have been left with just 17 points after 17 games. “The defeat (against Jamshedpur) was painful. We had chances to score and win the game,” said coach Csaba Laszlo. It’s been the same story all through the season. With just 11 goals from 17 matches, the lowest in the league, Chennaiyin’s lack of sharpness in front of goal has been their undoing. “Against Goa, we have to go out there and play for the team, play for yourself, play for the pride. Play and show that we are still a good team. Until now, we had only one bad game against Hyderabad, but before and after (that game), we showed that we are a good team, playing good football,” said Laszlo. At least against Goa in the first leg, Chennaiyin played good football. But without the mastermind, Rafael Crivellaro, and lack of motivation, can it be the same?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-bank-on-fighting-mentality-to-qualify/articleshow/80887145.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 13, 2021||World||Consultant pens letter to Greta giving her a lesson on Indian agriculture||LONDON: International consultant Mohinder Gulati has written a letter to Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg in which he expresses disappointment that she has used her “well-earned bully pulpit” to wade into political issues, such as the farmers’ protest in India. Gulati, former COO of Sustainable Energy For All, which works with the UN to ensure a transition to clean energy by 2030, has written, “You are doing a great service to the cause of climate change. Walking into the thicket of local political issues, often mired in a battle with corrupt and vested political interests, would undermine your ability to keep the moral high ground.” Gulati, who worked for the World Bank for 20 years, explains to the 18-year-old that burning crop residue in states like Punjab and Haryana creates a smog across Delhi which not only damages people’s lungs but also the soil, leading to increased use of chemical fertilisers, and that millions of tons of food produced in India every year is wasted. “India desperately needs to modernise its agriculture. This cannot, and should not, be done by the governments and should be left to a … well-regulated private sector. Do you support India to continue with the current archaic systems and waste food that could feed 100 million hungry every year?” he asks. He explains how the current system forces farmers to sell their produce through government-established market yards where they pay a brokerage and market tax. “The revenue is often swindled by corrupt politicians controlling these market committees” who collect these taxes, he explains. The new laws “give a choice to the farmers to either continue to sell in the existing market yards or sell to anyone anywhere in the country and that too without paying any tax”, he says. As for the MSP, which the government pays when it procures wheat and rice for the public distribution system, “about 52% of this procurement is made from only three states — Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh — the hub of agitating farmers. More than 90% of the farmers in rest of India do not benefit from this system,” he writes. “Normally, the market price is lower than the MSP,” he says, explaining how the broker-mafia purchase wheat and rice from farmers in other states at a lower price, pay them in cash, bring it to government procurement stations in Punjab, Haryana and UP, sell it at a higher price and get paid by cheque, which is tax-exempt. “No wonder the farmer agitation is so well funded. New laws would bring in transparency.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/consultant-pens-letter-to-greta-giving-her-a-lesson-on-indian-agriculture/articleshow/80887222.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 13, 2021||Business||Google's $76 m deal with French publishers leaves many outlets infuriated||PARIS: Alphabet Inc's Google has agreed to pay $76 million over three years to a group of French news publishers to end a more than year-long copyright spat, documents seen by Reuters show, a deal one news publishers' lobby deemed unfair. The two documents, seen by Reuters and disclosed publicly for the first time, include a framework agreement which stipulates Google is ready to pay $22 million annually in total to a group of 121 national and local French news publications after signing individual licensing agreements with each of them. The second document is a settlement agreement under which Google agrees to pay $10 million to the same group of publishers in exchange for their commitment to end all present and future potential litigation tied to copyright claims over the duration of the three-year agreement. Google declined to comment. The tech firm and the publishers announced that they had reached an agreement last month, but financial terms were not disclosed. "These opaque agreements don't ensure the fair treatment of all news publishers, since the calculation formula isn't made public," the union for independent online news publishers Spiil said earlier this week. It said it regretted that the profession had not offered a united front in the talks with Google. "Google took advantage of our divisions to advance its interests," it said. L'Alliance de la presse d'information generale (APIG), the lobby group that signed the deal with Google, was not immediately available for comment. In order to receive a share of the $22 million that will be split among the publishers, each organisation will be obliged to sign an individual licensing agreement with Google. The fees range from $1.3 million for France's reference daily Le Monde at the top of the list to $13,741 for local publisher La Voix de la Haute Marne, documents show. The document did not specify how these amounts are calculated. Leading national dailies Le Monde, Le Figaro and Liberation and their respective groups negotiated about 3 million euros ($3.6 million) each per year on top of this, notably by agreeing in November to sell subscriptions through Google, one source close to the matter said. The head of Le Monde group Louis Dreyfus declined to comment. Liberation's boss Denis Olivennes and representatives for Le Figaro were not immediately available for comment. Under the terms of the framework agreement, APIG members also commit to use and feed Google's upcoming new product Google News Showcase. Google News Showcase is both a global vehicle to pay news publishers for their content online and a new service that would allow partnering publishers to curate content and provide limited access to paywalled stories for users. Reuters, a division of news and information provider Thomson Reuters Corp, struck a deal with Google in January to be the first global news provider to Google News Showcase. The accord follows the implementation in France of a new kind of copyright rule under a recent European Union law, dubbed "neighbouring rights". These compel Google and other large tech platforms to open talks with publishers to remunerate them for the use of their news content online. Other French publishers who are not part of that deal, such as 100% online news and specialist publishers, criticised the deal for being opaque, unfair and not abiding by the "neighbouring rights" law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/googles-76-m-deal-with-french-publishers-leaves-many-outlets-infuriated/articleshow/80887287.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Business||Centre to soon allow opening of retail outlets for selling compressed biogas, says Pradhan||NEW DELHI: The Centre will soon allow opening of retail outlets for selling compressed biogas (CBG) which is made from fermented waste or other biological material, Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Friday at the launch of the country’s first tractor which has been converted to run on CNG. The tractor is owned by Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari. CBG can supplement CNG for running vehicles. Both CNG and CBG are methane based gases. While CNG, like gasoline, comes from underground, the CBG can come from waste or other biological material and it’s a CO2 neutral fuel. Pradhan said recently Gadkari had called a meeting and said that his ministry would notify the norms allowing the use of CNG made from CBG for running vehicles. The petroleum minister said the government has assured all CBG manufacturers that whatever quantity they produce will be procured by the government. The CBG can be made from rice stubbles, which is popularly known as ‘parali’. The burning of the rice stubble in Punjab and Haryana has become a cause of high level of air pollution in Delhi. Pradhan said the government is doing the hand holding for setting up of 5,000 CBG plants in the country. Launching the CNG tractor, Gadkari said this initiative will help increase the income for farmers by lowering fuel costs and creating job opportunities in rural India. He said the overall emissions are reduced by 70% when a CNG tractor is used as compared to one that runs on diesel. It will help farmers save up to 50% on fuel costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-to-soon-allow-opening-of-retail-outlets-for-selling-compressed-biogas-says-pradhan/articleshow/80888410.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 13, 2021||India||Not right atmosphere to decide Rajoana mercy: Govt||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that Khalistani terror groups’ past links with Balwant Singh Rajoana, given death penalty in 2007 for his role in assassination of then Punjab chief minister Beant Singh in 1995, made the prevailing circumstances in the country non-conducive for a decision on mercy pleas filed on his behalf. Hinting at the controversy over purported remarks in certain quarters about Canada-based Khalistan supporters lending financial help and instigating protesting farmers camping at border points of Delhi, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said, “Let us not forget that he was awarded death penalty for the assassination of a sitting chief minister of Punjab over the Khalistan issue. The President has started the process of consideration and a decision will be taken on the mercy pleas filed by others on behalf of Rajoana. But the present circumstances are not conducive for a decision on the mercy pleas.” A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian had on January 8 deadlined the Union government to decide the mercy pleas by January 26, saying, “It is a good day to make the decision”. On January 25, the bench had told the SG that a last opportunity of two weeks was being given to the Centre to take a decision. The bench understood the government’s predicament, especially after the violence by a section of protesting farmers who have been camping for months at Delhi borders with allegations flying thick and fast that Canada-based pro-Khalistan groups were funding and instigating the protesters. CJI Bobde asked Mehta whether he could indicate a timeframe within which the President would take a decision on the mercy pleas. The solicitor general said, “The government cannot give a timeframe for the President. But in the given circumstances, please adjourn the hearing by six weeks.” Rajoana’s counsel Mukul Rohatgi loudly protested and said his client had been in jail for nearly 25 years and was living under the shadow of death penalty for 14 years, which in itself was sufficient punishment to entitle Rajoana for release from jail. But the bench gave six weeks more time to the Centre to decide the mercy pleas. Fourteen petitions were filed in 2012 before the President seeking mercy for Rajoana. The petitioners included then Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. Four, including those by Rajiv Gandhi Youth Federation and Bhagat Singh Kranti Sena, had petitioned the President opposing grant of mercy to Rajoana. Rajoana had not appealed against the Punjab and Haryana HC decision upholding his conviction and sentence in 2010. However, he moved the SC seeking commutation of his death sentence to life imprisonment saying he had been in prison for the last 25 years and was living under the shadow of death since 2007, when the trial court convicted and sentenced him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-right-atmosphere-to-decide-rajoana-mercy-govt/articleshow/80888435.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 13, 2021||Business||‘False narrative’ of pro-rich Budget being created: Nirmala Sitharaman||NEW DELHI: Citing the string of pro-poor measures such as free ration and cooking gas rolled out by the government, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday lashed out at the opposition parties for creating a false narrative that the Budget was pro-rich and the Modi administration only worked for cronies. Adopting an aggressive stand, the FM said the Budget provided a strong stimulus which would provide medium- and long-term sustainable growth and put India on a growth trajectory that would help maintain its status as one of the fastest-growing economies in the world. "It has now become a sort of habit for some in the opposition to constantly allege that whatever this government is doing, in spite of all that we are doing for the poor, and more needs to be done, and that is not denied at all, in spite of various steps, a false narrative is created to accuse saying, 'oh, this government works only for cronies'," Sitharaman said in her reply to the Budget debate in the Rajya Sabha as she detailed the various measures that the Centre has rolled out to help the poor and the vulnerable. She said that under the PM Awas Yojana, more than 1.7 crore houses have been completed. "Is that for the rich?" she asked, adding that more than 2.6 crore households were being electrified under the Saubhagya scheme since October 2017. "Is that for the rich? Total value of orders placed on the government e-marketplace is Rs 8.2 lakh crore, which is more than Rs 8 trillion. Are they being given to big companies? They are being given to MSMEs. We have helped out small and medium companies to get a market. Is that for the rich and the big capitalists?" she asked. The FM said loans sanctioned under Mudra Yojana totalled more than Rs 27,000 crore. "Who takes loans under Mudra Yojana? Damads?" she asked, triggering protests from Congress members. Sitharaman said the stimulus would revive growth and the systemic reforms undertaken during the pandemic by the PM would help sustain growth, ease of doing business and sustain India as the leader in terms of entrepreneurial skill. The FM said the Budget provided a clear roadmap for fiscal reforms and how the deficit would be managed. She said the Budget had brought transparency to government accounts. "We have brought everything on to the budgetary accounting mechanism. What you get as Budget is what is there in it, no pushing things under the carpet," she added. "Therefore, admittedly, the fiscal deficit number is what it is and we have not even hurried to say, 'okay, next year we will quickly get the deficit number to something which all of us would like to see’. Not at all. We are going to be careful about how we are going to come down that path without affecting or creating any hurdle in the growth path of this country," she said. Sitharaman said the economic thinking was consistent with BJP and Jan Sangh’s ideology of taking care of people at the bottom of the rung — Antyodaya — and, at the same time, respect wealth creators and respect taxpayers. "All our citizens will have to be respected. So, this certainly is in line with and consistent with the policy of our earlier version, Jan Sangh, and the present BJP. So, this policy has consistently been maintained and entrepreneurs in India have always shown their strength, achieved glories and we should respect them, rather than constrict them through all kinds of holding, regulations and licence," the FM said. She also said commentators had praised the bold privatisation moves by the government. Sitharaman took on former finance minister P Chidambaram, who had called the Budget numbers "suspect" and detailed instances during the UPA era when oil companies, fertiliser units and the Food Corporation of India were issued special bonds to clear their subsidy dues and these did not reflect in the Centre’s Budget then. "There is a lot of grudge in the speech of the former finance minister. I feel that there is a little grudge not to recognise how the Prime Minister handled the corona crisis. Today, the entire world is seeing how we, in India, have had less deaths per million. We, in India, have less active cases when there are countries which are seeing wave after wave. And this handling is entirely due to coming upfront and leading from the front by the Prime Minister," she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/false-narrative-of-pro-rich-budget-being-created-fm/articleshow/80889003.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||MoD refutes Rahul’s charge of India ceding territory to China||NEW DELHI: The defence ministry rebutted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's claim that India had “ceded” territory to China during disengagement, saying India, in fact, ensured “observance and respect” for the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The strongly-worded government statement came hours after Rahul alleged Indian forces had moved back from the ‘Finger 4’ to ‘Finger 3’ area on the north bank of Pangong Tso. “Finger 4 is our territory, that is where our post used to be. Why has the PM given up Indian territory to the Chinese?” Rahul said. Refuting this, the defence ministry said India, on the contrary, “prevented any unilateral change” in status quo and added the LAC was at Finger 8, and not 4, according to the Indian perception. “That is why India has persistently maintained the right to patrol up to Finger 8, including in the current understanding with China,” it said. India has not “conceded” any territory at Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh under the disengagement pact with China, the defence ministry asserted on Friday, even as the mutual pullback of troops from both sides of the lake is proceeding at a faster than expected pace. The strongly-worded MoD statement came hours after Congress MP Rahul Gandhi alleged that the government had “ceded” Indian territory to the Chinese in the Pangong Tso area. Refuting this, the MoD said India, on the contrary, has enforced “observance and respect” for the LAC and “prevented any unilateral change” in the status quo. “The assertion that Indian territory is up to Finger 4 is categorically false. The territory of India is as depicted by the map of India and includes more than 43,000 sq km currently under illegal occupation of China since 1962,” it said. The MoD went on to add that even the LAC, according to the Indian perception, was at Finger 8, not at Finger 4. “That is why India has persistently maintained the right to patrol up to Finger 8, including in the current understanding with China,” it said. Indian soldiers are now pulling back westwards in phases to their Dhan Singh Thapa post between Fingers 2 and 3, while PLA troops are withdrawing to their old positions east of Finger 8, with the 10-km stretch in between set to be designated a temporary ‘no-patrol area’, as was earlier reported by TOI. The MoD, on its part, said the permanent posts of both India and China on Pangong Tso’s north bank were long-standing and well-established. “The current agreement provides for cessation of forward deployment by both sides and continued deployment at these permanent posts,” it said. The MoD also confirmed that “outstanding issues”, including the strategically-located Depsang Plains, Gogra and Hot Springs, will be taken up for discussion in the next round of corps commander-level talks within 48 hours of the disengagement being completed in Pangong Tso. Though the factual position had already been communicated by defence minister Rajnath Singh in Parliament on Thursday, the MoD said it was necessary to set the record straight to counter “some misinformed and misleading comments being amplified” in the media and social media. “Those who doubt the achievements made possible by the sacrifices of our military personnel are actually disrespecting them,” it said. Watch Defence ministry refutes Rahul Gandhi's charge of India ceding territory to China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mod-refutes-rahuls-charge-of-india-ceding-territory-to-china/articleshow/80889319.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||Rahul’s remarks part of Congress-China MoU: Nadda||NEW DELHI: Several BJP members reacted strongly to Rahul Gandhi’s remarks against PM Modi and his allegation that India had ceded territory to China with party chief J P Nadda calling the charge yet another edition of the Congress “circus” and part of the Congress-China MoU. “A new edition of Congress circus today, again due to Rahul Gandhi. Why is he bent upon falsely claiming that disengagement is a loss for India? Is it a part of INC-China MoU? With the armed forces leading the disengagement strategy, isn’t this an insult of our brave forces,” Nadda asked in a series of tweets. He said Congress’s record showed distrust for the armed forces. “It is a matter of public knowledge UPA never trusted our forces and kept their hands tied, like in 2008, after the Mumbai attacks,” he added. The BJP chief reiterated what defence minister Rajnath Singh said in Parliament and the MoD has also said no Indian land was given up. “If anyone committed the sin of giving up thousands of sq km, it is one corrupt, cowardly dynasty that has broken the country to keep their power intact,” Nadda tweeted, sharing a media report in which an Army veteran recalled how the country ceded land to China after the 1962 war when Jawaharlal Nehru was PM. Junior home minister G Kishan Reddy said Rahul must ask his grandfather (Jawaharlal Nehru) about who gave India's territory to China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahuls-remarks-part-of-congress-china-mou-nadda/articleshow/80889674.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||How Modi made IT ministry burn the midnight oil to ban Chinese apps||NEW DELHI: The decision to ban Chinese origin apps including TikTok and WeChat, just ahead of the third round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders, saw the information and technology ministry work through the night to put together the extensive paperwork needed for the unprecedented measures. As the blinds were pulled across the windows in IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad's office to ensure the flurry of activity was not noticed, top officials worked on a specific brief from Prime Minister Narendra Modi: The ban must be announced before the talks began. The ministry brass, along with law officials, finished the paperwork just in time. Conventional wisdom might have advocated a more cautious approach ahead of sensitive military talks at a time when Chinese forces enjoyed an advantage along the Line of Actual Control — it was not until late August that a surprise Indian manoeuvre altered the balance. But the PM was clear that China got an unequivocal message after the savage clash at Galwan. Read AlsoHow India changed playbook and took China by surpriseThe process of disengagement between Indian and Chinese armies that began on Wednesday on both sides of Pangong Tso is only the first step. What began with initial talks in June 2020 took over eight months, violence, deaths, missteps to get this far. ​​Mistrust between the two sides is so deep thatThe disengagement announced at Pangong Tso, so far proceeding smoothly, was the most difficult aspect of the de-escalation discussed at military and diplomatic levels over the past several months. The Chinese occupied the ridges amid reports of a helipad being built. The whole of government approach adopted in countering China across political, economic and diplomatic spheres was, sources said, a completely new experience for the Chinese. Read AlsoMoD refutes Rahul’s charge of India ceding territory to ChinaThe defence ministry rebutted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's claim that India had “ceded” territory to China during disengagement, saying India, in fact, ensured “observance and respect” for the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.The repeated signals that India would not step back even at the risk of a showdown with an economically and militarily stronger opponent effectively stalemated the situation. The frenzied Chinese reaction to the Indian action in taking the heights in south Pangong were a giveaway. The midnight statements and warnings of conflict indicated that their plans had gone very wrong. Read AlsoAmid pullback, Gen blasts ChinaChina’s expanding footprint in India’s neighbourhood, coupled with its attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along our disputed borders, has created an environment of confrontation and mutual distrust, General M M Naravane said on Friday.The agreement thereafter — following a few unsuccessful Chinese bids to intrude — to halt all probing movements was a breakthrough of sorts. It stabilised the LAC in an uneasy truce that nevertheless held despite the close proximity of troops. The developments hold a larger lesson as China's leaders have had to accept that the plan to re-order the LAC permanently to their advantage was not going to happen. The occupation of the Finger 4-8 area was a key part of the scheme. For now, India will also be out of the area, but so will the PLA. The test of Gogra-Hot Springs, Patrol Point 17 and Depsang lies ahead and will require more grit and patience. But the denouement of the faceoff was being keenly watched not just in South Asia and the Indo-Pacific but also within China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-modi-made-it-ministry-burn-the-midnight-oil-to-ban-chinese-apps/articleshow/80889692.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
February 13, 2021||India||6.3 quake in Tajikistan jolts Delhi, north India||NEW DELHI: Strong tremors were felt across the northern plains, including in Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and the National Capital Region after an earthquake measuring 6.3 on the Richter scale struck Tajikistan in central Asia, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) said. While preliminary readings by NCS had stated the earthquake had a magnitude of 6.1 and its epicentre was Amritsar, this was later revised to Tajikistan. No immediate loss of life or damage to any property was reported, officials said. J L Gautam from NCS said the initial report came as soon as tremors were felt across northern India, with the earthquake’s epicentre roughly being placed in Amristar. “We had a preliminary magnitude of 6.1 on the Richter scale and that it had occurred at a depth of 10 kilometres below the surface. The epicentre was first identified to be around Amritsar, however it was later revised after some time to be accurately placed in Tajikistan. The magnitude was also revised to 6.3,” said Gautam. According to the revised estimate, the earthquake was found to have occurred at a depth of 74 km below the earth’s surface at a longitude of 38 degrees north and 73.58 degrees east. “It took place at around 10.31 pm, following which tremors were felt through Afghanistan, Pakistan and then northern India,” said Gautam. Northern India has been recording minor earthquakes over the last two weeks as well. On February 8, an earthquake measuring 3.5 on the Richter scale struck Jammu and Kashmir. On February 2 and 3, two earthquakes measuring 4.2 and 4.5 on the Richter scale were recorded by NCS in Ladakh. The Bureau of Indian Standards has classified the entire country into four seismic groups – ranging from zone II (low intensity) to zone V (very severe). Large parts of NCR, including Delhi and Haryana, however fall in Zone-IV (severe), making them particularly prone to earthquakes. After a series of earthquakes struck the region last year, corporations in Delhi have been carrying out an exercise to identify older buildings, which had come up before the seismic provisions were incorporated in Delhi’s building bylaws, to obtain a structural safety certificate. All three corporations have fixed a deadline of six months for the process. Plans to retrofit buildings have also been revived recently. Watch Earthquake tremors felt in Delhi-NCR and some parts of north India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/6-3-quake-in-tajikistan-jolts-delhi-north-india/articleshow/80889697.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||Uttarakhand: Rescuers cut through to side tunnel that may lead to trapped men||DEHRADUN: In the first breakthrough since efforts began to rescue 34 men trapped inside a tunnel of the Tapovan hydel project, the rescue team managed to drill its way to the underground tunnel that runs parallel to the main one and is believed to be the passage that could lead to the men. Read AlsoUttarakhand: Satellite images confirm new lake near Rishiganga ‘growing’About 5km from where a peak broke off and triggered the floods on Sunday and 17km from the Tapovan rescue site, a new lake is growing by the Rishiganga every day. Satellite images from NDRF and a spot visit by DRDO confirmed its presence and the CWC is running simulations to pre-empt the possibility“We have successfully drilled a 75mm-wide and 12m-long hole to the silt flushing tunnel (which carries sediment and debris out of the dam’s tunnel) on Friday evening… The good sign is that there is no water or slush pressure observed in the tunnel now,” ITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey told TOI. “However, we have not been able to insert a camera into the silt flushing tunnel due to technical difficulties.” The rescue team — with NDRF, Army and ITBP personnel — will now work through the night to widen this opening. “A hole with a larger diameter will be carved. A drilling machine has been deployed to do that. The aim is to get that bore hole to a 250-300mm diameter,” Pandey said. About 180m from the mouth of the main tunnel, there is a bend. The slush that surged through the tunnel because of the flood is believed to have slowed down or subsided at this point. The men could be trapped somewhere beyond this bend. The original plan was to carve a passage straight through the tunnel to this point. But that didn’t make much headway. The swamp-filled tunnel, where water keeps flowing in and undoing the work that has gone into clearing the debris, had been difficult to navigate and they only cleared about 100m of the passage. So, on Wednesday, rescuers switched to the drilling plan — digging vertically at a point 70m from the mouth of the tunnel to break into the silt flushing tunnel that should go right up to the trapped men. But this plan had to be abandoned on Thursday when the drill hit a rock and could go no further. Hours later, the waters of the Dhauliganga started rising and threw a spanner in the works again. When the operations finally resumed, the rescue team went back to the original plan of scooping out debris. On Friday, they switched gears again — a special drilling machine was brought in, provided by the Tehri Development Corporation Limited, a source told TOI. And this time, it worked. By Friday afternoon, they had drilled up to 10m and by evening, they had reached the silt flushing tunnel. Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said, “There is a possibility that the workers are trapped in this auxiliary tunnel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rescuers-cut-through-to-side-tunnel-that-may-lead-to-trapped-men/articleshow/80889753.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||HC gives bail to 2 Faruqui co-accused||INDORE: The Indore bench of Madhya Pradesh high court on Friday granted interim bail to two co-accused in the Munawar Faruqui case — an aspiring standup comedian of Indore and Mumbaiker Edwin Anthony. They have spent six weeks in prison. Two others — Sadaqat Khan and Nalin Yadav — are still in jail custody. They are among six accused of hurting religious sentiments by insulting Hindu deities. The HC bench of Justice Rohit Arya on Friday allowed the bail applications of Anthony and the Indorean in the light of the Supreme Court’s ad interim bail to Munawar on February 5. The high court, in its order, noted, “The applicant is entitled for temporary bail, maintaining parity in the light of the order of February 5 passed by Supreme court in petitions in connection with the case.” The court cautioned the duo not to indulge in “any activity subversive to public order”. Munawar and four others — Anthony, Yadav and two Indorean brothers, including a minor — were arrested on January 1 after a complaint by activists of Hind Rakshak that derogatory words were used against Hindu deities at a standup comedy show in a café and that the event was being held without permission. A sixth accused, Sadaqat, was arrested the next day and booked on the same charges. Munawar’s bail plea was rejected twice in a lower court and then by high court before he got interim breather in SC. An SC double bench comprising Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman and Justice BR Gavai. The minor accused, a schoolboy, had got bail after spending a week in juvenile custody. On February 9, a sessions court rejected Sadaqat’s bail plea, saying he couldn’t be granted regular bail on the basis of parity with the interim bail granted to Munawar by SC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-gives-bail-to-2-faruqui-co-accused/articleshow/80889765.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh HC grants partial relief to Pedana MLA||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday gave a partial relief to Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh amending the order of the State Election Commission (SEC) restraining him from speaking to media and a group or groups of people and at meetings. The high court asked Ramesh to confine himself to propagation of his and his party’s achievements but not make any utterances about either the SEC or the election process. The high court also said that he should not talk directly or indirectly to candidates. The SEC took serious note of Ramesh’s comments, who allegedly threatened to stop all benefits from government welfare schemes to contestants other than those supported by ruling YSRC. The incident took place at Neelipudi village under Kruthivennu mandal in Krishna district on Wednesday. After receiving complaints from three opposition political parties, the SEC issued an order on Thursday restraining Ramesh from speaking to the media and in meetings till February 17. Challenging the SEC’s order, Ramesh moved the high court. VRN Prashant, the counsel for Ramesh, argued that the SEC did not have power to issue such an order under Section 211(2) of Panchayat Raj Act. He said there should be a procedure to be followed by way of a complaint to the law enforcement authorities concerned even if in case any alleged threats were issued by him. The SEC cannot infringe the right of freedom of expression with a blanket ban on speaking to the media, he said. Justice DVSS Somayajulu posed a question on the argument of procedure to be followed by way of complaint that what if any person threatens someone on the election day with a gun and should the Election Commission wait for a complaint to be registered before taking any action. The counsel for SEC, N Ashwani Kumar, argued that the order issued by the SEC is well within the provisions of Section 211(2). He said that the SEC has plenary powers under the Constitution. Ashwani Kumar said the SEC will examine the report to be submitted by district election authorities and will review its decision if there is no further threat of vitiating the election process in next 48 hours. After hearing both sides, Justice Somayajulu said that as the SEC is going to review its order in the next 48 hours, it is appropriate to hear the matter again on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/court-grants-partial-relief-to-pedana-mla/articleshow/80886174.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 13, 2021||Vijayawada||SEC serves show-cause notice to Kodali Nani||Vijayawada: The state election commission issued a show-cause notice to civil supplies minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) on Friday, seeking explanation for his remarks on the SEC during a press conference. After minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and legislator Jogi Ramesh, Nani is the third politician from YSRC to invite SEC action. The notice alleges that Nani made comments referring to the election commissioner in derogatory terms. His utterances in bracketing the commissioner with certain others was done in a manner to lower the esteem of the commission as well as the public standing of the commissioner and are mala fide and derogatory in nature, the show-cause notice said. The SEC sought an urgent explanation and warned of taking further steps unless suitable amends are made publicly to the satisfaction of the commission before 5 pm on Friday. Nani was also asked to furnish his reply in person or through a representative. Responding to the notice, Nani sent a written reply stating he has no intention to defame the SEC. He said the press conference he addressed was intended only to expose atrocities of the opposition TDP during the first phase of panchayat elections and not in any manner to defame or criticise the SEC. He further said he has the highest regard towards constitutional institutions, and requested the SEC to withdraw the show-cause notice. The notice alleges Nani made comments referring to the election commissioner in derogatory terms and in a manner to lower the commission’s esteem||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-serves-show-cause-notice-to-kodali-nani/articleshow/80886314.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 13, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Chhapra court rejects bail plea of bank manager||CHHAPRA: Additional district and sessions judge on Thursday rejected the anticipatory bail petition of Prabhat Kumar, manager of Chhapra branch of Bank of Baroda (BoB), in connection with fraudulent withdrawal of Rs89 lakh from the MPLAD funds of Maharajganj (Siwan) MP Janardan Singh Sigriwal through clone cheques. The Economic Offences Unit (EOU) of Bihar police has taken over the investigation. Earlier, Sigriwal had informed the Lok Sabha Speaker and Union ministry of home affairs about the fraudulent withdrawal from his MPLAD funds, after it came to light in November last. Saran SP Santosh Kumar said the local BoB branch has feigned ignorance about the fraud as the amount was withdrawn by the bank’s Ahmednagar branch in Maharashtra on November 4 last year. Police sources said the original cheques were intact with its custodian, the Saran district planning officer. After the revelation, an FIR was lodged with Chhapra Town police station. “Saran police constituted an SIT to investigate this case. The Mumbai branch of BoB has also lodged an FIR and Mumbai police arrested two persons, namely Sandeep Bhogilal Kothari and Ganesh Gawade of Ahmednagar in this connection. They were instrumental in the fraudulent withdrawals,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chhapra-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-bank-manager/articleshow/80885580.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Over 2.4 lakh frontline workers get the jab||LUCKNOW: With 1.12 lakh listed beneficiaries taking the Covid-19 vaccine on Friday, the total number of frontline workers to get vaccinated reached 2.48 lakh as per data from the state health department. Nodal officer, immunisation, UP Dr Manoj Shukla said: “In the inaugural session for frontline workers, 36,398 beneficiaries were vaccinated while on Thursday, 1,00,251 took the vaccine. Then on Friday, 1,12,140 beneficiaries turned up to take their first dose. The cumulative data of the three sessions added to 2,48,789 which is nearly 52% of the total 4,81246 targeted beneficiaries in the category.” Talking about the session on Friday, Dr Shukla said that the day saw a 51% turnout which was marginally better than the achievement of 48% recorded for the previous day. “Äs many as 1,696 sessions were organised to cover 2,18,141 targeted beneficiaries on Friday. Both Covishield and Covaxin were administered. Very few incidents of adverse events following immunisation were recorded and none required hospitalisation,” he said. Officials also said that though the turnout was less than previous sessions, the achievement was satisfactory when seen in absolute numbers. Though the district data was being updated till late night, Kanpur finished last among 75 districts with a turnout of 15.3%. Maharajganj, however, saw the maximum turnout of 87.2%. Gorakhpur (36.49%), Lucknow (35.38%), Agra (32.84%) and Ghaziabad (32.10%) were also among the bottom 10. The performance of other important districts, including Gautam Budh Nagar (46.02%), Prayagraj (42.2%), Varanasi (41.12%), was below the state’s average for the day. Dr Shukla also said that the next session for frontline workers will take place on February 18 and 19. “But before that, a special mop-up session will be organised on February 15 to cover health workers who missed their vaccines on their due date. In fact, this is the last chance for listed health workers to take their vaccine,” he said urging them not to miss the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-2-4l-frontline-workers-get-the-jab/articleshow/80888998.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Flight count at Andal airport to take off with new services||KOLKATA: The flight count at Kazi Nazrul Islam Airport (KNIA) in Andal near Durgapur may go up four times in the next two months with SpiceJet — the sole airline to operate to the greenfield airport — expanding its operations, IndiGo starting three daily flights and Air India re-introducing two flights that were halted in March due to the lockdown. The airport, which caters to the entire industrial belt, including Burdwan, Bankura, Bishnupur, Purulia, Sainthia, Suri, Bolpur, Rampurhat, Durgapur, Raniganj, Asansol, Burnpur, Kulti as well as Dhanbad and Bokaro in Jharkhand, currently has 13 flights a week: daily flights to Delhi and three flights a week to Chennai and Mumbai due to the Covid restrictions imposed by the state government. “From February 22, SpiceJet will introduce flights to Bengaluru in addition to the existing flights to Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. The Bengaluru flight will operate three days a week,” an airport official said. IndiGo, which has been evaluating the potential of the airport, is also set to introduce flights to Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad from the summer schedule that begins on April 1. It will have daily operations to Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, sources said. Air India, which used to operate flights to Delhi and Hyderabad before they were suspended on March 23 ahead of lockdown, is also expected to reintroduce the flights some time in March-April. Incidentally, Air India was the first airline to start flights to the airport when it operated the inaugural flight from Kolkata to Andal and then onward to Delhi on May 18, 2015. The service was suspended on December 21, 2015. Private non-scheduled carrier Zoom Airways flew on the Kolkata-Durgapur-Delhi sector on February 15, 2017, but withdrew it five months later — on July 14, 2017 — after the aircraft was grounded due to a snag. SpiceJet thereafter introduced the flight to Mumbai under the regional connectivity scheme UDAN on June 25, followed by the Chennai flight on October 27, 2019. But these flights were also halted on March 24 as all flights were grounded to combat the pandemic. The Chennai and Mumbai flights were reintroduced as thrice-a-week service on September 10, 2020, followed by the Delhi flight on October 16, 2020. Once the state lifted the restrictions on flights from Delhi, it was made a daily flight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flight-count-at-andal-airport-to-take-off-with-new-services/articleshow/80886579.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Keep Aadhaar details safe, say cops||KOLKATA: The cyber cell has issued a warning — for the second time in two months — asking citizens to be careful when submitting their Aadhaar details, both online and offline. The questioning of three members of a gang — based in Egra and trained by history sheeters in Giridih-Jamtara — has revealed they used genuine Aadhaar documents fraudulently to issue over a hundred SIM cards a day and selling them to fraudsters to carry out cyber crimes. “During lockdown, all the manual filling up of forms came to a stop. Instead, the companies had left the process to its retailers to gather details for new connections. The three accused — Shantanu Pradhan, Saugata Panda and Nabakumar Patra — collected information and original Aadhaar numbers from recharge shops. One had to freeze photographs of customers to establish that they were genuine. the retailer too had to uphold his/her photograph. The accused got multiple such photos,” said an officer. They downloaded an app where the company’s forms were available online. The accused downloaded a second app and used it to cut, copy and paste photographs from these videos with various genuine Aadhaar numbers and addresses. Since the Aadhaar numbers were genuine, the accused managed to pass all stringent checks by the company. These SIM cards were then sold out to fraudsters at a premium,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/keep-aadhaar-details-safe-cops/articleshow/80886620.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 13, 2021||Vijayawada||High-level body to study legislative infa in J&K, K’taka||Amaravati: A committee of senior officials from Amaravati Metro Region Development Authority (AMRDA) will shortly visit Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka to study legislative infrastructure in those states. Chief secretary Dr Adityanath Das has directed senior officials from the municipal administration department to take up the study and submit a report to assess the needs of the legislative capital city Amaravati. The high-level committee headed by Dr Das swung into action within hours of its constitution to take stock of ongoing projects in Amaravati. Senior officials including chief secretary Dr Das, principal secretary Y Srilakshmi and chief minister’s principal adviser Neelam Sawhney visited some of the projects in the proposed legislative capital within an hour of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewing projects in Amaravati on Thursday. By night, the government had constituted the high-level committee to review the needs of the legislative capital and the fate of its ongoing projects. The committee took stock of the projects at a meeting held in the secretariat on Friday. The chief secretary directed officials to resume all projects that were 75 per cent complete and utilise the structures. He said the decision on taking up other projects could be made after assessing the needs of the city. Principal secretary Srilakshmi said they are yet to clear Rs 302 crore for work that has been completed while Rs 2,112 crore is needed for pending projects. The chief secretary asked officials to convene a meeting with contractors and bankers to decide how to move ahead with projects. He directed AMRDA to submit a report on this meeting when the committee met in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-level-body-to-study-legislative-infa-in-jk-ktaka/articleshow/80886187.cms||Samdani MN
February 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||70-yr-old retd teacher elected sarpanch||Visakhapatnam: A 70-year-old retired teacher, Inguva Trinath Padal, was unanimously elected as sarpanch of Mampa village at Koyyuru mandal in Visakhapatnam district. Although Padal hails from a political family, this is his first step into politics. His father Ramana Padal was MLA of Chintapalli from 1970 to 1976. His brother Hari Padal was the sarpanch of Mampa for almost 25 years. “I am very honoured that people have shown me such respect and elected me unanimously. My family has been in politics for the last five decades and has served with commitment,” Padal said. According to sources, three nominations were filed for the Mampa sarpanch post. Upon learning that the retired teacher had filed nomination for the post, the two other candidates Poloju Satyanarayana and A Ganga Raju withdrew their nominations in a gesture of respect. — Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/70-yr-old-retd-teacher-elected-sarpanch/articleshow/80886111.cms||Siva G
February 13, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh all set for second phase of gram panchayat elections||AMARAVATI: The stage is set for the second phase of local body elections across the state. Polling will be held to elect 2,786 village sarpanches and 20,817 ward members on Saturday. Panchayat raj department principal secretary Gopal Krishna Dwivedi said all arrangements have been put in place for the smooth conduct of the elections to gram panchayats. Although the notification has been issued for the conduct of elections to 3,328 sarpanch posts, 539 villages have elected their sarpanches unanimously, leaving the contest open only for 2,786 posts. About 7,507 candidates are in the fray for village sarpanch posts. Similarly, 44,876 candidates are in the race for 20,817 ward member posts. Interestingly, no nominations were filed in one village in Nellore, Kurnool and Srikakulam districts, prompting the SEC to reschedule the elections in these villages. Buoyed by massive victories in the first phase, YSRC legislators and constituency in-charges are confident of repeating their success. YSRC claimed that its supporters have won nearly 82 per cent of seats in the first phase and will bag nearly 90 per cent seats in subsequent phases. TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu, who initially claimed that party supporters have won nearly 40 per cent seats in the first phase, has alleged the SEC has failed to ensure peaceful elections. Meanwhile, civil supplies minister Kodali Nani said, “Naidu is only trying to cover up his party’s failure by making baseless allegations against the government and police. Naidu realised that his party has no future in the state after thoroughly losing in village panchayat elections.” Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, advisor to the state government and general secretary, YSRC, said Naidu has run away from taking up the challenge to declare the list of winning candidates backed by his party in the first phase. Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu said 1,704 police personnel have been deployed as part of the second phase of gram panchayat elections set to take place on Saturday. Addressing officials through a video conference, Babu said along with the police force, another 1,100 officials from other departments and volunteers will be on election duty. In terms of enforcement measures, the SP briefed that so far, 4,100 known offenders across the district have been bound over. Further, 1.58 crore unaccounted cash and 25,000 liquor bottles have been seized. The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) unit in the district has also destroyed 76,000 litres of fermented jaggery wash and seized 2,000 litres of ID arrack from various places. The second phase of polls will be conducted across nine mandals in Gudivada revenue division. So far, 2,008 polling stations have been set up across 466 polling locations in Gudivada, Gudlavalleru, Mudinepalli, Kalidindi, Kaikaluru, Mandavalli, Nandiwada, Peddaparupudi and Pamarru mandals. Police said they have identified 90 locations as ‘hypersensitive’ areas and 118 polling areas as ‘sensitive’ and are accordingly heightening security measures. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz also participated in the video conference held in Machilipatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-all-set-for-second-phase-of-gram-panchayat-elections/articleshow/80886090.cms||Samdani MN
February 13, 2021||Business||Insurers did not follow 20% orders of ombudsman||MUMBAI: Justice for insurance claimants takes a long time coming ever after winning an award from the ombudsman. A response to an activist’s query under the Right to Information (RTI) Act has shown that one in five awards announced by the insurance ombudsmen was pending at the end of FY20. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) has said that it has not taken any disciplinary action against any insurance company so far for not complying with the order of the ombudsman. The RTI query was filed by Jeetendra Ghadge, who took an interest in the matter after his own experience with the ombudsman. He managed to get his order implemented within two months with help from the ombudsman’s office, but was surprised to see how lightly insurers were treating the orders. According to the response, 9,528 awards were issued by various ombudsmen across the country against insurance companies in the previous financial year. Of this, insurers had complied with 7,664 orders, but 1,864 were pending at the end of the year. Public sector insurers Oriental, New India and National Insurance had the highest number of pending orders at 480, 303 and 289, followed by Bharti Axa Life at 198 and Star Health at 142. Irdai has said that it has not acted against any insurer so far for delay in implementation. According to Vinay Sah, ombudsman for Maharashtra excluding Mumbai, there are instances when insurance companies take more than a couple of months. His orders now incorporate a condition that the award is to be complied with within one month, failing which interest will be applicable at bank rate plus 2% from the date of original rejection of the claim until payment. Insurers say a majority of the claims pertain to health insurance where there is a high scope for dispute. This is because insurers frequently reject claims on the grounds of a pre-existing condition or non-disclosures. In life insurance, Bharati Axa Life Insurance has the highest number of pending claims followed by Life Insurance Corporation. The larger private companies are much more prompt in settling the Ombudsman’s order. ICICI Lombard, ICICI Prudential, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance, and both Future Generali’s life and general insurance arms had zero orders pending at the end of the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/insurers-did-not-follow-20-orders-of-ombudsman/articleshow/80888181.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 13, 2021||Business||Desi app Leher rides Clubhouse wave||CHENNAI: Indian alternatives to social networks are now ready to breach the next frontier of audio/video discussion platforms. Filling the void of in-person interactions in the post-Covid world, US-based drop-in audio chat app Clubhouse has taken Silicon Valley by storm, and there’s a stampede among members of the Indian startup and business community to secure entry for the invite-only iOS app. Clubhouse’s popularity here has thrown the spotlight on the Made-in-India live discussions app Leher. Available on both iOS and Android, Leher supports audio and video, and says its organic downloads are doubling every week and is now at around 1.5 lakh. The app has also seen a surge in interest from Indian and global entrepreneurs looking to back its growth as a formidable local alternative to Clubhouse, and talks are on for closing a funding round. Launched in 2018, Leher facilitates debates and discussion within a limited group via audio and video, has private and public chat rooms, and supports both ephemeral and recorded conversations. Currently, the average time spent by users on Leher is roughly 15 minutes per day, and the average discussion session is around 110 minutes. “Leher has been almost three years in the works now. We wanted to build a virtual platform for free flowing conversation and felt audio and video promote more meaningful conversations than just text,” co-founder and CEO Vikas Malpani said. “Clubhouse’s success has indirectly helped grow awareness of Leher, and has made us double down on the product.” Research firm CMR India head (industry intelligence) Prabhu Ram said, “The growth of audio-only social networks, such as Clubhouse, can be traced to the rising social media fatigue and, more importantly, prolonged period of pandemic-induced social isolation.” Indian startups have an opportunity to build hyperlocal, live audio and video-centric social networks for both urban and aspirational India, but market success will depend on user experience, he added. Launched just last year, Clubhouse has already been valued at over $1 billion. Data from Sensor Tower shows that Clubhouse daily installs in India are rising at around 3x since Elon Musk made an appearance on it on February 1. As of February 7, it had 22,000 downloads. In India, startup leaders like Paytm’s Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Cred’s Kunal Shah and RazorPay’s Harshil Mathur are already on the niche app and helping create a buzz around it. Picking audio as the next frontier of social networking, Twitter too is testing out Spaces, an audio chat feature within the platform, in India and globally. Facebook is also building an audio discussions product to rival Clubhouse’s popularity, as per global media reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/desi-app-leher-rides-clubhouse-wave/articleshow/80887642.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
February 13, 2021||Vadodara||Will the civic body fulfil new voters’ expectations?||Vadodara: Until five years ago they were residents of villages that lay on the outskirts of the city. But, that status has changed alongside the landscape of these areas — Bhayli, Bil, Kalali, Sevasi, Undera and Vemali — where residential and commercial complexes are mushrooming in abundance. After these areas found space in Vadodara Municipal Corporation’s (VMC) ambit, the residents are gearing up to ink their fingers for the first time in the upcoming civic body polls. While the civic body leaders are waiting to count their votes, the residents hope to see a change in their daily woes, including the stark absence of even basic civic amenities like water, drainage, roads, and street light among others. Even after joining the VMC jurisdiction, original residents of these villages believe that gram panchayats have already created the infrastructure, the civic body will now be levying high taxes fromt eh people for using the infrastructure which it did not contribute to. But those who started living in the high-end residential schemes on the outskirts of the villages in the last five years, differ.As Vadodara Urban Development Authority (VUDA) did not invest in providing the amenities and the developers only sold them the residential units, the new residents believe that VMC’s intervention will only help in area’s development. Now, as these voters will cast their polls for the first time to elect their councillors, TOI looks at what they aspire from the new ruling body and what issues will influence their choices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/will-the-civic-body-fulfil-new-voters-expectations/articleshow/80885567.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Patna||Learning and staying safe new mantra: UNICEF||PATNA: UNICEF, Bihar has supported the decision of the state government to throw open 100 government schools in five districts -- namely Gaya, Purnea, Nalanda, Sitamarhi, Darbhanga and Madhubani. The schools have reopened in adherence to detailed Covid-19 safety guidelines issued by the Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) to all schools for resuming physical classes. Nafisa Binte Shafique, UNICEF Bihar chief, said as schools reopen, a renewed focus on learning and staying safe should be the new mantra. “The pro-active decision of the Bihar government to reopen physical classes after a long interval is commendable. The able guidance of teachers will help children make up for their educational losses during the lockdown,” she said. She added, “Given the crucial importance of Water Sanitation & Hygiene (WASH) in the prevention of Covid-19, the sanitation component of the grant to schools as part of Samgara Shiksha Abhiyan Guidelines, has increased from 10 to 25%.” Pramila Manoharan, an education specialist with UNICEF in Bihar, claimed that the UN agency oriented and supported headmasters of various schools on all mandatory actions to be taken to ensure the resumption of physical classes. “We oriented and supported the headmasters of these schools on all mandatory actions, like observing safe distancing in classrooms, proper disinfection of school premises and availability of adequate handwashing facilities among other measures,” Pramila said. “The training has been very helpful. We have disinfected the school premises, installed group handwashing stations and are only allowing 50% of 153 enrolled students in classes 6 to 8,” said Anil Kumar Singh, the headmaster of Middle School of Kasba block in Purnea district. UNICEF has also provided support to BEPC for strengthening WASH in schools, according to Prabhakar Sinha, UNICEF WASH specialist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/learning-and-staying-safe-new-mantra-unicef/articleshow/80885757.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Varanasi||10 Kashi artisans to take part in India Toy Fair-2021||Times News Network Varanasi: Around 10 artisans from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Kashi will virtually exhibit their exclusive crafts (toys) in the ‘India Toy Fair-2021’, which is going to be held from February 27 to March 2 on virtual platform. Besides, the Geographical Indication (GI) tagged wooden toys of Varanasi, the toys made of terracotta (Gorakhpur) and jute toys of Ghazipur will also be the part of this toy fest. “Varieties of toys from all across the country including 19 GI-tagged toys will be displayed in the fair,” the GI expert Dr Rajni Kant, who was also a part of the panel for finalization of the exhibits, told TOI on Friday. This initiative is in line with the PM’s vision of making India a global hub for the toy industry. “Varanasi and adjoining districts have a huge potential for development of toy clusters in Uttar Pradesh because four different kinds of toys from this region have already received GI certification, while many others glass, clay and wooden carved puzzles also have potential,” he said. “I am taking part in the exhibition with over 100 toys for different age groups and tastes,” said Rameshwar Singh, a national merit awardee of wooden craft. It is a great opportunity for the handicraft artisans and toy makers to display their products at such a large scale, he said. Apart from him, many other makers of wooden toys including Raj Kumar Singh, Soni Verma, Shaloo Prajapati, Shivanand Singh, Ramchandra Singh and Gyaneshwar Singh will also take part in the fair that aims to provide an impetus to the underlying themes of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and ‘vocal for local’ campaigns, launched by the government to promote indigenous industries. It also aims to leverage the potential of toys in making learning joyful for all age groups. The official website and online registration for the ‘India Toy Fair’ was launched on Thursday. According to the government’s document, the toy fair intends to bring policy makers, toy manufacturers and distributors, investors, industry experts, MSMEs, artisans, start-ups, children, parents and teachers together on a common platform, in a bid to propel the growth of the Indian toy Industry, giving it a global competitive edge. The main attractions of the fair include a virtual exhibition with over 1,000 virtual stalls, webinars by state governments, knowledge sessions with engaging panel discussions/webinars on diverse topics by experts on areas including toy-based learning, craft demonstrations, competitions, quizzes, virtual tours, product launches. For the education sector in particular, the Knowledge Sessions involving various experts will focus on areas emphasized in the NEP 2020 such as play-based and activity-based learning, indoor and outdoor play, use of puzzles and games to promote critical thinking and overall, on how to make learning more engaging and enjoyable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/10-kashi-artisans-to-take-part-in-india-toy-fair-2021/articleshow/80886292.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Business||Former SBI chief Kumar to advise Kotak fund||Kotak Investment Advisors (KIAL) on Friday announced that Rajnish Kumar, former chairman of State Bank of India (SBI), would be exclusive adviser for its $1-billion special situation fund. Kotak Investment Advisors, a wholly owned subsidiary of Kotak Mahindra Bank, focuses on the stressed assets business of the group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/former-sbi-chief-kumar-to-advise-kotak-fund/articleshow/80888039.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||‘Padman’ takes vending boxes to city cabs||Kolkata: Sobhan Mukherjee, known as the city’s ‘padman’, has started an initiative to keep sanitary napkin vending boxes in cabs. “I started my project with one cab on Friday, but intend to spread it to as many cabbies as I can. I am depending on a word-of-mouth campaign to sensitize taxi drivers and make them agreeable to keep the boxes in their vehicles,” Mukherjee said. The 23-year-old who set up sanitary napkin vending boxes in public toilets, hit headlines last year when he teamed up with Joint Council of Bus Syndicates to reserve seats for transgenders. Mukherjee started the new initiative with 20-year-old Abhra Bhadra, a cabby from Garia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/padman-takes-vending-boxes-to-city-cabs/articleshow/80886690.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Over three lakh register for Abhyudaya scheme in two days||LUCKNOW: Youths aspiring to qualify civil, engineering, medical, defence services and other competitive exams have given an overwhelming response to the CM Yogi Adityanath’s decision to set up free coaching centres under the Abhyudaya scheme. Within two days of the launch of the online portal, registrations reached the three lakh mark. The registration for offline classes will close by Friday midnight, while that for online classes will continue. The exams for admissions to free Abhyudaya coaching classes for civil services, NEET, JEE and other exams will be held on Saturday. Classes from February 16 at free coaching centresThe free coaching centres will begin classes on Basant Panchami on February 16. The excitement among the youth to join free coaching is understandable as they will get direct counselling from senior bureaucrats such as chief secretary RK Tiwari; agriculture production commissioner (APC) Alok Sinha; additional chief secretary, MSME and information Navneet Sehgal; additional chief secretary SP Goyal; principal secretary to CM Sanjay Prasad; principal secretary (medical education) Alok Kumar and secretaries to CM Alok Kumar and Surendra Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-3l-register-for-abhyudaya-scheme-in-2-days/articleshow/80889290.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Patna||Will fill vacant teaching posts in schools, colleges: Bihar minister||PATNA: The state government is likely to appoint 94,000 primary teachers and 34,000 secondary teachers within a month to ensure quality improvement in schools. All legal hurdles in the process of appointment would be resolved soon and the appointment to be made through an online process, new state education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary told B K Mishra in an exclusive interview. Excerpts:What are your plans to improve education standards in the state?I am not at all satisfied with the performance of educational institutions in the state. The department would strive hard to resolve the problems one by one. The problems of lack of teachers and infrastructural facilities in schools and colleges would be tackled first by filling the vacant posts of teachers and creating basic infrastructural facilities in all the institutions. The process of appointment of teachers in schools and colleges has already been initiated. Why, despite several government incentives, students continue to swarm private schools?The government is already working to ensure all-round improvement of primary and secondary schools and the days are not far off when students from private institutions would join government schools for getting better educational opportunities. If one gets proper education in government schools, why would he or she go to a private school and spend enormous money on education? How would you ensure regular teaching in schools amid the pandemic?Schools have already been reopened for students from class VI and classes are run on alternate days with 50 per cent students. Now the government is contemplating to reopen for students up to class I from the next month. The government is also contemplating to hold classes in batches and shifts with a view to ensuring regular classes. How to enhance the gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education in the state?The government would open at least one plus two school in every panchayat. Besides, the sanctioned strength of students in colleges and universities would be increased with appropriate teaching staff and infrastructural facilities. Distance and online education would also be encouraged for increasing the GER. A large number of colleges have either not been accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) or awarded poor grades. How to improve things?The government would make available adequate financial resources to the institutions and motivate them to undertake the exercise of NAAC accreditation. Remedial measures would be taken for those which have got unsatisfactory grade in the last assessment. You have been an alumnus of Patna University. Won’t you try for a central takeover of this premier institution?Central takeover of an institution is the prerogative of the Union government. There are several reputed institutions in the country which are managed by the state governments and earning name and fame the world over. However, the state government would definitely try to develop PU to such a stage that it can match with the best universities in the country. Any message for the teachers?The government would initiate steps for expediting timely payment of their salaries and arrears besides disposal of all pending cases of their promotions. However, the teachers must also give their 100 per cent to their students and the institutions. Then only the scenario would change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-fill-vacant-teaching-posts-in-schools-colleges/articleshow/80885703.cms||B K Mishra
February 13, 2021||Patna||Bihar, UNEP to formulate low-carbon devpt strategy||PATNA: Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB), on behalf of the state government, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) at New Delhi on Friday to formulate climate resilience and low-carbon development strategies. As per the MoU, UNEP will provide technical assistance to Bihar government to prepare its greenhouse gas inventory and carry out climate impact scenario and vulnerability assessments. Union minister of state for environment, forest and climate change, Babul Supriyo, deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad, state forests minister Neeraj Kumar Singh ‘Bablu’, principal secretary (forests) Dipak Kumar Singh and BSPCB chairman Ashok Kumar Ghosh among others were present on the occasion. “We are pleased about this collaborative effort of the state government with UNEP to make Bihar a climate resilient and low-carbon development state. This is a key step in the right direction that aims at strengthening existing policies and proactive actions taken to combat climate change effectively with efficient adaption to the need of the hour,” Supriyo said. Deputy CM Prasad said the collaborative effort will add to the green initiatives already taken by the state government, such as Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan, agricultural road map, renewable energy policy and clean fuel policy. Neeraj said Indian lifestyles have traditionally been sustainable. Behavioural change will go a long way in bringing about a transformational impact. This calls for small and conscious steps and harnessing technology for making low-cost alternatives available. Principal secretary Singh told TOI: “The work done by the state government in the area of climate change control in the last 15 years was only sectoral. This is the first time that we will be preparing a comprehensive strategy for entire development policies of the state based on scientific estimation of green house gases.” Ghosh said the first two years under the MoU will be dedicated to baseline study for identification of sources of carbon emission in the state. “The UN team along with BSPCB will do systematic planning for generating baseline data for identifying carbon emission sources, following which the subsequent actions will be taken,” he said, adding that BSPCB has already taken several steps for limiting carbon emission. including conversion of traditional brick kilns to cleaner technology and promotion of green fuels like CNG and PNG. UN assistant secretary-general and head of UNEP New York Office, Satya S Tripathi, said, “UNEP looks forward to Bihar leading the way in India in the transition to a low-emission economy. This path-breaking partnership is a vital step towards achieving sustainable development for all.” As per a statement issued by the UNEP, with an average of over 10% growth, Bihar has registered a higher growth than the Indian economy in the three years preceding 2019-20. However, Bihar is also a state that is highly vulnerable to climate change, which threatens to undermine its developmental efforts. A change towards sustainable development is imperative for the state’s continued economic growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-unep-to-formulate-low-carbon-devpt-strategy/articleshow/80885645.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Business||‘Banks used virtual meets to merge fast’||MUMBAI: The consolidation of six public sector banks could be done in record time on the back of a virtual execution, despite the Covid lockdown, said Rajashekara Maiya, VP and global head (business consulting) for ‘Finacle’ at Infosys. Finacle is the core banking solution for all these banks. In terms of the mega consolidation of the 10 banks announced by the government with effect from April 1 last year, six were operating on Finacle. Punjab National Bank and the two banks that merged into it — Oriental Bank of Commerce and United Bank — used the software. Also, Union Bank and its merging banks Corporation Bank and Andhra Bank used Finacle for their core banking. “The entire amalgamation was executed virtually. The entire project management, implementation, merger activities happened without people visiting branches, head office, information technology centres or data centres,” said Maiya. What also helped was that the road map for merging the processes, products and HR was done before the merger with learning from the amalgamation of Dena Bank and Vijaya Bank with Bank of Baroda, which also used Finacle. According to Maiya, while the earlier merger took 14 months, the second took only nine months. In terms of sheer scale, this was the largest amalgamation and such mergers were unlikely to take place, given the scale of customers and branches. Another reason why the integration did not cause much disruption to the customer is that India has the most advanced open banking system in the world, according to Maiya. Open banking refers to the approach of allowing third-parties to plug into the bank’s system through an application program interface (API). Maiya pointed out that this was behind the scaling up of UPI transactions to over 2 billion a month. It is because of the open API architecture that third-parties like PhonePe and Google Pay are contributing to a rising number of transactions. “Banks have built this kind of infrastructure to take care of the transactions in a much faster way, they do not have to worry if transactions move from 2 billion to 4 billion or 8 billion because the infrastructure is scalable,” he said. According to Maiya, growth in the account-to-account transfers for payments is bound to increase as globally banks are moving toward real-time payments. During the pandemic, while there was pressure on traditional banks to go digital, the neobanks — or the digital-only banks — found their customers demanding a wider range of products and services. He said that the trend in core banking was to move towards modular systems, which could be upgraded by banks segment by segment without having to disturb the core-banking piece.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-used-virtual-meets-to-merge-fast/articleshow/80888115.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 13, 2021||Varanasi||PM video slur: Google CEO Sunder Pichai’s name dropped from FIR||VARANASI: The name of Google CEO Sunder Pichai, who along with others had been booked over a video song for allegedly defaming Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was removed from the FIR lodged at the Behelupur police station here on February 6. Besides defamation, the complainant had also alleged criminal intimidation, intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace and criminal conspiracy in the FIR. DIG/SSP Amit Pathak on Friday said, The names of Pichai and three other officials of Google have been removed from the FIR as no evidence has been found against them during investigation.” He said that further investigation against others named in the FIR would continue. As many as 18 persons were named in an FIR lodged by a local resident Girija Shankar. In his FIR, he claimed that he got over 8,500 threat calls on his mobile phone after he objected to the video seen in a WhatsApp group and YouTube. The others named in the FIR included Ghazipur district-based musicians, a recording studio and a local music label company. The FIR was lodged under sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 500 (defamation), 120B (party to a criminal conspiracy) of IPC and 67 of IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/names-of-google-ceo-3-others-dropped-from-fir-in-threat-case/articleshow/80885910.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 80-year-old woman bludgeoned to death||AHMEDABAD: An 80-year-old woman was found dead inside her house in Vejalpur on Friday morning. A preliminary inquiry suggests she was bludgeoned to death, police officers said. The deceased, Mena Thakor, a resident of Panch Ghar No Vaas in Vejalpur village, was living alone for about six years and earning her living from renting rooms. Her elder son, Shakuji Thakor, 50, who lives in Kasindra village, in his FIR with Vejalpur police stated that Mena had not answered calls from family members since Thursday. Her family members then called a neighbour, who informed them that she was not seen in or around the house on Thursday. Shakuji then told his son Shailesh to go to Mena’s house and check up on her. When he got there, he found that the house was locked. Shailesh looked for Mena around the house but did not see her anywhere. He then broke open the door and on entering found Mena lying dead with visible wounds on her face, forehead and head. Shailesh called the police control room and Vejalpur police team reached the spot and began an inquiry. A Vejalpur police officers said family members of the victim told him that they did not have any rivalry with any one. “We have begun an inquiry on two aspects, which include robbery by some armed person or conspiracy to kill her so that her property including five houses in Vejalpur could be grabbed,” said the officer. A police officer said she was killed after being struck by a blunt object on the head and there was no evidence of resistance by her. Vejalpur police registered a case of murder against unknown persons and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/80-yr-old-woman-bludgeoned-to-death/articleshow/80887509.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Varanasi||Three cops suspended after youth dies in police custody in Jaunpur||VARANASI: Three policemen including an outpost in-charge were suspended and a magisterial inquiry ordered into the death of a youth in police custody and subsequent mob violence in Buxa area of Jaunpur district on Friday. The situation is now said to be under control while heavy deployment of police has been made in the area to avert any untoward incident. The death of Kishan Yadav alias Pujari, who was taken into custody for questioning in a loot case, triggered protests by locals who blocked a national highway and indulged in stone pelting, leading to injuries to several policemen. According to reports, the police arrested Pujari of Chak Mirzapur village in a loot case on Thursday night. He later died allegedly in police custody. His relatives and local residents blocked a road and indulged in brick batting in which several police personnel were injured and had to be admitted to a hospital for treatment of injuries. Jaunpur SP Raj Karan Nayyar said, “Pujari was arrested in a loot case lodged by Mohanlal Yadav on February 1. The police also recovered Rs. 64,000 of the looted money along with 13 mobile phones looted in separate incidents from him.” “Later, on the complaint of stomach pain Pujari was taken to the local community health centre from where he was referred to the district hospital after first-aid. He died in the course of treatment at the district hospital. Since he died in police custody, a panel was constituted for the postmortem,” the SP told TOI. He added, “Three policemen, including Buxa station officer, have been suspended in this connection and a magisterial inquiry has been ordered.” Meanwhile, Jaunpur district magistrate Manish Kumar Verma and SP went to the village and met the family members of Pujari on Friday. They assured the aggrieved family members that proper investigation would be conducted into the matter and whosoever found guilty would not be spared. The DM said that ADM Ram Prakash has been assigned the magisterial probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-cops-suspended-after-youth-dies-in-police-custody-in-jaunpur/articleshow/80885894.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Allahabad||HC hopes people will get vaccinated against Covid||Prayagraj: Appreciating the work done for the containment of Covid-19 infection, the Allahabad high court has expressed hope and trust that every individual in Uttar Pradesh shall get himself/herself vaccinated. Whole hearing a PIL relating to Covid-19, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed, “Before we proceed with the case, we would like to record our appreciation for the great work with regard to the containment of Covid-19 infection which has been done by the state and its instrumentalities. We are also noticing that the number of infections of Covid-19 have been coming down. This is a very positive sign.” Regarding the vaccination, the counsels of the Central government as well as the state government received the instructions from the respective authorities concerned that as per the availability of the vaccine, the vaccination programme had been continuing. So far as the availability of ambulances is concerned, the affidavit of the nodal officer, Moti Lal Nehru Medical College at Prayagraj was filed before the court wherein it was stated that the hospital has two advanced life support (ALS) ambulances. It was also been informed that the office of the chief medical officer (CMO) has three of them. The counsel for the state government also informed that wi-fi has also been installed in the post-Covid ward where patients come after getting treated in the ICU. While taking this affidavit on record, the court observed, “We connected ourselves through video-conferencing and saw for ourselves the post Covid ward. We appreciate the work which has been done. We found that the situation there was very satisfactory.” While appreciating the work done by nodal officer Rishi Sahai, who was present before the court, the court observed, “So far as the work which has been done by him is concerned, we appreciate the job performed by him during the times of pandemic. We also hope and trust that he will perform his duties further in Prayagraj so far as the vaccination programme is in vogue. In the times of pandemic, we would like to observe, such officers who have worked hard and are still working responsibly should not be transferred out, especially for now while the programme for vaccination is going on in its full steam.” The court directed to put up this PIL on March 1 for the next hearing. The court passed this order on February 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-hopes-people-will-get-vaccinated-against-covid/articleshow/80886316.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||UP panchayat polls: 60 lakh rural exodus forces dip in seats||LUCKNOW: : An exodus of over 60 lakh people from state’s rural heartland to urban centres over a five-year span has forced a reduction in number of seats for zila panchayat members, kshetriya panchayat members and gram pradhans since the last  in 2015. Additional chief secretary (panchayati raj) Manoj Kumar Singh said, rural population has shrunk by 60.69 lakh in five years with many villagers migrating to urban areas. “In 2015, the rural population in poll records was pegged at 15.8 crore. This has shrunk to 15.2 crore in 2021. This has triggered a dip in number of seats with a corresponding reduction in reserved seats too,” he said. In the new panchayat poll formula, the list of reserved seats for zila panchayat presidents includes Lucknow, which has been reserved for Scheduled Caste woman, while neighbouring Kanpur Nagar has been categorised as an SC seat. Prominent among 27 of 75 zila seats, which remain unreserved include Aligarh, Agra, Mathura, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Ayodhya, Bijnor, Rampur, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Unnao. On Thursday, Panchayati Raj department had released its policy for reservation, stating seats reserved in 2015 will be opened for the general category this year or will be reserved for a separate category. Also, seats which were never reserved will be reserved this year. Of 826 posts under kshetriya panchayat, five are reserved for Scheduled Tribe, 171 are reserved for SC of which 86 are for women and 223 for OBC of which 97 are for women. After delimitation, there are 58,194 gram panchayat seats. Of these, 20,368 are unreserved while 330 are for ST, 12,045 for SC and 15,712 for OBC. Of these, total reserved seats for women are 9,739. Elaborating on redrawing of seats due to a shrinking rural population, additional chief secretary (panchayati raj) Manoj Kumar Singh said, even as there would be no reduction in number of zila panchayat president seats since number of districts is fixed at 75, seats for members have reduced by 69 as total wards have come down. Seats for kshetriya panchayat pramukhs have gone up by five to a total of 826, but number of members have dipped by 1,946. Similarly, posts for gram panchayat pradhans have also come down by 880 since 2015, while posts for members of gram panchayats have reduced by 12,745.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/panchayat-polls-60l-rural-exodus-forces-dip-in-seats/articleshow/80889216.cms||Neha Lalchandani
February 13, 2021||Bhopal||40% frontline workers yet to get the jab; their vaccination to go on till February 17||BHOPAL: The Covid-19 vaccination of frontline workers will continue till February 17. While initially, the drive was planned till February 13, as per guidelines issued by the Union government, it will now continue till February 17. It is only after that the second dose vaccination of health workers will start in the state. Sources from the health department said that as per the instructions of the Union government, the vaccination of frontline workers will continue till February 17 in the state. It will also include a catch-up round of frontline workers missed their vaccination schedule. Once this is over, the second dose vaccination of health workers will start in the state. Frontline workers’ vaccination is slowly gaining pace and there has been no reservations regarding Covishield or Covaxin—the two vaccines being currently administered across India. In fact, more than 70 senior IPS officers got vaccinated with Covaxin at the police headquarters sin the state, including the DGP, said sources. The turnout was very low on the first few days, but now it is decent, said sources. A total of 1.83 lakh out of the 3.13 lakh frontline workers have been vaccinated in the state so far till Friday, said sources. For the remaining around 1.3 lakh frontline workers in the state, vaccination will go on till February 17, added sources. On Friday, 39% of the total number of people, who were called for vaccination, turned up. On Thursday, the figure was 45%. However, on the first day, it was only around 38%. Frontline workers include revenue officials, police and civic body officials. A majority of the senior officials of revenue as well as police have got themselves vaccinated as a move to motivate the sub-ordinates, officials of the concerning departments have also been asked to keep their personnel informed about the Covid-19 vaccination||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/40-frontline-workers-yet-to-get-the-jab-their-vaccination-to-go-on-till-feb-17/articleshow/80886700.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Patna||Centre’s Covid data ‘faux pas’ irks Bihar||PATNA: A day after identifying Bihar as one of the six states in the country which contributed 80% of Covid-19 cases on the day, the Union ministry of health and family welfare, in its fresh data released on Friday, excluded the state from the list of major contributors. As per the state health department, 57 new Covid-19 cases were registered on Thursday. However, the data tweeted by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on the same day claimed 419 cases were registered in Bihar, the fourth highest in the country on the day. Other five major contributors were Kerala (5,980), Maharashtra (3,451), Tamil Nadu (479), Karnataka (415) and Gujarat (255). The data shocked many in the state, including the health department officials. “This is completely wrong. In Bihar, 60 to 65 cases are recorded per day,” department’s special secretary Manoj Kumar said. “We upload the data to our portal every day. The data is then sent to the ICMR and the central government. It seems the numbers of last few days were included in the data released by the Union health ministry on Thursday,” he added. The data released by the Union health ministry on Friday has no mention of Bihar. While five major contributors remained the same, the sixth one was Punjab. Meanwhile, 78 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Friday. With this, the state’s Covid tally has increased to 2,61,646. Altogether 86 people have recuperated from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 99.15%. The virus claimed one more life in Patna on Friday. The district’s Covid toll has now increased to 430. The virus has so far claimed 1,522 lives in the state. Meanwhile, of the 49,241 registered beneficiaries, 20,589 received vaccine shots in the state on Friday. Vaccination was carried out at 305 session sites across the state. Altogether 4.69 lakh beneficiaries have so far been given vaccine shots in the state, including 3.91 lakh healthcare and 78,000 frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centres-covid-data-faux-pas-irks-bihar/articleshow/80885732.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 13, 2021||Patna||PMC, UNFPA launch ‘inclusive’ urbanisation programme||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Friday launched a “sustainable and inclusive urbanisation” programme for the city in association with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). The programme is aimed at promoting safe, healthy and inclusive models for slum development and mitigating health vulnerabilities that are enhanced by the gender divide in the slum areas. A PMC official said all the 110 slum areas in the state capital would be covered under the programme. The initiative is also aimed at enhancing citizens’ participation in the urbanisation process. It will focus on vulnerable groups living in the slum areas. PMC municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma emphasised on the value that new partnership with UNFPA will add to the programme. “The programme will also enhance the income of the existing sanitation workers. We believe that sanitation workers will also start contributing to the urbanisation process,’’ he added. Argentina Matavel Piccin, representative of UNFPA and country director of Bhutan, attended the launch virtually and emphasised on the importance of sustainable development goal (SDG)-11 that focuses on making cities more sustainable. She said, “With rising population and migration, slums are already a significant feature of urban life and SDG-11 calls for developing upgraded slums through sustainable and integrated planning and management.” The event was attended by Patna mayor Sita Sahu, deputy mayor Meena Devi, former secretary and member appellate tribunal, Real Estate Regulatory Authority, S K Singh and ward councillors. A slum networking plan and training materials for elected representatives were also released on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-unfpa-launch-inclusive-urbanisation-programme/articleshow/80885671.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Patna||Guv felicitates Siwan girl & Munger youth||PATNA: Governor Phagu Chauhan on Friday felicitated 23-year-old Priyanka Pandey of Siwan and Jayaram Viplav of Munger at a function held at Raj Bhavan. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his ‘Mann ki Baat’ speech on January 31, had made reference to their commendable works. Priyanka had mentioned on NaMo App that taking a cue from the PM’s address, she had visited the parental house of India’s first President Rajendra Prasad at Ziradei on January 1. That visit created a lasting impression on her mind and aroused a patriotic feeling in her. Modi had also referred to the writing of Jayaram about the celebration of ‘Tarapur Martyrs’ Day (January 15, 1932) in memory of the freedom fighters of Tarapur who had lost their lives while fighting for national freedom. The PM had praised both of them for their patriotic feelings. The governor presented a statue of Buddha and a piece of Madhubani painting to them. He said the youths of the state should take an inspiration from the two and help create patriotic fervour in the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/guv-felicitates-siwan-girl-munger-youth/articleshow/80885590.cms||B K Mishra
February 13, 2021||Allahabad||Food fest begins at Prayagraj||Prayagraj: The three-day long Prayagraj (Allahabad) food festival 2021 and kebab festival started at the campus of Rahi Ilawart tourist bungalow here on Friday.A total of 19 non-vegetari an and 12 vegetarian dishes are being served to the visitors at the festival. Apart from vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes, Awadhi delicacies like palak kahalwa, papita ka halwa, shahi tukra, black forest pudding and pineapple pudding are also on the platter to give a final touch to the feast. UPSTDC senior manager, DP Singh told TOI that, “An indigenous recipe and spices are chosen for the preparation of all varieties of the kebabs.” He added that the food festival cum kabab festival is part of a planned programme to promote tourism of this place.He further added, “dishes of Awadh, Bundelkhand and Purvanchal are also being served.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/food-fest-begins-at-prayagraj/articleshow/80886307.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Panchayat polls: Apex court seeks AP’s response to Odisha’s contempt plea||Visakhapatnam: The Supreme Court on Friday sought a reply from the Andhra Pradesh government in response to a petition by the Odisha government seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against senior officials in AP for notifying panchayat polls in three “disputed area” villages under the Kotia group of villages. A bench comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar and Aniruddha Bose said they would like to consider the reply of the Andhra Pradesh government on February 19 before passing any order. The Odisha government has sought contempt action against M Hari Jawaharlal, collector of Vizinagaramdistrict; Adityanath Das, chief secretary of AP; and N Ramesh Kumar, state election commissioner, AP. It may be recalled that jurisdiction over the Kotia villages, comprising 21 villages along the Andhra Odisha border (AOB) has been a bone of contention between the two states over several decades. Odisha claims the villages are under its jurisdiction while AP has stated they are located under Salur mandal in Vizianagaram district. During the hearing, senior advocate Vikas Singh and advocate Sibu Shankar Mishra, appearing for Odisha, said AP is conducting panchayat elections in the disputed area controlled by it. The bench asked advocate Mahfooz A Nazki, standing counsel for Andhra Pradesh, to file the state’s response to Odisha’s plea and listed the matter for further hearing next Friday. Speaking to TOI, Salur MLA Rajanna Dora said AP has been holding elections in these villages for decades. The decision of the Odisha government to move the apex court will not hamper panchayat elections, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/panchayat-polls-apex-court-seeks-aps-response-to-odishas-contempt-plea/articleshow/80886369.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||PPE discard protocol change at city airport||Kolkata: The city airport has stopped treating personal protective equipment (PPE) as biomedical waste following a directive from the Central Pollution Control Board. While the airport used to hand over the PPE kits collected in a yellow bag tagged as biohazard to a bio-medical waste handling agency, it is now keeping the discarded PPE in containers for 72 hours and then disposing them in black bags with general solid waste after cutting or shredding them so that they cannot be reused. “We had appointed a biomedical waste agency in June to collect PPE discarded by passengers. That was done following guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. However, guidelines have since been revised that has exempted commercial establishments like airports from treating PPE as biomedical waste. Thus, the PPE are now being treated as dry solid waste after the cooling period of 72 hours,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said. PPE waste generated at any healthcare activity within the airport premises is still required to be segregated as biomedical waste and treated and disposed through common biomedical waste treatment facility. Ramakant Burman, managing director of Greentech Environ Pvt Ltd, which was collecting PPE waste from Kolkata and Bagdogra airports, said the latter was still handing the waste over to the agency for proper disposal but Kolkata airport had discontinued the service. “PPE is Covid waste. By treating it as municipal waste, they will land up in ordinary landfill sites where ragpickers will pick them up and may get infected,” he claimed. However, airport officials pointed out that as per new protocol, the PPE was required to be stored for three days prior to disposal and that is what was being followed. An official said PPE usage at the airport had also declined. While airlines are still providing full PPE kits to middle seat passengers, many of them — particularly those who fly frequently — have stopped using them due to the discomfort. “All passengers are wearing masks and faceshields. But full PPE kits are rarely used by passengers these days. Hence, the quantum of PPE waste has also reduced drastically at the airport,” the official pointed out. Kolkata airport was dealing with nearly 600kg of PPE waste a day when the pandemic was raging last year. Biowaste handled by India’s six busiest airports — Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai — was 6,000kg, or close to 80,000 PPE kits, daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ppe-discard-protocol-change-at-city-airport/articleshow/80886601.cms||Subhro Niyogi
February 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Most villages in Punganur, Macherla go unanimous way||Amaravati: Most village panchayats in Punganur, the assembly constituency represented by panchayat raj minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, have unanimously elected their sarpanches. Elections would be held in just two villages in the third phase polling, scheduled for February 17. At the end of the deadline for withdrawal of nominations on Friday, 85 of the 87 villages in Punganur constituency — 23 villages in Punganur mandal, 19 in Chowdepalli mandal, 15 in Somala mandal and 18 villages in Sodum mandal — saw only one sarpanch candidate in fray. Officials said only two villages out of 12 in Rompicherla mandal will have elections with the remaining 10 having elected their sarpanches unanimously. Similar is the situation in Macherla constituency in Guntur district, represented by government whip Pinnelli Ramakrishna Reddy, with 63 of the 67 villages in the constituency opting for unanimous candidates. In the first and second phase of polls, over 1,000 villages elected their sarpanches unanimously. The third phase, which will cover over 600 villages, too is likely to witness a similar trend. Meanwhile, Peddireddi, in his first media interaction on Friday after getting relief from the high court, targeted TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu. “He seems to be suffering from Jagan-phobia. He is unable to digest the fact that the people continue to strongly back the leadership of Jagan Mohan Reddy, as is evident from the results of the panchayat polls,” the minister said. On the proposed privatisation of Vizag Steel Plant, he said the chief minister has already requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to divest VSP and has also proposed several alternatives to save the plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/most-villages-in-punganur-macherla-go-unanimous-way/articleshow/80886102.cms||Samdani MN
February 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Pleas alleging poll irregularities surge||Vijayawada: The high court has been flooded with petitions alleging irregularities, coercion, threatening by police and not allowing contestants from filing nominations in the ongoing panchayat elections. Some petitions also questioned the inaction of state election commission despite filing of specific complaints. The court has directed the SEC to consider the representations in proper perspective and in accordance with law to ensure free and fair elections. Majority of the petitions have been filed by contesting candidates from different villages of Punganuru assembly constituency in Chittoor district and Macherla constituency in Guntur district. Arguing on behalf of a petitioner from Punganuru, senior counsel P Veera Reddy alleged that ruling party members are threatening contesting candidates in collusion with officials. He also claimed that police officers are threatening candidates from opposition parties of false cases if they file nominations. He further said that the SEC, despite having the power of superintendence, direction and control under Article 324 of the Constitution, has failed to exercise his duties even after specific incidents were reported on multiple occasions. Advocate Indraneel Babu, representing a petitioner from Macherla, told the court that his client was illegally detained by the police to prevent him from filing his nomination. Similar incidents were brought to the notice of the high court by other advocates. C Sumon, arguing on behalf of the state government, said the petitioner has no locus standi in the case and the petition is not maintainable. He also said that the high court cannot direct the constitutional authority or an officer to act in a particular manner. Arguing on behalf of the SEC, N Ashwani Kumar said the commission has received a batch of complaints and all of them have been transferred to the officials concerned for necessary action. After hearing all sides, Justice DVSS Somayajulu observed they cannot decide on matters at this stage. Free and fair election is the foundation of democracy and it if for this reason the Constitution has given wide range of powers to the SEC, Justice Somayajulu observed, and directed the commission to consider all representations in accordance with law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pleas-alleging-poll-irregularities-surge/articleshow/80886137.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Life Care outshine RBN Global to emerge champs||Lucknow: Life Care Club defeated RBN Global Club by three wickets to lift the Life Care Trophy at LDA Stadium on Friday. Electing to bat first, RBN Global scored 107 runs at the loss of eight wickets in the stipulated 32 overs. Aadi Krishna and Rajat Kanoujia contributed 27 and 22 runs, respectively, to their team's total. Life Care's Darshit Bhardwaj and Gaurav Rawat claimed two wickets each. In reply, Arbaz Ahmed's 45-run knock helped Life Care successfully chase the target at the loss of 7 wickets in 22.3 overs. Apurv Singh and Ankit Singh of RBN bagged three wickets each. Gaurav Rawat was adjudged the man of the match while Mukul Sharma was named the man of the tournament. Arbaz and Darshit won the best batsman and best bowler award. Brief score: RBN Global: 107/8 (Aadi 27, Rajat 22; Darshit 2-13, Gaurav 2-14) Life Care: 108/7 (Arbaz 45, Gaurav 19; Apurv 3-14, Ankit 3-31) Gaurav Mehta Memorial Cricket: Aryavart Cricket Academy defeated Bharat Cricket Club by 47 runs while REPL Crusaders beat Youth Cricket Club by six wickets in the league matches of the Babu Banarasi Das Prize Money Super League. In another match, Indian Sports Club drubbed Shakumbari Club by seven wickets. Brief scores: Match 1: Aryavart: 163 (Abhishek 39, Nishant 22; Akash 4-43, Alok 3-30) Bharat Club: 116 (Vikas 27, Hmanshu 17, Gaurav 17; Nishant 4-18, Akash 2-2) Man of the match: Nishant Match 2: Youth Club: 191 (Saurabh 74, Shaurya 71; Bansraj 2-35, Abhay 2-53) REPL: 192/4 (Vijay 59, Abhishek 43; Kratagya 2-41, Satyam 2-44) Man of the match: Satyam Awasthi Match 3: Shakumbari: 112 (Tanmay 25, Lalit 17; Ajay 3-14, Aditya 2-5) Indian Sports: 113/3 (Sumit 33; Raj 1-22, Jitendra 1-22) Man of the match: Ajay Kumar Mansarovar Football Cup: The 24th Mansarovar Football Cup-2021 will take off at La Martiniere Polo Ground on Saturday. The first match of the tournament will be played between Falcom Football Club and Eleven Football Club. Total 26 teams will participate in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/life-care-outshine-rbn-global-to-emerge-champs/articleshow/80889038.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Business||India is Asia’s best post-Covid story: Jefferies equity head||MUMBAI: The global head of equity strategy for international broking house Jefferies, Christopher Wood, has said that India was the best post-Covid recovery story in Asia. This, combined with the budget announcements on February 1 that led to a renewed bull rally in the stock market, and the sharp drop in Covid infection numbers, helped India stand out among all the Asian countries. In Asia, “the Indian Budget…has triggered another run-up in that stock market, most particularly in bank stocks”. “With Covid cases in India now 88% off their peak amid growing hopes of herd immunity, India looks right now Asia’s best post-Covid recovery story,” Wood wrote in his widely read strategy report titled Greed & Fear. From its March 30, 2020 multi-year low at 17,249 points, the Nifty bank index has now more than doubled to 36,109 points. That’s because the Budget proposed an assets management company to take over bad loans of Indian banks to release funds for their regular lending business. Since PSU banks have most of the bad loans, the new structure is expected to benefit these lenders more that the private ones. SBI, the largest PSU bank, led the rally. A Budget proposal to privatise two PSU banks also helped the rally, market players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-is-asias-best-post-covid-story-jefferies-equity-head/articleshow/80888078.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||New Town to get medical college, health centre||KOLKATA: Taking cognizance of a long-pending demand from New Town residents for a multispecialty hospital, Hidco has allocated two plots for a medical college & teaching hospital and a health institution. Hidco will conduct an e-auction of a 7 acre and a 15 cottah for two health facilities. Though there are a couple of private hospitals in New Town, there is no multispecialty facility there yet. “Having a multi-speciality hospital is a necessary as the population of the township is growing fast. With very limited options now, we have no other choice but to go to Salt Lake or EM Bypass to avail urgent medical care,” said resident Kingshuk Chakraborty. Hidco and NKDA are in the process of setting up a few healthcare centres in the township. NKDA is setting up a G+2 urban primary health centre in Action Area II and a 4,500-sq ft polyclinic medical centre in Action Area I.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-to-get-med-college-health-centre/articleshow/80886652.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 13, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: 30,000 houses up for grabs, realty re-emerges from Covid shadow||BHOPAL: Over 30,000 properties are waiting for buyers in the city. Experts point out that the real estate market has slightly improved, but it would take another year for new big real estate projects to come up in the city, as there are sufficient properties available to cater to the requirement of buyers. As many as 346 real estate projects are ongoing in Bhopal. Total units available in all types of projects were 57,379. Of them, 24,420 units have been sold while 32,959 units are waiting for buyers. Among the sold units, 8,703 are apartments, 1,161 are commercial spaces, 4,545 are individual houses and 9,686 are plots. In the unsold units, 13,477 are apartments, 1,700 are commercial spaces, 4,218 are individual houses and 13,085 are plots, as per the real estate regulatory authority till January last month. Builders point out that the real estate market has slightly improved. The buyers were unable to make up their mind after March last year on whether to buy a home or not. But after life getting back to normal after lockdown, the ones who were planning to buy homes in March last year are coming forward. In the real estate sector, the business season starts from Raksha Bandhan and continues till March end as people buy homes for tax benefit. The stamp duty on sale and purchase of properties in urban areas was reduced from 3% to 1% between September and December last year, which also slightly helped the markets look up. Even after the rebate ended, registry of properties did not go down. In January this year, the number of registries in Bhopal was more than last year. Officials said 5,700 registries were held last year in January 2020 while the total number of registries in January 2021 was 7,150. Madhya Pradesh spokesman of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India, CREDAI, Manoj Singh Meek, said the inquiries for the properties have increased and there is momentum in the affordable housing sector. But at the same time, the cost of building material has also gone up. Experts said price-wise also, this is the right time to invest as prices were already at rock bottom and, largely, there have been no rate revision since 2013 Diwali. No new major projects were introduced in the city as there are enough ongoing and old projects waiting for buyers. Experts point out that new projects would start in 2022 if the markets continue to improve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/time-to-buy-your-dream-home-over-30k-properties-available/articleshow/80886697.cms||Ankur Sirothia
February 13, 2021||Business||Tata Motors gets Daimler veteran Llistosella as CEO||MUMBAI: Daimler veteran Marc Llistosella will replace Guenter Butschek as the CEO of Tata Motors. The management restructuring comes amid Tata Motors striving to cut losses at its domestic operations and reduce its debt load. Llistosella, who is of Spanish origin and holds a German passport, will be the fourth expat to helm the Tata Group flagship after Butschek, Karl Slym and Carl-Peter Forster. He will take charge of Tata Motors on July 1. Until then, Butschek, 60, will continue to manage the affairs, although his five-year term ends on February 14. Butschek, said Tata Motors, has informed his desire to relocate to Germany at the end of his contract for personal reasons. He, however, accepted the board’s request to continue as the chief executive till June 30, the company said. Speculation about leadership changes at Tata Motors has been on for some time. TOI reported on January 14 that Butschek’s term was drawing to a close and there was no word on his reappointment. Like Butschek, Llistosella, too, is a Daimler veteran. He spent more than two decades with Daimler, with stints in Germany, Japan and India. The 54-year-old had led Daimler’s entry into India and had launched BharatBenz trucks, which competed with Tata Motors. The brand reached the fourth position in India within 20 months under Llistosella’s watch. Jaguar Land Rover, the UK luxury car unit of Tata Motors and the biggest contributor to revenue, is helmed by Thierry Bollore, who took charge last September. “Having been bonded to India for so many years, a new exciting chapter is now opened,” said Llistosella on his appointment at Tata Motors. Llistosella, an experienced commercial vehicle leader, has his task cut out. He will have to ramp up the commercial vehicle business at Tata Motors, as it is its mainstay. The business returned to positive earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (ebitda) in the December quarter of fiscal 2021. Tata Motors is in the midst of transferring the loss-making passenger vehicle unit to a separate company with plans to bring in a partner. “Llistosella takes aggressive actions. Tata Motors has hired him with a clear intention to boost the commercial vehicle business,” said an industry observer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-motors-gets-daimler-veteran-llistosella-as-ceo/articleshow/80888148.cms||Reeba Zachariah
February 13, 2021||Patna||20-year master plan for roads, bridges soon: RCD minister||PATNA: The newly inducted road construction (RCD) minister, Nitin Nabin, announced on Friday that a ‘Bihar Road Master Plan’ is on the drawing board to chalk out the construction of roads and bridges over the next 20 years in the state. Nabin said the master plan would be ready in six months and it will provide alternative routes in the cities and focus on six to eight cities of Bihar. “There are several big drains in the cities that can be turned into roads. For instance, a drain in Saidpur which passes through Bazar Samiti can be used for vehicular movement. A road map will come up with such alternative ideas,” said Nabin. Cities such as Patna, Bhagalpur, Katihar, Muzaffarpur, Gaya and Katihar will be the focus, and the list will be expanded later. According to Nabin, there is 12% urbanization in the state and development of new roads will lead to the expansion of urban areas. The RCD minister also assured that pending projects will get completed soon and action will be taken against contractors who fail to finish projects within the time frame. The department would also provide liquidity-related relaxations due to Covid-19 to contractors as announced by the Union ministry. Earlier, Nabin reviewed undergoing projects by the Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited and instructed to complete major state highways like Bihiya-Jagdishpur-Piro-Bihta, Amarpur-Akbarnagar, Ghonga-Panjwara, Udakishanganj-Bhatgawa and Kadirganj-Khaira before the onset of monsoon. Nabin also directed that work on the Digha rotary be finished before Holi, Gaya-Rajgir-Biharsharif NH-82 be completed this year and Kachchi Dargah-Bidupr Bridge by 2022 end. The minister instructed senior officials, mainly engineers, to ensure field visits on at least two days a week. RCD principal secretary Amrit Lal Meena told TOI that a road parallel to Bailey road, officially known as Jawaharlal Nehru Marg, from Indira Bhawan to Ashiyana-Digha Road was 50% complete and will be ready soon. He said the Lohia Path Chakra design has been tweaked to reduce construction time and the project will now be inaugurated in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/20-year-master-plan-for-roads-bridges-soon-rcd-minister/articleshow/80885610.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 13, 2021||Patna||Schools gear up to start new session from April 1 in Bihar||PATNA: The CBSE’s suggestion to schools to commence the new academic session from April 1 “to the extent feasible and subject to instruction of the respective state government” has evoked mixed response from students and school authorities in the city. Sanyam Bhardwaj, controller of examinations, CBSE, in his letter addressed to all principals and heads of institutions affiliated to the board, had said schools should be fully geared up to welcome the students for physical classes. He requested the schools to follow fresh guidelines to make the next session more streamlined and ensure that learning gaps, if any, are addressed. Authorities of city schools said they are already following the Covid safety protocols while holding physical classes. Shailendra Mohan Jha, vice-principal of Gyan Niketan School, said students of classes IX and XI would write their papers offline. “Extension of board examinations will help the students prepare well and bridge the knowledge gap created during online classes,” he added. Mary Alphonsa, principal of Don Bosco Academy, said schools in the city are gradually reopening with all safety measures. “Students of classes X and XII have now got enough time to prepare well for their examinations. We will also take pre-board test to help the students understand each subject in a better way. Also, there will be proper offline examinations for the promotion of students to higher classes,” she added. Vaishnavi Kumari, a Class X student of St Karen's High School, said, “Offline classes are far better than online classes. There is no replacement for classroom studies.” Ritika Sinha, a Class IX student of Carmel High School, said, “There was no proper interaction between students and teachers during online classes, which hit our studies. Hopefully, the new session will be different and we will be able to interact with out teachers in the classroom,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-gear-up-to-start-new-session-from-april-1/articleshow/80885718.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Surat||Delay in healing is not doctor’s negligence: Court||Surat: The Surat District Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum rejected a Rs 19.5 lakh compensation case filed against an orthopaedic surgeon who was accused of negligence in operation for multiple fractures and dislocation of his left shoulder. The forum chaired by Justice A M Dave observed there could be a long delay in healing of the bone fracture and that it should not be considered as the negligence of the surgeon. Dilip Lilawala, a resident of Surat, had met with an accident on March 2, 2015, and suffered multiple fractures and dislocated on his left shoulder. Lilawala consulted Dr Vijay Patel, an orthopaedic surgeon of a private hospital. The x-ray showed damage in the humerus which had broken into four pieces. After taking the valid consent of the patient, the doctor performed the surgery of the left shoulder and he was discharged from the hospital on March 7, 2015. The doctor had told the patient that if the fracture is not healed within six months, he may have to undergo a second surgery as humerus is a long bone in the arm or forelimb that runs from the shoulder to the elbow and consist of three sections. However, Lilawala approached the consumer forum on January 1, 2016, nine months after he was first operated upon, accusing Dr Patel of negligence as he did not heal completely. Lilawal submitted that after operation, he had severe pain in the shoulders for more than 20 days. So, he decided to consult another orthopaedic surgeon in Surat. He was advised to visit Mumbai for further consultation. In December 2015, he was operated in the Mumbai hospital after which he got some relief. Therefore, he decided to file a compensation case against Dr Patel. Shreyas Desai, the advocate who appeared on behalf of Dr Patel said, “The doctor had performed open reduction internal fixation (ORIF) surgery for joining the humerus bone that had broken into four pieces.” “An incision was made and metal plate was attached to the humerus to hold the bone in place till it heals. However, the complainant lodged a case in the forum demanding compensation and accusing the doctor of negligence,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/delay-in-healing-is-not-doctors-negligence-court/articleshow/80886985.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Bhopal||161 new Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh; tally 2,57,229||BHOPAL: A total 161 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state on Friday, taking the count of positive cases to 2,57,229. Apart from the fresh cases, one death was also reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With this, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 3,829. The latest Covid-19 death was reported from Katni district of the state. On Friday, new cases were reported only from 28 of the 52 districts of the state. Districts where no new cases were reported include Gwalior, Sagar, Ratlam, Shivpuri, Morena, Balaghat, Neemuch, Shahdol, Dewas, Sehore, Raisen, Chhatarpur, Datia, Shajapur, Seoni, Guna, Bhind, Sheopur, Umaria, Tikamgarh, Mandla, Ashok Nagar, Niwari and Agar Malwa. Of these 28 districts where new cases were reported, fresh cases were reported in double figures from three districts. The highest numbers of cases were reported from Bhopal where 40 people tested positive, followed by Indore where 28 tested positive and Jabalpur where 11 tested positive. On the brighter side, 218 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, the total count of people who have recovered so far in the state reached 2,51,538. A total 16,524 samples were tested on Friday, of which 161 people tested positive, thus the positivity ate—which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Friday stood at 0.9 per cent. As on February 12, there were 1,862 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/161-new-covid-19-cases-in-state-tally-257229/articleshow/80886709.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Imam of Royal Mosque passes away||Hyderabad: Senior Islamic scholar Maulana Mohammed Bin Abdur Rahman Al-Hamoomi passed away here on Friday.  Maulana Mohammed was the Imam of the Royal Mosque at public gardens and led the congregational prayers there. He was also the khateeb of the mosque and delivered the Friday sermons.  He has been associated with the Royal Mosque, built by the Nizams, for about 20 years. He had endeared himself with his scholarly discourses on the Holy Quran and the traditions of the Prophet. The Royal Mosque is held in high esteem by many and feel it a privilege to offer prayers there. Historical records show that the Nizam would visit the mosque to offer prayers.  His father, Abdul Rahman Bin Mahfooz Al-Hamoomi, was the first Imam of the Royal Mosque. Prior to joining the Royal Mosque he had served at Masjid-e-Moazzam Pura Mallepally. He is regarded as one of the few eminent Islamic scholars in Telangana who command a good following. He was also a Hafiz (one who memorised the Quran by heart).  The funeral prayers will be performed at 8 am on Saturday at the Royal Mosque. The burial will take place at the graveyard located in Wadi-e-Rahmat, Omer Colony, Pahadi Shareef.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/imam-of-royal-mosque-passes-away/articleshow/80886712.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Pune||MP Amol Kolhe urges Centre to remove bull from protected animal list to enable bullock cart races||Pune: NCP MP Amol Kolhe has submitted a memorandum to Union minister for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairies Giriraj Singh, urging the latter to exclude bull from the list of protected animals in order to enable conduct of bullock cart races in Maharashtra. The races have been banned by the Bombay High court following a petition by animal welfare organisation in 2017. Kolhe, pointed out in his memorandum submitted to the minister in New Delhi on Thursday, that bullocks from Khilari, a native breed of Maharashtra, are used for the races. “The bull used for bullock cart racing is not used for agriculture purpose. However, due to the ban, the farmers cannot keep them with native cattle. As a result, these bulls are sent for illegal slaughter at low rates.” “Thus, the number of these bulls is decreasing. And there is a danger of extinction of this breed in future. The census carried out by the animal husbandry department of Maharashtra showed that indigenous male cattle population in the state is decreasing. Considering this, it is necessary to restart bullock cart races in the state to save the breed. Hence, bulls should be removed from the list of protected animals,” said Kolhe. However, Naresh Upreti, who worked with animal welfare organisation for the last 18 years and studied the race closely, said, “The bulls are naturally not fit for any kind of races. Farmers involved in races had been indulging in illegal torture practice to make them run. This practice is totally unscientific. Substantial evidences of various torture methods being practiced by farmers during races has already been submitted to the court in the past. Based on that the court banned the races.” Bullock cart races over the years, particularly in Shirur Loksabha constituency, have become a main political issue. Political leaders across party lines had been promising farmers to lift the ban on races during elections campaign to earn political mileage. Kolhe, too, had been promising the same ever since he was elected from the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mp-amol-kolhe-urges-centre-to-remove-bull-from-protected-animal-list-to-enable-bullock-cart-races/articleshow/80886710.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: BCs up the ante on quota, demand a better deal||HYDERABAD: Several Backward Classes (BCs) welfare associations are trying to come under one umbrella to exert pressure on the TRS government to enhance the BC quota in proportion to their population. The National BC Welfare Association, an umbrella of 16 BC associations, and JAC of weavers and other BC sub-castes are also trying to rope in SC and ST welfare associations to join their agitation as quota for SCs and STs is also less when compared to their population in Telangana. Health minister Eatala Rajender, a strong leader from the BC community, told TOI that the state government had written to the central government to allow states to decide the percentage of reservations to be extended to each deserving community, particularly BCs, based on their economic, social and other factors. The ruling TRS has been treading cautiously on the reservation issue and announced implementation of 10% EWS quota for upper castes only recently although the Centre had passed the EWS reservation two years ago. The ruling TRS does not want to antagonise voters of any community, particularly STs and Muslims, to whom chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had promised to enhance reservations from the present 6% and 4% to 10% and 12% respectively. While the BCs, including Muslims, have 29% reservation, SCs and STs have 15% and 6% reservation respectively in Telangana. “The population of BCs is over 50%, that of Muslims 12% to 15%, SCs 20% and STs 12%. It has been a long-pending demand of BCs to enhance their reservation percentage according to their population,” said National BC Welfare Association chairman R Krishnaiah. BCs: Take cue from Bombay HC verdict The BC association wants the KCR government to take a cue from the verdict of Bombay HC on the reservation for Marathas which took the state’s total reservation quota beyond the SC-mandated 50% cap. The overall quota now stands at 62% for jobs and 63% in education in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bcs-up-the-ante-on-quota-demand-a-better-deal/articleshow/80886781.cms||Roushan Ali
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Talk of Hry cabinet expansion revives||Chandigarh: With byelections to Ellenabad and Kalka assembly constituencies set to be announced soon, focus has again turned to the expansion of Haryana cabinet of ministers. The opposition’s plan to move a no-trust vote against the BJP-JJP coalition state government during budget session and the government requiring a head count of MLAs to prove majority has added to the talk. Last time around, the issue had taken centre stage ahead of the Baroda assembly seat bypoll. Sources said CM Manohar Lal Khattar had taken up the issue with Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda during his visits to New Delhi. This time again, the expansion is likely to affect the one portfolio from JJP quota. Ellenabad will be going to polls after INLD’s Abhay Chautala resigned from the seat. The Kalka seat has been vacated after its previous MLA, Pardeep Chaudhary, was convicted by a trial court of Nalagarh. Sources said three JJP MLAs — Devender Singh Babli from Tohana, Ram Kumar Gautam from Narnaund and Jogi Ram Sihag from Barwala — had been quite vocal in favour of farmers agitation and had, at times, made statements against the ruling BJP-JJP alliance as well. Gautam, who has roots in BJP, has also made utterances towards deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and JJP. “Cabinet expansion is totally the prerogative of CM Manohar Lal ji and high command. If something has come out, there could be some plans. So far as meeting with senior leaders in New Delhi are concerned, this is a routine affair,” said a senior BJP functionary associated with CMO. There are 88 MLAs in the 90-member Haryana assembly, which includes 40 MLAs from BJP, 30 from Congress, 10 from JJP, seven independents and one from HLP. Two out of seven independents, Sombir Sangwan and Balraj Kundu, have already announced to withdraw support from government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/talk-of-hry-cabinet-expansion-revives/articleshow/80888273.cms||Manvir Saini
February 13, 2021||Bhopal||Covid cost: Bhopal airport slips 13 places in CSS survey||BHOPAL: Bhopal airport’s ranking has dropped significantly in a matter of 7-8 months due to the prolonged Covid-19 lockdown. With the massive drop in number of flights from Bhopal, Raja Bhoj airport’s ranking also dropped from 5th to 18th (June-December 2020). Numerically, Bhopal airport has only lost 0.02 points as compared to the last survey, but it has transalted into a drop of five ranks. As per the latest Customer Satisfaction Survey report, Raja Bhoj airport has secured 4.60 points on the 5-point scale. Bhopal airport was at 5th position in the January-June 2020 period survey with 4.62 points. Bhopal was at the 17th position in the survey conducted in July-December 2019 period. The airport had secured 4.52 points in July-December 2019 survey. Airport authorities said that due to Covid every sector was affected and the same happened with Bhopal airport too. “We have resumed services early and regular flights for new cities are being added. The next survey will have a better picture”, said a senior official . Resuming the air services with only 348 passengers’ footfall per day in the last week of May, Bhopal airport has now garnered a footfall of almost 1,500 passengers daily. Bhopal is gradually improving its connectivity with other cities also. As of now, Bhopal is connected with Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad. A couple of more cities are to be connected next month, claimed officials. Fly Big launched a direct flight service between Bhopal and Ahmedabad recently. It is available on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from Bhopal. Ever since flight operations resumed at Bhopal’s Raja Bhoj airport after the lockdown, the situation has seen gradual improvement in both flight and passenger movement. Despite a surge, the situation will take some time to reach the pre-lockdown level. Compared to 2019, the traffic 83% down in the April-September 2020 period at the city airport. The situation is not that good if one compares the lockdown period of 2020 and 2019 April-September. In the April-September 2019 period, the passenger movement was 6,83,378 while it was only 80,000 in the same period in 2020. There is a dip of -88.3%. The situation was the same in the aircraft movement. In the period of April-September 2020, the aircraft movement was 7,509 in 2019, it was only 1,216 in the same period in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-cost-city-airport-slips-13-places-in-css-survey/articleshow/80886751.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Two die of suspected drug overdose in Punjab||BATHINDA: Two friends from Musa village in Mansa district died of suspected drug overdose. Avtar Singh, 32, and Darshan Singh, 34, were found unconscious at different places in Mansa town late on Thursday night and were declared dead at Mansa civil hospital. While Avtar Singh was found unconscious near Mansa railway platform, Darshan Singh was found near the bus stand. The family members of the duo have asked the police to see if there was any angle of drugs in the deaths. Avtar’s brother Kuldeep Singh said the duo were friends and had gone to Mansa to see the campaigning for the municipal council elections. “The family got to know about their unconscious state late on Thursday night. We want the police to investigate if they have died of drugs. If it is found true, then police must look from where they got the drugs,” Kuldeep said. The family members of Darshan Singh said both were into drugs for some time, but were not so heavy addicts that they could die of it. Mansa GRP post in-charge ASI Jagjit Singh said, “Avtar Singh was found unconscious in railway jurisdiction and seemed to have taken drugs. But the cause of death will be known in the postmortem report. A case under Section 174 of CrPC has been registered. t||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-die-of-suspected-drug-overdose/articleshow/80888276.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab releases 23 gharials in Beas||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Friday released 23 captive-bred gharials from Morena, Madhya Pradesh in the Beas Conservation Reserve. The gharial reintroduction in the Beas Conservation Reserve is a key project of the government of Punjab which aims to establish a breeding population of critically endangered gharial in the rivers of the state. Gursharan Singh, DFO (wildlife) Hoshiarpur, said a joint team of the wildlife division Hoshiarpur and WWF-India has been formed for daily monitoring of gharials for next one month. Gitanjali Kanwar, coordinator, WWF-India, said post release, monitoring is one of the vital aspects of the gharial reintroduction. The surveys will focus on understanding dispersal, habitat preference, population ecology and general wellbeing of the released gharials. In the phase-1 of this project, 47 juvenile gharials were released in the Beas Conservation Reserve in batches during 2017-2018 in Amritsar and Tarn Taran district. Field surveys conducted, so far, jointly with WWF-India indicated that gharials have dispersed both upstream and downstream of the release sites in the Beas Conservation Reserve. About 40-50% of the reintroduced gharials can be spotted in the Beas Conservation Reserve any time depending on the water levels and season of survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-releases-23-gharials-in-beas/articleshow/80888275.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||4 held for thrashing vendors, extortion||Hyderabad: Hussaini Alam police arrested four persons for extorting money from street vendors and assaulting two people. The accused are Abdullah Bin Mohammed (80) a businessman from Talabkatta, Md Naseeruddin (65) a businessman from Bhavani Nagar, Siddiq Bin Mahmood (24) a fitness trainee from Yakutpura and Md Safiuddiin (24) a vendor from Moghulpura. According to south zone DCP Gajarao Bhupal, one of the accused—Md Naseeruddin—is a habitual offender. He was involved in eighteen cases registered under Bhavani Nagar police stationfor extortion, intimidation and gambling. Naseeruddin extorts money from vendors near Charminar area. On February 8 evening, one of the accused—Abdullah Bin Mohammad, who sells hand bags near Charminar—had an argument with Mohammed Majid, a street vendor selling towels, about the space occupied on the road by each of them. Abdullah informed Naseeruddin about the argument. The latter, along with the other accused, reached the spot and attacked Majid and his brother Md Naveed with iron rods, asking for money to allow them to do business, police informed. Both Majid and Naveed suffered injuries. Based on the complaint filed by the two victims, a case was registered against the accused under sections 307 and 386 of the IPC. Police arrested the accused on Friday and sent them to judicial remand. On February 8 evening, one of the accused—Abdullah Bin Mohammad had an argument with Mohammed Majid, a street vendor about the space occupied on the road||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-held-for-thrashing-vendors-extortion/articleshow/80886730.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab releases 23 gharials in Beas||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Friday released 23 captive-bred gharials from Morena, Madhya Pradesh in the Beas Conservation Reserve. The gharial reintroduction in the Beas Conservation Reserve is a key project of the government of Punjab which aims to establish a breeding population of critically endangered gharial in the rivers of the state. Gursharan Singh, DFO (wildlife) Hoshiarpur, said a joint team of the wildlife division Hoshiarpur and WWF-India has been formed for daily monitoring of gharials for next one month. Gitanjali Kanwar, coordinator, WWF-India, said post release, monitoring is one of the vital aspects of the gharial reintroduction. The surveys will focus on understanding dispersal, habitat preference, population ecology and general wellbeing of the released gharials. In the phase-1 of this project, 47 juvenile gharials were released in the Beas Conservation Reserve in batches during 2017-2018 in Amritsar and Tarn Taran district. Field surveys conducted, so far, jointly with WWF-India indicated that gharials have dispersed both upstream and downstream of the release sites in the Beas Conservation Reserve. About 40-50% of the reintroduced gharials can be spotted in the Beas Conservation Reserve any time depending on the water levels and season of survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-releases-23-gharials-in-beas/articleshow/80893622.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||BioAsia 2021 all set to get bigger, snags Satya Nadella as key speaker||HYDERABAD: The annual lifesciences and healthcare forum BioAsia is all set to get bigger and go global in its 18th edition with an impressive lineup of the who’s who of the world of technology, healthcare and lifesciences for the event. BioAsia 2021 will be held on February 22 and 23 this year. The biggest catch for the annual event, which will be going virtual this year due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, is Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, who will deliberate on the opportunities created by the intersection of technology, healthcare and lifesciences in a fireside chat — `Charcha 2021-Healthcare to Hit Refresh’ — with Telangana IT & industries minister KT Rama Rao. Apart from Nadella, BioAsia 2021 will see speakers like Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) CEO Dr Richard Hatchet, World Health Organisation (WHO) deputy director general of programmes (DPP) Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Gates Foundation’s global health president Dr Trevor Mundel and US Food & Drug Administration’s CBER (Centre for Biologics Evaluation and Research) director Dr Peter Marks, who will deliver the keynote address. NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant and member VK Paul too will be key speakers at the event which is being held on the theme `Move the Needle’ with focus on Covid-19 and life beyond the pandemic. The key panel discussions include one on `Immunising the world’ where WHO’s Dr Soumya Swaminathan, ICMR DG Dr Balram Bhargava, UNICEF’s principal advisor and chief of immunisations Dr Robin Nandy, South Korea’s International Vaccine Institute DG Dr Jerome H Kim, Bharat Biotech CMD Dr Krishna Ella and Biological E’s MD Mahima Datla will delve into India’s current role and potential to become an innovative global vaccine provider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bioasia-2021-all-set-to-get-bigger-snags-nadella-as-key-speaker/articleshow/80886747.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Varanasi||UVSS installed at DDU junction||Times News Network Varanasi: In a move to step up security measures at DDU Junction, the railway has installed a new system -Under Vehicle Scanning System (UVSS). Through this system, all the vehicles reaching the parking lot are checked thoroughly. Through this technology, when a vehicle passes over the UVSS, the system captures the chassis number of the vehicle, the number of the vehicle and face of the driver. The system was inaugurated by general manager, East Central Railway Lalit Chandra Trivedi and DRM, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Division, ECR Rajesh Kumar Pandey on Friday. They said that it was the part of an integrated security system, which is being adopted to ensure the safety of people and avert terror attacks. The UVSS has been designed and installed by Vehant Technologies, a leader in Artificial Intelligence (AI) / Machine Learning (ML). They have also trained the Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel to operate the machine. This is a complete camera system that combines hardware and software to track down the vehicles passing through a checkpoint. According to officials, this system has been installed for important clues in case of suspicious goods in vehicles or any untoward incident at the railway station. This technology does not cost much, once a system is installed, only its maintenance is required. According to Kapil Bardeja, CEO and co-founder of Vehant Technologies, the UVSS requires physical devices to detect illegal items. With the help of this system, it is easy to inspect vehicles during both night and day hours and it is capable of working in any weather condition. All vehicles passing through the system will be given one-by-one entry once the trains are in regular operation. All vehicles will require UVSS scanning. This mechanized monitoring system will check trespassers and unwanted vehicles, ensuring the safety of passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/uvss-installed-at-ddu-junction/articleshow/80886253.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai bhelpuriwallah turns to cyber crime, Jamtara-style||MUMBAI: City police arrested a 25-year-old Jamtara resident, in connection with a cyber cheating case of Rs 1.7 lakh. Badri Mondal, who was arrested last week, told D B Marg police he used to sell bhelpuri at Juhu Chowpatty few years back. The class IV drop-out had called up a south Mumbai auto spare parts shop-owner in December 2019, told him to update his KYC for PayTM, got him to download an app, asked for a one-time password and took control of his bank account. Within 15 minutes, the accused transferred Rs 1.7 lakh in five transactions. A team led by inspector Raja Bidkar, officers Pradip Patil and Rakesh Shinde probed the case after the businessman lodged a complaint. “We found that vouchers were bought with the money. The accused did not transfer money to any account but bought gift vouchers from a Kurla mall, giving the impression that the victim bought them,” said an officer. The vouchers were sent on WhatsApp to gang members waiting in the Mumbai mall. The gang bought five mobile phones using the vouchers and left. When police learnt the vouchers were used for buying phones, they alerted the mall about unused vouchers and their details. Police got information in January 2020 from the mall that some people wanted to use the ‘blocked vouchers’. A team reached there and nabbed Pukhraj Sutar, Narsi Sutar and Sampat Sutar, all residents of Rajasthan. “The vouchers were passed on to the gang by Mondal, who had cheated the complainant and bought vouchers. During a search at various locations mentioned by Pukhraj, we seized 74 new phones,” added an officer. Police tried tracing Mondal but due to lockdown work got delayed. Later, they learnt that Mondal was arrested by Jamtara police in another cyber-cheating case. Jamtara police had seized an SUV and a Royal Enfield bike from Mondal. Besides this, Rs 2.5 lakh in Mondal’s account has been frozen. There are eight cases against Mondal in Mumbai. He was arrested in a similar cheating case, registered by D B Marg police and is also wanted by UP police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bhelpuriwallah-turns-to-cyber-crime-jamtara-style/articleshow/80887161.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||2 horses test +ve for glanders in Y’nagar||Hisar: Two horses have tested positive for glanders disease in Yamunanagar after Ambala district case. The disease, which affects horses, mules and donkeys, can spread to humans, experts from the National Equine Research Centre (NRCE), Hisar, said. NRCE has written to the Haryana animal husbandry department to kill the disease stricken horses to check the spread of the disease further. NRCE, the only laboratory in South Asia to investigate glanders disease that is caused by bacterium burkholderia mallei, found a total 52 positive cases in 42 days of this year while 139 cases were found last year. NRCE director Yashpal and Senior Scientist Harishankar Singha informed that recently found two cases in Yamunanagar, six cases in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, Hathras and Hardoi, two cases in Maharashtra and two cased in MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-horses-test-ve-for-glanders-in-ynagar/articleshow/80888281.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||HC’s interim order on Arnab plea on March 5||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday said it would hear and pass interim orders on March 5 on a petition filed by Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and his company ARG Outlier Media that runs the channel to quash the TRP manipulation scam case. The state said it cannot extend its statement of no coercive action till March 22. State counsel Kapil Sibal said it would however continue its assurance of not taking any coercive action against the owners and operators of Republic TV till March 5. Sibal said the state would need time to respond to “new points’’ made by Goswami and ARG in their rejoinder to the police reply to his petition. The rejoinder was over 100 pages. It has new documents, which are not part of his petition and hence need to be replied to, said Sibal, saying if the hearing was to proceed via videoconference on Friday, Goswami’s counsel Harish Salve ought to exclude those documents. The high court will, on March 16, via a physical hearing, hear the parties on the main plea of quashing the TRP prosecution or transferring probe to the CBI. Salve said he had taken a shot of the Covid vaccine and hence cannot travel out of the UK for six weeks. He took a jab at the state, saying, “I have realized (the) state’s survival depends on this.” Sibal shot back, requesting Salve to refrain from making such statements.The bench in a lighter vein asked the Centre’s counsel, additional solicitor general Anil Singh, when judges would be getting the vaccine. Goswami has petitioned the HC to quash the case against him for abetment of suicide of Anvay Naik, an interior designer he had engaged to do the channel’s studio. The HC adjourned this plea, too, to March 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hcs-interim-order-on-arnab-plea-on-march-5/articleshow/80889829.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh e-governance, CM helpline, others win eight awards||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh has won the award for e-governance organised by the Computer Society of India. Besides, the state also won seven other awards including for Jan Sunwai Samadhan and Nivesh Mitra under award of excellence, CM helpline 1076, Rozgar Sangam, CMIS project monitoring system and UP Skill Development Mission under award of appreciation and Prerna app under award of recognition. Speaking at the ceremony of the 18th CAI-SIG e-Governance Awards 2020, chief minister Yogi Adityanath also launched the 18th anniversary of the awards and new era in digital governance books. State govt to hold e-cabinets nowThe CM said that UP is proactively adopting technology for e-governance and using technology to ensure that its schemes reached every person in the state. He said the state government has taken a decision to hold e-cabinets from now on. The budget session starting from February 18 will also be carried out using tablets while for the first time, the state government will be presenting a paperless budget. “Technology has shown good results whereever it has been adopted. In 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had started the Jan Dhan scheme to provide access of banking to everyone. During the Covid-19, funds could be transferred directly to millions of people. Technology also helped in Covid testing and surveillance. Use of e-POS machines in ration shops helped in bringing about a transparent system of food distribution. This system has helped the government save Rs 2,500 crore in food distribution over the past two years,” he said. Yogi described his experience with the Musahar tribe before he became CM in 2017, saying that many of them were going hungry despite having ration cards. When he checked, he found that middlemen had kept their cards and were siphoning ration. “When we came to power, we detected about 30 lakh fake ration cards in the state,” he said. UP government has also started an e-office scheme, he added. Work in many departments is taking place digitally. In 2020, the Centre started the Swamitva scheme which would map every single house in rural areas using technology like drones. This would help identify actual owners of property and provide the government with authentic data on ownership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-e-governance-cm-helpline-others-win-8-awards/articleshow/80889289.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Delhi||All but forgotten, the other Delhi Gate||NEW DELHI: Just past Delhi Gate, you come to a haveli with a stone doorway adorned with intricate floral patterns. Inside, a teak doorway leads to a large courtyard where a nearly century-old charpoy and an heirloom brass pot catch the attention. The traditional house could pass off for any well-preserved haveli of old Delhi. Gopi Singhal, the owner, is a cloth merchant and has spent many years conserving this ancestral haveli in Najafgarh in southwest Delhi. Yes, Delhi Gate and havelis recall the lingering old-world charm of old Delhi. But Najafgarh, unknown to most people, is also a hub of havelis. Unfortunately, the town which bears the name of Mughal official Mirza Najaf Khan, is burdened now with burgeoning modernity and slowly losing its heritage character. Perhaps the most striking example of this time-eroded legacy is Delhi Gate. The words on the top of the structure now call it the Vad Kishan Lal Duar. The old gateway is so completely revamped that it looks like a contemporary construction. Sudheer, who runs a book store opposite the gate, recalled its renovation by a local politician two decades ago. “Some people call it Delhi Gate, but most of us know it by its new name,” he shrugged. The gate, which has a plaque to commemorate the martyrs of World War I, is covered with tiles now. Suraj Kumar, senior conservator at Intach’s Delhi Chapter, rued that far removed from public consciousness, there was nobody to prevent the gateway’s shabby treatment. “Remnants of its old self are visible in the quartzite stone base and the Mughal-favoured Lakhori bricks interior, discernible at the spots where the tiles have fallen,” Kumar pointed out. Past the gate and the statue of Jawaharlal Nehru lie several havelis. Many of these, such as the old haveli adjacent to an Arya Samaj Mandir, have just the Lakhori brick exterior surviving, the thin, flat red bricks proving their Mughal provenance. This is where Singhal’s haveli stands. “My home is 150 years old and is still stronger than most new houses,” said the 49-year-old cloth merchant, who claimed that his grandfather was often called up for jury duty in British courts prior to independence. Singhal remembers how people mocked him when he decided to conserve the old haveli. “They advised me to spend my money on a modern house instead,” he said. However, he realises that he might not have followed heritage norms during the renovation. “If we had got government support, we would have adopted scientific modes of conservation,” he admitted. Najafgarh’s havelis now lie hidden behind shops and hoardings, some of them modified beyond recognition. Ashok Saini, owner of Sri Deshraj Jagdish Prasad Sweet Shop at the Old Anaj Mandi, claims that the road had havelis on either side. Few have survived. “The change began over 30 years ago,” said Saini, whose family has run the confectionary shop since 1880. “People left the rustic Najafgarh and settled in the city. No one bothered about their ancestral properties. In any case, people weren’t aware of the importance of preserving heritage houses. Neither did the government support them.” Nearby, masons worked busily at a nameless haveli that Girish Jain, a Najafgarh businessman, bought in January. “I wanted to shift to a bigger place, so I bought this haveli. I have no idea how old the structure is,” said Jain. His wife, Sarika, informed that the haveli had three floors and a large terrace. “We are getting the place repaired. We are not touching the gate of the haveli because it is so very pretty,” she said. At Mitraon village too, a few kilometres from Delhi Gate, there is consternation among those who understand habitat traditions. Shekhar Gehlot, a village resident and an archaeology graduate, said many structures had already been lost to changes. The outer walls of the Daya Ram domed chattri were tiled five years ago, shuddered Gehlot. “The family fortunately did not make changes to the inner wall, which has beautiful paintwork,” he said. Chaudhary Dharam Pal Singh, 80, said the chattri belonged to his ancestors. “We preserved it,” he said, not realising that their attempts to maintain the old structure had only marred its architecture. The octogenarian added that the family also owned the Jeet Singh haveli, “which must be over 200 years old”. After shifting to a new house, the antiquated haveli with its imposing central courtyard and handsome sandstone brackets lies in a shambles. Singh’s son, Ajeet, added, “While some zaildars still retain their havelis, most are vacant and dying by the day. If the government helps us protect them, we will definitely cooperate in the exercise,” he said. Ajay Kumar, project director of Intach Delhi chapter, felt that with proper conservation, villages like Najafgarh could turn into tourist spots. “Delhi needs lungs for its citizens and heritage localities like Najafgarh should be developed along these lines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-but-forgotten-the-other-delhi-gate/articleshow/80888347.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Research Designs and Standards Organisation to begin trial of AC-3 tier coach with 83 berths||LUCKNOW: The trials of the newly designed AC-3 tier coach developed on Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) platform will begin next week. The coach, which has 83 berths instead of existing 72 berths, will be tested by the engineers of Research Designs and Standards Organisation (RDSO). The coach, which left Kapurthala coach factory on early Thursday, is expected to reach Secunderabad division of South Central Railway on Saturday where trials will begin under the supervision of RDSO team. The trials will be conducted in two phases — first on the mainline standard track between Vikarabad–Parli section of Secunderabad railway division, where the coach will be hauled at the maximum speed of 115 kmph in stage-wise manner. The second phase trial will be done on a high-speed track between the Kota-Nagda section of western central railway at 180 kmph. The trial will conclude on March 8 and then a report will be submitted to the commissioner of railway safety for operational certificate and clearance. A railway official said, “The coach will be fitted with several sensors to monitor vibrations, acceleration during various stages, including emergency simulation, running with a completely empty coach and loaded with sand bags as well.” RDSO PRO Ashish Agrawal told TOI that on February 13 and 14, the team will do instrumentation work on coach—that is fitting sensors and by February 16 the trials will begin. In the wake of the Railway Board decision to do away with linen in trains during Covid-19 pandemic, RDSO engineers decided to use the extra space for accommodating more berths. Currently, there are 72 berths in an AC three-tier coach of LHB with electronic instruments and linen bedding storage at the two ends of the coach near the lavatory. In the newly designed coach, the electronic circuit has been shifted beneath the coach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rdso-to-begin-trial-of-ac-3-tier-coach-with-83-berths/articleshow/80889184.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||3 top institutesopen all facilitiesfor non-Covid cases||Lucknow: Non-Covid patients can now expect hassle free and quick treatment as it was during pre-corona times in city’s three super-speciality medical education institutes — KGMU, RMLIMS and SGPGIMS. This will result in increase in the intake of patients at out-door (OPD) and in-door (IPD) facilities. On the state government’s directive, the three institutes on Friday decided to lift “filter” that were put in place before admitting a patient to minimise the rise of transmission of novel coronavirus infection. While KGMU and RMLIMS will implement the revised mechanism soon, SGPGIMS will adopt it from March 1. In KGMU, at present a non-Covid patient requiring emergency treatment has to first report at the Triage area at the geriartic department for registration. After thermal screening, those requiring surgical intervention are sent to the holding area at the Trauma Centre, while those needing non-surgical treatment are sent to the holding area in the neurological department. However, KGMU spokesperson Prof Sudhir Singh said now geriartic department triage area and neurological department holding area will be closed. All emergency patients will report to the Trauma Centre for registration. Those with influenza-like symptoms (ILS) will be kept in ‘Red Zone’ in the first floor of the Trauma Centre and tested for Covid-19, while the rest will be sent to wards based on their ailments. However, Covid-19 test of all patients will be done as a routine protocol before performing any surgery. In OPD services, Prof Singh said, the number of patients being seen at the speciality department daily will be increased from 150 to 200 and super-speciality from 75 to 100. The provision prior tele- and online appointments will continue. Patients will not have to come with a Covid-19 negative test report, as it was done till now. On arrival at the OPD building, patients will be screened at the entrance. Those with ILS will be sent to the fever clinic located in the same building, while the rest will be allowed to proceed to the department where they have appointments. In RMLIMS, a part of the 200-bed Covid hospital will be reserved for Covid-19 patients, while the rest will be used by maternal and infant care, paediatric surgery and endocrine surgery, said RMLIMS spokesperson Dr Shrikesh Singh. Patients coming to the OPD will not have to bring Covid test report. A screening will be done at the entrance and if found with ILS, the patient will be sent to the fever clinic. Similarly, emergency patients will be admitted directly in the emergency wards after screening. Those found with ILS will be kept in the isolation ward made within the emergency hospital and tested for Covid-19, he added. SGPGIMS director Prof RK Dhiman said that all OPDs will function as it was before the outbreak of the pandemic. Patients will not have to bring Covid-19 test report. However, screening will be done and suspected cases will be sent to Covid facility. However, for admission to in door facilities, all patients will be tested for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-top-institutesopen-all-facilitiesfor-non-covid-cases/articleshow/80889172.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Direct inquiry by cops, Thursday spillover improve turnout||Lucknow: The turnout for Covid-19 vaccination in round 3 of phase II doubled in the city on Friday in comparison to round 2 on Thursday. However, as delay in communicating beneficiaries about their schedule and anomalies in lists continued, it did not reach desired levels. According to the office of the chief medical officer (CMO), 6,456 (54%) frontline workers were inoculated out of 11,930 enlisted for the day. The drive was carried out at 98 booths in 28 vaccination centres. The turnout on Thursday (round 2) was 24% and on February 5 (round 1) 64%. Overall, 11,134 frontline workers have got the jabs. Altogether, about 45,000 frontline workers—officers and employees of police, civic agencies, urban development, revenue and panchayat—in the city have to be vaccinated in phase II. Now, only two rounds are left—February 18 and 22—for the health department to vaccinate the remaining 33,800 workers. On both Thursday and Friday, many beneficiaries either did not get SMSs informing them of their schedule or got them too late. Friday’s turnout though was higher mainly because many among those who took the jabs were those who got the information late on Thursday. Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Naveen Arora, also the vaccination nodal officer for Lucknow commissionerate, said that another reason for improvement was that senior police officers had sent personnel deployed under them to vaccination centres to inquire about the lists and then called beneficiaries to inform them. At Lokbandhu hospital, many police personnel complained that they did not get the message but came for shots on the directions of their seniors. Nodal officer at the hospital Dr Rupendra Kumar said that beneficiaries who were given out of turn shots were enlisted through the ‘add-on option’ in the CoWin app. However, since the app did not work for two hours, many beneficiaries went back, he added. CMO Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar denied any glitch in the CoWIN app. “Beneficiaries could not get SMSs because phone numbers provided by the departments were wrong. Also, lists were not provided in the required format, hence names were auto rejected by the software,” he said. The centre at Bhaurao Devras Civil Hospital saw a good response. Posted in the security of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, head constable, Rajni Gautam (46) said that she took a break from her duty to get the shot. Posted in the security of former chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav, sub-inspectors Ravindra Yadav (44) and Arvind Singh Yadav (42) said that vaccines should also be made available for their families. (With inputs from Pragati Shukla).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/direct-inquiry-by-cops-thursday-spillover-improve-turnout/articleshow/80889183.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||‘Nivesh Mitra’ bags award for excellence||Lucknow: Nivesh Mitra, the government’s single-window portal for industries and investors, won the Award of Excellence by Computer Society of India. “It bagged the honour in the project category for online interface provided to investors and industrialists for setting up and running units and enterprises in the state,” said a government spokesperson. Additional chief secretary (infrastructure & industrial development) Arvind Kumar, said, 3,27,502 applications have been filed on the single-window portal since its launch in February, 2018 and around 2,77,335 clearances, including NoCs and licences have been issued so far with a disposal rate of 95%. Currently, 27 departments are providing 200 services through the portal which was launched with 69 services. ‘Invest UP’ CEO Neena Sharma said around 130 services had been integrated with ‘Nivesh Mitra’ in last two years and 50 more services were in the pipeline. The grievance redressal system of Nivesh Mitra has received 25,084 entries of which 99% have been successfully resolved. Its user-feedback module has received1,48,883 responses from entrepreneurs, of which 75% users have rated the system ‘satisfactory’. Facilities provided through the module include making applications, departmental procedures for grant for all pre and post-establishment no-objection certificates, licences, registrations and sector-specific licencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nivesh-mitra-bags-award-for-excellence/articleshow/80889194.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Suspense continues over Speaker in run-up to budget||BHOPAL: Suspense continues over the names of Speaker and deputy Speaker of MP Assembly as the Budget session of state assembly draws close. After poor representation of Vindhya and Mahakaushal regions in the state cabinet, speculations were there about a candidate from the region getting the top post. Amid the political maneuvering and rumbling within the ruling BJP, grapevine has it that the party leadership has shifted its focus from Vindhya and Mahakaushal to ‘most acceptable’ candidates. The budget session of assembly will begin from February 22 and the party has made clear its intention to keep both the seats.  It is yet to ascertained whether the party leadership in trying to fulfil its commitment to strike a regional balance and caste equation will go with the names in circulation or would look for RSS or Centre to name the candidates. “There were demands from the Vindhya and Mahakaushal regions to accommodate senior leaders in the state cabinet so as to promote development in the region. There is only one minister from the Vindhya region, while none from districts like Jabalpur and Chhindwara in the Mahakaushal region. For the post of Speaker, leaders from these two regions have emerged as strong claimants and the party will choose only from them,” observed a senior state functionary in BJP. Sources disclosed that names doing rounds from the Vindhya region included Girish Gautam, Kedar Shukla, Nagendra Singh Nagod or Rajendra Shukla, who is considered close to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Pro-tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma from Bhopal, Yashpal Singh Sisodia from Mandsaur and even former Speaker Sitasaran Sharma from Hoshangabad were named in the list of probables. The party has however, given no indications whether there was a possibility to accommodate them, but one thing is clear, it wouldn’t be a Scindia loyalist. A recent closed-door meeting between BJP MLA from Deotalab assembly, Girish Gautam and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan, sparked rumours that there is a strong possibility of selecting a senior leader from Vindhya region for the post of Speaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/suspense-continues-over-speaker-deputy-speaker/articleshow/80886876.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Office buzz missing for AKTU grads as they begin career in WFH mode||Lucknow: The transition from being a student to an office-goer will not be so exciting for this year’s graduates as they will begin their stints with work from home (WFH). Engineering graduates of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) who succeeded in getting jobs in Friday’s placement drive said they would miss the feel of the first office, work station and office culture but are happy to get jobs in Covid times. As many as 87 students were placed in the drive, with the highest package of Rs 13 lakh per annum. Many shared they had never thought that the beginning of their careers will be with ‘work from home’. “The first job is all about getting access to all technologies or machinery one has read about in books. The excitement of having one’s own workstation is possible only in office. It would be a major missing in WFH culture,” said BTech (computer science) graduate Deepali Singh, who got a job offer of Rs 10 lakh per annum in a software MNC. However, she said that freshers would save money during work from home. Mechanical engineer graduate Utkarsh Bansal, who grabbed a package of Rs 11 lakh per annum in a transformer company, said, “I used to dream that my first day in office will be all about visiting the workshop to learn about giant transformers that I have seen in books or videos but I will have to wait till July, when my company is likely to go in offline mode.” Kushagra Gupta, who grabbed a package of Rs 10 lakh, said, “I wanted office to begin with formal wear, black leather bag and importantly, learning to live on my own. But that is on hold for a few months.” “Those in electronics, civil and mechanical engineering will miss going to office the most. Struggling at a construction site, designing and testing electrical motors is what makes up experiences,” said Sonali Agrahari, who bagged an offer of Rs 10 lakh per annum. Instead, freshers will have to do with online training for a few months, said another student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/office-buzz-missing-for-aktu-grads-as-they-begin-career-in-wfh-mode/articleshow/80889096.cms||Mohita Tewari
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Temples, pandals to welcome spring amid Covid protocol||Lucknow: To welcome spring, temples and pandals in the city will host the festival of Basant Panchami on February 16 with Covid-19 protocols in place. On the same day, the Bengali and Odiya communities will organise Saraswati Puja at several places. The festival marks the advent of the new season. It is believed that Goddess Saraswati showers her blessings on devotees, especially on ones who wear yellow on the occasion. Therefore, people offer a yellow flower to the deity and prepare meals that are in the same colour. The day will be special for members of Narhi Saraswati Puja as it will be completing 107 years. Organised by Banerjee Brothers Puja Committee, the puja is the oldest in the city. Apart from traditional rituals, a number of cultural events and competitions will be organised. Organiser Tuhin Banerjee said, “Basant Panchami is the day when people, especially students, worship the goddess who exemplifies knowledge. Students keep their books and stationery at the feet of the goddess with faith that the deity will bestow her blessings, wisdom, and grant them success.” Many people initiate formal education of their children (aged three and above) on this occasion. The event is known as Haathe Khodi, which marks the writing of the first letter of the Bengali alphabet under the guidance of a priest. At Bengali Club, a traditional puja will be organised, without any cultural programmes. Besides, many people will celebrate at home with puja and other traditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/temples-pandals-to-welcome-spring-amid-covid-protocol/articleshow/80889154.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Awadhi food fest to showcase hygiene standards of UP Tourism||Lucknow: The UP Tourism and Development Corporation is organising an Avadhi Food Festival in four cities: Lucknow, Bareilly, Prayagraj and Chitrakoot. The two-day event will highlight the high standards of hygiene and cleanliness followed in hotels under UP Tourism. It will be inaugurated at Hotel Gomti by the minister of state tourism on Saturday and is open to all. “We have been strictly following the norms and protocol imposed by the state government during the pandemic, and this is the first post-Covid opportunity to showcase the high quality and standard maintained by our hotels,” said MD of the corporation Shivpal Singh. Due to Covid, expectations regarding overall hygiene and security pertaining to food items have increased and hotels under the corporation are striving to meet those, he added. The festival will display many dishes of the state’s traditional cuisine including 13 varieties of Avadhi kebabs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/awadhi-food-fest-to-showcase-hygiene-standards-of-up-tourism/articleshow/80889318.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Nanded police file chargesheet in minor’s rape-murder case in 21 days||AURANGABAD: The Nanded police completed the probe into the rape and murder of a five-year-old girl and filed a comprehensive chargesheet in record 21 days, on February 11, much before the 60- day period for the same in serious cases. The time for filing a chargesheet in cases of sexual offences was brought down to 60 days from 90, following the Nirbhaya case, in which a nursing student was gang raped and murdered in Delhi in 2012. Advocate Aniket Pichkule, a lawyer with the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court, who also practices in Aurangabad, said it is rare for police to file chargesheet in rape-murder case within three weeks. Senior authorities in the Nanded police department said that in another case of a hearing and speech impaired woman, who was gang raped and bludgeoned to death, police filed the chargesheet in about 40 days. The Nanded police have submitted applications with the courts that are hearing the two cases to fast track the trial. When contacted, Nisar Tamboli, inspector general of police, Nanded range, said, “Considering the nature of crime and the brutality in both the cases, we completed the probe and filed fool-proof chargesheets in record time so that the cases can successfully be taken to their logical conclusion.” On the afternoon of January 21, a five-year-old girl had gone missing from her parent’s farm in a village falling under the limits of Bhokar police station. When her family members and other villagers launched a search for her, they found a 35-year old man, who was employed as a worker in the same farm, also missing. Additional superintendent of police Vijay Kabade said that a few hours later, the girl’s body was found with injuries on her private parts and strangulation marks amid the long grass of the marshy land on the banks of a tributary of Sudha river. Police pressed in the dog squad and found the accused hiding in the bushes close to the crime scene. The autopsy report confirmed rape and murder of the girl. The worker too confessed to the crime. In the other case, a 27-year-old hearing- and speech-impaired woman, who was residing with her sister, had gone to a public toilet in the vicinity of a zilla parishad school when four people allegedly raped her on December 9, 2020. “While two people were arrested from Biloli, two others were nabbed from Telangana. The prime accused in the case was involved in criminal activities. He had started residing with tribals to evade arrest. It took about a month to arrest him,” said Biloli sub-divisional police officer Sidhesh Dhumal. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-police-file-chargesheet-inminors-rape-murder-case-in-21-days/articleshow/80886858.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Swamitva to lead to rural empowerment: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday handed over property documents (gharauni) to beneficiaries under the central government’s Swamitva scheme, launched to identify actual houseowners in rural areas. The CM said the scheme would help in bringing down property disputes and provide the government with reliable data on property ownership. Calling the scheme a major step towards rural empowerment, he said: “It (gharauni) is not just a document but a mode of boosting people’s confidence, instilling self-esteem and making them self-reliant.” Yogi gives property cards to beneficiariesIn a virtual interaction with beneficiaries from1,001 villages of 11 districts on Friday, the CM also launched digital mode of ‘khasra’. He handed over certificates to beneficiaries from seven districts while the remaining were distributed by respective district magistrates. The districts selected for the first round of certificate distribution included Jalaun, Jhansi, Lalitpur, Hamirpur, Mahoba, Chitrakoot, Banda, Fatehpur, Kaushambi, Varanasi and Azamgarh. “Although people built their houses on ancestral land, they did not own the properties. As a result, they had to face harassment and disputes. However, this will not happen now as our government is giving ownership of the land to people in rural areas,” Yogi said. Under Swamitva scheme, records of over 1.5 lakh houses from more than 1,000 villages have been digitised. As many as 2,09,016 plot owners from 1,578 villages in 37 districts have received property cards. The government has notified 82,913 villages for surveys and recording of rural population. A government spokesperson said about 7.6 crore khasras from 1,08,846 revenue villages would be digitised soon. “Once we have correct data in hand, the government will be able to implement development schemes in a better manner. Land in rural areas is being mapped using modern technology, including drones,” the CM said. He said digital khasra would provide details of land, crop and irrigation resources, agricultural waste disposal, trees, non-agricultural land, leased land and cropped areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-swamitva-to-lead-to-rural-empowerment/articleshow/80889303.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Two thieves held, Rs 9L valuables seized||Hyderabad: Malakpet police along with East Zone task force arrested two property offenders and recovered Rs 9 lakh worth valuables from their possession on Thursday night. The accused are identified as T Rajesh (26), a private employee from Dilsukhnagar and V Rajani (20), a student from Malakpet. Rajesh was previously involved in bike theft cases and is in love with Rajani. Due to financial stress, Rajesh hatched a plan with Rajini to commit property offences. The duo decided to target Rajani’s 74-year-old neighbour G Padmavathi. As per the plan, on January 29, Rajesh entered Padmavathi’s house at Andhra Bank Colony in New Malakpet at around 2 pm. He threatened her with a knife and stole her gold bangles & mangalsutra. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-thieves-held-rs-9l-valuables-seized/articleshow/80886834.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||UP universities, colleges to start regular classes from February 15||LUCKNOW: All universities and institutes of higher education, both government and private, will restart regular classes from February 15. A government order on Friday said universities and colleges would have to follow the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for maintenance of Covid-19 protocol. Earlier, universities and colleges located outside the containment zones were allowed physical classes from November 23. According to the order, all higher education institutions will have to ensure that Covid-19 safety norms are strictly implemented. The administration has been asked to get the campuses and hostels fully sanitized before reopening. All universities and colleges will have hand wash, thermal scanners, sanitizers and basic health care facilities. The SOPs laid down by the department of higher education states that teachers, students or non-teaching employees having cough, fever, or any Covid-19 symptom should be isolated with immediate effect and provided medical treatment. If any hosteller falls ill then he/she should be given treatment following the guidelines of the medical and health department. Both students, teachers and other staff will wear face cover and that only necessary staff will be allowed to enter the hostel. All students coming to the hostels after travelling outside should avoid interaction and maintain safety protocols like social distancing. It should be ensured that masks, sanitizer and tissues are available in universities, colleges and hostels. Authorities are directed to avoid use of biometric device for recording attendance, and that universities and colleges should encourage contact-less means for marking attendance. Students have been asked to enter in small groups inside the dining halls in the hostels. Safety Measures Face covers for students, teachers and staff must Proper physical distance in classrooms and between beds in hostels Adequate handwash, sanitisers, thermal scanner and health care facilities in univs, colleges Biometric use for attendance to be avoided Awareness drive on Covid-19 safety norms on campus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-varsities-colleges-to-start-regular-classes-from-feb-15/articleshow/80889311.cms||Isha Jain
February 13, 2021||Bhopal||Kisan morcha to take stir to remote villages in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: In response to state government’s claim that farmers’ stir has no support in Madhya Pradesh, the agitating farmers of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) have decided to take the protest to villages. Addressing the first press conference under the banner of the SKM, Rahul Raj, a young farmer leader said: “After a rail roko in MP on February 18, we will intensify the agitation and take it to the remote villages by holding panchayats on the agriculture laws.” Raj said that the government was oppressive on the farmers and “crushing the agitation with iron hand using police force.” Before any event, like the road block earlier this month, the farmers’ leaders “are picked up by police or are put under house arrest.” Many of them are taken to police stations “illegally”. The police would knock at their doors at mid-night and would terrorize the family members, he alleged.  “We will have an effective rail roko agitation in MP also after the nationwide call given by the SKM. We don’t want to inconvenience the people, these agitations are symbolic to highlight our issues,” Raj said. The farmer leader said that SKM would be holding panchayats in small villages in the state on issues concerning the farmers. Criticising the agriculture minister Kamal Patel for “his misleading and irresponsible remarks on farmers and their agitation,” Raj said he would hold a day-long fast ). Rahul also criticized the BJP and RSS leaders in Madhya Pradesh for threatening Shivkumar Sharma alias Kakka-ji. He claimed that the BJP workers have been reaching Kakkaji’s village and at his house in Bhopal and staged protest. “Even the Centre had not lodged any FIR against Kakka ji, but the state BJP leaders have been threatening action against him,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kisan-morcha-to-take-stir-to-remote-villages-in-state/articleshow/80886847.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Bhopal||Look who’s running transfer industry now: Congress to BJP||BHOPAL: Former minister and state Congress media cell chief Jeetu Patwari on Friday alleged that the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, in its 324-day regime, has issued transfer orders of 3,000 officials. Patwari recalled that since April 2019, it was Chouhan, who repeatedly alleged that former chief minister Kamal Nath was running a “transfer industry”. “The number of transfers ordered in Chouhan’s less than one-year ongoing term is double that of Kamal Nath’s one-and-half year regime,” said Jeetu Patwari, speaking to reporters at state PCC office. “Shivraj Singh Chouhan and the BJP then alleged that Congress government was running a transfer industry and the state secretariat had become a place for middlemen. Now, what is the BJP’s explanation about double the number of transfers in less than a year?” asked Jeetu Patwari, who was armed with statistics and copies of transfer orders. Congress claimed that 10,000 more transfer orders are in the line as recommended and endorsed by the RSS. And by April this year, the total number of transfers of government employees and officials will be 50,000. “Last year, the BJP formed government on March 23. The next day, government issued orders for transfer of Rajgarh collector Nidhi Nivedita,” said Patwari. Nivedita had slapped a BJP worker, who allegedly misbehaved with her and another woman official, while taking out a pro-CAA rally. “Iqbal Singh Bains was appointed new chief secretary and four orders were taken out to transfer officials,” the former minister said. Giving an account of transfers in the past 21 days, Jeetu Patwari said, “On January 18, state government transferred three officials: Brijesh Saxena, Tripti Shrivastava and Vijay Raj. On January 20, another 8 officers were transferred. January 22 saw transfer orders of seven more officers.” Patwari read out a list of nine officials, who were transferred on January 24 and six more transferred on January 26. Fifty-six sub-inspectors were also transferred the same day. Countering the Congress party’s claim, state BJP spokesman Rajneesh Agarwal said, “When chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and the BJP alleged that Kamal Nath government was running a transfer industry, it was not just a bling accusation. It was proved in the I-T raids conducted on Kamal Nath’s close aids and crores of unaccounted for money was recovered. They transferred one official four times. Does the Congress have even a shred of evidence that the transfers in the Chouhan government are in exchange for cash? Chief minister Chouhan’s transfers are in the interest of governance delivery and development. What is the harm there?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/look-whos-running-transfer-industry-now-cong-to-bjp/articleshow/80886897.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Body of ex-min Gayatri Prajapati’snephew recovered on railway track||Lucknow: The mutilated body of the 22-year-old nephew of former state minister, Gayatri Prajapati, was recovered from a railway track in Amethi on Friday morning. Police said the victim, Shubham Prajapati, was missing since Thursday night. While the police said that it appeared to be a case of suicide, the victim’s family claimed that Shubham was murdered. Around 4am, some local residents spotted the body. After getting information from the station master of Amethi railway station, circle officer (city) Arpit Kapoor reached the spot and identified the victim as Shubham. “His father Jagdish Prajapati is the youngest brother of former cabinet minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati,” the officer said. He said the body had been sent for autopsy and the government railway police (GRP), Pratapgarh, was investigating the case. “We are investigating the conditions under which Shubham left the house of Thursday night,” Kapoor said. Police said Shubham’s body was found at least 4km from his house. Shubham was a Class 8 dropout and ran a small business in the city. He was not into politics. Superintendent of police, Amethi, Dinesh Singh said besides amputation, no other injury mark was found on the body, hinting that it was a case of suicide. However, Shubham’s brother, Arun Prajapati, alleged that it was a case of murder over panchayat poll. He, however, failed to point out any specific issue or individual who could have committed the crime. In his complaint, Arun said some unidentified people had come to call his brother on Thursday night for drinks and did not return since then. “They must have only killed him and dumped the body on the railway track,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/body-of-ex-min-gayatri-prajapatisnephew-recovered-on-railway-track/articleshow/80889246.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Aurangabad||2 held for forging voter ID cards||Aurangabad: The city police, along with the revenue department authorities, have arrested two people on the charge of forging voter ID cards. A local court here remanded them in police custody on Friday. The accused have been identified as Harish Waghmare (22) and Navnath Shinde (26). The city police had received a tip-off that a racket was being allegedly run from Matoshri Digital centre, which was an e-Seva Kendra. The issue was brought to the notice of revenue department authorities, who are responsible for the preparation and updation of voter list and identity cards. A dummy customer was sent to the e-Seva Kendra. Ghanshyam Sonawne, assistant inspector at Pundaliknagar police station, said Waghmare forged the voter ID card of the dummy customer by downloading the information from the Election Commission’s website and passed the forged voter id to his accomplice Shinde, who prepared a smart card from the same. A raid was conducted at the e-Seva Kendra during which authorities seized smart cards, computer and a printer among other articles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-held-for-forging-voter-id-cards/articleshow/80886893.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Medical services restored to pre-Covid-19 level in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Following the continuous decline in the number of Covid-19 cases and active infections, the Uttar Pradesh government has directed state medical colleges and institutions to fully restore all outpatient and inpatient services. The order issued by the chief minister’s office on Friday has to be implemented with immediate effect. “Following the decline in the prevalence of coronavirus pandemic, all outdoor and inpatient services must be restored at the earliest so that people in need can have access to the required help. State’s Covid recovery rate is now over 98%The arrangements for Covid-19 care should be made as per requirement while the scope for expansion should also be kept in mind,” the order stated. UP’s Covid recovery rate is now over 98%, with only 3,200 active cases. Sources said the order has been passed after the CM expressed unhappiness over the slow pace of resumption of pre-Covid care facilities in medical colleges. “The CM had already told institutions to normalise regular patientcare but the pace remained slow,” they added. Principal secretary, medical education, Alok Kumar said the CM’s order will alleviate the difficulty faced by people in accessing health services. The order issued by secretary, UP government, GS Priyadarshi, has been sent to director general medical education and heads of SGPGI, KGMU, Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Science, Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida, Super Specialty Pediatric and Post Graduate Institute Noida and principals of all state medical colleges and autonomous medical institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/med-services-restored-to-pre-covid-19-level-in-up/articleshow/80889294.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Freshly cooked meals should be served in anganwadis: CM||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that freshly cooked meals should be served to children aged three and six in anganwadi centres. The government will also provide these centres with milk powder, curd and ghee under the new scheme, along with usual items like rice, wheat flour and pulses. The scheme will run parallel to the mid-day meal scheme and Rs 4.5 will be given as grant per child, of which Rs 1.5 will go to the cook. The government has also issued directions to reopen anganwadi centres but with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols. There are 1.89 lakh anganwadi centres in the state, which cater to young children, teenage girls, pregnant women and mothers. Each anganwadi centre has an average of 20 to 25 registered students. “The scheme will run on the pattern of mid-day meal scheme with a similar menu. The state government will supply all necessary items to the child development and nutrition department every four months,” said an official. At the village level, funds will be transferred to the joint account of the head of the self-help group and the anganwadi worker. The food will be prepared by the same cooks who prepare food for mid-day meals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/freshly-cooked-meals-should-be-served-in-anganwadis-cm/articleshow/80889185.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Property row claims man, relative’s lives||Aurangabad: A man and his son-in law were allegedly hacked to death after a heated argument with the former’s brothers and other family members took a violent turn in Her village falling under the limits of Udgir rural police station of Latur district. The deceased, Govind Jagtap (75), and his brother were at loggerheads over taking possession of a portion of inherited farmland. Police have arrested as many as eight suspects. The son-in-law has been identified as Nitin Fawde (30). According to police, a heated argument broke out between Govind and his brother, Balaji, over possession of a 1.5 acre land they inherited from their father. Based on the complaint lodged, the suspects have been booked on charges of murder, attempt to murder, unlawful assembly, rioting. In addition to this, the suspects have also been slapped with sections of Indian Arms Act. The incident took place on Thursday, following which Balaji, his wife Phulabai, their sons Ankush and Lahu, latter’s wife Ashwini, their sister Pooja and one Bapurao Patil came together and allegedly attacked Govind with axe, swords, sickle and some other sharp-edged weapons, leaving him seriously injured. Learning about the incident, Fawde along Govind’s another brother Bhagwan rushed to the farm to rescue Govind, the suspects waylaid the duo and attacked them too. Govind was rushed to an Udgir-based rural hospital, where he was declared brought dead, while Fawde, who too had sustained serious injuries, was referred to super specialty hospital in Latur town where he succumbed to the injuries. Superintendent of police Nikhil Pingale said, “The three brothers inherited 50 acres of land, but there was an ongoing dispute about taking possession of 1.5 acres and it turned violent.” The suspects were arrested on Thursday night and produced before the court on Friday following which they have been remanded in police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/property-row-claims-man-relatives-lives/articleshow/80886906.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Dy registrar of socs booked in bribe case||Mumbai: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Thursday booked a deputy registrar of cooperative societies and arrested his assistant for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from a member of a housing society in the western suburbs. While the ACB caught Ganesh Rathod accepting the bribe, deputy registrar of co-operative societies H-west ward, Gautam Vardhan, was booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Officials said they did not arrest Vardhan as he has tested Covid-positive and is under quarantine. According to the ACB, the complainant in the case was seeking action against the secretary and office-bearers of his housing society as he had allegedly found various violations of bylaws and irregularities. The two accused assured the complainant they would take action and even appoint an administrator for the society. However, they demanded Rs 3 lakh as bribe. After bargaining, the amount was brought down to Rs 1 lakh. The complainant then approached the ACB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dy-registrar-of-socs-booked-in-bribe-case/articleshow/80889378.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Kin of 266 cops who died of Covid get Rs 50L each||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra government’s limited period ex-gratia scheme for the kin of policemen, who died due to Covid-19, has benefited 266 families but it has to decide about giving the aid to those who have succumbed to the disease this year. Considering that a high number of policemen were infected due to Covid-19, the state government had announced ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh each for the kin of those policemen, who died due to the contagion between April 1 and December 31, 2020. In this period, a total of 317 policemen died of Covid-19. Applications of 29 policemen did not fit the criteria and their claims were rejected. Of the remaining 288 applications, families of 266 policemen have been granted the ex-gratia, totalling to Rs 133 crore. Additional director general of police (administration) Sanjeev Kumar Singhal told TOI,“Out of the 288 cases, families of 266 have already been given the compensation. The process of giving compensation to the remaining 20 eligible cases is on the verge of completion.” The officer added that 13 policemen had died due to the infection in January this year. “As the scheme is over, we have decided to send their proposals to the state government as ‘special cases’. We are hopeful that they will be considered,” he said. The state government has laid down the list of criteria under which the ex-gratia can be granted. The 29 proposals were rejected because it was found that these policemen were already on long medical/sick leaves or were already admitted in the hospitals for other ailments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/kin-of-266-cops-who-died-of-covid-get-rs-50l-each/articleshow/80886925.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 13, 2021||Goa||Need more awareness on vaccine: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that maximum healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers will be vaccinated by the month-end and then registration will be open for public as per the Centre’s guidelines. He urged citizens not to fall prey to misinformation about the vaccine. Till date 9,400 HCWs and 2,000 frontline workers have received the first dose of the vaccine, Sawant told reporters after launching a month-long campaign on Covid vaccination and Atmanirbhar Bharat, on Friday. He said that the government was yet to decide if the public will have to pay for the vaccine, while replying to a question. “There is misinformation about the vaccine. I hope people will not fall prey to this misinformation and come forward to take the vaccination. I want to appeal to Goans — health workers, frontline workers and all other citizens — to come forward to take the vaccine,” Sawant said, He said that there is still ignorance about the vaccine which is why people are hesitant to get themselves registered or report for vaccination after registration. The month-long awareness drive will help dispel the misinformation about the Covid vaccine and more people will come forward, he said, adding, “There is a need to create more awareness.” Meanwhile, 848 HCWs were vaccinated on Friday, while the target for the day was 3,600. Also, 712 frontline workers were given vaccine shots, while the target was 2,100. Goa government has received an intimation to continue vaccination for HCWs till February 20, but only those whose names have been registered on the portal will be considered, a health official said. The HCWs who received their first dose of Covishield are set to get their second and the last dose starting from Saturday.  The chief minister also said that like it has been announced for panchayats in Goa, the state is also going to declare Rs 50 lakh award for municipalities for carrying out extraordinary work in implementation of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampoorna Goem programme. Santosh Ajmera, in-charge of the regional outreach bureau of I&B ministry, Pune, speaking of the Jan Jagruti Maha Abhiyan, said that local cultural troupes will perform at nearly 600 locations in the state to create awareness about the vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-more-awareness-on-vaccine-cm/articleshow/80888643.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Pune||Complete voters’ list by April 30: MoD tells cantts||Pune: The ministry of defence (MoD) on Friday directed all the 62 cantonments in the country, including Pune, Khadki and Dehu Road in the district, to complete the process of electoral roll revision by April 30.“The cantonments will have to follow strict guidelines of Covid-19 while carrying out the drive in their jurisdictions,” the MoD order stated.The term of the elected body of all the three cantonments in Pune district lapsed on February 10.Amit Kumar, CEO, Pune Cantonment Board, said, “The final voters’ list exercise is going to be a massive task for us as it involves door-to-door survey. We will rope in manpower so that we are able to have substantial period for conduct of public hearing on suggestions and objections before finalising the list.”The ministry had stopped the exercise last year due to increasing cases of Covid-19. In all, 56 cantonments, including seven in Maharashtra, have been dissolved on February 10 and they are due for elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/complete-voters-list-by-april-30-mod-tells-cantts/articleshow/80886653.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 13, 2021||India||Lens on actor’s bizman hubby in Mumbai porn racket||MUMBAI: A celebrity businessman, husband of a wellknown actor, is under the scanner in the porn video racket being probed by Mumbai police after a model alleged he forced her to pose in the nude for a video shot by his production house. Meanwhile, police have registered a fresh case of gangrape and wrongful confinement against arrested model and actor Gehena Vasisth and three others after a 24-year old model alleged she was forced to engage in sexual acts with three men for a video. This is the fourth such complaint lodged by models in the case. In the complaint against the actor’s husband, the crime branch is in the process of verifying the details. On Tuesday, police had arrested Umesh Kamat, a former employee of the celebrity businessman. Kamat, who represents UK-based production house Kenrin, is accused of uploading at least seven to eight “porn and obscene” videos shot by Vasisth on a social media app for monetary consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lens-on-actors-bizman-hubby-in-mumbai-porn-racket/articleshow/80889957.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Crook dupes senior citizen of Rs 82k with bait to rent his house||Aurangabad: A man, claiming to be a jawan with the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), has duped a 65-year-old retired health officer of Rs 82,000 on the pretext of transferring advance rent.Rohit Shah, a resident of Nathprangan in Garkheda area, had given an online advertisement about giving out his flat on rent.Ghanshyam Sonawne, assistant inspector at Pundaliknagar police station, said, “The suspect contacted Shah on February 6 and expressed his interest in taking his flat on rent.”To win his trust, the suspect even shared an identity card and a pan card, both of which were forged. After finalising the rent amount, the suspect sought Shah’s bank account details. The suspect then sent a QR code to Shah and asked him to scan it. In no time of following the instructions, an amount of Rs 82,000 was debited from Shah’s bank account.Soon after Shah received a text message alert about the amount getting deducted from his bank account, he contacted the suspect. The suspect assured him that the transaction may have happened by mistake and that he would soon return the amount. When he did not get his money back, Shah reached out to the senior police authorities in the city and lodged a written complaint. Accordingly, a case was registered on Thursday and has been transferred to deputy commissioner of police (zone-II) Rahul Girhe’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/crook-dupes-senior-citizen-of-rs-82k-with-bait-to-rent-his-house/articleshow/80886934.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Hacked banyan a stump, may not regrow’||MUMBAI: There is little chance of the recently hacked banyan tree at Girgaum Chowpatty sprouting new leaves as all that is left is a bare stump, said city arborists. No temporary intervention, cosmetic treatment or replanting new trees at the spot will help, they added. On Thursday, arborist Vaibhav Raje visited the site with officials from BMC’s D ward to check if the massive tree, that was around 40-50 years old, could be saved. His audit showed that all that is left is its bare stump. TimesViewThe hacking of a fully grown tree in Girgaum Chowpatty is an example of how people cut trees with impunity in the city. After a BMC complaint, the police have made six arrests and taken swift action. However, they should have prevented the brazen felling of a tree in such a prime area. The incident highlights that tree protection laws are not taken seriously since there is no action against the violators. The BMC must cancel the licence of the hoarding owners since the tree was hacked to clear the view for hoardings.“This merciless chopping of the tree has amputated the tree. It is devoid of all its leaves, which is a critical source of energy production and survival through the process of photosynthesis. A previously well-protected canopy is now gone and the tree is now exposed to harsh sunlight and saline seawind spray making it vulnerable to further stress, disease or pest infestation,” Raje said. “The area around the tree is compacted due to the road and median leaving no room for root zone amelioration or other interventions. We must allow the tree to take its natural course now and hope that it will spring back to life. However, no matter how resilient the ficus species are there is no certainty that the tree will regain its former glory any time soon. Temporary interventions, cosmetic treatment or replacing it with new trees may not serve as a long-term solution since nothing could replace the lost micro eco-system of this grand tree specimen,” Raje, who runs Treecotech, an arboriculture firm said. BMC officials said that they will carry out a risk assessment of trees in D ward which covers Malabar Hill and Tardeo. “We are planning to launch a pilot project for scientific risk assessment and management of trees. It will be done using scientific instruments,” said Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner, D Ward. So far, the police have arrested six people, including the CEO of an outdoor advertising agency, for the illegal hacking of trees, including the banyan tree, in south Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hacked-banyan-a-stump-may-not-regrow/articleshow/80889423.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Man runs into Rs 50k loss believing fraudulent ad||Aurangabad: A 40-year-old farmer was allegedly cheated of Rs 51,878 by a man who posed as an amry jawan and put an advertisement for a used two-wheeler on an e-commerce website. A case has been registered at Satara area police station. Inspector Surendra Malale said the suspect has been booked for cheating and also charged with relevant sections of the Information Technology Act. As per the lodged by Mithun Pawar, a resident of Kanchanwadi in Nakshatrawadi area here, he wanted to purchase a second-hand bike and found the profile of the suspect on the website.The suspect had posted a picture of a bike with Nashik registration. The suspect even shared photos of the forged registration certificate (RC) book with Pawar. Convinced that the vehicle and the person claiming to be its owner were genuine, the victim finalised the deal for Rs 55,000. On October 29 last year, Pawar transferred the amount to the bank account number provided by the suspect, who promised him that the bike would be delivered to him via army transport in a matter of few days. Pawar kept waiting for the delivery of the bike for three months before he realised that he had been duped, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-runs-into-rs-50k-loss-believing-fraudulent-ad/articleshow/80886981.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 13, 2021||Chennai||TN voters in Mumbai want their voices heard||Chennai: U Panneerselvam, 40, of Anaikulam village in Tirunelveli would never miss an opportunity to exercise his franchise. For him and his family, who had settled in Dharavi, Mumbai, two decades ago, elections in Tamil Nadu are like a carnival. They are among hundreds of Mumbai Tamils, who travel to their native villages in TN to vote. Most of them hail from remote villages of Tirunelveli, Villupuram, and Salem districts. Looking forward to the assembly election in Tamil Nadu, the Mumbai Tamils are now reaching out to political parties in their home state and urging them to add their long-pending demands to their election manifestos. They have urged the political parties to give priority to Tamils in employment drive in public and private sectors in the state to prevent youngsters from migrating to other parts of the country in search of livelihood. Neither the TN government nor the Maharashtra government is looking into their welfare, said a cross-section of Tamils. “We are fulfilling our duty (voting), but the government (TN) is not bothered about us,” said Panneerselvam, who heads the Mumbai Vizhithezhu Iyakkam, an organisation founded by Mumbai Tamils in Dharavi.Recalling their struggles during the Covid-19 lockdown that forced a large section of Mumbai Tamils to return to their native places, he said the pandemic taught them a hard lesson. “We want the new government to create an exclusive ministry to look into the issues of Tamils living outside the state and maintain a registry for them,” said Srithar Tamilan, who is also a member of the organisation. A native of Pattamadai village in Tirunelveli constituency, Srithar makes it a point to travel to his native place to vote every election.They urged the TN government to issue community certificates so that they could avail social security schemes and reservation. “We want the party that comes to power to open new schools with the support of the government here (Maharashtra) to ensure that Tamil children continue their education in their mother tongue till Class XII,” Panneerselvam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-voters-in-mumbai-want-their-voices-heard/articleshow/80886982.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Pune||25% vehicles still don’t sport FASTag||Pune: Around 25% vehicles in Pune district do not have FASTag even two days before the electronic toll collection facility becomes mandatory from February 15. Suhas Chitnis, project director of NHAI, Pune, said vehicle owners without FASTag should get it at the earliest otherwise penalties would be severe. “Even now, 25% vehicles in Pune district are seen without the tag. Earlier, the deadline was January 1 and then it was extended to February 15. All vehicle owners should know that having FASTag will be mandatory from February 15. Vehicles without the tag will have to pay twice the toll as penalty,” Chitnis told TOI. There are around 30 toll plazas located on the national highways running across Maharashtra. According to a source, nearly 35% toll collection at Khed-Shivapur toll plaza, on Pune-Satara Road (NH-48), is still in cash. “While a majority of public transport and commercial vehicles have FASTag, the same cannot be said about private vehicles and smaller public transport vehicles. Motorists must understand that they will face hassles if they don’t get FASTag,” another official said. On February 10, in a bid to simplify the process, NHAI decided to do away with the requirement of maintaining a minimum amount in FASTag wallets. The move was to ensure seamless movement without delay at toll plazas, said authorities. “Trucks, unlike other vehicles, moves across many states and they need to have the FASTag. There are around 60,000 trucks registered in Pune and all of them have FASTag. The same can be said about most buses as well,” said Baba Shinde, president of Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna. An official at the Pune Regional Transport Office said as part of the ongoing Road Safety Month, a quick campaign on FASTag would be conducted in the city. “The Unlock process started months ago and transportation is almost back to normal,” the official said. Nearly 80% collection of toll takes place through the electronic toll collection facility across the country as of now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/25-vehicles-still-dont-sport-fastag/articleshow/80886698.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 13, 2021||Chennai||Chennai corporation is sitting on a gold mine||CHENNAI: The cash-strapped Greater Chennai Corporation is sitting on a goldmine. It has at least 60,000 square metres of prime real estate just waiting to be developed properly. The civic body earned Rs 15 crore last year as rent from 152 rundown commercial complexes that it built decades ago on these plots located at prime spots all over the city, including R A Puram, Adyar and Anna Nagar. These complexes house around 6,000 shops, many of which are lying empty and locked as maintenance is poor. Many buildings don’t even have functioning toilets. Realtors and civic officials agree that the corporation can make three or four times more money that it gets at the moment if the complexes are redeveloped making full use of the floor space index (FSI). Most of these complexes are three storeys, while the revised FSI allows many more floors. For example, the rent collected by Greater Chennai Corporation on C P Ramasamy road (RA Puram) is around Rs 80-100 per square feet. If redeveloped, the rent at the same location can nearly double to Rs 150 per square feet, say industry experts Planners and senior officials of corporation have finally woken up to the possibilities and mooted plans to redevelop these shopping complexes into mall-like structures. “This has two advantages. First, better designed shops, proper parking, lifts and toilets will help the complexes compete with the private sector. Second, this will bring in more revenue for the shopkeepers and hence we can collect more rent,” said a senior civic official. The civic body is looking at a public-private partnership (PPP) model to redevelop these complexes, the official added. Srinivas Anikipatti, senior director at real estate consultancy Knight Frank, said these shopping complexes were in dire need of redevelopment. “Most are in prime locations and have potential to earn higher rents. Demand for certain kind of shops in a particular area is already well known. High streets would develop organically,” he said. But it’s not only about redevelopment. It’s also the way the civic body functions. Take revenue collection. Official data shows that the civic body is unable to meet its own targets of rent collection. The pandemic took a further toll, as a three-month moratorium on rents resulted in collection nosediving to a five-year low. Rent was revised in 2017 to the market rate, based on the existing rent in nearby areas. Shopkeepers TOI spoke to say civic officials at the zonal level, who are in-charge of collecting the rent are indifferent. “There is no incentive or disincentive to pay rent. The payment mode is still in the previous era; digital payments are not yet enabled,” said a shopkeeper. Sumanth, a battery shop owner in RA Puram, said the shopping complexes are poorly maintained. “They flood during the rains. There aren’t any toilets. And anti-socials take over the place at night,” he said. Besides, renewing trade licences, an annual ritual, is mired in red-tape, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-corporation-is-sitting-on-a-gold-mine/articleshow/80886977.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
February 13, 2021||Delhi||AAP seeks ouster of north corporation mayor over ‘land dispute’||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Friday decided not to participate in any proceeding of the BJP-led North Delhi Municipal Corporation so long as its mayor Jai Prakash remained at the helm. On Thursday, AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak had accused the mayor of building his house by illegally occupying a piece of land belonging to Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board, a government agency. Prakash had rejected the allegations as baseless and said his son took the property on rent. After AAP’s allegations, the mayor put some documents in the public to prove that the allegations were untrue. “Jai Prakash has claimed that he took the DUSIB property on rent from Oct 2020 but in reality, the electric meter was installed in Feb 2020. All the documents provided by the mayor are fake,” Pathak said. “If the mayor took the house on rent from October 2020 then how can the meter of the house be installed six months back? Now if you look into the power of attorney document then you will see that the mayor has claimed he has taken the second and the third floors on rent. But according to documents, the son of Jai Prakash is paying the rent only for the first floor. I think this is an open and shut case of fraud,” Pathak said, adding that “it is very clear that the BJP mayor has illegally occupied the land of DUSIB.” AAP demanded BJP should suspend the mayor. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said AAP was playing petty politics on fake issues. “Delhi government is starving the corporations of funds. It should immediately release the outstanding funds so that civic services can be further improved,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-seeks-ouster-of-n-corpn-mayor-over-land-dispute/articleshow/80888384.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chennai||TN govt sanctions case against Stalin||Chennai: The AIADMK government has sanctioned a defamation case against DMK president M K Stalin for having levelled corruption charges against fisheries minister D Jayakumar. In his party’s Makkal Grama Sabha meeting at Royapuram in Chennai last month, the DMK leader had alleged several irregularities in procurement of walkie-talkies for fishermen and accused Jayakumar of “causing loss to the tune of Rs 30 crore to the exchequer”. Incidentally, the DMK had mentioned it in its 98-page ‘corruption petition’ to governor Banwarilal Purohit, seeking DVAC probe against Jayakumar. The DMK had said there was evidence of corruption, abuse and misuse of official power to favour a private company. An order issued by the public department on Wednesday said the defamatory speech was intended to malign the reputation of the minister in the discharge of his public functions. “On a perusal of the said speech, it is found that it has imputations, which are per se defamatory against the minister. The defamatory speech is not only devoid of truth and good faith, but it has been intentionally made against the interest of the public good,” the order said, sanctioning the city public prosecutor, Chennai, to lodge a complaint against the DMK president. The order said the government was satisfied that it was expedient and necessary that Stalin should be prosecuted in a court of law for an offence under section 499 of the Indian Penal Code punishable under section 500 of the said code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-sanctions-case-against-stalin/articleshow/80886965.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Deer killed in road accident in Nagbhid||CHANDRAPUR: A spotted deer was crushed to death under the wheels of unidentified vehicle in MIDC area of Nagbhid. The carcass recovered on Friday morning. Forest round officer Atul Walke and forest guard Bhaudas Borker removed the carcass after panchnama formalities. It was brought to Nagbhid range office and remains were disposed of after post mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/deer-killed-in-road-accident-in-nagbhid/articleshow/80886984.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Business||State textile biz to touch Rs 70kcr in 3-5 yrs: Mitra||Kolkata: West Bengal has set a target to make textile a Rs 70,000crore industry in the next three-five years. Now, the textile industry in the state is worth Rs 35,000 crore. The target was set by state finance and industries minister Amit Mitra at an interactive session called ‘West Bengal Textile & Apparel Meet’ on Friday. WBIDC chairman Rajiva Sinha said that the state has also decided to set up a task force to implement the target. Mitra pointed out that the potential of export from West Bengal is much higher than what it is now. “We have to take the export from the state into a new trajectory,” he added. According to Mitra, the textile export from Bengal is 2.7% of the total export from the country. He feels that in the next three-five years, this should go up to 10%. The potential of textile industry in India is pegged at $300 billion by 2024. The finance and industries minister explained that the core competence of the state in the areas of textile are hosiery, agro textile, readymade garments, power loom and silk sector. “The readymade garment sector in Metiabruz itself is worth Rs 15,000 crore and it should be Rs 25,000 crore in the next few years.” Elaborating on hosiery, he said that it employs over 2 lakh people and there should be a thrust on export of hosiery to Europe, South East Asia and the US. Commenting on Nungi textile hub, he added that work for the project has already started and it would attract investment of Rs 440 crore. Later, Sinha said that the first spinning mill in Howrah would come up at Jagdishpur in Howrah. Box The state government has got a proposal for setting up a poly fiber manufacturing unit in Haldia. The total investment in the project would be Rs 500 crore. He pointed out that this is time for blended yarn and Haldia has raw material for the polyester industry as Haldia Petrochemical (HPL) produces this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/state-textile-biz-to-touch-rs-70kcr-in-3-5-yrs-mitra/articleshow/80889454.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Not 28 days, healthcare workers seek 12-week gap between Covishield doses||BENGALURU: All those who took Covid vaccine on January 16 — the day the inoculation drive began in India — have completed four weeks and are due for a second dose on February 13. In Karnataka, a total of 13,408 healthcare workers had taken the vaccine on Day 1 of the drive and most of them were administered Covishield. However, there are no plans to hold the sessions for the second dose on Saturday as it is a second Saturday and a government holiday. The second dose of vaccination is likely to begin from Monday, according to department officials. The healthcare workers who took the vaccine are demanding that the 12-week interval between the two doses, prescribed by manufacturer of Covishield to ensure better efficacy, is followed. Docs: Changing dates can lead to logistical issuesMany doctors are asking nodal officers of vaccination session sites to delay the second jab showing scientific data. But the Centre’s directive says the second dose should be taken after 28 days. “In the first phase, the vaccine was given to healthcare workers, who have more knowledge about scientific data than others. They are showing us articles in media, scientific journals and the factsheet from vaccine manufacturers. We are trying to convince them about the government’s plan of action. It will be a huge task to get them in time for the second dose of vaccination,” said a source involved in the vaccination drive. According to the factsheet of Covishield vaccine, if the second dose is taken within six weeks from the time of the first dose, the efficacy would be 53.2%. It increases to 60.5% if the spacing is 9-11 weeks. It it’s 12 weeks apart, the efficacy would be 78.7 %. Some healthcare workers are willing to take the second dose after eight weeks. Nodal officers are getting queries from beneficiaries about the last date when they can take the jab. “If they do not turn up on the scheduled date, we will have to wait for them. This slows down the process. Some are willing to take the second dose only towards winding up of the vaccination session for healthcare workers,” a nodal officer said. A retired professor from Nimhans said immunogenicity increases considerably if the second dose is delayed to12 weeks. “The government, perhaps, thinks compliance with the second dose may reduce if spacing is stretched to 12 weeks,” said the professor. However, some doctors said changing the dates and plan can lead to huge logistical issues for the entire country. “Effectiveness goes up to 70 % if it is spaced in 12 weeks. That does not mean the four-week gap between the doses is not effective. We need to keep the logistics in mind and be practical said,” Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, member, Covid-19 expert committee, said. Dr Rajani BN, state deputy director, immunization, health and family welfare department, said the state will implement the second dose as per the Centre’s guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/not-28-days-healthcare-workers-seek-12-week-gap-between-covishield-doses/articleshow/80890026.cms||Sunitha Rao R
February 13, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: After Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mallikarjun Kharge to lead opposition in Rajya Sabha||BENGALURU: Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge will be the leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, succeeding Ghulam Nabi Azad whose tenure comes to an end on Monday. Kharge was the leader of Congress in the Lok Sabha from 2014 to 2019, and is set to be the only Karnataka leader to occupy the position in both Houses. VP has to give his assent, says KhargeThe veteran Dalit leader suffered a reversal in 2019 with his first electoral defeat in the Lok Sabha polls, against a novice, and the recent development marks his return to prominence in the party. More than a year after he lost, Kharge was elected to Rajya Sabha for the first time in his career. Congress sources said Sonia Gandhi, as head of the Congress Parliamentary Party, has written to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu to appoint Kharge leader of opposition as Azad is retiring on February 15. “Till now, it is just a nomination and the vice-president has to give his assent and announce it,” Kharge told TOI. “At this moment, I would only take the opportunity to thank Madam Sonia Gandhiji and Rahul Gandhiji for reposing faith in me and allowing me to work for the welfare of the nation.” Kharge, who has served as minister in the Manmohan Singh Cabinet, said his stints as an opposition leader in Karnataka and in Lok Sabha will come in handy in the Upper House of the Parliament. Sources said Kharge’s fluency in Hindi and national profile make him a good fit for the job, while his rapport with leaders across the political spectrum over the years will prove an advantage for the party. Kharge is also seen as close to the leadership and known to enjoy a good equation with Sonia and Rahul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-azad-kharge-to-lead-oppn-in-rs/articleshow/80890044.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
February 13, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: II PU exams from May 24 to June 16; results by June-end||BENGALURU: Second-year PU exams will be held from May 24 to June 16, and the schedule for SSLC exam will be announced soon. At a meeting of education department officers on Friday, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said SSLC and PU exam results will be announced before June end and results of other classes latest by June 10. He said any decision on reopening remaining classes will be taken on February 16 after a meeting with the Technical Advisory Committee. Attendance on campus improving: MinThere has been pressure on the education department from all stakeholders and educationists to reopen classes as students are suffering from serious learning gaps with schools remaining shut for almost a year now. Currently, classes for 9-12 are open and Vidyagama is being held for grades 6-8. The minister said Covid protocols are being strictly followed in schools in several districts that he recently visited and there has been “great enthusiasm in learning” among the students. The attendance on campus is also improving, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ii-pu-exams-from-may-24-to-june-16-results-by-june-end/articleshow/80890050.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 500 pontiffs demand OBC tag for all Lingayat subsects||BENGALURU: Even as Panchamasalis, a dominant subsect of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, are on a 450km padayatra seeking reservation under 2A category, over 500 seers of the community from various states are set to launch an agitation seeking the Other Backward Communities (OBC) status for all subsects of the community at the national level. The seers will participate in the convention in Bengaluru on Saturday, and send a memorandum to the Centre through the chief minister, demanding reservation in education and jobs. The convention is organised by the National Federation of Lingayat Pontiffs. Quota pressure grows on govtPolitical analysts said the convention on Saturday is to counter the Panchamasali movement that’s threatening to take the community away from BJP. “It appears to be a move to regroup other subsects in the Lingayat community to keep BJP’s votebank intact. Since Panchamasalis are seeking reservation only for themselves, other subsects are feeling marginalized. Some forces within the community are trying to cash in on that sentiment,” said a BJP functionary. Panchamasali pontiffs, who all along backed chief minister BS Yediyurappa though he’s from Ganiga subsect, are now rallying behind Panchamasali leaders such as Vijayapura MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, a known critic of the CM. Recently, when Yatnal confronted Yediyurappa on the reservation issue in the assembly, the latter had responded by referring the issue to the Backward Classes Commission. In Karnataka, 42 Lingayat subsects enjoy 5% reservation under 3B category. The federation said it is seeking the OBC tag for all Lingayat subsects at the national level without hurting the interests of those who are already covered by reservation and those seeking quota under a particular category -- an oblique reference to the Panchamasali movement. The Panchamasalis are demanding upgrade from 3B (which assures 5% quota) to 2A (15%) within the state’s OBC quota. “Panchamasalis are farmers. A majority of them are socially, economically and educationally backward and need reservation under 2A,” said Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swamy of Panchamasali Peetha in Kudalasangama who is leading the padayatra to Bengaluru. The padayatra entered the 28th day on Friday. The pontiff said he would go on an indefinite strike from February 21 — the day Panchamasalis are staging a rally — if the government did not make an announcement before the start of the budget session in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/500-pontiffs-demand-obc-tag-for-all-lingayat-subsects/articleshow/80890051.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chennai||‘Will shift to to old pension scheme’||VILLUPURAM: DMK president M K Stalin has promised to scrap the new pension scheme and migrate to the old one for the benefit of government servants if his party is voted to power in the ensuing assembly polls. He also reiterated his earlier promise to waive all educational loans availed by students in the state.  He was interacting with people after receiving petitions from them in Villupuram district during the third phase of his election campaign, 'Ungal thoguthiyil Stalin' (Stalin in your constituency) on Friday. He questioned the AIADMK government for failing to take stern action against the contractor after a check dam across Pennaiaru River in the district collapsed within a month of construction and sought to drive home the point that corruption was rampant in the AIADMK. He claimed that all the welfare schemes of the current AIADMK government were introduced and successfully executed by the previous DMK government led by former chief minister M Karunanidhi. But chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was making false claims and creating a mirage that the AIADMK government had introduced those welfare schemes, he said, and went on to list out the schemes launched by the previous DMK government that were replicated by the current AIADMK government after renaming them. He accused the ruling AIADMK of using the government's exchequer to spread lies by placing advertisements in media that Tamil Nadu was marching along the path of victory. He claimed that the government had been replicating his ideas and announcing projects and schemes. "The chief minister did not have any idea of launching a toll-free helpline to redress the grievances of the people for the past four-and-a-half years, but launched the toll-free number only after I started receiving the grievances from the public," he said. Stalin said Palaniswami claimed people can air their grievances using their mobile phones from any part of the state using the toll-free number, forgetting that the AIADMK failed to honour its poll promise of providing mobile phones free of cost to the people of Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/will-shift-to-to-old-pension-scheme/articleshow/80886990.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 13, 2021||Chennai||Plan to build commerce hub put on hold||Chennai: A month after floating a tender to construct the Tamil Nadu Commerce Hub in Nandanam, Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) has cancelled the tender. Touted as a landmark structure that would be linked by a skybridge across Anna Salai, the three-tower project planned at a financial outlay of Rs. 486 crore. A corrigendum to the pre-qualification tender cited administrative reasons for cancelling the bid, but housing and urban development department sources said a decision was taken by the housing board to execute the project using its funds. Though the land parcel for the project is owned by the TNHB, construction for the hub was to be executed by Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management Corporation Limited. “It was decided in the board of meeting of TNHB two days ago that TNHB would be executing the project instead of engaging another agency. So, the project has been put on hold for the time-being,” a housing and urban development department said. The DMK’s trade union had also opposed the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/plan-to-build-commerce-hub-put-on-hold/articleshow/80886986.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chennai||Vijayakant makes cameo appearance at DMDK office||Chennai: In a move to cheer up his party workers, DMDK leader Vijayakant on Friday made a cameo appearance at his party headquarters at Koyambedu in Chennai and announced he would soon meet the people and his cadres. As Vijayakant indicated his plan to hit the campaign trail soon, his wife Premalatha, now managing the party, urged the Dravidian majors, the AIADMK and the DMK to hasten seat sharing talks with their allies. The DMDK was aligned with the AIADMK and the BJP for the Lok Sabha elections and is expected to tie up with the ruling party for the assembly election too. Reacting to the broadside from Premalatha, minister K Pandiarajan said the DMDK was an ally of the AIADMK. “We hope that the DMDK will remain in our alliance. Seat sharing will be finalised soon after the notification of polls,” the minister said. Premalatha, during the party event, said reporters should ask the leader of the alliance (the AIADMK) and not the DMDK on alliance matters. “A good decision will be made by Captain (Vijayakant), who will convene the general council and executive committee after the date of announcement of poll,” she said. Meanwhile, at the DMDK headquarters, Vijayakant, who suffers from ill-health and speech difficulty, spoke for a few seconds much to the delight of his party workers, who cheered and raised slogans. With DMDK treasurer Premalatha joining him, the couple hoisted the party flag at the DMDK headquarters, standing atop the campaign vehicle. Vijayakanth, sporting shades, gave the thumbs-up sign with both hands. The leaders were celebrating the DMDK’s Flag Day to mark the unfurling of its flag 21 years ago by Vijayakant for his fan club, which later became the party flag when he launched it in 2005. The party which secured 10.08% vote share in the 2011 assembly election fared poorly in 2016 with 5.42% vote share. Party workers were thrilled by his rare appearance. “He has made an appearance after a long time. We were elated by his appearance. We can’t wait to see him campaign during elections,” said DMDK deputy secretary B Parthasarathy. A couple of parents lifted their two new-born babies to the actor with a request to name them. Premalatha promptly announced ‘Vijayalatha’ and ‘Janani.’ Later, Premalatha told reporters, “None of the political parties have started alliance talks. We have just two months left until the elections. Whether it is the DMK or the AIADMK, all I am saying is that talks should be expedited,” she said. Vijayakant would campaign in the last leg for the assembly election, she added. “If cadres wish and if the leader directs me to do so, I will contest the election with the blessings of the Almighty,” Premalatha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vijayakant-makes-cameo-appearance-at-dmdk-office/articleshow/80886987.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Villagers, toll staff to be ‘golden hour’ samaritans||MUMBAI: Around 1,000 villagers, restaurant staffers and petrol pump employees living or working around state and national highways in Maharashtra will soon be trained to save lives as they are usually the first responders after a road crash. The initiative, ‘Mrityunjay Doot’, by the Maharashtra Highway Police kicks off in March. Volunteers will be trained to administer first-aid, safely carry a crash victim, and call for an ambulance or get to a hospital. The objective is to ensure medical aid for the victims quickly, within the ‘golden hour’, which can increase chances of survival. With 11,452 fatalities in 2020, Maharashtra was one of three states with the highest number of road deaths, state transport minister Anil Parab had said while launching the Road Safety Month last month. Parab added that road safety drives should not be restricted to a fortnight or a month, and instead be made a permanent feature. “When a crash occurs on a highway, passing commuters rarely stop to help. It’s usually residents from nearby villages, employees of dhabas, or toll naka operators that come forward. It’s essential for these first responders to know how to hold or lift a critically injured victim so as not to cause permanent damage. They will be taught how to do so by health officials who will host the training sessions along with police,” said additional director general (state traffic) B K Upadhyaya. Volunteers will be given first-aid kits, stretchers and contact numbers for ambulance services. They will be trained to stop bleeding and use everyday items, such as dupattas, for bandages if medical equipment is not available. “In the past, there have been instances where witnesses hesitated to help road crash victims as they believed they would be harassed by the police later. We are assuring all volunteers that they needn’t share personal details at the hospital and can leave after bringing the victim in,” said Upadhyaya. Tamil Nadu, which had a high number of road fatalities earlier, managed to reduce the number by half by ensuring victims got medical aid within the ‘golden hour’. “Local government bodies and hospitals closest to highways will be involved in the ‘Mrityunjay Doot’ initiative. No victim will be turned away,” said a senior official. The programme will be reviewed every three months. Volunteers doing exceptional work will be recommended for a reward instituted by the Ministry of Transport and Highways. Among the areas with highest road deaths in Maharashtra are Nashik Rural, Ahmednagar and Pune Rural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/villagers-toll-staff-to-be-golden-hour-samaritans/articleshow/80889501.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||LIT empty lot near bus stand used as illegal ‘charged parking’ space, say shopkeepers||Ludhiana: Shopkeepers near main bus stand have claimed that some unidentified persons are charging illegal parking fees from private and commercial vehicle owners who park their vehicles in the vacant Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) land at the back side of the bus stand. However, LIT has said they had not given any kind of contract for charging parking fee. During the visit to the spot, TOI lensman Lucky Bhatti managed to capture some people who were found stopping vehicles and demanding money, but no receipt was being issued to the people and when some people asked for the receipt they were bullied. When these men noticed TOI lensman, they stopped charging the money. Later when the matter was reported to LIT chairman, Raman Subramanian, he said, “We have not given any kind of parking contract to anyone, in fact recently makeover of this prime land was done by us and whatsoever decision with regard to charging parking fee will be made public. This is very serious matter. When we have not authorised anyone, how can fee be charged from public? I have already constituted a team of officials to probe the matter and have asked them to get FIR registered against the culprits.” Meanwhile, speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity, a shopkeeper of the area said, “It has been three to four days since some unidentified persons have started collecting parking fee from vehicle owners who park their vehicles on LIT land. They are charging Rs 30 from cars, Rs 250 from buses and up to Rs 1,000 from bus operators who want to offload or pickup passengers from this spot. They are very aggressive and bully anyone who opposes them or refuses to pay or asks for receipt.” The LIT property worth crores has already become an illegal bus stand for private buses, which commute to far off states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan. Earlier as well there have been several complaints from locals about the incidents of misbehaviour by the persons working for these bus companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lit-empty-lot-near-bus-stand-used-as-illegal-charged-parking-space-say-shopkeepers/articleshow/80885726.cms||Mohit Behl
February 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Traders offer tasty treat to allay bird flu fears in Beed||AURANGABAD: With an aim to allay fears about bird flu and win the confidence of customers with regard to consumption of poultry products, traders organised a chicken festival at Vasanwadi village on the outskirts of Beed on Friday afternoon. Organisers prepared dishes like biryani, various types of kebabs and other delicacies to atrract commoners . Authorities from the animal husbandry department and veterinary medicos also attended the event. Amid reports of poultry birds getting infected in some parts of the state, the state government issued instructions to administrations to take concrete steps in allaying the fear among citizens as rumours were taking a direct toll on the poultry businesses within and outside the state. District animal husbandry officer Vijay Deshmukh, who attended the event, said, “Properly cooked food rules out the possibility of any infection, which is nothing but a rumour in at least this area.” Dharmaraj Falke, one of the organisers of the festival, said, “The poultry farmers have already incurred losses in the initial days of the outbreak of Covid-19. The current rumours which have surfaced, following the outbreak of bird flu, has taken a toll on poultry business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/traders-offer-tasty-treat-to-allay-bird-flu-fears-in-beed/articleshow/80886991.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 13, 2021||India||India exported Covid vaccines worth Rs 338cr till Feb 8: Goyal||NEW DELHI: India has exported Covid-19 vaccines worth Rs 338 crore till February 8, said commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal in Rajya Sabha on Friday. The exports, which began in January, include grant of the vaccine doses to friendly countries and commercial shipments. India is taking care of the domestic vaccine requirements first and then based on that “giving vaccines to friendly countries”, said the minister. “Total export is about Rs 338 crore worth of Covid vaccine,” he said. The export of the Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, as government of India grant, stood at 62.7 lakh doses with FoB (free on board) value of about Rs 125.4 crore. The paid exports of 1.05 crore doses, in turn, were valued at about Rs 213.32 crore. MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava later said, “We will continue to take forward the global vaccine supply. In the coming weeks, vaccines will be supplied to more countries in Africa, Latin America, CARICOM (Caribbean) and Pacific Island states,” said. Among the countries that have received supplies as gifts are Bangladesh (20 lakh), Myanmar (17 lakh), Nepal (10 lakh), Bhutan (1.5 lakh), Maldives (1 lakh), Mauritius (1 lakh), Seychelles (50000), Sri Lanka (5 lakh), Bahrain (1 lakh), Oman (1 lakh), Afghanistan (5 lakh), Barbados (1 lakh) and Dominica (70000).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-exported-covid-vaccines-worth-rs-338cr-till-feb-8-goyal/articleshow/80890083.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Dense fog blankets city, visibility drops to 20 metre||Ludhiana: Even as dense fog on Friday morning brought visibility down to barely 20 metre in Ludhiana, the Met department has predicted foggy weather conditions to continue for the next two-three days, especially in the morning and evening hours. The fog started accumulating on Thursday evening and by late night, a thick cover had engulfed the entire city, which dispersed by Friday noon. A Met official said, the visibility in Ludhiana at 8.30am was less than 50 metre, with minimum value at just 20 metre. “Less of wind, high humidity and snowfall in the hills have together contributed to the appearance of fog. Moderate to dense fog is expected in the morning and evening hours for the next two-three days,” said Surender Paul, director, Met department, Chandigarh. “However, the weather is expected to remain dry during this period and day temperature is likely to increase, but night temperature is unlikely to change,” he said. The maximum temperature in Ludhiana on Friday was 23.9 degrees Celsius, which was 2 degrees more than normal for this time of the year. The minimum (night) temperature was 11.2 degrees Celsius — 3 degrees above normal and 2.7 degrees more than the previous night. On Thursday, the day temperature was recorded at 24.2 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal. The Met department has predicted the day temperature to increase to 26 degrees Celsius by Monday, while the night temperature is expected to fall to 10 degrees Celsius by then. Meanwhile, dense fog in the morning posed challenges for the city commuters. “Fog was so thick that it was difficult to drive as visibility was extremely low. It took me almost double the usual time to cover the same distance,” said Paramjit Singh, a businessman of Dugri area. He, however, said though fog did pose problems, the weather during the day was good and they enjoyed the bright sun past noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dense-fog-blankets-city-visibility-drops-to-20-metre/articleshow/80885749.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Surat||PAAS appeals Patidars to vote wisely||Surat: The Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) has accused the Congress of betraying their community by ignoring their leaders in Patidar-dominated wards for the upcoming civic body election. The PAAS members have come out with the ‘Satya Patra’ (letter of truth) appealing to their community members to choose and vote for the candidates, for whom the community comes first and not political parties. Political pundits believe that the resentment among PAAS leaders may cost the Congress party. During the previous municipal election in 2015, Congress had won 23 municipal seats in the Patidar-dominated wards. This time around, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has fielded Patidar candidates in all Patidar dominated ward. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/paas-appeals-patidars-to-vote-wisely/articleshow/80887051.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress’ new resolution under Patole: Modi Chale Jao||MUMBAI: In the first meeting after newly appointed state Congress president Nana Patole took over the reins of the party, the MPCC unanimously passed a resolution saying: Modi Sarkar Chale Jao. The meeting was held at the Gokuldas Tejpal Auditorium, where Congress was set up. Patole said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is behaving like a dictator and ever since he took over the reins of the nation constitutional provisions have been deliberately ignored. “Modi is working for a particular group of industrialists. He took anti-people and anti-farmer decisions, introduced ban on currency notes and GST without application of mind. Lockdown was imposed on the people. As a result, entire economy collapsed and now the government has no plans for revival of economy,” Patole said. Patole said Modi brought in the new farm laws and ensured that the agriculture sector collapsed and farmers are uprooted from their life. “For more than three months, farmers are on strike, 200 of them died on the New Delhi border. Unfortunately, Modi has not taken cognizance. The farmers were treated as Naxalites and Khalistani. In last six years, Modi has taken such steps that have completely demolished common man. We have passed a resolution asking Modi to quit, Chale Jaon Modi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-congress-new-resolution-under-patole-modi-chale-jao/articleshow/80889506.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Bizman on panel to monitor Buddha Nallah rejuvenation project||Ludhiana: Two days after the opposition voiced by various business associations to the Buddha Nallah rejuvenation project, citing discrepancies in the study report, the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation has formed an eight-member monitoring committee for the project, in which a businessman has also been included as a member. The committee was formed on Thursday evening on the instruction of the local government secretary, after the businessmen held a media briefing on Tuesday against the project. Rajat Sood, a prominent businessman in the dyeing trade, has been chosen to be on the panel. Speaking to TOI, Sood said, "Buddah Nallah project is a much-needed project for Ludhiana. The industry has made good efforts to control pollution with the help of Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB). I thank cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra and Bharat Bhushan Ashu for giving this responsibility to me and I assure that I will do my best to not only help resolve all concerns of the industry, but also ensure that all stakeholders are together in this noble cause to rejuvenate the Buddha Nallah to turn it into an asset for Ludhiana." Terming the move as their victory, Tarun Jain Bawa, president of Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association (BTKA), said, "Two days after we exposed grave lapses in the study of flow rate of water in the rejuvenation project approved by the government, the MC has formed a high-powered committee. Since December, we had been demanding a committee to monitor the project at every stage and to discuss the feedback and suggestions received from the stakeholders, but our demand was being ignored.” He said they had conveyed to the government that the project had been approved at an inflated cost and “we can execute the project at half the cost, but till now no one had paid heed to this”. “But we are happy that at least our demand for the formation of a committee and inclusion of businessmen in it has been partially met," he said. According to Bawa, the committee comprises eight members. The municipal commissioner is the chairperson, while other members include ADC (general), PPCB superintending engineer, MC superintending engineer (O&M), superintending engineer of Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Circle, an industry representative, a representative from Buddha Nallah Task Force and an executive engineer of Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bizman-on-panel-to-monitor-buddha-nallah-rejuvenation-project/articleshow/80885760.cms||Mohit Behl
February 13, 2021||Goa||12 Joseph_Water supply stopped after contamination found in two Calangute wards||Calangute: Water supply to parts of Calangute has been affected following seepage of contaminated water into the water pipeline network in Umtawaddo and Cobrawaddo areas. Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martin said that though efforts have been made to rectify the problem, they’ve still not been able to locate the exact spot where the contaminated water is entering the water pipeline. “The PWD workers are checking all the internal roads and areas through which the pipeline passes. It appears that someone’s soak-pit has overflown or dirty water from a drain has seeped through a crack in the pipeline,” said Martin.Meanwhile, the water supply to the area has been stopped to avoid a health hazard. Martin said water is being supplied through PWD water tankers, while many have made their own private arrangements. “We’re co-ordinating the work of rectification with minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo who is monitoring the situation on a daily basis. He has called senior officials from the PWD and experts for a meeting on Friday evening to find a solution,” he said. The contaminated water was first detected almost one month ago,according to Calangute Constituency Forum president Premanand Divkar, who lives in the area. “Some days the water stinks, but sometimes it is clear and then it becomes muddy,” he said. Divkar said many release sewage into the drains when their soakpits overflow and that sewage then seeps into the ground. “It will be very difficult to find out where exactly it has entered the water pipeline because there are so many connections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-joseph_water-supply-stopped-after-contamination-found-in-two-calangute-wards/articleshow/80889503.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Vadodara||Bhayli residents demand basic facilities||Vadodara: Bhayli grew faster than any other ‘outgrowth areas’ and is one of the poshest neighbourhoods in the city today, with prices of residential units running in crores of rupees. Back in 2005, when the village’s population was 5,000 the Bhayli gram panchayat had laid a drainage network which would cater to its need for decades to come. But 15 years down the line, the village’s empty plots today get flooded with effluents that has turned these into nurseries for mosquitoes. The drainage network is intact even today, but the accumulation of stinky dirty water is the result of absence of proper disposal of drainage water that is pumped out of hundreds of residential units that have come up on the outskirts of Bhayli village. New residents here complain about absence of proper water and drainage facilities. As of now, the drainage lines from these residential complexes have been connected to a sewage treatment plant (STP) developed by Vadodara Urban Development Authority (VUDA) or the natural storm water drain of Bhayli village. Residents of the newly developed neighbourhood say that the STP is not enough. The original residents of village complain that storm water drain has been polluted and it gets overflowed and floods empty land pockets. “We have all civic amenities including the drainage and VMC is not going to add anything new. Instead, it will collect more taxes than what the gram panchayat used to collect,” said Mahesh Patel, another resident. The new residents want the VMC to start developing infrastructure as soon as possible. “Even after five years, we do not have water and drainage facilities. The civic body should now value us as voters and taxpayers and bring development fast,” said Mitesh Prajapati, who works in a private company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bhayli-residents-demand-basic-facilities/articleshow/80885665.cms||Jay Pachchigar
February 13, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: Teen sniffs opportunity in disability; starts own venture||RAJKOT: Smooth seas do not make skilful sailors, goes an African proverb. Smit Changela, 18, is no stranger to adversity. For he has been suffering from neuropathy since he was just three months old. Yet, he has taken life in his stride. At a time when teens of his age face severe psychological issues after remaining hooked on their cell phones for hours together, Smit used the Covid-19 induced lockdown to turn financially independent. This even as he belongs to a well to do family with his father Chetan owning a ceramic factory in Morbi. The teenager’s hands and legs do not work properly due to the suffering from numbness and pain in his nerves caused by neuropathy. Yet, he achieved 95 percentile in class X last year. The class XI student even used the lockdown period to start his own venture through which he earns anywhere between Rs 6,000 to Rs 8,000 a month. Unlike his peers, the pain in his hands and legs does not allow Smit to use his fingers to type on his cell phone. So, he has started using his nose to type on the mobile screen. “He has a very big friend circle on social media. He utilised this circle to start online sale of products. He got in touch with some wholesale dealers from whom he purchases the products and sells it to consumers,” his mother Hina Changela told TOI. From t-shirts to shoes, watches to mobile accessories, Smit has sold it all. Whenever he comes to know of any requirement, he gets quotations and pictures from wholesale dealers, chooses the best quality at a reasonable price. “His selection of quality products in a reasonable range is his unique selling point,” she said, adding that the teenager gets the product packed and couriered it to his customers while payments are accepted through UPI. “Like other children of my age, I cannot move everywhere. But I am firm that I won’t get frustrated from any situation. I have good support from my family and friends in ventures,” Smit said. His parents too have motivated him to take part in all school competitions. He also took part in the Rajkot Marathon on a wheelchair in the category of differently-abled people. While he was in a wheelchair, his parents ran behind him to cheer him up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teen-sniffs-opportunity-in-disability-starts-own-venture/articleshow/80886140.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Entire evidence can’t be rejected if witnesses turn hostile: Court||Ludhiana: Witnesses turning hostile cannot result in the rejection of entire evidence, a local court has observed. The observation was made by the court of additional sessions judge Rashmi Sharma on Thursday while pronouncing the verdict in a case of rape perpetrated on a six-year-old girl by a neighbour, even though the minor’s parents had turned hostile witnesses during the trial. The accused has been sentenced to 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment in the sexual assault case registered at Jamalpur police station in January 2019. Special public prosecutor for the state S S Haidar said the parents of the survivor had turned hostile in the case and even the victim had turned hostile, but during the cross examination, she had supported the prosecution’s version. The court observed, “Declaration of witnesses as hostile does not ipso-facto (by itself) culminate in rejection of entire evidence. Precedence of cases reflects it to be well settled that the portion of evidence, which besides being advantageous to both parties, helps the court in arriving at judgment, may be upheld.” The judge stressed that the implication of witnesses turning hostile at any stage is not to strike down their deposition absolutely, as it might corroborate or discredit other available evidence. The court maintained, “The proof in criminal trial does not imply rigid mathematical proof, rather the traditional hyper-technical approach has to be replaced by rational, realistic and genuine approach for administering justice in criminal trial, as the benefit of doubt must always be some reasonable doubt and not a mere fanciful one. While appreciating the evidence, the approach must be whether evidence of the witness read as a whole appears to have a ring of truth. “Once that impression is formed, the minor discrepancies on trivial matter not touching the core of the case…would not permit the rejection of evidence as a whole. It is the duty of the court to cull out the nuggets of truth from evidence available on record, when there is a reason to believe that the discrepancies are not so glaring as to destroy the confidence in the credibility of the primary witness.” The court also observed that sufficient evidence has come on record regarding commission of penetrative sexual assault and rape by the accused with the prosecutrix within the meaning of Section 3 of the Pocso Act and IPC Section 375. BOX Court bemoans state of society The court also referred to a couplet while convicting the accused, which reads: “Yaha har shakhs hadsa hone se darta hai, khilona hai jo mitti ka, fana hone se darta hai; Mere dil ke kone mei ek masoom sa baccha, bado ki dekh ke duniya, bada hone se darta hai.” The court remarked, “The aforesaid celebrated couplet is a sordid and gruesome reminder that the world's largest democratic nation, proud of its time-honoured tradition of worshiping female child as goddess, finds itself in a lurch to protect the young children from the lusty, savage and beastly acts violating the physical dignity and mental well-being of the children of tender age.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/entire-evidence-cant-be-rejected-if-witnesses-turn-hostile-court/articleshow/80885775.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Surat||SGCCI, Yoga board to groom more trainers||Surat. The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) in collaboration with Gujarat government’s State Yoga Board will launch a campaign to groom yoga trainers in the city. These certified trainers will provide yoga training to people in the city. The campaign will be carried in about nine centres across the city where training will he held for a period of one month starting from February 15. Besides awarding a certificate to the participants as yoga trainers, they will also be be paid a monthly honorarium of Rs 3000 per yoga class by the yoga board. Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI said, “SGCCI and Gujarat Yoga Board will promote yoga among residents in the city whereby yoga training will be given to interested candidates for 30 days in nine different venues across the city. The idea is to promote healthy life for city’s residents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-yoga-board-to-groom-more-trainers/articleshow/80886989.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: New metro line, but where’s last-mile connectivity?||CHENNAI: Another 9km stretch is set to be added to the existing 45km metro rail network, but Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) is struggling to launch a uniform first and last-mile connectivity to enable seamless movement of passengers. There were no takers for a tender floated a few months ago to assign a firm to operate feeder services across all stations. On February 14, the line from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar will be opened linking a part of North Chennai with the city’s core localities as well as major transport hubs. Before the lockdown, CMRL was operating share auto and cab services at 13 stations on a trial basis. An app-based cab service was launched at eight stations, which CMRL later planned to extend to all stations with 256 cabs. Passengers were allowed to pay for feeder service using metro smartcards to make commuting hassle-free. But officials said the contract was terminated last April following poor response from commuters. One of the reasons for the poor patronage was the absence of a uniform service linking metro stations to neighbourhoods. Since then, tenders floated to launch a uniform cab service across all stations for last-mile connectivity did not work out. Sources said CMRL changed its revenue sharing model, which gave an advantage to the contractor, hoping better connectivity would bring more footfalls. But the last tender floated in November 2020 is yet to be opened. At present, CMRL has e-bike services at three stations, smart bikes in 20 stations and rental bicycles at 14 stations. Some stations are located close to MTC bus stops to encourage passengers to use both train and bus services. The metro train service now has an average daily patronage of 44,000, which is 38% of the pre-Covid numbers. Shreya Gadepalli, South Asia director, Institute for Transportation and Development Policy, said the best way to attract more passengers to metro stations is for CMRL to operate its own feeder services, instead of looking for a private firm, and integrate the ticket fares, a strategy that proven successful in cities such as Bogota, Colombia. “With under half-a-percent of the metro rail project cost of Rs 24,000 crore, CMRL can procure 500 mini buses to connect areas surrounding each station with very frequent feeder services. This is in addition to integrating MTC services with metro rail. CMRL should make last-mile connectivity its own business for its own success,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-metro-line-but-wheres-last-mile-connectivity/articleshow/80887098.cms||U Tejonmayam
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Campaigning peaks a day ahead of Ludhiana Club polls||Ludhiana: With just one day to go for the elections of Ludhiana Club, the campaign war between the two groups — one led by the sitting president Kewal Chabra and the other led by Brij Mohan Gupta — has intensified. A lot of excitement is being witnessed among the members as the election is being held after nearly two decades and majority of the members are going to vote for the first time. Meanwhile, both Chabra and Gupta are organising meetings with prospective voters and prominent persons of the city who have influence over large number of votes. The voting for electing the office bearers of the club will take place from 10am till 5pm on Saturday. Speaking to TOI, CA Gupta said, “Elections of Ludhiana Club are are being held after 20 years even though the club constitution says these should be held after every three years. There is dire need for the change in the managing committee of the club as we have observed that families of the club members are not satisfied with the facilities available in the club and hence don’t participate at all. There is no financial transparency regarding the matters of the club and audit reports are not shared with paying members. Our club has a second class status in the city despite being located at one of the most prime locations and we need to ensure participation of the next generation to make this a vibrant club.” Gupta also added, “We are a team of professionally qualified members including doctors and chartered accountants who have been regular patrons of the club for more than three decades and understand the issues of the club. We also understand the changes required and are in regular consultation with club members who are also extremely dissatisfied with current state of affairs.” Commenting on what would be the top most priorities of his team if they win the election, Gupta said, “First and foremost we will ensure there are elections every three years in the club. We will change the perception of the club to a more family-centric organisation and ensure participation of the next generation. We will also improve transparency and issue annual audit report of the club finances to the members. We will work to improve facilities of the club like sports, gym and restaurant and also increase tech integration of the club by selling food on multiple apps to ensure not only increase in revenue but also regular feedback of customers regarding quality.” Meanwhile, Chabra denied claims of antiquated facilities. “Our team has already an upper hand as three of our candidates have been elected unopposed which include Vijay Goyal as joint secretary, Vijay Gaba as mess secretary and Sanjay Kapoor who has been elected cultural cum sports secretary of the club. As far as the claims of non development being made by some people against us are concerned, we modernised the club. Every member of the club is happy about the development we have carried in terms of sports, mess, interior and other facilities and work is still continued. Besides, during the last years, whenever some suggestions were given by the members we immediately worked on them and never gave any reason of complaint to anyone.” Chabra also added, “Some people are misguiding members of the club by claiming that we are not promoting youngsters in running the club affairs. I would like to clear that we have six young candidates contesting from our group and once our committee is formed we will bring more fresh faces. There has been full transparency in our working and we are confident that members will come out in large number tomorrow to give their verdict in our favour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/campaigning-peaks-a-day-ahead-of-ludhiana-club-polls/articleshow/80885781.cms||Mohit Behl
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Four from Telangana die, 19 hurt as mini bus trips on Araku hairpin bend||VISAKHAPATNAM: At least four people were killed and 19 others injured after a tourist bus plunged into a valley 80 feet below the ghat road in the Araku Agency area of Visakhapatnam district on Friday night. The mishap occurred between Damuku and Tyda villages under Anantagiri mandal when the driver of the mini tourist bus with 22 other passengers on board lost control while negotiating a hairpin curve on the ghat road. Police said the victims are from Hyderabad and Nalgonda districts of Telangana had hired the bus belonging to a private travel agency and were returning to Visakhapatnam after visiting the valley. While initial reports put the toll at eight, police confirmed only four deaths. But the toll is likely to increase as the condition of some of the injured was said to be critical. They have been admitted in a government hospital at S Kota in Vizianagaram district. Though the identity of the deceased is yet to be established, police said that most of them were relatives. Soon after the accident, locals rushed to the spot and launched rescue operations even before rescue teams could arrive. Till last information, rescue operations were still on. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, meanwhile, took to Twitter to express his condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. “Distressed to hear about the accident in Visakhapatnam, AP. Condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. Prayers with the injured. May they recover soon,” he wrote. Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar contacted Andhra Pradesh DGP Goutham Sawang, DIG Kalidas and local SP Krishna. Arrangements were being made to shift the injured to King George Hospital (KGH), Visakhapatnam. AP governor Biswabusan Harichandan and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy too condoled the death and expressed their sympathies with the members of the bereaved families. Telangana IT minister KT Rama Rao expressed shock over the mishap. Watch Andhra Pradesh: Four people killed after bus falls into gorge in Visakhapatnam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-from-t-die-19-hurt-as-mini-bus-trips-on-araku-hairpin-bend/articleshow/80889511.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Awareness drive on advantages of deliveries in hospitals||Ludhiana: In the “ongoing drive” against giving birth at home, mass media teams of civil surgeon office, on Friday had gone to Haibowal Kalan and Khurd to tell pregnant women about the importance of institutional deliveries, which gives them access to skilled medical staff. Civil surgeon, Ludhiana, Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said ideally, all births should take place in hospitals to reduce the risk of maternal mortality. “Delivery should be done by skilled staff in the hospitals. In institutional deliveries various medical technologies are used, which ensure the good health of mother and neonatal,” he said. He further added that, pregnant women are at the risk of developing complications during and at time of their pregnancies, deliveries and post-partum period. “So, it is necessary that the pregnant women should take their treatment from hospital, so that her complications can be treated easily under the supervision of medical staff and with well equipped technologies,” said a statement. Daljeet Singh, deputy mass media education and information officer said mass media teams are trying to motivate pregnant women to come to hospitals. During various interactive sessions, the queries of the pregnant women are also being answered, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/awareness-drive-on-advantages-of-deliveries-in-hospitals/articleshow/80885804.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Four from Telangana die, 19 hurt as mini bus trips on Araku hairpin bend||VISAKHAPATNAM: At least four people were killed and 19 others injured after a tourist bus plunged into a valley 80 feet below the ghat road in the Araku Agency area of Visakhapatnam district on Friday night. The mishap occurred between Damuku and Tyda villages under Anantagiri mandal when the driver of the mini tourist bus with 22 other passengers on board lost control while negotiating a hairpin curve on the ghat road. Police said the victims are from Hyderabad and Nalgonda districts of Telangana had hired the bus belonging to a private travel agency and were returning to Visakhapatnam after visiting the valley. While initial reports put the toll at eight, police confirmed only four deaths. But the toll is likely to increase as the condition of some of the injured was said to be critical. They have been admitted in a government hospital at S Kota in Vizianagaram district. Though the identity of the deceased is yet to be established, police said that most of them were relatives. Soon after the accident, locals rushed to the spot and launched rescue operations even before rescue teams could arrive. Till last information, rescue operations were still on. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, meanwhile, took to Twitter to express his condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. “Distressed to hear about the accident in Visakhapatnam, AP. Condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. Prayers with the injured. May they recover soon,” he wrote. Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar contacted Andhra Pradesh DGP Goutham Sawang, DIG Kalidas and local SP Krishna. Arrangements were being made to shift the injured to King George Hospital (KGH), Visakhapatnam. AP governor Biswabusan Harichandan and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy too condoled the death and expressed their sympathies with the members of the bereaved families. Telangana IT minister KT Rama Rao expressed shock over the mishap. Watch Andhra Pradesh: Four people killed after bus falls into gorge in Visakhapatnam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/4-from-t-die-19-hurt-as-mini-bus-trips-on-araku-hairpin-bend/articleshow/80890380.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Pune builder, son move HC against ED summons||MUMBAI: Pune-based builder Avinash Bhosale and son Amit approached Bombay high court on Friday with a petition against summons received from the Enforcement Directorate in connection with an alleged land scam. They are seeking orders to quash the summons and interim orders to restrain ED from taking any coercive steps following the “arbitrary” summons. The petition was mentioned by senior counsel Shirish Gupte for Avinash and Ashok Mundergi for his son towards the end of the court day before a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale. ED counsel Hiten Venegaonkar said the matter may be heard on Monday and HC fixed it for a hearing on February 15 at 4.30pm. Venegaokar said Avinash was summoned twice, on February 10 and on Friday, but “failed to attend the ED office and doesn’t deserve any relief”. Gupte submitted ED cannot issue a summons to Avinash since an FIR against him was already closed. Avinash had asked for a few days’ time from ED to appear for a statement. The father-son duo filed separate petitions. Amit’s petition alleged ED has “acted in malice, complete arbitrariness and high-handedly in issuing him the summons”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pune-builder-son-move-hc-against-ed-summons/articleshow/80885832.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||Pak artist’s paintings on display at Kolkata expo||KOLKATA: For the first time two works of Abdur Rahman Chughtai — who is recognized as Pakistan’s national artist and the founder member of the Pakistan Art Council — is on display at the museum exhibition titled ‘Ghare Baire — The World, The Home and Beyond’ in the renovated Currency Building. These rare works of art are significant because of their pan-Asian cultural identity and ability to transcend religious barriers. Come February 13, Saturday screenings of a curated series of movies on Indian arts from the archives of Films Division is also being introduced at the exhibition. The series, including films by Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen and Purnendu Patri, will be inaugurated on Saturday by the director Buddhadeb Dasgupta. He will give a talk on art and cinema followed by special screenings of three films, including Ray’s ‘The Inner Eye’, Dasgupta’s ‘Ganesh Pyne’ and Patri’s ‘Kalighat Painting’. Those attending the talk can also see the two water colours by Chughtai on handmade paper. Chughtai’s art remains a powerful reminder of the transnational cultural identity of the Bengal School, both in terms of the artists’ geographical origins and the stories they chose to tell. After getting a diploma in photo lithography from Lahore’s Mayo School of Art in 1914, Chughtai had learnt printmaking techniques and etching in London. “His work reflects the commitment of Abanindranath Tagore and the Bengal School to create a pan-Asian cultural identity and Chughtai makes Tagore’s signature wash technique his own,” said Sumona Chakravarty, deputy director of DAG Museums. Chughtai’s contribution towards the entire subcontinent’s art, including his portraits based on Ghalib’s poetry, has been a subject of discussion in art corridors. His Persian training in wash technique with its colours and fine lines has helped him carve a niche for himself. Added to that was his choice of eclectic subjects, ranging from Buddhist themes, Hindu epics and Radha-Krishna scenes to illustrative paintings for Omar Khayyam’s ‘Rubaiyat’. In ‘Worship’, the soft glow of lamps at the altar lights up the room where a woman goes to pray in quietude. The graceful lines that describe her drapery, her elongated fingers and covered face contribute to an almost enigmatic beauty that is characteristic of Chughtai’s art. The other untitled work shows a woman with a child learning to read or write with a stylus. This work shows him bringing together the “subtlety of Islamic architectural form” with “Art Nouveau aesthetics”. It is reminiscent of the art of Edmund Dulac for Omar Khayyam’s ‘Rubaiyat’ — a work Chughtai himself would later illustrate. His ability to create seemingly impossible fluidity out of geometric forms is a testament to his mastery over craftsmanship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pak-artists-paintings-on-display-at-city-expo/articleshow/80887123.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
February 13, 2021||Meerut||Two Nepalese youths who went to work in Tapovan ‘missing’ after Uttarakhand tragedy||BAREILLY: Families of two Nepalese youths, who went missing after the Uttarakhand tragedy, have approached the Kheri administration officials. Both the youths had come to Tikunia to meet their relatives and later left with their cousins to work at the hydro-electricity project in Tapovan. The Kheri administration has refused to include their names in the list of the local missing persons and advised them to contact officials in Uttarakhand. The Nepalese youths who had gone along with their relatives from Tikunia were identified as Sohan from Kanchanpur and Shankar Choudhary from Ballia village in Kailali district of Nepal. So far, bodies of three Kheri residents have been recovered. Body of Vimlesh, 23, a member of the Tharu tribe from Babupurva village, was recovered by the rescue team on Friday. Ajit Kumar, one of the survivors from Kheri, said that he saw Sohan, one of the two Nepalese workers, being washed away in the flash flood and he couldn’t do anything to save him. Sohan had been working as a labourer in Uttarakhand for the past four years. His younger brother has gone to Chamoli to look for him. Shankar’s mother Laxmi Choudhary, who is staying in Kheri, said, “My elder son works at a hotel in Mumbai and recently Shankar forced me to allow him to go to Uttarakhand and I didn’t stop him. I don’t know who to contact.” Nighasan SDM Om Prakash Gupta told TOI, “A total of 32 people are still missing as per our records and SDM Palia is still in Chamoli district for coordination with the local officials regarding the status of missing people. We have provided a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each in the account of the kin of the people whose bodies have been recovered so far. Ration kits, which include food grains, oil and other essential items, have been distributed among the families of the affected people.” “We cannot keep the record of Nepalese people who have migrated to Uttarakhand through Kheri district as it is out of our jurisdiction. They may contact the Uttarakhand officials directly or coordinate through their embassy,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-nepalese-youths-who-went-to-work-in-tapovan-missing-after-uttarakhand-tragedy/articleshow/80885814.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Museum set to reopen on Tuesday||After being shut for 11 months since the lockdown was imposed, the city’s museum, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya, will reopen next week, on February 16. It will be open for the public all days of the week, 10 am to 3 pm. At Rs 50 a ticket for adults and Rs 20 for kids, visitors can now visit at half the entry price of pre-Covid days. For starters, six galleries including Natural History Gallery, Khandalavala Gallery of Indian artefacts, Money and Jewellery gallery and the Children's Museum will open in a phased manner. “Visitors will be monitored by the museum’s trained security staff. We will be following the state as well as the International Council of Museums guidelines,” said Sabyasachi Mukherjee, director general, CSMVS. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/museum-set-to-reopen-on-tuesday/articleshow/80862087.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Patna||Jamui civil surgeon, 3 others suspended for Covid testing fraud||PATNA: Jamui civil surgeon and three others were suspended on Friday as chief minister Nitish Kumar promised action against all those found guilty in the Covid-19 testing fraud at some places in the state. “I got information about the irregularities in Covid-19 testing while returning to Patna from Delhi. I immediately sought detailed information about the irregularities from the health department’s principal secretary. Inquiries in 22 districts are over and irregularities found in one district. Wherever irregularities were found action was taken,” Nitish told reporters at the Patna airport after returning from his three-day visit to Delhi. “If anyone is found guilty of committing irregularities, tough action will be taken. If someone has not conducted Covid-19 test and has prepared the data, it is very wrong,” Nitish added. State health minister Mangal Pandey said action has been taken against seven officials in Jamui district. While four officials have been suspended, three contract employees have been dismissed. Altogether 12 teams were formed by the department to investigate the case across the state. Among those suspended is Jamui civil surgeon Dr Bijyendra Satyarthi. A suspension letter initiated by the health department joint secretary Anil Kumar on Friday read that after an investigation by Jamui DM, certain irregularities on the part of the civil surgeon in fudging Covid-19 test data was found and the DM had recommended strict action. Others suspended include Jamui PHC medical officer in charge-cum-district immunization officer Dr Vimal Kumar Choudhary, Barhat PHC in charge Dr NK Mandal and Sikandra CHC in charge Dr Sajid Hussain. The matter came to light after a media report on glaring errors in Covid-19 test data in Bihar’s three districts, where fake names, mobile numbers were entered. The CM said he had asked the principal secretary to take the matter seriously and conduct a thorough inquiry. “Probably, a member raised the issue of the irregularities in Covid-19 testing in Rajya Sabha. The principal secretary informed me that a detailed report has been sent to the secretary of the Union ministry of health for placing the facts in the Upper House,” Nitish said. Nitish was referring to RJD MP Manoj Jha, who had raised the issue in the Rajya Sabha on Friday and demanded a high-level inquiry. Even Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu also sought a probe. Nitish further said, the state’s principal secretary also informed him that he was looking into all aspects of the alleged irregularities. “I will again take detailed information about the irregularities from the principal secretary, tomorrow,” he added. “I had to meet the President of India Ram Nath Kovind, today. But his phone came this morning. We held a talk over the phone,” Nitish said, talking about his stay in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jamui-civil-surgeon-3-others-suspended-for-covid-testing-fraud/articleshow/80887131.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||In a first, Amt tops chart of new cases, reports 50 more than Ngp||Nagpur: For the first time since the first Covid-19 case was reported in Vidarbha on March 11 last year, Amravati district reported the highest cases in a day among all the 11 districts of Vidarbha. It posted exactly 50 more cases than Nagpur, which has always topped the chart in the region. With 369 cases on Friday, Amravati also crossed its previous highest single-day tally this year of 359 cases reported on Thursday. It also witnessed three deaths, with all victims being elderly persons.Wardha, Akola, Buldhana and Yavatmal, which lately had been reporting single-digit increase in cases, too reported a spike, taking the tally past the 1,000-mark in Vidarbha for third day in a row.The recent spike forced the local administrations to take stringent measures to contain the spread. Public gatherings would be curtailed in the coming days while colleges shall remain shut till month-end.The health authorities have already sent samples for genome sequencing following apprehensions of a possible new Covid strain in Amravati. Health officials believe the strain is more infectious than the original virus. In a relief for authorities and health officials patients are not turning serious.Still, a large number of patients are admitted to the district general hospital. From 45 admissions a month ago, the hospital is now treating 245 patients in its DCH.Amravati civil surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam said people are testing positive in groups. “We have observed that as soon as one person in the family tests positive, the entire family and people coming in close contacts all catch the Covid infection within 24 hours. This has become a cause of concern,” he told TOI .Dr Nikam said the administration is taking necessary measures like penalizing citizens without mask and restricting gatherings. “Health officials are also surveying those in home isolation. But not many patients are becoming serious. The severity this time seems to be low,” he said.Though day’s cases in Nagpur came under 400, the district is on high alert while close observation is kept at other places in the region. Officials urged people to go for testing in case they have influenza like symptoms, loss of smell and taste. Rural areas like Kamptee and Saoner are reporting a spike, they said.Out of the nine Covid fatalities reported on Friday, Nagpur contributed (4), Wardha (1), Amravati (3), Buldhana (1) to take the region’s toll to 7,088.The region recorded 1,071 cases with Nagpur (319) and Amravati contributing a bulk of them. The region’s caseload has reached 2,82,221. Among the 734 recoveries in a day, Nagpur contributed 225 and Amravati 309. Now, 2,67,246 patients have recovered while 7,156 are under treatment.Yavatmal: The district did not report any death on Friday, keeping the toll at 440 so far. Out of the 305 reports received on Friday, 57 came positive for Covid-19, taking the caseload to 15,004. Recoveries touched 14,068 with 28 patients getting discharge on Friday. Now, there are 499 active cases in the district. Amravati: The district reported a spike of over 300 cases for the third successive day. The caseload reached 24,519 as 369 new cases were added on Friday. Three male patients (74, 50 and 65) died on Friday to take the toll to 431 while 309 recoveries took the total to 23,094, leaving 994 active cases.Wardha: A sharp increase of 113 cases took the Covid count to 10,629 on Friday. A 39-year-old man from Wardha city succumbed to the disease, taking the toll to 318. Recoveries reached 9,845 as 44 patients were discharged on Friday, leaving 466 patients under treatment. Out of the 862 test reports received on Friday, cases came from Hinganghat (78), Wardha (22), Arvi and Karanja (6 each) and Selu (1). Chandrapur: The district’s caseload mounted to 23,191 with detection of 16 new cases while 15 patients were discharged to take the recovery count to 22,715, leaving 83 active cases on Friday. No death was reported during the day. Gadchiroli: No death was been reported here since January 17 and the toll remains at 105. The Covid count increased by two, the lowest in the region. At the same time, five recoveries were reported. The district now has just 20 active cases, while total cases are 9,395, including 9,270 recoveries.Washim: The district did not report a Covid death on Friday, keeping the toll at 156. In fact, fatalities have increased by only four here in the last one month. The district reported nine new cases while seven patients recovered, taking the caseload and recoveries to 7,275 and 7,017, respectively. Now, there are 101 active cases.Buldhana: One Covid death took the district’s toll to 175 while 79 new cases and 58 recoveries were reported. According to official data, the district now has 14,614 cases, 14,012 recoveries, and 484 active cases. Bhandara: The district didn’t’ report a Covid death, but saw 11 new cases and eight recoveries. The caseload is 13,345, including 12,916 recoveries and 326 deaths. The district has 103 active cases. Gondia: The toll remained 183 as the district didn’t witness any Covid death on Friday. It also saw eight recoveries and six new cases. There are 83 patients under treatment. The Covid count has reached 14,275 including 14,015 recoveries.Akola: The district reported 90 new cases and 27 patients recovered, taking the caseload to 12,154 and recoveries to 11,064, respectively. There was no death on Friday. So far, 431 patients have died. Now, there are 746 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-amt-tops-chart-of-new-cases-reports-50-more-than-ngp/articleshow/80885835.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||JU alumni take steps to build roof over Amphan-affected||Kolkata: Jadavpur University, under a community outreach programme in association with its alumni, has undertaken to address the basic problem of housing in pockets ravaged by Cyclone Amphan. Under the project titled ‘CHHAD’, the university and its former students from the 1991 batch of department of electronics and telecom engineering are aiming to provide 500 houses across 50-odd villages in the next couple of years. Each house will comprise a living-cum-bedroom, a kitchen and a toilet. The structures will be built in a manner to withstand high wind speed and heavy rainfall. “As citizens, it is our responsibility to come forward to bring a roof over the heads of those who don’t have it,” said JU VC Suranjan Das. At least five such houses have been built in Baliadanga village in Hasnabad and will be handed over to the beneficiaries on Poila Baisakh. “It is being funded by the students of the ’91 batch of department of electronics and telecommunication engineering. Once we scale up and try to reach more pockets in the state, we will request former students of other batches to help,” said Chitralekha Dutta, a member of the batch. “Project CHHAD is a step to create a long-term impact in the lives of the underprivileged,” said Arup Chakraborti, another member of the 1991 batch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-alumni-take-steps-to-build-roof-over-amphan-affected/articleshow/80887137.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Meerut||As survivors return home, families in UP breathe easy after days of ‘horror & despair'||Meerut: Rohit, 30, squeezed in the last row, raised his mobile phone for a selfie as the rickety bus chugged down the hill. On the first sign of the cell network, he sent it across the mountains to a village in UP’s Meerut. His father, Sher Singh, now 58, was waiting for it. Edgy and unsettled due to lack of sleep, Singh cast a cursory glance. He was still not convinced.“I have spoken to him several times since Thursday night. But I have to see him to believe that he is alive. The four days starting Sunday morning -- when the flash flood struck Tapovan-- were very difficult on us. There was no news on Rohit. There was no contact. We were just listening to the news, it was all upsetting. We didn’t eat, didn’t sleep,” he said. Rohit is expected to reach Meerut on Friday night. An electrician, he had gone to Chamoli in September last year to help install telephone towers.Rohit’s sister Vandana said, “We thought that we had lost him. The entire family was in a state of mourning.”Three others from Meerut were also on their way back. They will also reach in the night.Asha, the mother of another survivor, Pradeep, 25, had also lost hope.“I cried for four days. Even the news channels had nothing positive to offer. I was losing hope with each passing moment. It was only when the contractor came running to my house announcing their well-being that we breathed easy. It feels as if I am alive again,” Asha said.Balakram Prajapati, 30, who was also among the four from Meerut, said, “All connections were severed. There was no way we could have alerted our families. The supervisor had assured us that our families would be informed. But he also could reach out to them. All this while we were under the impression that our families knew that we were safe. But they didn’t.”Balakram will never forget what he saw. “We were in Sarai Kota and had crossed the bridge just five minutes ago when we heard a loud blast and screeching noise of something big falling from the sky. It took us some time to realize what was going on. The deluge looked like a monster ready to devour the entire plant, and it did,” he said.The contractor, Saurabh Prajapati, said, “I had sent ten labourers for telecom tower installation at Sarai Kota, which is a little above Tapovan hydroelectric plant. Since the telecommunication system had collapsed in the region, the stranded labourers could not be contacted. Four are from Meerut while the rest are from Amroha. All are safe and on their way back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/as-survivors-return-home-families-in-up-breathe-easy-after-days-of-horror-despair/articleshow/80885831.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Colleges in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane won’t open next week||MUMBAI: College campuses in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai will not reopen on Monday. In a letter to Mumbai University, BMC said it will take a decision by February 22 after reviewing the impact of throwing open local trains to all on Covid-19 cases in the city. On the other hand, colleges in Raigad and Palghar under the university’s jurisdiction will welcome their students after an 11-month-long break next week. The state government had passed a resolution permitting universities and colleges to start physical classes from February 15. In the state, Pune and Nagpur universities have got permission from their local authorities while the Amravati varsity has not, at least in February. BMC commissioner I S Chahal confirmed to TOI the civic body has not permitted reopening of colleges and will review the rise or fall of Covid cases before taking a final call. Earlier, BMC had refused permission to allow reopening of schools too. A university official said BMC has cited an increase in Covid cases after the trains allowed entry to the general public. “We were told that the administration will review the situation till February 20,” said a university official. The university will issue a circular to colleges soon. He added so far the local administration from only two districts under the university have given a go-ahead for physical classes. The BMC decision will also have an impact on Mumbai colleges affiliated to SNDT Women’s University. Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar said they are still taking feedback from all six corporation regions in their jurisdiction. “We may come out with different policies for urban and rural areas,” he added. Thane, Navi Mumbai, Mira-Bhayander, Kalyan and Ulhasnagar corporations fall under the district. Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari said they have given permission to colleges to open. Colleges in Ratnagiri will not be allowed to start classes now. Ratnagiri collector Laxminarayan Mishra told TOI: “We are yet to finalise the date.” The state’s higher and technical education minister Uday Samant had asked the state’s chief secretary to coordinate with railway authorities to allow college students to use local trains. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, though, said the state will make an announcement as soon as permission is granted.  Amravati’s district collector Shailesh Naval said the decision on reopening colleges will be taken only in March. Meanwhile, in a meeting with principals from leading colleges, Mumbai University has recommended a few guidelines for colleges in regions where classes will resume. They have suggested calling PhD, post-graduate and final-year practical students first. The university asked colleges to record lectures and independently decide on the schedule. Colleges have been asked to keep separate visiting areas, avoid guest lectures, and keep tabs on students entering and leaving the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/colleges-in-city-navi-mum-thane-wont-open-next-wk/articleshow/80887134.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 13, 2021||Meerut||Contempt plea filed before HC over unpaid interest to farmers on cane arrears||Pilibhit: In a matter relating to unpaid interest totaling Rs 2,750 crore on caneprice arrears from 2012-13 to 2014-15 crushing years, a contempt application was filed before the Allahabad high court on Thursday.Petitioner VM Singh also urged the HC to issue directions to the UP government to announce the state advised price (SAP) of sugarcane for 2020-21.Explaining why he has filed the contempt application,he said, on February 5, 2019, the HC had directed additional chief secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry in government of UP, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, to ensure payment of the outstanding interest to farmers within two months and to file an affidavit of compliance before the court on April 5. But even after 22 months, the court’s order is yet to be complied with, he added. The petitioner explained that an interest was to be paid if payment of cane price was delayed by more than 14 days from actual date of procurement by the mill. But in 2012, the then Samajwadi Party government had waived the liability of the sugar mills to pay interest to farmers. “The present state government under Yogi Adityanath kept deceiving the farmers over this issue despite the HC upholding the provision of paying interest,” said Singh. Now, he said, he was surprised that the state sugarcane administration was even not including the amount of outstanding interest in the total cane price arrears being projected in its reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/contempt-plea-filed-before-hc-over-unpaid-interest-to-farmers-on-cane-arrears/articleshow/80885836.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 13, 2021||Surat||‘Changes in GMS scheme will cut gold import by 30%’||Surat: The Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has estimated the gold import to reduce by over 30% in the next three years following the amendments made by the government of India in the Gold Monetisation Scheme (GMS). GJEPC office-bearers said that under the amended scheme, there is inclusion of jewellers and refiners as gold mobilisation agent and collection and purity testing centres (CPTCs). According to GJEPC, the GMS has enhanced the participation of banks. All public sector banks shall be allowed to participate in GMS and provide the revamped GMS scheme on demand. Up to one third branches of the public sector banks in all towns should be designated as GMS service branches. The government has also proposed participation of private banks under the GMS.“The revamped Gold Monetisation Scheme is a win-win situation for all as it will unlock tonnes of unused gold in India. This will not only benefit the consumer, retailer and banks, but the nation as well,” said Colin Shah, chairman of GJEPC, in a statement. “India imports around 700 tonnes gold every year and is the second largest gold consumer after China. The dependency of gold import will come down significantly as there will be local gold in the system. We anticipate the per cent of gold import in the next three years will gradually reduce by 30 per cent which will help the country with our current account deficit,” said Shah.“For jewellers appointed as GMCTA, remuneration of up to 1.5% of the value of gold mobilised may be paid to them. Jewellers will be benefited as it’s an additional revenue for them and they will ensure that the scheme will be a great success as they can easily convince their existing customers to park their gold in the GMS,” said K Srinivasan, convenor of gold jewellery and other precious metal jewellery committee. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/changes-in-gms-scheme-will-cut-gold-import-by-30/articleshow/80885860.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Heera scam: ED takes over Nowhera’s assets||HYDERABAD: Continuing with its probe into the Heera Gold scam, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday took possession of various properties of scam kingpin Nowhera Sheik worth hundreds of crores and include buildings, flats and luxury cars. Sources in ED said six flats in HS Royals Apartments in Shaikpet and Naina Towers in Banjara Hills were sealed. ED, Hyderabad, has been working to take physical possession of attached properties of Nowhera spread across south India. Most of these properties were attached in 2019-20, which also saw the ED attaching assets worth Rs 6,000 crore in these two years. Recently, the ED had filed a prosecution complaint against Nowhera in the ponzi scheme fraud case soon after she got a temporary bail from the Supreme Court. In August 2019, the ED attached Rs 300 crore worth of properties of Nowhera and her Heera Group of companies. In all, the ED attached 96 properties in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra and Delhi under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The attached properties include agricultural land parcels, plots, residential buildings and commercial complexes. In 2019, Rs 277 crore worth immovable assets and Rs 23 crore worth movable assets like bank balances and cars were attached. In several states, the accused had floated 24 companies under Heera Group and opened 182 bank accounts. Multiple FIRs were booked in Telangana, AP, Maharashtra and other states. The ED is also probing offshore accounts in Gulf countries allegedly linked to the accused. The ED alleged that Nowhera conspired and lured gullible people to deposit their savings with her. She collected deposits of Rs 5,600 crore from around 1,72,000 investors across the country by making false promises of paying high rates of returns. As many as 28 accused are named in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heera-scam-ed-takes-over-nowheras-assets/articleshow/80889538.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Tree cell to oversee transplantations in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s forest department has constituted a tree transplantation cell to oversee the relocation of trees in the city. Officials said they had received only one application for transplantation so far and a decision will be taken after evaluating the conditions. The forest department has already initiated the process of empanelling agencies that have the technical skills to move trees from one site to another. Delhi government notified the Tree Transplantation Policy, 2020, last December, under which a minimum of 80% of trees affected by a development or construction project will have to be transplanted and as many as 80% of the transplanted trees must survive. Additionally, compensatory plantation of 10 saplings for each moved tree will also continue. The new cell will be chaired by the conservator of forests. A forest official said the transplantation cell had invited online proposals for eligible agencies to carry out the transplantation work for companies and entities within the geographical limits of Delhi. The aspiring agency have to have experience of transplanting more than 500 trees of three or more different species. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, during a review meeting in the first week of January, had directed the forest department to expedite work on setting up the tree transplantation cell and initiate the process of empanelling shifting agencies. The Tree Authority of Delhi will be the apex body responsible for monitoring of the implementation of the transplanting procedure. The forest department too will keep a detailed and updated record on its website every month of every application approved for tree felling under the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994. An official said, “A proper procedure will be followed for tree transplantation at any project site. A tree survey will be conducted at the time of project feasibility assessment and site identification to obtain the required information for developing site planning and tree preservation proposals. The applicant can select one of the technical agencies among the agencies empanelled for carrying out the tree transplantation. Tree committees will be responsible for carrying out regular monitoring of all projects involving compensatory plantation or tree transplantation of 100 or more trees/saplings in their local areas and to certify their tree survival rate at the end of one year.” According to the tree transplantation policy, trees should be properly preserved and no trees should be unnecessarily removed in development projects. When on-site preservation is not possible, scientific transplantation of all the affected trees should be the new norm instead of felling of trees. To ensure maximum chances of survival of saplings/trees planted through the compensatory plantation, it will be mandatory for all saplings/trees planted to be a minimum of 6 feet in height and the individual seedlings/trees to be geo-tagged. The local committees at ward or assembly level, comprising citizen groups, professionals and experts, will be constituted to conduct social audits of the transplanted trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tree-cell-to-oversee-transplantations/articleshow/80888469.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||On mother’s appeal, HC allows mentally challenged girl to abort||Nagpur: In a major relief to the hapless mother from Gadchiroli, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Friday allowed her plea to abort a 22-week fetus of her 25-year-old mentally challenged daughter.Relying on the expert panel’s report, a division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote directed that the medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) should be done at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here.“It should be done with due high risk consent from the legal guardian and under expert supervision. We direct that fetus’s DNA be preserved.. for purposes of investigation, if required for one year from order date. Post MTP, treatment be appropriately made available to the survivor, according to GMCH rules,” the judges ruled.With the help of NGO Tejas Justice Foundation, the 59-year-old petitioner had knocked the judiciary’s doors through counsels Rajesh Nayak and Nitesh Gwalwansh for termination of her daughter’s pregnancy after she was allegedly raped by an unknown accused.“The report has been received confidentially. In presence of petitioner’s counsels and assistant public prosecutor HN Jaipurkar, we opened the envelope and perused the report. The committee has examined all questions involved in this matter and gave its opinion to the effect ‘patient’s MTP should be done with due high risk consent from the legal guardian’,” the judges said.They added the expert panel’s opinion was clear and they would accept it, as there is no other material before them to disagree. “To maintain confidentiality of the parties involved and also the issue which has been raised here, we aren’t dwelling upon the peculiar circumstances of this case. Suffice it to say that this is a case which involves conception of mentally retarded girl resulting from alleged forcible sexual intercourse with her,” the judges said, while asking the registry to send an order copy to the investigating officer at Desaiganj Police Station in Wadsa.# What HC said:* Girl’s medical termination of pregnancy should be done at GMCH* It should be performed with due high risk consent from legal guardian* Supervision of medical experts must while doing MTP * Fetus’ DNA be preserved for one year for investigation* Post abortion, appropriate treatment be made available to the girl||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-mothers-appeal-hc-allows-mentally-challenged-girl-to-abort/articleshow/80885841.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||NGOs join hands to curb pollution||Chandrapur: NGOs working for pollution control and social organizations in Chandrapur have joined hands and have formed ‘Chandrapur Clean Air Action Group’ for control of pollution. The action group would take a focused approach to create awareness among citizens regarding hazards of pollution and build a citizen movement against high pollution. NGO Green Planet Society and Eco-Pro took the initiative to bring all the activists working in the field of environment together on Friday.A joint convention of over a dozen NGOs and social organsiations was held at a hotel and experts in the field of environment pollution were invited to guide local activists. President of Green Planet Society Suresh Chopne said that Chandrapur has always remained a hotbed of pollution following a large number of coal-fired power plants and coal mines around. While mineral wealth of the district is utilized for large scale power generation, citizens here have got only pollution and health hazards in return. “It’s important to rise against this tyranny and push agencies like the MPCB and the district administration to strictly implement the action plan for control of pollution in the city,” he said. Chopne gave a detailed presentation of the pollution scenario and expressed the need for creating awareness and motivating citizens against it. Experts from NGOs like Waatavaran and CREA guided activists regarding technicalities of pollution from thermal power plants and measures needed to be implemented by industries and the pollution control board for curbing pollution. Senior paediatrician and president of Chandrapur Bachao Sangharsh Samiti, Dr Gopal Mundhada, said, “The number of patients with respiratory problems, heart, skin and eye ailments are on the rise. Cases of TB and cancer too are on the rise in Chandrapur due to high pollution.” Environmentalist Bhagwan Keshbhat listed priorities to tackle pollution. He suggested installation of flux lungs to highlight the impact of pollution on public health. Eco Pro president Bandu Dhotre said,“It’s high time we collectively identified air quality goals of Chandrapur and planned various activities to tackle the problem. There is also need to align society to work towards pushing power plants to meet emission standards and municipal corporation to take measures to curb the pollution.” It was decided to form an action group of environmentalists and social workers and collectively work towards the cause of curbing the pollution in city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngos-join-hands-to-curb-pollution/articleshow/80885853.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||BJP complains to CAG against Sena ‘freebies’||Mumbai: The BJP on Friday filed a complaint with the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) against the BMC’s bid to buy ‘freebies,’ including 30 food and vegetable trucks, for distribution in Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav’s constituency in Byculla. BJP corporator Vinod Mishra filed a complaint with the CAG demanding an audit of the purchases, alleging they were done in violation of Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) norms. Jadhav on Friday said the BJP was making baseless allegations about funds being used by him because the BJP didn’t not get enough funds from the BMC. Jadhav alleged that it was BJP corporators and MLAs who were involved in the khichdi distribution scam during the early months of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mishra said in his complaint, “I am surprised by the level of discrimination in allotment of funds between wards, and thereon the blatant misuse and loot of these funds. This is a violation of CVC norms and I therefore request you to conduct a probe into these purchases and pass strictures against the BMC for violation of public procurement norms.” Mishra also wrote to BMC chief Iqbal Chahal demanding all ward-level tenders for giving out freebies in Jadhav’s constituency No. 209 be scrapped. He demanded “an immediate vigilance inquiry into the matter as well as inquiry against the Assistant Municipal Commissioner (E Ward) and hold back all work orders and payments in the above works, failing which I will be compelled to file a PIL.” Chahal had asked additional civic commissioner (city) Sanjeev Jaiswal to examine the issue. Jaiswal said, “I shall be looking into it.” Jadhav said, “I am chairman of the standing committee, and it is in my power to get these funds. I have given funds to all parties including the BJP via budget amendments. BJP’s Vinod Mishra is making these allegations since he didn’t manage to get funds for himself. He is not aware of the rules and is making baseless allegations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-complains-to-cag-against-sena-freebies/articleshow/80889544.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 13, 2021||Meerut||PM ‘ignorant’, govt stifling voices of dissent: RLD’s Jayant Chaudhary||Agra: Accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government of stifling all voices of dissent, Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary said that the PM’s speech in Parliament only showed his arrogance, as “he failed to mention even a single word for over 200 hundred farmers, who have died during the ongoing agitation”. Addressing a kisan mahapanchayat in Mathura on Friday, Chaudhary alleged that the PM “came out in support of entrepreneurs and industrialists instead of farmers”.“Law should be enacted for guaranteeing MSP,” said the RLD leader, adding that the country doesn’t run on assurances. He further said that farmers are exploited and do not get a fair price for their hard labour in the absence of a law.Calling the PM “agyani” (ignorant), the RLD leader said that PM Modi “doesn’t want to understand the necessities of villages and farmers”. “The PM wants to destroy the system in the name of reforms,” he said, adding that he behaves like a “quack who advises amputating the leg for a small scratch”.Making a mention of an FIR registered against him in UP’s Aligarh recently, where he addressed a kisan mahapanchayat earlier this week, he said, “We are not scared of such tactics and will become stronger than before. I am ready, CM (Yogi) can tell me where and when to come to get arrested.”“These panchayats are being organised to oppose this system and seek repeal of the three contentious farm laws. The mahapanchayats also demand withdrawal of FIRs registered against farmers, its associations and leaders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pm-ignorant-govt-stifling-voices-of-dissent-rlds-jayant-chaudhary/articleshow/80885849.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Three run over by car in Vaishali, 2 die in Banka||PATNA: Three people were killed and five others received injuries when a speeding car knocked down them near Bhagwanpur in Vaishali district on Friday. The incident took place around 9am when the car coming from Muzaffarpur side mowed down people sitting beside the road near Ratanpura village under Bhagwanpur police station area. The deceased were identified as Sunny Rai (21), Manjay Pandit (30) and Srijan Sharma (15). SHO Alok Kumar said three of the critically injured were referred to the PMCH for treatment. Sharma, a resident of Imadpur, was a student at a local college. Sunny was from Ratanpura and Pandit hailed from Bithauli in Vaishali district. Agitated over the mishap, local residents disrupted vehicular traffic for about six hours. The road blockade was lifted after Hajipur Sadar SDPO Raghav Dayal assured compensation to the victims. In a separate incident in Banka, one Md Rahmat and another 35-year-old man were killed in two separate road accidents under Barahat and Rajaun police station areas on Friday. An irate mob blocked the Bhagalpur-Dumka road for about an hour in protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-run-over-by-car-in-vaishali-2-die-in-banka/articleshow/80887140.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||‘Trudeau hailed govt’s bid to solve agri stir via talks’||NEW DELHI: The government confirmed Friday that PM Narendra Modi discussed with his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau the ongoing farmers’ protests, saying that Trudeau had commended efforts by India to address issues related to the protests through dialogue. While the initial Indian readout was silent on the issue, Trudeau’s office had later said in its statement that the “recent protests” were discussed in the Trudeau-Modi phone conversation along with both Canada and India’s commitment to democratic principles. “On the farmers’ protests, PM Trudeau commended efforts of the Government of India to choose the path of dialogue as befitting in democracy," said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, responding to a query on the Canadian version of the conversation. Trudeau, the official added, also acknowledged the responsibility of his government in providing protection to Indian diplomatic premises and personnel in Canada. India has in the past few months repeatedly raised with Canada, and also several other countries like the US and UK, the need for local authorities to ensure adequate security for Indian missions in anticipation of violent protests and demonstrations. India has also emphasised before foreign governments that it's negotiating with the farmers to resolve their issues and that this is a democratic process being handled accordingly. According to the Canadian readout, the two leaders had discussed the importance of addressing issues through dialogue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trudeau-hailed-govts-bid-to-solve-agri-stir-via-talks/articleshow/80890175.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Booze brawl: Andhra Pradesh corporator run over by ‘friend’||KAKINADA: A YSRCP corporator was brutally mowed down by a car and murdered in the port city of Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh in the early hours of Friday. The corporator, Kampara Ramesh, had fought with a contractor over a petty issue of attending a birthday party which is believed to have triggered the murder. Police officials, however, said they were yet to establish the real motive behind the killing. The corporator was hit by the car when he attempted to stop it by standing in front. The assailants, identified as Gurazala Veera Venkata Satyanarayana alias Chinna, a small-time contractor, and his brother Kumar, reversed the car and mowed him down. The driver, Chinna, repeated it twice, killing Ramesh on the spot. The entire episode, which took place at 2.20 am, was recorded on a CCTV camera nearby and went viral on social media. Police officials said Chinna first hit Ramesh with the car. When Ramesh lost his balance and fell down on the road, Chinna reversed and ran him over twice before fleeing from the spot. Police have formed special teams to nab the accused. Ramesh, who represents ward No 9 in Kakinada Municipal Corporation, along with friends Mutyla Satish and Sundaraveedu Vasu gathered at a car wash centre at Valasapakala village in Kakinada rural mandal on Thursday night. They reportedly had a few drinks. At around midnight Ramesh called Chinna to meet him. Chinna and Kumar came to the car wash and they too drank with Ramesh. Police officials said while leaving, Chinna invited Ramesh to attend Kumar’s birthday party. But Ramesh refused the invite leading to an arguments and fisticuffs. When Chinna wanted to return home, Ramesh stopped him stating that his car keys were lost. Ramesh asked Chinna to stay back giving him company till his (Ramesh) car keys were traced leading to more fisticuffs. After the fight, when Chinna and Kumar got into their car, Ramesh stood in front of the vehicle in a bid to stop it. Chinna accelerated the vehicle hitting Ramesh, which led to the killing. Kakinada DSP V Bheema Rao told TOI that Ramesh and Chinna were known to each other for a long time. Though the fight broke over attending a birthday party, the exact reason behind the murder was not clear, he said. Watch Shocking! Andhra Pradesh corporator Kampara Ramesh brutally murdered||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/booze-brawl-ap-neta-run-over-by-friend/articleshow/80889548.cms||Samson Raj
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||7-day quarantine for flyers from Sharjah||Nagpur: With Sharjah flights set to resume once-a-week from Sunday, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has announced that all international passengers arriving in Nagpur will be in institutional quarantine for seven days. The civic body has also announced intensive testing in nine localities.As of now airport authorities have announced a schedule only for three weeks (February 14, 21 and 28). The flight lands at 3.45am. NMC additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane said that passengers can choose to stay in private hotels and pay themselves. “Stay at the VNIT quarantine centre will be free of cost. An RT-PCR test will be conducted on the fifth day. If negative, the passengers will be discharged after seven days. Those who test positive will be admitted in GMCH’s special ward,” he said.NMC sources said swab samples of flyers testing positive will be sent for genome sequencing too.Five types of flyers are exempted from institutional quarantine: Above 65 year-old people who need support of others, pregnant women, parents of children below 5 years, persons with disabilities, severe comorbidities and needing treatment, and those arriving to attend funerals.Khamla, Wathoda, Dighori, Swawlambi Nagar, Jaitala, Jaripatka, Jafar Nagar, New Bidipeth and Ayodhya Nagar are the nine localities where NMC will carry out enhanced testing drives. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B met representatives of traders and hotels association, and directed them to test employees once a month and also to submit work plan within 10 days.The civic chief asked NMC officials to take on-the-spot action on violators especially shopkeepers not following guidelines. “All residents of housing societies or flat schemes will have to undergo a test if anyone is positive. People should test if they come in contact with positive patients irrespective of not having symptoms. Testing of people selling vegetables, fruits, dairy products and those involved in construction will be done time to time,” said Radhakrishnan.At a press conference, collector Ravindra Thakre said that cases have increased “as people are ignoring guidelines”. “Strict monitoring will be done in rural areas so that cases do not rise. Sero surveillance will be launched soon,” he added.Thakre admitted that the administration is also responsible as it discontinued monitoring and taking action after cases declined. “Test positivity rate has increased in five of 13 tehsils so all types of measures will be launched here,” he said.Thakre ruled out any plans of lockdown or restriction on activities allowed in the district. “The need is for everyone to follow guidelines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-day-quarantine-for-flyers-from-sharjah/articleshow/80885864.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 13, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Sanjay Jaiswal moves privilege motion against Rahul Gandhi||PATNA: BJP MP from Bettiah Dr Sanjay Jaiswal on Friday moved a privilege notice against Congress MP Rahul Gandhi in the Lok Sabha for comments on the integrity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi without any evidence or document. In a letter addressed to the Lok Sabha Speaker, Jaiswal said Rahul cast aspersions on the integrity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi without any evidence or document during his speech in the Budget session of the lower House on February 11. Jaiswal, in his letter, stated that it was a “serious breach of privilege and contempt of the House” and “Rahul Gandhi once again showed his reckless behaviour and childish act of spreading rumours on the pretext of speaking on the recent incident of gathering of a handful of farmers to lodge their protest on three agriculture Bills”. Jaiswal stated further: “The farm Bills have been passed by both the Houses of the parliament and assented by the President. The Congress MP during his provocative speech instructed his party members sitting on the chamber to stand up in silence to mourn the demise of some of the farmers.” Jaiswal, who is also the Bihar BJP president, said the act of the Congress MP led to an awkward situation in the Lok Sabha in view of the fact that such types of collective mournings were invariably performed under the directions and guidance of the Speaker. He further stated that by doing so, the Congress MP showed disregard to the Rules, which governed the conduct of the House and acted in an objectionable manner. “This is nothing but a contempt of the House, which is a serious offence and punishable under the Rules,” he added. Jaiswal demanded action against Rahul Gandhi under Rule 223 of the Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Lok Sabha. He also urged the Speaker to raise the matter in the House so that such high-handedness and recalcitrant behaviour is not exhibited by any member of the House in future. Assailing the Congress MP for his provocative speech, Jaiswal said his (Rahuls') rhetoric reached the point that he forgot that he was speaking in the Lok Sabha. “The discussions are regulated strictly in terms of Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business, directions issued by the Speaker and relevant provisions of the Constitution,” the BJP MP stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jaiswal-moves-privilege-motion-against-raga/articleshow/80887149.cms||Ramashankar
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||NU answer books found on highway, sparks outrage||Nagpur: In a major lapse as claimed by many, large number of Nagpur University’s answer sheets were found lying on Bhandara-Raipur highway on Wednesday. NU officials, however, said it was part of the scrap sold to a vendor. Those were believed to be of summer and winter examinations of 2017, 2018 and 2019.Statutory members have demanded thorough probe into the incident questioning how confidential NU documents could be found lying on road.Senate member Pravin Udapure brought the matter to the notice of NU officials after which the authorities swung into action. He sent pictures of answer books lying on road to the Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable, who sought explanation from the contractor Subhash Trading Company, which has its godown in Telipura in city. There were rumours that some answer books were also found at Mouda, but the BOEE director rejected the claims.“We have asked the contractor to furnish reply within three days as to how the answer books, which are supposed to be confidential documents, were found on road,” Sable told TOI.The answer books were sold last year to the contractor as he had submitted highest bid for the scrap. Such tenders are issued every four years to reduce the scrap which gets accumulated at the exam section. It is learnt that the contractor in turn sells it to paper mills for recycling. Usually, the contractor sells the scrap to Raipur-based Lohia Paper Mills or Erol Mills in Tumsar. The answer books, found on road, are believed to be heading to Raipur.The BOEE director said multi-wheel trailer of the concerned mill was transporting the answer sheets in sealed sacks. On the way, ropes tying the sacks broke resulting in the answer sheets falling on the road, he said.“Though those documents are no longer NU’s responsibility, we still sought explanation from the contractor. There’s nothing to worry as those are two year old papers. As per rules, it’s mandatory for us to keep answer books for one year. We still have 2020 papers.”According to Sable, the procedure to sell the scrap got delayed this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. “Subhash Trading Company took over 20 truck full of answer books from the exam section after bagging the contract. The answer books are packed in 50kg plastic sacks before transportation. Our officials follow the trucks till the godown to avoid such incidents,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-answer-books-found-on-highway-sparks-outrage/articleshow/80885856.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 13, 2021||Meerut||Body of farmer found with throat slit in his own farm||Muzaffarnagar: The body of a 32-year-old farmer, whose throat had been slit with a sharp weapon, was found abandoned in his farm in UP’s Muzaffarnagar district. The victim had left for his field on Thursday evening, but when he did not return by late night, the family alerted police. On Friday morning, his body was recovered from the field on the outskirts of the village, lying in a pool of blood.According to sources, Khushnood, a resident of Hujumnagar village under Shahpur police station, had gone missing on Thursday. His family launched a search drive late that night but to no avail. On Friday morning, a passerby spotted his body in his farm, and alerted police.On receiving the information, a team from Shahpur police station rushed to the spot and launched an investigation, after sending the body for postmortem. According to superintendent of police (rural) Atul Kumar Srivastava, “Khushnood had left for his farm on Thursday evening. His body was found on Friday morning in his farm. A case has been registered in the matter. Further inquiry is on.” According to police sources, a team has been formed to investigate the matter, and they have already interrogated several people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/body-of-farmer-found-with-throat-slit-in-his-own-farm/articleshow/80885861.cms||Mohd Dilshad
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||‘Schools in slums could open in April’||TIFR dean Dr Sandeep Juneja has suggested schools could have a staggered opening in the city. In areas such as Dharavi where the infection peaked early and has ebbed to zero cases on some days, schools could reopen in April. Higher percentage of people living in slums had antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 than those in buildings, according to the two sero surveys done in Mumbai. “Perhaps, schools could reopen in slum pockets not only because there is herd immunity in these pockets, but also because many children living here cannot access online education. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/schools-in-slums-could-open-in-april/articleshow/80887438.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Kin of stranded workers stop NTPC CMD from getting out of car to review rescue ops||yyTapovan: Family members of the personnel stranded inside the tunnel in Tapovan, who have been camping at the flood-ravaged site for close to a week now, did not let NTPC CMD Gurmeet Singh come out of his vehicle when he visited the place to review rescue efforts on Friday. Upset with the delay in breaching the tunnel, the agitators surrounded Singh’s car and raised slogans. The protest lasted around 30 minutes, after which police and rescue vehicles were allowed to pass. Singh had to return without visiting the site. Family members alleged that the power corporation’s approach was ‘insensitive.’ “NTPC didn’t provide the required machinery for rescue operations, even as those stranded inside the tunnel continue to lose crucial time. We are desperate for any news of our family members. We come here everyday but are disappointed,” said Aman Kumar from UP’s Saharanpur, whose 23-year-old brother, an NTPC employee, is stranded in the tunnel. The family members of stranded persons had raised these concerns on Thursday also, when Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya had visited the site. Meanwhile, NTPC assured it is making best efforts to rescue stranded workers. “NTPC Tapovan team has shared the layout of the tunnel with rescue teams of ITBP, NDRF and SDRF. Besides, a dedicated team of experienced engineers is coordinating with the agencies round the clock,” said the firm in a communique. It added that NTPC has set up medical camps at Tapovan as well as a Public Information Centre (PIC) for family members of missing persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kin-of-stranded-workers-stop-ntpc-cmd-from-getting-out-of-car-to-review-rescue-ops/articleshow/80885912.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||Stress on e-class vigil to curb trafficking||Kolkata: A 14-year-old girl going missing from Usthi in South 24 Parganas, after a trafficker trapped her through a video calling facility — when she told her parents she was attending online classes — has led NGOs to wonder if parental guidance is needed for minors attending online classes. In another case, a minor was almost married off to a “teacher” whom the family had first seen on another online video calling app. NGOs working against trafficking and child marriage claimed the new method of holding classes — in the absence of Swayamsiddha project, where girls were tracked by their peers in school — was proving to be a huge challenge. The NGOs now plan to write to the Election Commission asking that during the polls, the focus be kept as much on organized crime, like trafficking, as law and order. “In several missing cases, the investigating officer was transferred at the 11th hour, putting in jeopardy the possible rescue of the minor,” said a senior official of an NGO. According to Rishi Kant from NGO Shakti Vahini, the family of the trafficked child in Usthi had thought she was busy with her lessons. The person named as the prime accused later turned out to be a political leader against whom there are at least two cases of trafficking. “The traffickers are clearly trying to take advantage of the police getting busy with the polls,” said Kant. In the other incident, the NGO International Justice Mission intervened to stop the wedding of a 14-year-old student of Class VII who the residents of a Ghutiari Sharif village claimed was in a “relationship” with a 20-year-old boy. It was only through the local village child protection committee — trained by IJM — that the wedding could be stopped. “The two kept in touch over phone. With the Swayamsiddha project stalled due to the pandemic, training of VLCPC members, including minors, can do the trick,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stress-on-e-class-vigil-to-curb-trafficking/articleshow/80887152.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||12-yr-old steal gold from home under blackmagic, 2 held||Mumbai: Two men have been arrested for allegedly intimidating a 12-year-old under the guise of using black magic and making him steal valuables from his house in Vasai. The boy's mother was shocked to find a bunch of lemons instead of jewellery worth Rs 15 lakh in the cupboard. Unaware of her son’s role in the disappearance of the valuables she filed a complaint with the Vasaigaon police on Wednesday. Cops found the boy’s behaviour suspicious and questioned him. He confessed that he had taken the jewellery over a period of a month and replaced them with lemons. The boy revealed the names of two men Asif Memon (18) and Maqsood Ansari (48) who told him that his parents were likely to face some grave trouble and asked him to replace the gold with lemons as part of black magic ritual.  The boy had befriended Memon and told him about his family problem and Memon took him to meet Ansari, who supposedly performed miracles. Ansari told the boy to steal whatever he could lay his hands on. Police arrested the duo under relevant IPC sections. They are in police custody. A part of the jewellery has been recovered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/12-yr-old-steal-gold-from-home-under-blackmagic-2-held/articleshow/80889564.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Meerut||35-year-old man arrested for attempting to rape 14-year-old girl||PILIBHIT: A 35-year-old man and his unidentified colleague were booked and arrested on Thursday night for attempting to rape a 14-year-old minor girl in a village under Jahanabad police station. The accused and the survivor belong to different religions. According to the victim’s mother, her daughter had visited the clinic of a local doctor with her cousin sister to fetch medicine at 7pm on February 9. On her way back, she was accosted by the accused, Lalta Prasad (35) in front of his house. He gave her Rs 160 and grabbed her with the help of his unidentified colleague. The frightened cousin ran back home to raise the alarm. The accused carried the minor girl to the attic of his house where they attempted to rape her. When the girl started to scream for help, the two men released her after threatening to kill her if she disclosed the matter to anyone, the mother alleged, adding that Lalta however hoped to continue the liaison and offered her another Rs 500 on condition that she willingly reaches his house another day. SHO Harish Vardhan said the two accused were booked under sections 354 (applying force to a woman to outrage her modesty), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and appropriate sections of the POCSO Act. Police have sent Lalta to jail and are searching for his unidentified colleague, he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/35-year-old-man-arrested-for-attempting-to-rape-14-year-old-girl/articleshow/80885882.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||99% result forces NU to increase PG seats by 20% in private colleges||NAGPUR: For students who failed to get a postgraduate seat in Nagpur University colleges, here’s a welcome development. The NU administration on Friday issued a notification allowing its affiliated colleges to increase their intake capacity by 20%, said pro-vice chancellor Sanjay Dudhe. TOI on January 30 had first reported about NU’s move to increase PG seats after it received over 6,200 applications for nearly 2,700 seats for colleges in city, including its 40 departments on campus. The university, however, restricted the increase in seats only for four courses which had received an overwhelming response from the students during previous rounds of admission. It included MSc, MCom, MCom (Prof) and MSW, according to admission process coordinator Prof GS Khadekar. “We have allowed 412 additional seats for MSc, 668 for MCom, 48 for MCom (Professional) and 247 for MSW course,” he said, adding that those would be filled on merit. A notification issued by deputy registrar Raman Madane from the College Section on NU website informed that a special round would be conducted for admissions to fill up these 1,375 seats. NU officials told TOI that other courses like MA would be included in the next few days. Quoting the pro-VC, TOI had reported how the unprecedented results this year led to a sharp rise in the number of applicants. Thanks to the failed experimentation of online examination on mobile, NU recorded an unbelievable 99% result for the first time in its history of nearly 100 years. Out of 66,997 examinees, 52,059 cleared all their papers and 953 failed the exams, as per the RTI reply provided by NU to activist Abhay Kolarkar. The other results were either withheld or not declared. NU officials disclosed that a majority of students cleared the papers with flying colours and even those who had been failing for the last 8-10 years were passed. The colleges played a major role in clearing all its backlog students, as NU had entrusted the entire responsibility of conducting exams on their respective managements but failed to monitor them. The demand for increasing the seats was first raised by Management Council member Vishnu Changde on January 29, who requested the administration to extend the deadline. His resolution was then placed before the Academic Council meeting that granted its nod. “However, the private colleges were upset with NU’s move to conduct admissions as they want to admit students directly by allegedly selling the seats at premium,” NU officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/99-result-forces-nu-to-increase-pg-seats-by-20-in-pvt-colleges/articleshow/80885903.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||Contact BJP if DISCOM tries to snap power supply: Chandrashekhar Bawankule||NAGPUR: Chandrashekhar Bawankule, BJP general secretary and former energy minister, has warned the state government against disconnecting power consumers, who have not paid their bills. Bawankule announced that if Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) staffers tried to disconnect anybody then he or she should contact BJP workers, who would come to their rescue. Addressing a press conference on Friday, Bawankule claimed that MSEDCL had sent disconnection notices to 45 lakh farmers and 30 lakh residential and commercial consumers. “BJP will soon launch a statewide agitation against the tyranny of MSEDCL. The schedule is being chalked out,” he said. “In my five years as energy minister, I had not disconnected a single farmer. But this government is no better than Mughals. The farmers don’t have money to pay power bills. The government has not compensated them for crop losses. If a farmer is disconnected now, his rabi crop will be destroyed,” said the BJP leader. On rising fuel prices, Bawankule asked new state Congress president Nana Patole to meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and ask him to not levy Rs 38 per litre as state tax on petrol. “Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has taken several unpopular decisions and there is tremendous discontent against it. To divert the attention of the people, leaders like Patole criticize the central government,” said Bawankule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/contact-bjp-if-discom-tries-to-snap-power-supply-bawankule/articleshow/80885888.cms||Ashish Roy
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra won’t start second dose to health workers before Monday||MUMBAI: The state will not start administering the second Covid-19 vaccine dose to healthcare workers until next week. Public health officials on Friday said they were awaiting instructions from the Centre about how to begin the second round of vaccination that was to start from February 13, Saturday. The second dose of the vaccine is supposed to be given at a minimum interval of 28 days after the first one. The nationwide vaccination drive started on January 16. On the first day, 18,582 healthcare workers had taken the vaccine in Maharashtra, including 1,926 from the city. Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, said the second dose drive could tentatively start from February 15. “The second dosage, in all probability, may start from Monday onwards. But we are awaiting instructions from the Centre on how to begin and other aspects. Till we get a go-ahead, we will not start giving the second dose,” he said. WHO’s recent recommendation that the second dose should be in an interval of 8-12 weeks for optimal efficacy has further added to the confusion on ground since it is being given after an interval of four weeks in India. In Mumbai, civic officials said they too will wait till further orders from the Centre and state. “There is this whole debate about the interval of the second dose. We will start only when we have a clear signal from the state and Centre and not on February 13,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer. “In fact, the minimum gap is 28 days, but it can be given beyond that time frame too. So, one shouldn’t worry about the efficacy.” Several healthcare workers are believed to have made inquiries with their local ward offices about the schedule of the second dose. Gomare said people will receive calls and text messages asking them to visit the vaccination centres. About the WHO recommendation, Dr Om Srivastava, a task force member, said there have been discussions on what could be the most optimal time interval. On Friday, the state completed vaccinating over 1 lakh frontline workers, a category that far outnumbered healthcare workers in the state as well as city. Turnout across the state saw a marginal jump with 40,000 taking the vaccine, including, 16,988 healthcare workers and 23,012 frontliners. Overall, the state has finished vaccinating 6.48 lakh of the 17 lakh registered from both categories. Of that, 5.35 lakh are health workers and 1.12 lakh are frontliners. In Mumbai, 61% of the intended beneficiaries took the vaccine on Friday. Of the 10,400 recipients scheduled for the day, 6,361 took the vaccine. The turnout for healthcare workers was 51% while that for frontliners was 70%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-wont-start-second-dose-to-health-workers-before-mon/articleshow/80888554.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Give subsidised power to parks or pay higher tax: SDMC to discoms||New Delhi: South Delhi Municipal Corporation has demanded that power distribution companies should give electricity connection to parks at subsidised rates meant for agricultural use. All transformers, offices, etc, of these companies will otherwise be charged taxes on commercial rates, it has warned the discoms. The proposal is part of the civic body’s annual budget for financial year 2021-22. “It is proposed that power companies should charge the electricity bills on agriculture rates instead of current commercial rates. If they do not comply then taxes on all the transformers situated on municipal land, ground rents of their buildings and house tax will be taken on commercial rates,” the budget states. The south corporation runs 6,802 municipal parks, which are spread over four administrative zones—South, Central, West and Najafgarh. The leader of the House, Narendra Chawla who presented the proposal, said that it was unfair that they were made to pay electricity bills for parks on commercial rates. “Services at parks are not being offered for commercial gains. Parks are a kind of public service and these are mostly located in residential areas and colonies. We are made to pay hefty bills as submersible pumps, floodlights and other streetlights are used in these parks,” he added. Chawla said that the distribution companies could charge commercial rates for parks where ticket fee was being taken but not for general parks. There are only two parks under SDMC where ticket fee is taken—Waste-to-Wonder Park in Sarai Kale Khan and a children’s park in Greater Kailash. Meanwhile, the civic body is developing Bharat Darshan Park in Punjabi Bagh where waste and scrap are being used to create replicas of Indian monuments. Visitors are likely to be charged an entry fee here as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/give-subsidised-power-to-parks-or-pay-higher-tax-sdmc-to-discoms/articleshow/80888475.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Pune||Pune: Prabhat Road residents write to PMO over road-widening plan||PUNE: A group of Prabhat Road residents from Lane Number 3 and adjoining bylanes have started sending individual letters to the Prime Minister’s Office objecting to the municipal corporation’s plan to widen their streets to nine metres. Forty-eight residents from bungalows and housing societies have filed an official objection letter against the proposed widening with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). But most of them feel that the issue needs to be escalated at every possible forum. “I have submitted my individual objection letter to the PMO and have got an acknowledgement. Soon, at least 100 residents from our area will write to the PMO,” Vishnu Ranade, the secretary of the Saraswati housing society, Prabhat Road, Lane No. 3, told TOI. Ranade is spearheading the campaign. Former CM Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday had justified the road-widening move stating that the BJP-run PMC’s standing committee had initiated it on his directive. But he asserted that the final call, after hearing the objections, would be taken based on the “collective wisdom”. Fadnavis told reporters that the proposal was necessitated after the imposition of the cap on the utilisation of the Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) on six-metre roads and since the PMC’s Development Plan (DP) was finalised beforehand. “The DPs of all other cities were finalised during my tenure. We made it a point to incorporate widening of six-metre roads to nine metres in the DPs of all other cities in Maharashtra. Unfortunately, Pune was left out as its DP was prepared before our policy decision. Hence, we had to initiate this proposal for Pune,” Fadnavis said. He said if the PMC continued to grant TDR on six-metre roads, it would lead to “concrete jungles” along narrow lanes. “As and when a property owner approaches for redevelopment, only then s/he will be asked to give a setback of one-and-a-half metres. When this redevelopment process gets completed on either side of the lane, eventually the lane will become nine metres wide. Since the widening will not be forced upon, the actual widening process may take a year, or two years or five years or even 10 years,” Fadnavis said, adding “eventually it will happen”. When pointed out that this was exactly why hundreds of citizens of Pune had objected to the proposal, Fadnavis said, “Pune is a city of intellectuals, thinkers and planners. Hence, there can be different views about this proposal.” He said, “I agree PMC must have received many objections and there can be various views about it. Not all views can get accommodated, but in a democracy, the emphasis must be on accommodating the common wisdom. I am confident that the PMC will give a thought to all the objections received and will take the right call.” While many residents from Prabhat Road and the Deccan Gymkhana area on Friday appreciated Fadnavis’ assurance, they said they were worried over the way the civic body was rushing through the proposal and an oral assurance was not enough. There is no guarantee that the road would not get widened after two years from now once it gets earmarked as a nine-metre road, they stressed. “Notices for in-person hearings are being issued by PMC with less than 24-hour time to appear before the PMC authorities. Our colony residents, mostly senior citizens, are being asked to appear in front of the PMC authorities without proper notice and counselling, and are traumatised,” Ranade said in the letter to the PMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prabhat-rd-residents-write-to-pmo-over-road-widening-plan/articleshow/80887183.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad no. 4 in funding via electoral bonds||HYDERABAD: An independent analysis done by Association of Democratic Reforms (ADR) has revealed that Hyderabad was fourth among cities with Rs 866 crore raised through electoral bonds between March 2018 and January 2021 in 15 phases. Mumbai (Rs 2,022 cr), Kolkata (Rs 1,527 cr) and Delhi (Rs 954 cr) occupied the top three spots. The electoral bond scheme introduced by BJP-led NDA government at the Centre in 2018 allows citizens and corporate houses to buy these bonds with State Bank of India, which are similar to bank notes, and donate them to a political party. A total of Rs 1,164 crore worth bonds were raised from other cities apart from these four cities. The bonds are sold in the denomination of Rs 1 lakh, Rs 10 lakh and Rs 1 crore. However, there is no information as to which political party had received how much money from the cities. In a Right to Information reply, the SBI told ADR that 12,924 electoral bonds worth Rs 6,534 crore were raised from March 2018 to January 2021. The highest value of bonds — Rs 2,256 crore — were sold in April 2019 and Rs 1,365 crore in March 2019 before the general elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-no-4-in-funding-via-electoral-bonds/articleshow/80889585.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chennai||Consider people with disabilities as priority group for Covid jab, Madras HC tells Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Friday asked the Tamil Nadu government to ascertain whether it could consider including people with disabilities as a priority group for vaccination against Covid-19. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observation on a public interest writ petition filed by disability rights activist Meenakshi Balasubramanian on Friday. Meenakshi justified her demand on the ground that people with disabilities, due to their unique characteristics, are incapable of maintaining physical distancing, wearing masks and added that mortality among people with disabilities is reported to be higher than others. “People with disabilities face three increased risks with devastating consequences – the risk of contracting Covid-19, developing severe symptoms from Covid-19 or dying from the disease as well as having poorer health during and after the pandemic whether or not they are infected,” the petitioner said. Visually impaired people are more reliant on their sense of touch, which is one of the major ways of the virus transmission, and this puts the group at a higher risk, she added. Similarly, wearing masks is not an option for those with cerebral palsy, autism or any developmental disability as it is not an object they are used to and drooling makes masks unusable, the petitioner pointed out. These apart, people with disabilities are at higher risk of contracting the virus also since they require close contact with others to care for their personal needs, she said. Noting that countries such as Australia, UK, US have already included people with disabilities to their priority list for the vaccine administration, she said, even the roadmap released by the WHO for prioritising use of vaccines in the context of limited supply has classified people with disabilities as a priority group. In India, considering all these aspects, Bihar’s directorate of people with disabilities department has requested the health department to consider the group as highly vulnerable, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/consider-people-with-disabilities-as-priority-group-for-c-jab-hc-tells-tn/articleshow/80887166.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Khar man gets 15 yrs’ RI for cheating, having sex with minor||Mumbai: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court this week convicted and sentenced a 27-year-old Khar man to 15 years’ rigorous imprisonment after he had sex with a 17-year-old girl on the false pretext of marrying her and cheated her of cash and gold worth Rs 8 lakh in 2017-18. The accused had “borrowed” money from the minor for his mother’s medical treatment and later for his aunt’s wedding, and then deserted her. The court said he took advantage of the minor’s trust. “He not only committed illicit penetrative sexual assault but also took cash and gold ornaments under the false promise of marriage, went away to his native place and blocked the number of prosecutrix. From evidence produced on record, the accused intended to cheat the complainant from inception,” the court said. Relying on the minor’s statement, the court said there was no reason for her to falsely implicate him. The accused claimed the sex was consensual. The court, however, said. “Consent of a minor is no consent in the eyes of law. Moreover, the prosecutrix specifically states that she consented as accused promised to marry her.” Besides charges of rape and penetrative sexual assault, he was also found guilty of cheating. The girl deposed that she got acquainted with the man as she frequented a hukkah parlour where he worked. She said common friends introduced them. The girl stated that they fell in love and met frequently. In March 2017, after he told her he needed Rs50,000 as his mother was unwell, she said she gave him her mother’s 50gm gold chain. She alleged that in June, 2017, he called her home and had sex with her, promising marriage. In August, 2017, he again asked for Rs 8 lakh for his aunt’s marriage. When the girl initially expressed inability, he emotionally blackmailed her, so she handed over four gold bangles of 10gm each and a 40gm gold necklace. The minor borrowed Rs 2 lakh from her cousin and took Rs 2 lakh from the family safe. The accused then went to his village and started avoiding her and blocked her number. The minor confided in her mother in January 2018. Subsequently, the mother went to police and an FIR was lodged. The accused was traced and arrested. The mother deposed that she handed over receipts of jewellery purchase to police. She said cash was lying at home as her husband had to pay labourers for the family business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/khar-man-gets-15-yrs-ri-for-cheating-having-sex-with-minor/articleshow/80887159.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Mishap-preventing agency still remains under-staffed||NAGPUR: The directorate of industrial safety and health — the agency which prevents mishaps in factories remains an under-staffed organization. Lack of manpower has hampered inspection of units which can help in pointing out safety lapses, said sources. Inspections are carried out by officials of assistant and deputy directors’ rank. The qualification is an engineering degree and five years of experience in safety maintenance in industries. Sources said there are none holding the post of the assistant director throughout the state in the organization. More than fifty positions of deputy director are also vacant. Assistant directors take up inspections of smaller factories. In the absence of assistant directors, deputy directors take up inspections, irrespective of the scale of the unit, said sources. In Vidarbha, there are offices in Nagpur and Akola. Nagpur has three deputy directors as against a sanctioned strength of five. In Akola the same person is the deputy as well as joint director. This means the officer has to act as a one man army covering all the units in western Vidarbha, sources said. Lack of manpower leaves the existing personnel thinly spread. Backlog of inspections has become normal. Changes to ensure ease of doing business has also been done away with the discretion of the local officers. Since last four years, inspections are happening through a centralized system. The industries to be inspected are selected by the centralized unit (Mumbai) to be allotted to the offices down the line, said a source. Regular inspections are pushed back in case of accidents which have to be investigated. Big mishaps like the one in Wardha take a longer time, said sources, who did not wish to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mishap-preventing-agency-still-remains-under-staffed/articleshow/80885918.cms||Shishir Arya
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||Heat burst of 200 degree Celsius injures Uttam Galva workers||NAGPUR: It was a heat burst of 200 degree Celsius for a merely a second that left 38 workers at Uttam Galva’s plant injured. A week after the incident, a team of safety audit experts from Mumbai are carrying out an inspection at the steel plant near Wardha where the incident took place. The preliminary findings, however, point out that a sudden heat flame hit the workers who were engaged in the maintenance of the blast furnace. The furnace was closed for maintenance. Sources part of the investigation said this appears to be one of its kind incident. A source said sediments of molten metal get deposited on wall of the furnace. “Even as it is part of the procedure to clean it, it cannot be physically confirmed that the sediments have been cleaned entirely. This is because of the excessive heat even after the furnace is shut. No electronic device too works due to the high temperature,” a source said. The furnace is as tall as a two-three storey building. The workers were cleaning the outlets meant for hot air to pass below from the outer side. At this time, the sediments fell from the inner walls. They fell on the layer of coke which also had high temperature. This generated a flame for a second which escaped through the outlets that were being cleaned. Workers cleaning the outlets sustained injuries. The flame lasted mere of a second, source said. However, this is a only an initial assumption. A final report will be only put up after the inspection by the expert committee, source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/heat-burst-of-200-deg-c-injured-uttam-galva-workers/articleshow/80885911.cms||Shishir Arya
February 13, 2021||Chennai||Vaccine centres have busy day as 15,800 drop in to take shot||Chennai: Vaccination centres in the state had their busiest day yet on Friday when 15,856 people took the shots against Covid-19 from 626 centres across the state. Meanwhile, 483 fresh cases and six deaths pushed the state’s case tally to 8,44,173 and death toll to 12,408. There were 4,285 active cases. The state revised its record for most vaccinations in a day for the second consecutive day by adding 1,486 more recipients than Thursday. With this, the recipient tally in the state became 2,27,340 — 1.9 lakh were healthcare workers, 19,405 frontline workers and 9,789 police personnel. Meanwhile, fresh cases continued to see a marginal increase since February 9. Barring Ariyalur, Dharmapuri and Tirupattur, all other districts reported new infections on Friday. Six districts — Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Ranipet, Thanjavur and Theni — reported one death each. All six who died of Covid-19 were above 50 years of age, two of them had no comorbid conditions. On Friday, Chennai topped the charts with 142 cases and Coimbatore came next with 45 cases, 18 districts reported a single digit increase. After discharging 486 people, the state’s recovery rate went up to 98%. Together the 11 northern districts reported 263 new cases and two deaths. The Chennai region (Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet) reported 219 new cases and one death. After the north, the eight western districts together reported 92 cases and one death. The ten southern districts reported 69 cases and central districts 59 cases. With eight people under treatment, active cases were the lowest in Perambalur followed by Ariyalur and Ramanathapuram with nine each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vaccine-centres-have-busy-day-as-15800-drop-in-to-take-shot/articleshow/80887192.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Pune||New policy will facilitate mafia-builder culture: MNS||Pune: Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) on Friday said the civic body’s road-widening plan would facilitate “mafia-builder” culture in the city because builders’ lobby would put pressure on small plot owners, whose land would be rendered non-buildable, to amalgamate their plots to pave way for high-rises.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s executive engineer, Prasanna Joshi, on Friday gave an official hearing to a delegation of MNS, led by Ajay Shinde. The party had earlier submitted an official objection to the road-widening move.During the hearing, Shinde demanded that the civic body should revert to the earlier policy of allowing utilisation of the Transfer of Development Right (TDR) on six-metre-wide roads.Shinde said, “We fear that the provision of allowing the utilisation of the TDR only on nine-metre roads would eventually lead to the mafia exerting pressure on small plot owners for amalgamating their land.”In a written memorandum submitted to Joshi, the MNS questioned the statements and assurances given by the BJP leaders stating that the nine-metre road-widening would “only remain on paper and would not be forced on citizens”.“We fail to understand how the BJP state chief, Chandrakant Patil, and other leaders give such an assurance and simultaneously claim that the roads are being widened as per the state guidelines,” Shinde said in the memorandum.BJP leaders Ujjwal Keskar and Suhas Kulkarni, and former corporator Prashant Badhe questioned the legal validity of the hearing process, arguing that as per the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, the hearing should be conducted by the municipal commissioner or an officer designated by him.“The PMC engineer who conducted our hearing could not produce any authorisation letters,” Keskar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-policy-will-facilitate-mafia-builder-culture-mns/articleshow/80887187.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 13, 2021||Meerut||Prez confers gallantry award on Agra farmer who saved 20 lives||Agra: When a letter with the Government of India insignia addressed to Nihal Singh, 27, was delivered at his house, he was taken aback. As it was in English, he sought help with translation. The letter was from home secretary Ajay Bhalla, congratulating him for being conferred with the ‘Jeevan Raksha Padak’ by President Ram Nath Kovind. As tears streamed down his cheeks, news spread like wildfire at his Chougaan Baghel Ki Thar village under Etmadpur police jurisdiction. People gathered to laud him for saving 20 passengers on board a state roadways bus that fell from a bridge into a narrow drain on Yamuna Expressway on July 8, 2019. Twenty-nine passengers were killed in that accident. Since receipt of the letter, life has not been the same for this marginal farmer. Speaking with TOI on Friday, Nihal Singh said he was working in his field and was jolted by a loud crashing sound. He rushed to the spot and saw people trapped in the bus. Showing presence of mind, he jumped into the drain, broke open a window to enter the bus. He was able to open the jammed door to help the injured passengers to get out. “I was fortunate to be able to save the lives of at least 20 passengers. I am very happy about being chosen for the national award,” said this shy braveheart.The entire village is proud of Nihal, said his father, Ram Singh. Nihal Singh is the youngest of six siblings. His three older brothers work as labourers in Delhi-NCR while two of his sisters are married. He has four children, including twin daughters. According to the letter, the Jeevan Raksha Padak comprises a medal, certificate and lump sum monetary allowance, which will be presented to him on behalf of the President by the government of Uttar Pradesh. Jeevan Raksha Padak awards, an offshoot of the Ashoka Chakra series of Gallantry awards, were instituted in 1961. It is awarded to civilians for displaying “courage and promptitude in saving life under circumstances of grave bodily injury to the rescuer”. While the award has capitulated him to fame, Nihal wondered if it could help him financially. “I would like to request the government to help me get a job. I will put my best effort into serving people. I am a small farmer and not able to take proper care of my family,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/prez-confers-gallantry-award-on-agra-farmer-who-saved-20-lives/articleshow/80885923.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Pune||Shravan Hardikar appointed Pune IGR, Rajesh Patil new PCMC chief||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar on Friday was appointed the Inspector General of Registration and Controller of Stamps for Pune division. Hardikar will be replaced as PCMC chief by Odisha cadre IAS officer Rajesh Patil, who could take charge on Monday. In other transfers, S Chockalingam, the state settlement commissioner and director of land records, was appointed the director-general of the Yashwantrao Chavan Academy of Development Administration (YASHADA) in Pune; N K Sudhanshu, who was on central deputation, will be the new state settlement commissioner and director of land records; and Prerana Deshbhratar, commissioner of the disability welfare cell, has been transferred as Wardha district collector. Hardikar assumed charge of the PCMC on April 27, 2017. Hardikar told TOI the focus of his roughly three-and-a-half-year tenure had been on strengthening the city’s infrastructure. “Issues like waste management, water supply, sewage, mobility improvement, new health infrastructure, and starting new economic activities were some of the aspects that I laid emphasis on,” he said. Hardikar said the only regret he has during his tenure as municipal commissioner was that he could not do more for slum rehabilitation. “This city belongs to the poor as much as it does the rich. But still, there are many who live in extreme poverty. We were going to start a few slum rehabilitation projects,” Hardikar said. He conceded that working towards Covid-19 mitigation was challenging in the initial days of the pandemic due to the unavailability of knowledge on the subject. “We worked very hard, all of us, and performed better in restricting the spread of the contagion. I still wish I could have saved more lives,” he said. Senior police officers transferred Deputy commissioner of police Srinivas Ghadge was on Friday posted in the Pune police crime branch. Ghadge replaces outgoing DCP (crime) Bachchan Singh. Singh’s new posting is awaited. The state government on Friday issued a transfer order of seven senior police officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hardikar-appointed-pune-igr-rajesh-patil-new-pcmc-chief/articleshow/80887206.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Extracting floodplain water: How deep is deep enough?||NEW DELHI: While Delhi government has announced it will extract an additional 55 million gallons per day (MGD) of water from the floodplain to augment supply, experts have cautioned not to go beyond the natural storage capacity of the floodplain, which may lead to long-term depletion. However, most experts have also welcomed the move, pointing out that a floodplain can store plenty of additional water. Vikram Soni, professor emeritus at JNU in 2007, had estimated that over 50MGD water could be extracted from the Yamuna floodplain, which would get recharged normally. “The floodplain gets recharged each year during the monsoon at which point about 100 million cubic metre is available for extraction. While this cannot be withdrawn in one go, the project will not only increase daily availability of water for Delhi but will also act as an emergency store,” Soni had said. The proposal was revived in 2016, and steps were taken in the following years to utilise water that gets naturally stored in the Palla floodplain. Soni, in a letter to Delhi Jal Board (DJB), had said “sandy river aquifers of the Yamuna are 5-20km wide and can be between 40m and 100m deep. More than a third of this volume is water. Since most of the southern floodplain is encroached upon, the relatively free northern floodplain from Burari till Palla is being conserved and used for the Yamuna floodplain project”. He added, “At rates charged by water tankers — Rs 1,500 for 10 litre or 10 cubic metre — it has a value of Rs 1,500 crore a year.” Water activist Diwan Singh, who had worked on the proposal with Soni, said caution should, however, be exercised. “The soil in the floodplain is extremely porous and can hold a lot of water. But there is a limit and, if additional water is withdrawn, the recharge will be lesser than what is being extracted. We are, however, glad that the recharge capacity is being put to use,” said Singh. Warning against overuse, Shashank Shekhar, assistant professor of Delhi University’s geology department, said, “While the initial estimate for Palla was 35MGD, this was increased to 60MGD. Similarly, we have to ensure scientific studies are carried out at each location to determine the capacity of water it can hold and slightly less than that should be extracted.” Water minister and DJB chairman Satyendar Jain tweeted on Thursday that 55MGD groundwater would be extracted through tubewells from 10 water/sewage treatment plants situated on the floodplain. “A population of 22 lakh people will benefit from this initiative,” he had said. A senior DJB official assured that “the levels will be constantly monitored by installing piezometers. There is no scope of overuse”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/extracting-floodplain-water-how-deep-is-deep-enough/articleshow/80888740.cms||Paras Singh
February 13, 2021||Pune||Cold spell on exit route, Shivajinagar coolest spot in Maharashtra||PUNE: The recent cold spell for the city may be on its way out, as the minimum temperature is steadily rising after touching its lowest for the month at 8.6C. India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday forecast that the city’s minimum temperature would touch 15-16C b February 17. On Friday, Shivajinagar recorded 11.9C as its minimum temperature. It was the lowest minimum temperature in Maharashtra. The lowest minimum temperature in Lohegaon was 14.9C. The IMD forecast that the minimum temperatures could range from 13-14C in Shivajinagar, 14C in Pashan and 15-16C in Lohegaon till February 16.Nashik usually records cooler mornings than Pune during winter. However, at 12C, Nashik’s minimum temperature was a tad higher than Pune (Shivajinagar) on Friday. The IMD also forecast a gradual rise in minimum temperatures by 2-4C over most parts of central India, which includes Maharashtra, during the next 3-4 days and also a steady increase in minimum temperatures by 2-4C over most parts of West India during the next 4-5 days. An IMD official said, “A trough in the low-level easterlies at 0.9km above the mean sea level from central Kerala to Vidarbha across interior Karnataka and Marathwada is causing easterly wind flow in the city. This is causing the cold, dry northerly winds to be cut off from entering into parts of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cold-spell-on-exit-route-shivajinagar-coolest-spot-in-maha/articleshow/80887216.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Pune||Tour operator told to pay Rs 1.66 lakh to Sinhagad Road resident||PUNE: The district consumer court has directed the Gurugram-based Oyo Total Holidays to pay Rs1.66lakh to a Sinhagad Road resident towards compensation, cost of litigation and additional expenses incurred by him on an ‘Amazing Kerala’ tour in December 2019. In an ex parte order on February 9, the bench of consumer court president Umesh V Jawalikar and members Kshitija B Kulkarni and Sangita M Deshmukh held the firm liable for unfair trade practice and consequential deficiency in service, besides acting negligently that resulted in complainant Atul B Kulkarni of Jadhav Nagar in Vadgaon Budruk incurring additional expenses during the tour. Of the total payout, Rs1 lakh is to be paid as compensation, Rs 15,000 towards cost of litigation and Rs 51,134 as refund for additional expenses, all within 30 days from February 9, when the court passed the order. A 9% pa interest will be applicable on the refund amount from January 11, 2020, (when the company had agreed in writing to refund the amount but failed to do so) till it is paid to the litigant, the court said. So far, the interest accrued on Rs51,134 is over Rs4,600. Kulkarni had paid Rs1.38 lakh to Oyo Total Holidays for 11 passengers at Rs12,590 per head for the tour that covered breakfast, accommodation, all transport and sightseeing expenses. While Kulkarni had no complaint regarding the quality of sightseeing executed by the firm, his complaint was about lack of apt transport and accommodation, which resulted in an additional expenditure of Rs51,134. This, he said, amounted to deficient service on the part of the tour operator. The bench proceeded ex parte against the tour operator as it went unrepresented by either lawyer or a written say on the complaint filed by lawyer Shreeram Karandikar on behalf of Kulkarni. It referred to the evidence placed on record by the complainant, including a mail on January 11, 2020, in which the tour operator had conceded that a process for refund of the additional expenditure he incurred had been initiated and he would receive the same soon. However, he did not receive the refund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tour-operator-told-to-pay-rs-1-66-lakh-to-sinhagad-rd-resident/articleshow/80887219.cms||Vishwas Kothari
February 13, 2021||Pune||Man sets wife ablaze; booked||Pune: The Bund Garden police on Thursday booked a 35-year-old unemployed man on the charge of attempting to kill his wife by setting her ablaze on Wednesday. Police said the the incident as the man suspected her of infidelity. Surekha Kusbe (30) sustained 35% burns and is recuperating at Sassoon General Hospital. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-sets-wife-ablaze-booked/articleshow/80887220.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Work on sewers for Anakaputhur, Pammal to begin||CHENNAI: Residents of Pammal and Anakaputhur municipalities will soon get underground sewage connections. Metrowater has been handed over construction of the system after the Chennai River Restoration Trust (CRRT) said sewage from both the localities was draining into the Adyar river and proposed the system that would also help in the ongoing ecological restoration of the river. Construction is expected to begin in about 10 days and is scheduled to be completed in 18 months. Sources in the municipal administration department said the two localities together accounted for more than 26,000 households from where untreated sewage was flowing into the Adyar, contributing largely towards polluting the river. Under the plan for areas falling within Pammal municipality, sewage carrying pipelines will be laid for a distance of 100km and 4,100 manholes will be dug up on the roads. About 19,000 households will benefit from the network in the area that will have four pumping stations and one relay pumping station, an official said. In Anakaputhur, the network of pipes will be 58km long and will include more than 2,200 manholes. While 7,630 households will get sewage connections, four pumping stations and an equal number of relay pumping stations will be set up. Sewage collected from the two localities will be pumped to an integrated plant which will come up under Anakaputhur municipal limits and which will have the capacity to treat 30MLD of sewage, he said. The system, once complete, will not only help the Adyar become cleaner, it is also expected to help improve the groundwater table in the region, the official said. Of the Rs 226.8 crore that the project is estimated to cost, the Anakuputhur arm will get Rs 15.65 crore from the CRRT and Rs 78.80 crore from the Tamil Nadu Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TUFIDCO), while the Pammal portion will get Rs 27.82 crore from CRRT and Rs 104.53 crore from TUFIDCO, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/work-on-sewers-for-anakaputhur-pammal-to-begin/articleshow/80887221.cms||P Oppili
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Safety first: BMC may opt for online auction of properties||Mumbai: With the Covid-19 scare still looming in the city, the BMC is considering online auction of properties in the coming days. Already the civic body’s revenue income from property tax is dipping year after year and therefore various measures are being initiated to increase it in the coming days, one being online auction so that interested bidders do not have to gather at one place. In the current financial year, attachments, auctions and disconnection of water supply were prolonged owing to Covid-19, said BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal in his 2021-22 budget speech earlier this month. Senior civic officials said that while physical auctions may take place on a large ground so that precautionary measures for Covid-19 are followed, like social distancing, but then having an auction online would make it convenient for all the stakeholders. While in 2020-21, the civic body had estimated to collect Rs 6,768 crore from property tax, now the same has been revised to Rs 4,500 crore. So far, the BMC has managed to collect Rs 1,800 crore. Last year (2019-20) the revenue collected from property tax was Rs 3,735 crore even while the estimated target set was over Rs 5,000 crore. BMC officials said that with the lockdown being enforced in March very few people ended up paying their bills. “Every year a bulk of payments happen at the end of March but last year that too did not take place, owing to which the revenue dipped,” said an official. A BMC official said that the property tax bills this year were issued in early December 2020 and residents have three months to pay these. A penalty of 2% would be levied in case of those not paying their bills. “We have already started sending out voice notes via messaging services as a reminder to citizens to pay their property tax. We are therefore putting in place all measures for effective recovery of property tax,” said the official. The BMC this year has attached 3,424 properties of various kinds namely open land, commercial and residential properties and these would be auctioned based on their capital value. — Richa Pinto||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/safety-first-bmc-may-opt-for-online-auction-of-properties/articleshow/80889603.cms||Richa Pinto
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Cong delegation meets CM; asks for safety audit of under-construction hydro projects, survey of glaciers and relocation of villages of disaster prone areas||Dehradun: A Congress delegation headed by former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat and party's state chief Pritam Singh met chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday and suggested him to take some measures to prevent loss of life in natural calamities. In a six-point memorandum, the Congress raised issues of safety audit of the under-construction hydro projects, study and survey of glaciers and its behaviour, back up emergency plans of companies involved in project and relocation of villages of disaster-prone areas. The Congress delegation also expressed its willingness to take up the issues with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Besides, the Congress members also asked CM to convince the NTPC officials to provide jobs to family members of those killed in the natural calamity. Former CM Harish Rawat said, “We noticed some issues during our visit to Raini and Tapovan areas and we have decided to raise them before the CM. We also need to also ask the companies involved in the process about their backup emergency plan. In Raini and Tapovan, we found that there was no back up plan in case of natural disaster and therefore, people got stuck in the tunnel. We cannot stop a natural calamity but can take the required precautions to save lives.” He pointed out that there have been changes in glaciers due to global warming and other issues. “We need to get a survey conducted on glaciers by professional agencies like Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology to study. The study will help Uttarakhand in taking steps which will be useful for the safety of people,” said the former CM. He asserted that it was not an issue of a particular political party but of the entire state and safety of its people. “Therefore, we have requested the CM that we are ready to interact with PM Modi and Amit Shah over the issue. Perhaps, a state government delegation can accompany us,” said Rawat. Congress state chief Pritam Singh said that the CM has been asked to talk to the NTPC authorities to provide jobs to family members of those killed in the natural calamity. “They had gone to the tunnel to work for their projects to meet their financial requirement and the NTPC should provide jobs to their families,” said Singh. The state Congress chief further said that the state government needs to take lessons from the Raini and Tapovan experience. “We found lack of proper coordination at these sites and informed the CM about it. More efforts are required to find those missing in the Chamoli disaster,” said Singh. Meanwhile, CM Rawat said, “A Congress delegation led by former CM Harish Rawat met me on Friday morning and gave some important suggestions. We are already working on them and we welcome the positive move of the Opposition party. The former CM appreciated the fast response to the natural calamity and myself for reaching the spot on the same day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-delegation-meets-cm-asks-for-safety-audit-of-under-construction-hydro-projects-survey-of-glaciers-and-relocation-of-villages-of-disaster-prone-areas/articleshow/80885952.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 13, 2021||Pune||Cops arrest 3 for murder of criminal||Pune: Three men were arrested on Thursday in connection with the murder of a criminal at Kesnand Phata on Wednesday. The criminal, Sachin Shinde, was gunned down by two scooter-borne assailants in front of an ATM. An informant tipped off a constable from the Lonikand police that three men were the likely suspects because of a rivalry with Shinde. The police took Sachin Kisan Shinde (32), Pratamesh Kumar Shinde (20) and Roshankumar Goud (20) into custody. The trio were produced before a magisterial court on Friday and remanded in police custody till February 16. “Goud opened fire at Shinde on the behest of the other arrested, and other conspirators. We are on the lookout for the other conspirators,” assistant inspector Manoj Navsare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-arrest-3-for-murder-of-criminal/articleshow/80887224.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Rinku Sharma's murder in Mangolpuri: Delhi BJP demands action, AAP slams Centre||NEW DELHI: Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Friday visited Mangolpuri to meet the kin of Rinku Sharma, a 25-year-old youth who was assaulted and stabbed by a group of men after being dragged out of his house on Wednesday night. Seeking strict action against the accused, Gupta said, “Rinku Sharma was a Bajrang Dal worker who was also involved in collecting donations for the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. His death has deeply pained me. The accused have been arrested. The matter should be forwarded to a fast-track court and strictest punishment must be given to the culprits.” Gupta demanded that Delhi government give compensation of Rs 1 crore and a government job to one member of Sharma’s family. He also announced that BJP would give Rs 5 lakh to the family and asked Delhi Police to provide security to them. North West Delhi MP Hansraj Hans, who accompanied Gupta, sought the constitution of a special team to investigate the matter. “Since Rinku was the sole breadwinner of the family, everyone should come forward to help them,” he added. Aam Aadmi Party said, “Many such incidents show that the Union home ministry has failed to maintain law and order in the capital. We strongly condemn this gruesome killing and urge MHA to take urgent steps to restore people’s faith in the law and order system in Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-demands-action-aap-slams-centre/articleshow/80888548.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nashik||Cold spell on exit route, Shivajinagar coolest spot in Maharashtra||PUNE: The recent cold spell for the city may be on its way out, as the minimum temperature is steadily rising after touching its lowest for the month at 8.6C. India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday forecast that the city’s minimum temperature would touch 15-16C b February 17. On Friday, Shivajinagar recorded 11.9C as its minimum temperature. It was the lowest minimum temperature in Maharashtra. The lowest minimum temperature in Lohegaon was 14.9C. The IMD forecast that the minimum temperatures could range from 13-14C in Shivajinagar, 14C in Pashan and 15-16C in Lohegaon till February 16.Nashik usually records cooler mornings than Pune during winter. However, at 12C, Nashik’s minimum temperature was a tad higher than Pune (Shivajinagar) on Friday. The IMD also forecast a gradual rise in minimum temperatures by 2-4C over most parts of central India, which includes Maharashtra, during the next 3-4 days and also a steady increase in minimum temperatures by 2-4C over most parts of West India during the next 4-5 days. An IMD official said, “A trough in the low-level easterlies at 0.9km above the mean sea level from central Kerala to Vidarbha across interior Karnataka and Marathwada is causing easterly wind flow in the city. This is causing the cold, dry northerly winds to be cut off from entering into parts of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cold-spell-on-exit-route-shivajinagar-coolest-spot-in-maha/articleshow/80892031.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Pune||Non-disbursal of GST funds to affect state budget: Dy CM||Pune: Deputy chief minister and state finance minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said non-disbursal of GST funds by the Centre would affect the state’s budgetary allocation.With the Centre yet to release the Rs25,000 crore GST share, the budgetary provisions will be curtailed, except for a few sectors, said Pawar. The state budget will be presented in the first week of March. “We will ensure that key departments like health get the required funds, but the allocations will be affected,” he said.He was here for the general budgetary allocation for five districts under the Pune division. Pawar said that the government hasn’t slashed development and district planning committee (DPC) funds.The pandemic-struck state government is expecting a debt burden of Rs 6 lakh crore in its budget. The government is expecting a revenue deficit of Rs 1.13 lakh crore by the end of the financial year. Asked about funds for Pune Metro, he said, “We will do the needful in the budget”. Pawar, however, remained non-committal on the amount.Meanwhile, responding to former CM Devendra Fadnavis’s statement on Thursday that the BJP would retain the PMC, Pawar said, “I will ensure the BJP’s exit in Pune civic polls. We will accept workers from other parties on merit basis and show them before the media at the right time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/non-disbursal-of-gst-funds-to-affect-state-budget-dy-cm/articleshow/80887230.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 13, 2021||Pune||Pune couple to start ‘anti-spitting’ tour to southern India||Pune: A city-based couple and their pet dog will begin a tour to southern India from Sunday to spread the message of “anti-spitting”. The couple, Raja and Priti Narasimhan, have put stickers all over their vehicle with messages spreading awareness of the ills of spitting. “This pandemic has hit us badly and we don’t think we have learnt sufficient lessons. This is our attempt to spread the message of anti-spitting, not just in Pune, but other parts of India as well. To begin with, the ‘Love Your City’ and ‘Love Your Country’ campaign will take off on Sunday, which is also Valentine’s Day,” Raja said. In February, the couple will make day visits to Ahmednagar, Nashik and a other cities in the state. On February 22, they will travel to Thane, in collaboration with a Rotary chapter. From March 3 to March 25, the couple will drive to Kolhapur, heading towards Belgavi, Hubli, Chitradurga, Devanagaree, Bengaluru, and Mysuru in Karnataka, and a few cities in Tamil Nadu. — Swati Shinde Gole||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-couple-to-start-anti-spitting-tour-to-southern-india/articleshow/80887226.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Covaxin picks up pace in Telangana after initial fears||HYDERABAD: After initial fears over Covaxin, about 20,000 frontline workers across various departments took the jab as part of the vaccination drive which concluded on Friday. A few days ago, director of public health Dr G Srinivasa Rao set the vaccine drive in motion by taking the first shot of Covaxin. Since then, about 20,000 workers have taken the vaccine. “In the districts and in Hyderabad, we were able to administer Covaxin vaccine. Its is happening slowly now,” Dr Rao said. Overall, 63% of health care workers received the vaccine. About 33% cent of the nearly 2.56 lakh frontline workers took the shot on the last day (Friday). The state had already received nearly 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin but could not go ahead with administering the vaccine owing to hesitancy among the workers. According to sources, among the frontline workers who were hesitant to take the Covaxin jab were employees of revenue and panchayat raj departments. Employees of departments such as home and municipal administration were more forthcoming. Interestingly, all the workers had submitted consent letters as required for taking the jab. Senior health authorities said they had explained to the workers and officials on the importance of taking the shot and claimed how the vaccine was not harmful. While Delhi and Bihar have begun administering Covaxin some days ago, Telangana took time to roll it out and it picked momentum in the last 3-4 days, officials pointed out. Meanwhile, the medical and health department is making arrangements to administer the vaccine to those who are ready to take it even after the expiry of the deadline. “We are preparing a list of health care workers who are willing to take the jab but had missed out earlier,” a health official said. As the state is heading for administration of second dose for health care workers on Saturday, the total number of beneficiaries (as on Friday) who have been vaccinated stood at 2,77,825.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-picks-up-pace-in-t-after-initial-fears/articleshow/80889601.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Thrashed in row over parking, man kills self in north Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 32-year-old man allegedly died by suicide after his neighbours thrashed him over an argument about parking in north Delhi’s Wazirabad. Police said the deceased, Sahil Gupta (32), got into an argument with his neighbour over improper parking of his car, following which he was thrashed. Gupta, who was suffering from depression according to his father, locked himself up in a room. The father then called the cops, who tried to convince him to open the door, but by then it was too late, as Gupta had taken all the tablets. According to police, the incident occurred on February 8 when Gupta, a vegetable vendor, was standing outside his house with his cart. His neighbour Kamaljeet, a cab driver, parked his car to which Gupta objected. Soon, an argument ensued between them, following which Gupta broke the window of Kamaljeet’s car. Later, Kamaljeet called his brother Amarjeet and the two thrashed him, following which Gupta went and locked himself up in the room. His father, who was aware of his medical condition, immediately informed police. “A police team was sent to the location that tried to convince Gupta to open the door. When the officers tried to open it, Gupta suddenly came out and said he had eaten all the tablets. He was rushed to a hospital, where he later died. A case of abetment to suicide, among other sections, has been registered and the two accused arrested,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/thrashed-in-row-over-parking-man-kills-self-in-n-delhi/articleshow/80888622.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chennai||Pallavaram municipality struggles to handle waste||CHENNAI: Officials representing the Pallavaram municipality have informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that disposing waste accumulated at the local waste transfer station on Thoraipakkam Radial Road will take longer as there is no dumping site nearby and installation of incinerators is pending. Admitting the submissions made by the municipality, the tribunal during a recent hearing observed that it was the responsibility of the Chengalpet district collector and local body to ensure that unscientific disposal of waste doesn’t create public health issues. If not, the district collector will be compelled to appear before the tribunal, it said. The issue of dumping solid waste at the station in Ganapathipuram and roads around was first brought to light by TOI in a report dated September 24, 2020. As complaints from the public went unattended, NGT southern zone took suo motu cognizance of the issue and constituted a joint-committee to look into it. Due to the fault of the concessionaire, the NGT had in January 2021 directed the Pallavaram municipality not to dispose the accumulated waste at Vengadamangalam solid waste management facility. According to official data, around 17,340 tonnes of solid waste was accumulated on the station premises, of which the municipality submitted it has cleared 13,371 tonnes. So the local body approached Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), which later permitted the municipality to dispose of waste at the Perungudi dump yard and subsequently at Kodungaiyur. But private trucks that were engaged to dispose waste to Kodungaiyur, 55km away from Ganapathipuram, were able to clear only 40 tonnes of waste a day because they could make only four trips a day. But the problem is that the daily waste collected from houses and shops in Pallavaram is adding to the pile. At present, of the 104 tonnes daily waste gathered at Ganapathipuram, 30 tonnes are processed at micro-compost centres and the remaining 60-70 tonnes get accumulated at other end. So, clearing 100% accumulated waste would be possible only when the two incinerators proposed at the Vengadamangalam facility are ready, the municipality contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pallavaram-municipality-struggles-to-handle-waste/articleshow/80887231.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 13, 2021||Noida||Rakesh Tikait opposing Budget for the sake of it, says UP minister||GHAZIABAD: UP minister Siddharth Nath Singh on Friday hit back at Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait for criticising the Union Budget while accusing opposition parties of “misguiding farmers”. Singh, a cabinet minister in the Yogi Adityanath government, said of Tikait, “He has not read the Budget and is opposing it for the sake of opposing it.” Tikait had described as “bookish” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s assertion in her Budget speech that the MSP (minimum support price) regime has resulted in farmers getting 1.5 times more than the production cost. “It is all bookish and on paper. All that the Budget will achieve is to make small farmers bonded labourers. They will be offered loans, and to repay it, they will end up selling their land,” Tikait had said after the Budget was presented on February 1. Singh was in Ghaziabad as part of a government outreach to create awareness about the Budget. “Our government’s outreach programme on the Budget is aimed at countering misinformation campaigns, which the opposition has launched against us. Through this, we intend to remove any doubts on the farm bills. The opposition is misguiding farmers and is out to reap political dividends at the cost of farmers’ welfare,” Singh said, adding, “As far as the protests are concerned, the government respects farmers’ right to peaceful protest.” Tikait is leading the sit-in protest at UP Gate on the Ghaziabad-Delhi border, which is part of the larger farmers’ agitation demanding a repeal of the three new central farming laws. Reacting to Singh’s remarks, Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a member of the UP Gate farmers’ committee, said, “This is expected of BJP and this does not surprise us because, all along, this is what they have been doing to discredit our agitation. If the Budget is so good for farmers and the common man, why did the need arise for an outreach programme?” Farmers at UP Gate said they were preparing to participate in the nationwide ‘rail roko’ that the unions have called on February 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/tikait-opposing-budget-for-the-sake-of-it-says-up-minister/articleshow/80889623.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Pune||Cops, forest staff and firemen jump into 8-hr futile search for crocodile in Mutha||Pune: Traffic came to a stand still for several hours and passersby had all the time to stand and stare as officers and staff from the forest and police departments, and fire brigade personnel, along with animal rescue volunteers, spread out on the Mutha riverbed to look for a crocodile that they could not spot even after a hard search for over eight hours. The search operation was near Bhide bridge in Deccan Gymkhana area. A fire tender from Kasba Peth sub-fire station and an ambulance was parked nearby too. The police received two calls about the sighting on Friday afternoon. Senior inspector Murlidhar Karpe from Deccan Gymkhana police station said, “A person claiming to have spotted a crocodile in the Mutha river alerted ResQ Foundation. They shared the information with the police. Forest officials searched the river but there was no trace of the crocodile.” The search started around 12.30pm, a little after the calls came, and went on till 9pm, deputy conservator of forest Rahul Patil said. “However, we don’t have any photographic evidence of the creature as yet. But we can’t take any chances and have decided to continue the operation on Saturday,” Patil told TOI. About 30 forest personnel along with some volunteers carried out an extensive search of the riverbed for about 3km, but did not find any indication of the crocodile, Patil said. PMC’s central fire brigade chief Prashant Ranpise said the garbage floating on the river may have appeared to the callers as a crocodile. The traffic jam on the narrow bridge connecting Deccan Gymkhana and Narayan Peth, caused by curious people standing all along it to spot the crocodile, spilled over to the other roads too. Traffic wardens went around telling people standing on their two-wheelers to watch the rescue party to move on. The crowd became the subject of photographs and video clips. Some women constables manned both ends of the bridge to keep vehicles moving. A woman constable going towards Deccan Gymkhana said the crocodile talk was only rumours. Some police personnel peered closely at all the movements in the river bed to spot the reptile. Deepak Pawar, Pune range forest officer, who was in the operation, said, “ If there is a crocodile in the river, we will have to take precautions.” The forest officials have put up a net below Baba Bhide bridge and placed two cages below Sambhaji Bridge to capture the crocodile. Their personnel will conduct night patrolling to keep people away from the river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-forest-staff-and-firemen-jump-into-8-hr-futile-search-for-crocodile-in-mutha/articleshow/80887232.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Panel report on back burner, school fees remain high||HYDERABAD: It’s been over two years since Professor Tirupathi Rao Committee submitted its report on school fee regulations, but nothing has been done yet to stop the schools from charging exorbitant fees. Parents have submitted several representations and staged protests. Even during the pandemic, in which scores of them lost their livelihood, parents do not have much of a relief. “My children are studying in class 6 and class 8 and I have to pay over Rs 1 lakh each as fees. Due to the pandemic, I had no income for nine to ten months and couldn’t pay the fees. Despite requesting the management, they gave no concession,” said Naveen Yadav, who is into event management. He said that had there been a regulatory body, parents would have received some relief. The same is the case with Vinod K, who lost his job, as he is unable to clear the dues of his two children. “My elder son is in class 10. Out of Rs 65,000, I managed to pay Rs 35,000 to date. I am worried that if I fail to clear his fees, the management might withhold his hall ticket,” said Vinod, who cleared only Rs 15, 000 out of total Rs 35, 000 fees of his younger son. In 2018, a committee headed by Tirupathi Rao, former vice-chancellor, Osmania University, submitted its report on private school fee regulation. However, the report has not been made public and recommendations of the committee are yet to be implemented. Some demands of parents include constitution of district fee regulatory committees and parent teachers association in all schools. School managements, meanwhile, said that they shouldn’t be held responsible as pandemic has affected everyone, including managements, that are also struggling to make ends meet. They said that even they want the state to bring in school fee regulations so that every school is not blamed when one school violates norms. “Asking schools to not collect fees is unfair. It is our only source of income. If the state doesn’t want us to collect fees then it should give a minimum amount, say Rs 20,000 for each student,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/panel-report-on-back-burner-school-fees-remain-high/articleshow/80887229.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||Vaccine antibodies will last at least 8 months: AIIMS chief||NAGPUR: AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria on Friday said antibodies developed from Covid vaccine will last for “at least eight months”. Guleria made this announcement on @CovidIndiaSeva, the official Twitter handle of the Union ministry of health and family welfare for Covid-19 response. The ministry has been replying to queries raised by citizens to clear doubts regarding the Covid vaccines on Twitter. Replying to a question by lawyer Ankita Shah on how long the protection offered by the two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — will sustain in the body, Dr Guleria said a good amount of antibodies will develop about 14 days after the second shot of the vaccine. “It is not clear how long the protection will last, but it is believed to last for at least eight months or may be longer.” Dr Guleria added that after two doses, “you are protected. But protecting others would need you to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour”. He said people above 50 years of age and those between 20 and 50 years but with co-morbidities will start getting the vaccine from March. Reacting to the AIIMS director’s remarks, infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “The statement of Dr Guleria will encourage more healthcare and frontline workers and even common people to take the jab. It is said that antibodies developed after infection last for 3-5 months or more. If antibodies developed after vaccination protect us for eight months or more, it will be a major success of the vaccination programme. Vaccine of swine flu used to work for one year. There are even chances that immunity developed from the vaccine will sustain for one year or more." Two days ago, the ministry had said research was underway to understand the duration of immunity provided by the two vaccines which are being administered in the country. One of the reasons behind the reluctance of many healthcare workers in taking the vaccine is the lack of clarity on duration of antibodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccine-antibodies-will-last-at-least-8-months-aiims-chief/articleshow/80890195.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Jana: MLA post too small for me||Hyderabad: Senior Congress leader K Jana Reddy on Friday said he is contesting the Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll for the sake of people and the party. The senionr Congress leader had saidthe MLA post is too small for him as he had already been a seven-time legislator. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jana-mla-post-too-small-for-me/articleshow/80887233.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||EFLU students protest, demand reopening of hostels||Hyderabad: The English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU), Hyderabad students held a demonstration in front of the university main gate, on Friday, demanding the administration to reopen hostels. A section of students had conducted an internal survey among masters and research scholars on issues faced by them. Of the 184 respondents, 75% preferred to stay in hostels for the ensuing semester while continuing online classes. “Many students are under immense academic pressure. While some are facing connectivity issues, others are suffering from mental health problems and face abuse back home. Almost 76% students responded that they do not get value of their studies in online mode,” said Shishir Gupta, one of the protesting students. A large number of students have also signed and submitted a petition to the administration followed by a mass email campaign. Students argue that while other universities have reopened in phased manner, delay by the EFLU administration in only affecting students academics. The EFLU administration stated that they want to reopen the university in a phased manner. “Unlike other universities where there are science students who have laboratory and experimental work, ours is a humanities university where only English and foreign languages are taught which don’t need any physical classes. Our priority is health and welfare of our students and we are not ready to compromise that in any manner,” said a senior official from EFLU, adding that a meeting with be convened with department deans to chalk our a strategy on phased reopening of the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eflu-students-protest-demand-reopening-of-hostels/articleshow/80887257.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chennai||Court nod for state to take over temple land for collectorate||Chennai: The Madras high court has green signalled the Tamil Nadu government to acquire 35 acres of temple land for construction of a collectorate and other government buildings in the newly created Kallakurichi district. The first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, however, refused to vacate an interim stay passed against the state restraining it from altering the physical features of the land till the proposal is finalised. The issue pertains to a public interest writ petition filed by activist Rangarajan Narasihan challenging a government order dated September 19, 2020, paving way for alienation of land owned by the Arthananeeshwarar temple in Kallakurichi to the state government for the collectorate complex. The petitioner, during his submissions, stated that the temple, which is more than 1,000 years old, is currently dilapidated and may collapse any moment from lack of upkeep. He said the land was the only source of revenue for the temple and the same can be alienated only for the benefit of the temple and not for any other purpose. Noting that the lands are proposed to be used only for a public purpose which is in larger good of the society, the bench directed the state to constitute a two-member committee comprising Kallakurichi district collector and district judge to ascertain the value of the land to be alienated. The bench then adjourned the plea by three weeks for the committee to complete the exercise and report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-nod-for-state-to-take-over-temple-land-for-collectorate/articleshow/80887254.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||For 3rd day in a row, Maha reports over 3,000 cases||Mumbai: Maharashtra reported 3,670 new Covid-19 cases and 36 fatalities on Friday. This is the third day in a row that the state has reported over 3,000 cases. In a three-day period, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state and city rose by 45% and 60% respectively. Friday’s addition was the highest in 34 days since January 8 (3,693). With this, the total caseload of the state stood at 20,56,575 and the total fatalities at 51,451. In Mumbai, the BMC registered 599 cases on Friday as against 375 on February 9. The number of deaths has, however, not increased in this period. Four deaths were registered in the city on Friday, taking the toll so far to 11,409. The total caseload in Mumbai since March 2020 is close to 3.1 lakh. BMC officials said the recovery rate in the city has remained steady at 94%. However, the doubling rate has dropped to 525 days after climbing to around 600 days. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said despite the slight rise in cases, there is no cause for panic. “The numbers are nowhere near the peak figures (around 2,500 a day in September) of 2020. We also have a good immunisation plan underway,” he said. The trick, he said, is to ensure people mask up again and observe social distance throughout 2021. Active cases reported a slight increase in the state, though they continued to dip in Mumbai. With the discharge of 2,422 people on Friday, active Covid-19 cases in the state stood at 31,474 of which Mumbai has less than 4,000 cases. Active cases in Mumbai had dropped to 3,881 on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/for-3rd-day-in-a-row-maha-reports-over-3000-cases/articleshow/80888679.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: MBBS exams to be held in March-April||HYDERABAD: The Kaloji Narayana University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) is set to conduct MBBS exams in March-April, 2021. According to a notification issued by the university, MBBS first year students, who have been admitted during the academic years 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-2019 into the medical colleges affiliated to KNRUHS in Telangana are eligible to appear for MBBS first year (old regulations) examinations scheduled to be held from March 23, 2021. Similarly, students whose admissions are approved by the KNRUHS during the academic year 2016-17 are eligible to appear third MBBS part – II examinations from April 6, 2021. The practical/clinical and viva examination dates will be declared later. “Candidates who are having 75 percent of attendance and scored 35 percent of marks in internal assessment examinations are eligible to appear for the examinations,” read the notification. The examination will be held between 10 am to 12.30 pm. Students have to pay an examination fee of Rs 600 per subject, Rs 300 towards marks memo and Rs 350 processing fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mbbs-exams-to-be-held-in-march-april/articleshow/80887238.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Withdraw Shiv Jayanti curbs: Maratha outfits||Mumbai: Upset about the restrictions imposed on Shiv Jayanti celebrations by the state, a few Maratha outfits, while condemning the state decision, demanded that the circular be withdrawn. The outfits include Maratha Kranti Morcha and Sambhaji Brigade. BJP also opposed the circular. The state on Thursday issued a circular appealing ‘Shiv Jayanti’, the birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, be observed in a low-key manner, without organising any cultural events, processions, or bike rallies. The circular also restricted the number of participants to 100. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/withdraw-shiv-jayanti-curbs-maratha-outfits/articleshow/80887264.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||Special doctor teams at private hospitals in Kolkata for health scheme patients||KOLKATA: Private hospitals in Kolkata have started creating teams of doctors who will attend to patients only in their Swasthya Sathi units. The move has been necessitated by the fact that most senior consultants across private facilities have so far refused to attend to Swasthya Sathi patients due to the low remunerations as per the government’s rates prescribed for the scheme. At AMRI, a team of 15 consultants has been created to ‘drive’ the Swasthya Sathi units at its three centres in Salt Lake, Mukundapur and Dhakuria. “Most visiting consultants are reluctant to attend to Swasthya Sathi patients due to the low charges. So, we have recruited several cardiologists who are ready to work with the existing rates. We have formed a team of willing consultants under them. While they will also be serving other patients, they are being primarily appointed for Swasthya Sathi patients,” said Barua. Since 80% of those admitted under the scheme at AMRI are cardiac patients, cardiologists are being recruited, said Barua. At least two cardiac surgeons have been recruited by the hospital for the purpose. The authorities of another private facility said they have already formed a team of “willing” consultants and surgeons. “The price structure of Swasthya Sathi is restrictive that has dissuaded most of the senior surgeons and consultants from treating patients under the scheme. So, we have identified several junior consultants who are ready to serve these patients. But it’s difficult to find specialists in every field for the purpose. So, we must continue to fall back on those who remain reluctant,” said a hospital head. After a pandemic-induced break in recruitment, several hospitals like AMRI have resumed fresh appointments driven by the Swasthya Sathi requirement. “Our recruitment has restarted, largely to serve these patients. We are keen to ensure that we have enough personnel to cater to them,” added Barua. Earlier this week, the government raised the rates of Swasthya Sathi packages by 10%-20% and that for medical management by Rs 300 a day but the hike has left private hospitals dissatisfied. The latter have called for a reconsideration of the charges that, they said, remain too low to be sustainable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/spl-doc-teams-at-pvt-hosps-for-health-scheme-patients/articleshow/80887259.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Universities adopting MOOCs as credit courses for next sem exams||Hyderabad: Giving greater flexibility to students amid the pandemic, universities are adopting massive open online courses (MOOCs) as credit courses for the ensuing semester exams. This means that students pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate courses can pursue 20% to 40% of their programme through MOOCs. For the January-June 2021 semester, the University Grants Commission (UGC) is offering over 100 online courses through Swayam, a digital platform set up by the central government. The UGC is in the process of adding additional 194 courses from humanities and social sciences stream and 155 courses from science stream. Many of these courses have been approved as electives by universities such as Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad and English & Foreign Languages University (EFLU). This means that students can either choose from professional electives/open electives in the curriculum offered by the university or they can choose from the MOOCs courses approved by the varsity through Swayam. While the courses are available for free to students, an examination fee has to be paid. At JNTUH, engineering students from all departments can pursue MOOCs offered by premier institutions such as the Indian Institute of Technology and Indian Institute of Sciences. “We have also tied up with Coursera, a private MOOCs provider, to enable students to choose from a pool of subjects. Our idea is to give greater flexibility to students. Completion certificate of MOOCs shall be treated equivalent for the credits in their regular course,” said Manzoor Hussain, registrar, JNTUH, that is set to hold a meeting with the National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning on supplementary exams for MOOCs. At EFLU, students have to pursue courses of any domain from Swayam portal for five credits. Either students can pursue two courses – one for two credits and the other for three credits or one course for five credits. Students have to appear for the examination at designated Swayam centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/universities-adopting-moocs-as-credit-courses-for-next-sem-exams/articleshow/80887260.cms||Preeti Biswas
February 13, 2021||Meerut||Woman, 35, found murdered in field, ‘lover’ missing||Meerut: A 35-year-old woman was found murdered in a field in UP’s Bulandshahr district. “The woman was found dead in Khurja Dehat area. She was a resident of Kailashpuri area of Bulandshahr,” Santosh Kumar, Saharanpur’s senior superintendent of police said.The woman was returning from her sister’s home when she was killed on Thursday evening, police said, adding that she was accompanied by a man she was in relationship with. The man, now being treated as the prime suspect in the case, is absconding, police said. “Efforts are made to trace him. We will soon get to the bottom of the case,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-35-found-murdered-in-field-lover-missing/articleshow/80885110.cms||Piyush Rai
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||HC allows modification of Presidential Order||Hyderabad: In a significant relief to the state, Telangana high court has allowed the central government to modify the Presidential Order to enable the state to take up the recruitment of teachers, etc., in tune with the changes made by the state to the existing structure of districts and zones. The central government was ready to modify the Presidential Order but expressed its inability to do so on account of a stay order issued by the high court in the past, which is still in force in respect of merging teachers from local bodies into government service. Upon a request from advocate general BS Prasad who said the current amendment has got nothing to do with the earlier tussle, a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy made it clear that the interim order will not come in the way of the state or the Centre to get the Presidential Order modified in tune with the current needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-allows-modification-of-presidential-order/articleshow/80887268.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||‘When will I get my Covid-19 vaccine’||MUMBAI: When will I get the Covid-19 vaccine? This is one question dogging everyone’s mind since India started its immunization campaign for health workers across the country on January 16. And the answer could be over five years, depending on certain parameters including your age, state you reside and category (non-priority group), based on the current pace of immunization. Vaccinating India’s over 1.3 bn entire population at this stage with the two available vaccines, Serum Institute-manufactured Covishield and Covaxin, could run possibly for several years, according to a vaccine index developed by a group of researchers. The planned timelines are quite optimistic for the risk groups, with healthcare and frontline workers, expected to be vaccinated within half a year in most of the states. However, ``inoculating the whole population is a different thing, and if nothing changes in the near future, the time to achieve herd immunity may take even more than five years”, the researchers said. The Indian Vaccine Queue Calculator, part of The Omni Calculator Project, has been designed by two Polish nationals, molecular physicist Dominik Czernia, a medical doctor Alexandra Zajac and Indian researcher Farhan Khan. Interestingly, certain states including Maharashtra, Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, vaccination of the third group (those 50 years older or less than 50 with comorbidities) may get completed over three to six years from now with the existing vaccination rates. (see chart) Overall, according to the Vaccine Index, the challenge could be vaccinating those in the third group in the wake of the long timelines of upto five years or more, while vaccinations of the health and frontline workers in most states could be completed over the next six months. The numbers may improve, centres will increase, vaccination rates per day would increase, and the timelines will drastically get better, Khan told TOI. Public experts point out the situation is dynamic, with respect to the transmission rates, severity of its effects in different parts of India and availability of vaccines. ``It would be imprudent to model several years into the future. It is possible that more vaccines may be available in a few months’ time if the completed trials report successful results. It is also possible that we may find very low rates of transmission and severe illness in some parts of India, especially in the rural areas of less developed states. They can be scheduled for later coverage, as we are focusing resources on priority groups and districts. I believe a clearer picture would emerge by May-June 2021”. A mathematical model may be useful for forecasting, but contextual factors have to be accounted for, feels epidemiologist and public health researcher Dr GR Babu. On Tuesday, India hit the 6-million mark of Covid-19 vaccinations. Despite being in the global top five in vaccines administered, India has a long way to go before it reaches herd immunity. Says Gagandeep Kang professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore: ``We have to improve timelines. We should be looking at much greater community involvement, including the private sector”.  It seems Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan may manage to vaccine their entire health workers with two doses until March this year. The situation is different for Karnataka and Ladakh which should finish their first priority group vaccination until June (see chart). The global response to a similar app for other countries has been ``impressive’’. The UK index built in December has had over 15 million hits, according to Khan, while the Canadian and Mexican version has helped to answer over nine million people’s queries on the timelines for getting vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/live-in-a-rural-area-you-may-get-your-vaccine-after-5-years/articleshow/80887288.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||KTV fined £50,000 in UK for airing violent content||London: Media watchdog Ofcom has fined Khalsa Television Limited (KTV Ltd) £50,000 for broadcasting a music video which advocates violent action against the Indian state and glorifies violent acts linked to Sikh secessionism as well as a discussion programme which encourages violence towards those who criticise the Sikh faith and legitimises a terrorist organisation. The video for a song called ‘Bagga and Shera’ by artist Nav Sandhu, broadcast in July 2018 on TV channel, KTV, contains a caricature of Indira Ghandi with blood dripping from her mouth, accompanied by the caption “You drank the blood of innocents you evil woman”, and the lyrics “Warriors will destroy your kingdom”, along with images of flames superimposed on the Red Fort in Delhi. “In Ofcom’s view, these images and text reinforced the music video’s narrative advocating violent action against the Indian state, and glorifying those who carry it out,” Ofcom said in its breach decision on Friday. KTV Ltd holds the licence for KTV, a TV channel, which broadcasts Sikh-related issues to a Sikh audience in the UK. The licensee has been fined £20,000 for broadcasting the music video three times. Ofcom found the video “implicitly condones the violent actions of Sikh militants”, including the murders of people who had been instrumental in Operation Bluestar, and other murders and terrorist acts allegedly committed by members of the KLF. Ofcom said the video included subliminal messages and “indirectly encouraged others to commit violence, up to and including murder”. The NIA has indicted a number of individuals linked to the KLF, including Sikh activists Ramandeep Singh Bagga (Bagga) and Hardeep Singh Shera (Shera), for their alleged participation in a transnational conspiracy to carry out targeted killings in India, Ofcom said. In the video, two characters are preparing to carry out assassinations in the UK, juxtaposed with images of real people who have been convicted or charged with committing murders for political reasons. Those referred to in the video include Bagga and Shera, British Sikh activist Jagtar Singh Johal, and former leaders of the KLF, the regulator said. The video begins with a sequence in which one man shows another a video of protestors burning an effigy of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, then gives him a hooded sweatshirt bearing statements in support of achieving Sikh secessionism through violence. Ofcom considered that the sequence was likely to have been understood by viewers as depicting a man recruiting another man to join a group advocating the use of violence in pursuit of the political aim of the creation of Khalistan. It also considered the video was an indirect call to action for Sikhs living in the UK to commit violence, up to and including murder, against people who did not support the creation of Khalistan. The licensee was also fined £30,000 for broadcasting a live discussion programme, Panthak Masle, on KTV on March 30, 2019, which contained statements by spiritual and community leaders - known as the Five Beloved - which amounted to implicit threats of violence towards Harnek Singh, a Sikh radio presenter resident in New Zealand who has allegedly “criticised” the Sikh faith. Ofcom also found the programme had the potential of legitimising the aims and actions of a proscribed terrorist organisation. During the show one of the panellists, Baldev Singh, referred to the Babbar Khalsa, saying: “We have no arguments with anybody…Babbar Khalsa, we eat and drink with them, we have good links with all of them”. The licensee said the reference to Babbar Khalsa was not as Ofcom had translated it, but as follows: “As for different organisations, we are with the Sikh Federation of the UK. As for Babbar Khalsa and Akhand Kirtani we are separate”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ktv-fined-50000-in-uk-for-airing-violent-content/articleshow/80887269.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Bang head against govt bldgs: Min to oppn||Hyderabad: Days after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao targeted opposition parties at a public meeting in Nalgonda district, transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar went a step further and threw a ‘headbanging challenge’ at them. “Go and bang your heads against the projects and buildings that the government is constructing. You will then know about the quality of construction,” Ajay Kumar said. He was speaking during the laying of the foundation stone for a check dam in Khammam town on Thursday. While the CM’s remarks invited sharp criticism from the BJP, it remains to be seen as to how the parties will react to the minister’s comments. Ajay Kumar said the Congress and the BJP were indulging in unnecessary criticism by stating that there is no quality in the works taken up in Khammam. “If that is what you allege, come and do as I suggest. Go bang your heads against all projects. It will automatically be decided if you are right or wrong,” he said, mocking BJP and Congress. Turning his ire towards the BJP and Congress leaders, he said: “You can bang your head at the IT hub which has been constructed. The new bus station is being constructed. You can go there and hit your head against it.” Listing out various projects and buildings taken up by the government, he suggested that the opposition parties’ leaders go to the newly-constructed Khammam police commissionerate building to check its quality. He said people’s welfare is of paramount importance to the government. “We do not compromise on anything. It is your (opposition leaders) hearts which are polluted. People are our priority and that is why we do a lot of work and will continue to do so,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bang-head-against-govt-bldgs-min-to-oppn/articleshow/80887291.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 13, 2021||Madurai||Plea for fast track courts to deal with wildlife crimes||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday sought a response from the central and state governments on a plea which sought to establish fast track special courts across the state for speedy disposal of cases registered on wildlife crimes.A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and N Sathish Kumar sought the response while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by C Anand Raj, a resident of Madurai district.The petitioner stated that the conviction rate in wildlife crime cases are very low and the trials are also being delayed. He stated that an RTI reply revealed that the trials are still pending in cases which were registered even before 10 years.He stated that he came to know that the National Wildlife Action Plan titled ‘Control of Poaching and Illegal trade in Wildlife’ had also given recommendations to establish fast track special courts/ benches to ensure expeditious trials of wildlife and forest crimes. He stated that establishing such courts would be of great help to prevent poaching activities. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-for-fast-track-courts-to-deal-with-wildlife-crimes/articleshow/80888681.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Madurai||‘Waive off rental during lockdown’||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday sought a response from the state government on a plea moved by the shopkeepers association of MGR bus stand in Madurai district seeking to waive the rent for their shops for the Covid-19 lockdown period. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi was hearing a PIL filed by Abdul Kadar, secretary of the Madurai MGR Integrated Bus Stand Merchants Shop Association. The petitioner stated that there are 186 shops in the bus stand and thousands of people are dependent on them for their livelihood. Since the government imposed lockdown owing to pandemic, the shops were closed from March 24, 2020. Only during September, the shops were permitted to be opened with certain restrictions. Though the shops remained closed, the Madurai Corporation officials are asking the shopkeepers to pay the rent for the remaining months except for April and May 2020 for which the rent was waived. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/waive-off-rental-during-lockdown/articleshow/80888712.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Civic polls: Almeida hits out at Milind, asks Sawant to drop him||VASCO: Vasco BJP MLA Carlos Almeida on Friday said that his party colleague, Mormugao MLA and urban development minister Milind Naik, should be dropped from the state cabinet for faulty reservation of wards for the upcoming municipal elections. In a surprising outburst, Almeida said that Naik’s manner of functioning would hamper BJP’s prospects in Mormugao taluka’s assembly constituencies in the 2022 assembly election. Almeida said he has written to the chief minister as well as party president over the haphazard reservations. “I have written to the chief minister expressing my resentment on the way it is done,” Almeida said. “CM has said that it would be by sequence, but it has not been done by sequence. If the same is done with Sakhali, let us see what he (the CM) does. Yesterday, too, I made a statement that if Milind Naik can’t do it, he should be dropped and the chief minister can hold charge of the portfolio.” Almeida also said there is growing resentment within the party over the faulty reservation of wards. “There is lot of resentment within the BJP camp,” he continued. “Our transport minister (Mauvin Godinho) has already said he was not consulted over the reservations. There is no uniformity. The reservations have been done in Vasco in one manner and Margao in another manner. What is the basis for the reservation? The Act says reservation for STs should be done where there is a higher ST population. Here, whatever suits one has been done.” He said Mormugao has 50% women voters, yet no seats have been reserved for women there. “The ladies have no right to contest elections?”he asked. “He (Naik) is saying let them contest from general wards. What is the meaning of reservations? I want to know the meaning of 33% reservation from Milind Naik. I am requesting the chief minister to drop him. Mormugao has given four MLAs (to BJP). We have to win four seats again in Mormugao taluka, but if Milind Naik does this, he is going to give us trouble in winning the four seats again.” Almeida, in his letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant, also said that he would approach the courts over the reservation of municipal wards. He said the reservations display blatant discrimination and reek of bias. “I was astonished to find that six out of the eight (75%) seats reserved for women fall exclusively in Vasco constituency, and the remaining two reserved for women fall in Dabolim, while zero seats have been reserved for women in Mormugao constituency,” said Almeida, adding that he is being questioned by aspirants as to why injustice is being done to Vasco constituency. “What is even more painful is that we all represent the same party of which ruling dispensation you, sir, are chief minister, and it is even more painful that under your administration, this blatant discrimination has taken place,” Almeida told Sawant in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/civic-polls-almeida-hits-out-at-milind-asks-sawant-to-drop-him/articleshow/80888696.cms||Ruvina Khan
February 13, 2021||Pune||Cost of river pollution abatement project to rise||Pune: The civic body’s river pollution abatement project is set to cost it another Rs200 crore, approximately. The estimate committee of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given its approval to the escalated cost. Funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), the project will now be worth Rs1,236 crore, which includes operation and maintenance cost of around Rs216 crore while Rs1,020 crore would be the project price. “The amount mentioned appears to be higher because the operation and management cost has been included in this tender unlike the previous bid. The project will be operated and maintained for 15 years with the additional money,” said a senior PMC official. He said even the cost escalation factor, which suggests annual inflation in material cost, has been considered while making the tender. As per PMC officials, previous tenders were cancelled around three years ago due to allegations of inflated costing. The base price and material cost were considered at rates prevailing in 2014. Now, PMC has restructured the tenders at the current rate. The civic body has been planning to deal with pollution in Mula and Mutha rivers through the project. As many as 11 different tenders have been included and now a single tender will be issued. “The estimate cost has received a green signal. Now, the tender process will be carried out. Even pre-bid meetings will be held. The bids will be finalized in about 30-45 days,” said Shivaji Lanke, secretary of the estimate committee. Apart from clearing pollution and improving river beds, even infrastructure for solid waste management is being built under the river pollution abatement project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cost-of-river-pollution-abatement-project-to-rise/articleshow/80887293.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||After a year of fighting Covid-19, state debt may rise to Rs 6 lakh cr||Mumbai: The pandemic-struck state government is expecting a debt burden of Rs 6 lakh crore in its budget next month. This will be 15% higher than the previous year and three times the figure in 2010, when the debt was Rs 2 lakh crore. The government is expecting a revenue deficit of Rs 1.13 lakh crore by the end of the financial year — the highest ever — and has cautioned all departments to restrict spending. Fresh borrowings in 2020-21 are estimated at Rs 1.08 lakh crore. “We are expecting income worth around Rs 44,000 crore in the last two months of the year. However, the debt figure could still rise by Rs 80,000 crore over last year,” said an official. In the 2020 budget, the state’s debt projection was Rs 5.2 lakh crore. With the state generating only 54% of its income target by the end of January, development spending outside of priority areas like calamities and health, took a hit. Maharashtra had generated Rs 1.9 lakh crore of revenue till the end of January while the revenue target for 2020-21 had been set at Rs 3.47 lakh crore. Of the estimated Rs 2.84 lakh crore expenditure by the end of January, the major chunk has gone into debt servicing and the payment of salaries and pensions to state employees. Around Rs 1.4 lakh crore is set to go towards salaries and pensions, Rs 40,000 crore for debt servicing and Rs 35,000 crore for debt repayments. The loan waiver took up Rs 10,000 crore and another Rs 10,000 crore went into calamity relief, including Cyclone Nisarg. Another Rs 50,000 crore was slotted for health and other dedicated scheme expenses while Rs 15,000 crore went into infrastructure, including road projects. The state is facing a financial setback owing to the dip in payments from the Centre. Its pending GST compensation due from the Centre amounts to Rs 26,000 crore. The Centre has also cut tax transfers to the state by more than 30% over the budgeted estimates. Maharashtra will now receive Rs 14,758 crore less than originally budgeted. The lowering of economic activity and consumption during the pandemic resulted in a major shortfall in tax collections. By the end of January, the state had collected 53.6% of its target for major tax revenue and 47.3% of its target for non-tax revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-a-year-of-fighting-covid-19-state-debt-may-rise-to-rs-6-lakh-cr/articleshow/80889624.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||KMC’s floor space incentive for private hospitals offering Swasthya Sathi facility||KOLKATA: City private hospitals now have a civic incentive for extending facilities for Swasthya Sathi patients. From now on, private hospitals and nursing homes will enjoy additional Floor Area Ratio (FAR) or a permission to add 10% floor space to their existing or new structures, provided the space is used to create separate wards or enhance treatment facilities for Swasthya Sathi card holders. KMC Board of Administrators (BoA) chairman Firhad Hakim on Friday announced that KMC will offer 10% FAR to the private hospitals or nursing homes for expansion of their existing treatment facilities or for new units that will enjoy this additional “allowable construction space” over and above KMC building rule limits. The incentive was announced 12 days after Hakim met representatives of the city’s private hospitals and nursing homes at the KMC headquarters to chalk out a plan for treatment of Swasthya Sathi card holders at the private healthcare centres. Sources said in order to ensure a zero refusal of Swasthya Sathi card holders at private hospitals, new units should come up or existing facilities should get enhanced to accommodate the flux patients. This matter was discussed among a section of senior civic officials before they proposed the KMC BoA that the civic body would need to offer the FAR relief to hospital owners. Over 100 representatives from different private hospitals and nursing homes participated in the meeting with the civic brass as the KMC is the nodal agency for implementation of the scheme in Kolkata. The civic body from time to time offers such additional relief to institutes which are engaged in social welfare. Private hospitals lauded the move but said it will be beneficial only if rates are revised. “While the move is encouraging, it remains to be seen whether the incentive will be allowed only for additional space dedicated to Swasthya Sathi patients. If that is the case, then most private hospitals may not be enthused at the moment. Rates under the scheme are still too low to make it sustainable for hospitals. Having additional space for Swasthya Sathi patients will involve a huge investment in terms of infrastructure which will not be feasible in the current scenario,” said AMRI Hospital CEO Rupak Barua. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences zonal director R Venkatesh said: “This is a kind gesture of appreciation towards our relentless efforts of providing quality healthcare services irrespective of affluence and affordability.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmcs-floor-space-incentive-for-private-hosps-offering-swasthya-sathi-facility/articleshow/80887289.cms||Saikat Ray
February 13, 2021||Pune||Science & final year students up for jobs to join college||PUNE: Monday’s reopening of senior colleges in the city is expected to be slow with RT-PCR tests of teaching and non-teaching staff underway. Most colleges have over 250 individuals undergoing the test as of now. The planning on paper is to have batches of students coming in based on the guidelines of the state government. Preference would be for science students, for those with laboratory work and also those eligible for campus placements and internships. Departments in Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will also fully function from Monday onwards. Fergusson College issued a circular to its first, second and third-year students of science, arts and vocational education as well as postgraduate students on Thursday. It said, “Online lectures, discussions on practical sessions will continue like in the previous semester till further notice. Students will be given 8-10 days of intimation in advance to join the college physically for offline mode of learning.” Vice-principal Nitin Kulkarni said, “All teaching and non-teaching staff have to still undergo Covid tests. There are more than 250 staff members. Covid centres can do only 10 tests per day. The tests are valid for four days, so we are waiting to see if there are some guidelines being issued by the competent authorities like we received for junior colleges for reopening. We are unaware of any inspection, so we have decided not to reopen as of now.” Modern Schools of Arts, Science and Commerce’s YouTube channel called Media Station conducted an orientation programme for parents and students about the state government’s rules. Principal Rajendra Zunjarrao said, “Initially, the second-year postgraduate science faculty students will be called for practical sessions. After this, the postgraduate students of arts and commerce will be called in phases for their practical sessions. In the next stage graduate students’ of the third-year batch will be called.” All precautions have been taken by the college authorities to avoid the spread of Covid infection. Every classroom and lab will be sanitised thrice a day and other safety measures will be undertaken. Principal of Dr Bhanuben Nanavati College of Architecture for Women Anurag Kashyap said the presence of students will bring the college to life once again as they prepare to open. While all safety precautions are in place, all their classrooms are designed according to the norms of apex bodies in architecture and therefore spacious. Kashyap said, “A professional course like architecture involves comparatively fewer number of lectures, but interactive engagements like checking designs on the board are much more. In all aspects, the lectures here are semi-practical. We are calling our students in a staggered way in batches to maintain the norms.” MIT Art, Design and Technology University Campus in Loni Kalbhor has 60% residential capacity. They are prepared to reopen and the university has drawn up batches to call students to classroom teaching. Executive president and vice-chancellor Mangesh Karad said, “Till now, we have covered the theoretical part of the curriculum. We will now have more emphasis on project-based learning for our students. Laboratory experiments will be performed in batches and video/simulation-based visual study materials are also being made available to every student to understand the concept thoroughly.” Rakesh Jain, director of JSPM’s Rajarshi Shahu College of Engineering in Tathawade said for practicals the students have been called in shifts and the sessions will be carried out in batches of 15 students per batch. The time table was being shared with the students along with safety guidelines and instructions to be followed on the campus. Jain said, “The third year and final year students have missed most of their practicals. We will be focusing on their practicals which will be performed in the labs maintaining social distancing norms. All the safety norms, including seating in classes, labs, temperature checks and sanitizers are in place. We are ready to welcome students once again to the campus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/science-final-yr-students-up-for-jobs-to-join-college/articleshow/80887281.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||CBSE schools may commence academic year from April 1||Hyderabad: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools in the city are most likely to commence new academic year from April 1, 2021, following directives from the board. In a circular issued to principals of all its affiliated schools on February 11, the CBSE has recommended classes for the new academic year to begin from April 1 “to the extent feasible, subject to the instructions of the respective state governments.” Almost 90% of the CBSE schools in the city are in favour of going as per the CBSE directives. “By March-end, the evaluation process will be completed for most classes. In that case, we will be ready to commence classes from the first week of April. Barring class 10 and class 12 students, who would appear for their exams, others would get 1.5 months of summer holidays from May,” said Narasimha Reddy, principal of the Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur. Discussion regarding the commencement of classes for the new academic year was also held at a meeting recently convened by the Hyderabad Sahodaya Schools Complex, which has close to 250 CBSE affiliated schools under its ambit. In its circular, the CBSE has also recommended schools to conduct exams for class 9 and class 11 students by strictly adhering to the Covid-19 protocols. “This exam will also help in identifying learning gaps which could be addressed by the schools in the new academic session, at the beginning of classes, by having a bridge course specially designed to address learning gaps,” read the circular. City schools fear that conducting exams for class 9 and class 11 may not be possible. “Even today, not many parents are willing to send their children to school. Many students are in favour of appearing for online exams. While we would be able to commence classes in the new academic year by April 5 as planned earlier, conducting exams for class 9 and class 11 students is the only concern,” said Lata Shankar, principal, P Obul Reddy Public School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbse-schools-may-commence-academic-year-from-april-1/articleshow/80887284.cms||Preeti Biswas
February 13, 2021||Pune||Jan economic activity flat: MCCIA survey||Pune: The latest monthly survey of economic activity in and around Pune region, conducted by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry, and Agriculture (MCCIA), found that recovery was largely flat in January. The survey also found the hospitality industry had yet to shake off the effects of the pandemic. As per the survey, production figures since November have continued to hold at around 79-80%, with the MCCIA saying that an increasing number of manufacturing industries resumed full utilization of their capacities over the ongoing month. Also largely unchanged since November is the proportion of employees, across services and manufacturing, back on the job at around 82%. Recovery has been largely affected by non-IT services, such as the food and beverage, hospitality, and tourism industries still struggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jan-economic-activity-flat-mccia-survey/articleshow/80887301.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Madurai||Traders seek GI tag for Madurai marikolunthu||Madurai: Uttering the words Madurai marikolunthu can never be complete without transcending to a Tamil film song ‘Madurai Marikolunthu Vaasam’, subtly highlighting exotic fragrance of this herb. Such is the popularity that the scented herb has garnered. Used predominantly in garlands and for decorative purposes, a geographical indication (GI) tag has been sought for the herb by the Madurai Meenakshi Sundareswarar Malar Motha Viyabarigal Nala Sangam. President of the Sangam, S Ramachandran said that the fragrant marikolunthu (botanical name Artemisia Pallens), is an important product in the Madurai flower market. Predominantly used for its leaves and its exotic fragrance, this herb has tiny yellow flowers. It is largely cultivated in the southern districts of Madurai, Theni and Dindigul. “It is more like a counterpart of the jasmine and has the same season. Not less than five tonnes arrive in the market during the peak season from April to July,” he added. T Ravichandran of Sholavandan says that Madurai marikolunthu plays an integral part in the garlands offered to the village deities like Karuppasamy. “The fragrance is soothing and it is said to appease the deities. So in some village temples, they ask the devotees to bring just Madurai marikolunthu even without flowers,” he said. It is a low maintenance plant cultivated in large acres of land, which needs sunlight, and less water, just like the jasmine during its flowering season, says Ramachandran. Though the recent rains affected the crops, the supply to the market is expected to pick up by next month. On Friday, about half a tonne of Madurai marikoluthu arrived in the Madurai flower market and sold for Rs 120 a kg. The oil extracted from the plant called Davana oil, has a floral and woody fragrance. “Marikoluthu made into perfumes is mostly preferred by men in southern Tamil Nadu. It is one such perfume where the scent lingers long even when a person is sweating,” said Sandhanam, a trader in the flower market. Madurai Marikolunthu from the Madurai market goes to many parts of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. Ramachandran says they have decided that protecting these plants and flowers is also a part of their trade, and have applied for the GI tag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/traders-seek-gi-tag-for-madurai-marikolunthu/articleshow/80888763.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Ahead of Kumbh, Vaishnav Akhadas dissociate themselves from ABAP||Haridwar: Ahead of Kumbh, three major akhadas of the Vaishnav sect have dissociated themselves from the current body of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP). They claim that the apex body — which represents 13 prominent akhadas — has not raised their issues with the state government and mela administration effectively. A meeting of seers from the three akhadas — Nirmohi, Nirvani and Digambar — was held at the Bairagi camp on Friday where the seers announced their separation from ABAP. They have also demanded fresh elections of akhada parishad within a month. The seers of the Vaishnav sect allege that they have not received any land for the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar so far. Senior seers of Digambar Ani Akhada (Vaishnav sect) told TOI, “Saints of all three akhadas collectively took the decision of separating from the current body of akhada parishad. The president and the general secretary of the parishad did not raise our issues with the state government and the mela administration but they managed to get all the benefits from the government for the other akhadas. This type of biased behaviour will not be tolerated and fresh elections of the body should be conducted within a month. Else, we will take further action and organise a large protest march hof saints of all the three akhadas.” Meanwhile, ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri told TOI, “We can understand their problems and have raised their issues several times with the government. We discussed the matter with the heads of all the three akhadas. The matter has now been resolved. We also asked the mela administration to release the budget to all three akhadas soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ahead-of-kumbh-vaishnav-akhadas-dissociate-themselves-from-abap/articleshow/80885999.cms||MS Nawaz
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Malaysian Consul General visits BMC garden dept||Mumbai: Malaysian Consul-General in Mumbai Zainal Azlan Mohd Nadzir visited BMC’s garden department in Byculla on Friday to study the painting of tree trunks in the city in red and white, using Sinopia and lime. Trees trunks in Mumbai are painted in red and white, giving them an iconic look. According to civic officials, when Sultan Tuanku Sallehuddin of Malaysia’s Kedah state recently visited Mumbai, he noticed the painted trunks. On his return, he asked officials to find out why the trunks were painted with those colours, and to check if it helped protect trees.  TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/malaysian-consul-general-visits-bmc-garden-dept/articleshow/80887331.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Govt sticks to 28-day gap on vax despite WHO norm||Mumbai: Two days after the WHO recommended extending the interval between the two doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield to 8 to 12 weeks for maximum efficacy, the central vaccine task force told TOI that India, for now, will stick to its original plan of administering the second dose after 28 days (four weeks). The administration of the second dose is scheduled to start from Saturday, and so, following the WHO guideline, many medical professionals have questioned the government’s unwavering stand. Dr Vinod Paul, chairman of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), told TOI on Friday that they were “examining the issue”. “As of now, the current recommendation (to start vaccinating after 28 days) stands,” he said. Doctors have questioned that if countries like the UK are giving the booster dose after 8 to 12 weeks, why should beneficiaries here settle for lesser efficacy? The WHO on February 10 said in its interim recommendations that the two-dose efficacy and immunogenicity increase with a longer inter-dose interval. “While the manufacturer’s product label says the vaccine can be administered with an interval of 4-12 weeks… WHO recommends an interval of 8 to 12 weeks between the doses,” it stated. Clinical trial findings from studies in the UK, Brazil and South Africa have shown an efficacy of just over 63% irrespective of inter-dose interval. However, exploratory analyses showed that efficacy increased to 70% in those who took it at an interval of 9-12 weeks and 78% in those who took it after 12 weeks. It was 56% in the group that took the second dose in 4-8 weeks. The recommendations have triggered a big debate in the medical community. The issue has even been added to the state Covid task force’s meeting agenda on Monday. “It’s a dilemma no doubt. There are both pros and cons to the aspect of delayed second dose. There is of course the issue of efficacy, but it will also be difficult to get people to take the second dose after three months,” said intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit, state task force member. Gujarat-based Dr Naveen Thacker, a former civil society representative to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, said that if the Centre does not follow WHO’s dosing recommendation, it would be depriving recipients of their right to better vaccine efficacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-sticks-to-28-day-gap-on-vax-despite-who-norm/articleshow/80888798.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS to enrol more youths into party||HYDERABAD: To infuse young blood and get fresh ideas, the TRS has decided to enrol youngsters, especially new voters and neutral voters, into the party fold by offering them membership of the party. The membership drive began on Friday. Party sources said the leadership wants more youth as opposition parties, especially the BJP, have been able to garner young leaders and activists into their ranks. The TRS believes that a majority of young voters and the unemployed voted in favour of BJP in both Dubbak and GHMC polls. “Generally, every political party focuses on new voters, who attain 18 years of age, during the membership drive. We too want more new voters to join our party,” Bharat Kumar Soma, TRS general secretary and membership incharge for Wanaparthy and Nagarkurnool districts, told TOI. The TRS has 63 lakh members across the state. The party is aiming at adding another 20 lakh members through the membership drive, which will conclude by this month-end. TRS chief and CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, during the party’s extended executive meeting recently, said that every constituency should have a minimum of 50,000 TRS members. The TRS leadership told its mandal and district level leaders that young members can actively be involved in party activities. “They are important for us and can influence others during the elections,” a district incharge said. Party leaders said the membership is being offered in two categories. “While the ordinary membership fee is Rs 50, for active membership it is Rs 100,” a party secretary said. Minister Sathyavathi Rathod said they are planning to enrol at least 50,000 people into the party in every constituency. She said the party was paying nearly Rs 18 crore as premium for the policies of the members. She said the party is planning to give identity cards to active members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-to-enrol-more-youths-into-party/articleshow/80887323.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 13, 2021||Vadodara||MSU syndicate polls: No high drama this year||Vadodara: Unlike the political push and pull that it had witnessed last time, the countdown to the forthcoming syndicate elections at M S University has remained a silent affair this time. But the ruling group that enjoys a majority in both the syndicate and senate bodies of the university is still unlikely to enjoy a ‘samras’ (uncontested election) this year. Syndicate elections for 14 out of 15 seats of elected representatives are scheduled on February 25. The ruling group already has the seat representing head of the department (HoD) in its kitty after Satyajit Chaudhary won the poll uncontested. The poll battle now remains for the two seats representing deans of faculties, one representing principal of the constituent college, five teachers (other than deans, HoDs and principals) and six persons who are neither teachers nor employees nor students of the university or of college. For quite some time, deans, principals and even teachers have hardly remained vocal or critical about the affairs within the university system or the group that directly or indirectly controls the appointment and selection processes. So, all eyes are focused on the six seats in the general category. Sources said that after the ruling group witnessed a cakewalk in the battle for the one seat representing HoDs, it was expecting a similar outcome in other categories. But from February 8 onwards as many as 150 nomination forms have been picked up by wannabe candidates and their supporters. It is worth mentioning here that February 17 is the last date of receiving nominations while scrutiny of the nomination papers will be held on the same day. A candidate can withdraw his or her candidature at any time before the voting takes place by a letter addressed to the registrar which must reach him an hour before the election time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-syndicate-polls-no-high-drama-this-year/articleshow/80885736.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||National Forensic Sciences University e-shield for Mumbai firm||AHMEDABAD: Cyber security is so much more than a matter handled by the IT department. And realising the importance of this, a Mumbai-based multi-billion pharmaceutical major has signed a Rs 90-lakh MoU with the National Forensic Sciences University in Gandhinagar to protect its assets from cyber attacks. The university will provide cyber security monitoring, audit and analysis as part of the collaboration, said officials. Dr J M Vyas, vice-chancellor of the university, confirmed the development. “As part of the collaboration, the university will provide security operations centre and emergency operations centre to the firm,” he said. “We are also providing similar services to a state-based cooperative bank to prevent data breach, phishing attack or ransomware threat.” NFSU officials said that the deal is a logical progression for the sector which has been under intense spotlight due to coronavirus pandemic. Top firms such as Dr Reddy’s and Lupin recorded cyber-attacks in November last year, whereas other firms also ramped up the cyber security framework with an eye on vaccine development and production of Covid-19 related medicines. “Several pharmaceutical firms based in Ahmedabad and elsewhere did not even allow digital devices such as pen drives to be brought onto the premises in order to safeguard sensitive information like details of R&D projects, products under development, and intellectual property including formulations,” said Sunny Vaghela, CTO of a city-based cyber security firm looking after the security of a pharmaceutical major. “But Covid-19 changed the scenario with employees being forced to work from home. The firms had to deal with external traffic and ensure that communication remains secure,” added Vaghela. “Involvement of external agencies helped pharmaceutical firms tap R&D in the cyber security sector and also engage experts for real-time threat detection and analysis.” In September last year, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology of Government of India had tabled a data in the Parliament, pointing at 7 lakh cyber-attacks in 2020. The officials had cited better reporting system and proactive alerts and advisories for rise in reporting the incidents. (With inputs from Niyati Parikh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nfsu-e-shield-for-mumbai-firm/articleshow/80887551.cms||Parth Shastri
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Service charge to make projects dearer||New Delhi: Executing development projects through MP or MLA Local Area Development funds in south Delhi is likely to get costlier as South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has passed a proposal to charge 10% service tax on such works carried out through the civic body. A large number of projects, including installation of open gyms, gazebos, road repair, park development, etc carried out with these funds would now become costlier as service tax would have to be added to the estimate. Explaining the rationale behind the new charge, Leader of the House Narendra Chawla said that corporation staff, resources and equipment were used in the execution of these projects. “The space being used for most projects belongs to the municipal corporation, while salaries of officials who prepare estimates, supervise and carry out the work are also paid by SDMC. Even the machinery used in the project belongs to us,” he added. Keeping the municipal elections in mind, which are likely to be held in March-April next year, SDMC has mandated that along with the names of MPs and MLAs, the name of the local councillor would also have to be mandatorily put up on the inauguration plaques and boards. The councillor would have to be informed beforehand if a project was being carried out in his/her area. Earlier, disputes had emerged in which the councillors had protested against development works being executed in their wards in someone else’s name. A senior corporation official said that major development projects were not being undertaken due to financial crisis. “Delhi government stopped releasing funds and we reached a situation during the pandemic wherein the salaries of employees were delayed for the first time in SDMC,” the official added. Another official said that projects funded by MP/MLA LAD were usually visible ones, like open gyms and road construction. “Political parties have been fighting over sharing credit, but these local projects help residents in the end. Many times, area officials are called by politicians, which irks the other party. More such controversies occur as elections approach,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/service-charge-to-make-projects-dearer/articleshow/80888826.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Case positivity at 2.5%, lowest since June||Panaji: State’s Covid case positivity rate dropped to 2.5% on Friday, the lowest since June 2020. As many as 39 new cases were detected, 127 recoveries and one death was reported, pushing the active caseload to 594. A 72-year-old woman from Ponda having comorbid conditions and who received treatment at Goa Medical College for a week, succumbed to the virus. With her, the state’s death toll rose to 778. The day saw 42 home isolations and 34 patients were admitted to hospital. On Friday, the caseload of all centres fell below the mark of 50 and the centres at Valpoi, Casarvarnem, Colvale, Siolim and Mayem had cases less than 10. Most other centres have their tallies ranged between 10 to 30 cases. Panaji urban health centre continued to post the highest tally in North Goa with its caseload at 49 on Friday. Baring Margao urban health centre, the tally of all centres in South Goa has also gone below 50. Margao’s cases were at 74.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/case-positivity-at-2-5-lowest-since-june/articleshow/80888863.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||No bandh hurdle for pool cars, school buses||Kolkata: Almost 30% of the school buses, catering to around a dozen leading schools in the city, hit the roads on Friday, despite the 12-hour strike called by the Left organizations. Carpool owners said that around 15% of their vehicles plied on Friday when several city schools reopened after a gap of 344 days. However, the school bus and carpool operators did not report any bandh-related problem. The operators indicated that the number of pool cars and school buses might go up from Monday. According to Himadri Ganguly, general secretary of the West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners’ and Operators’ Association, around 450-500 buses picked up and dropped students throughout the day. “We had a few students on board in the morning. But a few schools have made staggered attendance for the students. We are expecting higher attendance from Monday,” said Ganguly. He added, “We are trying to provide each helper with a thermal gun. We are also stocking up sanitizers and we hope that the students will maintain social distancing.” Arpan Banerjee, whose school buses ply in Behala, said he was planning to form a Whatsapp group for each bus so that they could tell parents about the conduct of their wards while travelling. Arupam Dutta of the Poolcar Owners’ Welfare Association — that has contracts with parents, not schools — said, “Many parents made arrangements on their own for their kids’ commute to schools. On Friday, one of these vehicles plied with a single student.” He added, “With Class X resuming on Saturday at some top schools, we expect things to stabilize from next week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-bandh-hurdle-for-pool-cars-school-buses/articleshow/80887335.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Only a bridge between Centre & state: Guv||Hyderabad: Buttressing the need for governors to be apolitical, governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday opined that politicians can also be appointed as governors. Stating that she is only playing the role of a bridge between the Centre and the state, the governor said that her relations with the chief minister are good. Addressing the media at Raj Bhavan on the occasion of the release of her book “Moving with Memories of Maiden Year” on completion of one year in office, Soundararajan said that she is aware of her limitations and also the power and role of an elected government. “Some people have asked me if there are misunderstandings with the TRS regime. Initially, when I made some suggestions on how to handle the Covid-19 situation, they were reluctant to follow. But once I explained to the CM that the state should consider my experience as a doctor and I am concerned about the welfare of the people, the government implemented many of my recommendations,” she added Refusing to comment on the tensions between chief ministers and governors, she said she knows her role. “I have helped people by listening to them. As gynecologist I used to listen to people and that would give them immense confidence. Whatever problems I hear from people I pass on to the government,” she said, adding that she has no plans of participating in the forthcoming assembly elections in her home state Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-a-bridge-between-centre-state-guv/articleshow/80887327.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 13, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Stakeholders look forward to revival of cruise tourism||KOCHI: Anoop K K, an auto driver at Fort Kochi, begins his day reading news on developments regarding Covid-19 around the world, especially in Europe, and checking the website of Cochin Port to know whether any cruise ship is coming to Kochi. He is one of the stakeholders associated with the cruise tourism, which hundreds of autorickshaw and taxi drivers, tour operators, street vendors and shopowners are Fort Kochi and Mattancherry are eagerly looking forward to resume. Though homestays and hotels have started witnessing trickling in of domestic tourists lately, thanks to unlocking of movement restrictions, stakeholders in cruise tourism industry are impatiently waiting for the revival of the sector. In the pre-Covid era, they used to make a good income whenever a cruise ship docked at Cochin Port. “When there were no cruise ships in off-season, we used to cater to local people and other tourists reaching hotels and homestays. But when a ship carrying tourists docks at Cochin Port, we used to get good income. An Australian guest gifted me an auto in 2012 which I was forced to sell recently to make both the ends meet and buy a secondhand CNG vehicle under finance. We are hoping for the revival of the cruise tourism as they spend a huge amount on a single day in the local economy. Some even spend lakhs of rupees for purchasing various items,” said Anoop. The Cochin port has constituted an association of auto drivers to transport cruise tourists to various destinations. As many as 271 autos are part of the initiative. There are associations of taxi drivers and luxury bus operators too to cater to cruise tourists in the port, which used to witness the arrival of approximately 60 cruise ships every year. Around 60,000 passengers and crew reached Kochi in 2019-20. Though the number of cruise tourists are less compared to the foreign tourists arriving by flight, the former ones spent a huge amount per day “As per a survey conducted by an agency, each cruise tourist spends 200 to 400 dollars per day for various purposes like sightseeing and purchasing. They contribute largely to the local economy. The purchasing power of tourists reaching in big vessels like Queen Mary is high. As revival of cruise tourism will be delayed due to the Covid, the central government is planning to start a coastal shipping tourism connecting ports to cash in on domestic tourists,” said a Cochin Port official on condition of anonymity. The port also gets berthing charge worth lakhs of rupees from cruise ships. “Though tourists coming by flights constitute a big chunk and stay here for weeks, cruise tourists are confined to fixed spots and spend only a day. Despite all this, there are numerous stakeholders benefiting hugely from cruise tourism,” said P N Rajesh, general manager of Pioneer Travels. Kerala tourism officials said of the 5.22 lakh foreign tourists who arrived in Kerala in 2019-20, 9.5% were in Ernakulam, the foreign exchange of which stood at Rs 4,508.32cr in the same year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/stakeholders-look-forward-to-revival-of-cruise-tourism/articleshow/80886046.cms||T C Sreemol
February 13, 2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar says ‘report concludes’ Serum plant fire due to short circuit||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said he had received a report that concluded that the January 21 fire at vaccine maker Serum Institute of India’s newly set-up plant at Manjari was caused by a short circuit. Five persons had died in the fire that caused extensive damage to the plant affecting Serum’s BCG vaccine plans. The fire did not affect its Covid-19 vaccine facility. Serum Institute owner and chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla told a new conference on January 22 that they had suffered a loss of over Rs1,000 crores due to the blaze. Pawar, who is also the guardian minister ofPune, told reporters, “I had been to the plant soon after the first incident of fire was brought under control. There was a second fire and it was also brought under control. Our collector, all officers, fire-brigade personnel and others were there. I had a discussion with them. At that time we felt that a short circuit could be the reason for the fire. Some civil work was going on and the entire hall where the fire broke out was empty.” Hr said, “Serum is a private institute and it is also making an investigation of their own regarding the cause of fire.” On their part, Pune police officers said they were awaiting reports from various agencies relating to the cause of fire. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Namrata Patil said, “None of the experts has so far submitted any report to us. The Hadapsar police are pursuing the matter with the government agencies concerned.” Senior inspector Balkrishan Kadam from the Hadapsar police said, “We are awaiting expert reports from the Pune Municipal Corporation, Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation fire brigades. Reports are also awaited from the PWD’s industries and electric department and the forensic science laboratory, Pune. We have sent two reminders to all these agencies to submit their reports.” MIDC chief fire officer Santosh Warik said, “We have written to the Hadapsar police to forward a copy of the expert reports they will get from various agencies. We want to analyze the cause behind the fire.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ajit-pawar-says-report-concludes-serum-plant-fire-due-to-short-circuit/articleshow/80887325.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Pune||Pune: Three booked on charge of duping moneylender of Rs 50 lakh||PUNE: The Sinhagad Road police are investigating an FIR lodged by a licensed moneylender, alleging that three men cheated him of Rs50 lakh on the pretext of currency note exchange on Wednesday. Anand Gilda (46), the complainant, claimed that the trio offered to give him Rs500 notes of the same series, worth Rs75 lakh, in exchange for Rs50 lakh in cash. Tempted by the prospect of earning Rs25 lakh easily, Gilda agreed and ended up losing Rs50 lakh. In the complaint, Gilda stated that the “exchange” took place inside his car, in the parking lot of the Sun City society, off Sinhagad Road, where he lives. The three men took the cash, diverted his attention and fled before Gilda realized he was given a bagful of fake currency notes. Gilda told TOI, that he met the three men — all Hindi speakers — through a mutual acquaintance. “They said they would exchange currency notes for a commission. They were in contact with me for the past four months,” he said. The moneylender said he was hesitant when they first made the offer. “Over time, I fell into their trap as they offered me extra money,” he said. “Gilda held meetings with the three men at his residence and in Khopoli, and spoke to them over the phone several times,” assistant inspector Satish Umare of the Sinhagad Road police said. Umare said the suspects did not enter their names or phone numbers in the visitors’ register while entering the society on Wednesday. “One of them met Gilda in his car and collected Rs50 lakh cash in Rs2,000 notes. He gave Gilda a bag purportedly containing the Rs500 notes, distracted him and fled,” Umare said. When Gilda opened the bag, he was shocked to see it contained “Children’s Bank” currency notes used for games, police said. “A CCTV camera has captured images of the man who took the cash,” said Umare, adding, “We have registered a case of criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-booked-on-charge-of-duping-moneylender-of-rs-50l/articleshow/80887324.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 13, 2021||Madurai||2 convicted in separate cases for sexually abusing minors||Tirunelveli: Two people were convicted in separate incidents by the special court for exclusive trial of cases under the Pocso Act in Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari districts after they were found guilty of sexually abusing minor girls.In the first incident, the special court in Tirunelveli convicted a 58-year-old man and awarded him seven years imprisonment for sexually harassing a four-year-old girl on May 4, 2017, in a village in Tirunelveli district.Public prosecutor of the special court Jeba Jeeva Raja said the girl’s mother took the survivor and her other child to a grocery shop around 7.30pm on that day, when the accused Vijayaraghavan, 55 years at the time of occurrence and a welding worker of the same village, lifted the child and sexually harassed her despite resistance from the mother.Based on a complaint by the mother, the accused was booked under sections 9(m) (whoever commits sexual assault on a child aged below 12 years) and 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and arrested by the Tirunelveli rural AWPS.On completion of trial, sessions judge of the special court P Indhirani awarded him seven years imprisonment and also slapped Rs 10,000 fine on him, failing which which the jail term will be extended by a year.In another case, the special court in Kanyakumari district convicted a 27-year-old from Nagercoil town and awarded him 14 years imprisonment after he was found guilty of sexually abusing a 17-year-old girl on the promise of marrying her and cheating her by refusing to marry her. Police said the accused U Ratheesh of Vetoornimadam in Nagercoil sexually abused the girl multiple times in 2017.The victim approached the Nagercoil all women police station, who registered a case under sections of the Pocso Act and arrested him. On completion of the trial, the special court judge S Ezhil Velavan in his verdict on Thursday convicted and slapped a fine of Rs 12,000 on him, failing which the jail term will be extended by a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-convicted-in-separate-cases-for-sexually-abusing-minors/articleshow/80888809.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Madurai||Panagal Road in Madurai turns chaotic for commuters||Madurai: The stretch of Panagal Road between Goripalayam junction and the Anna bus stand junction has become chaotic and dangerous for commuters, residents and road users have said.K Rajamanickam of K K Nagar said that the share auto drivers are parking their vehicles in front of the bus shelters in Anna bus stand on both sides of the road, due to which city bus drivers are forced to stop on the road.“Recently, an ambulance with a critically ill patient could not come into Government Rajaji Hospital, which is next to the Anna bus stand, as there was no way of easing the traffic and the ambulance could move only after the vehicles in front of it moved,” said K Sharmila, who was riding on the road on Tuesday.To make things worse, many protests are held at Goripalayam junction which causes chaos. “Staging protests at the junction should be prevented till the problems on this road are solved as the GH’s Covid-19 treatment and emergency units are also in this section,” said a doctor. Additionally, the stretch of the road from Anna bus stand junction to Elango Boys Higher Secondary school has silt piled on both sides spilling over three feet on the road. City Engineer S Arasu, said that the entire stretch of the Panagal Road would soon be re-laid and made free of potholes and sand. “The traffic aspects and the share auto parkings have to be regulated by the police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/panagal-road-in-madurai-turns-chaotic-for-commuters/articleshow/80888795.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||NGT order on pvt forests stands as SC dismisses Goa plea||PANAJI: The Supreme Court has dismissed an appeal filed by the Goa government against an August 18, 2020, order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) pertaining to private forests. Thus, the 46 sq km of private forest approved by the NGT will now have to be notified by the state government. “We find no ground to interfere with the impugned order passed by the tribunal. The appeal is, accordingly, dismissed. Pending interlocutory application(s), if any, is/are disposed of,” reads the order by a bench comprising Justices Rohinton Nariman and Aniruddha Bose. Over the years, several committees have been formed to look into the issue of private forests in Goa. The first were the Sawant and Karapurkar committees, tasked with identifying such lands in Goa. Another panel led by Deepshikha Sharma reviewed these reports. The NGT order pertains to Sharma's report, certain aspects of which were sought to be reviewed by yet another committee, headed by Anthony D'Souza. The tribunal rejected the D'Souza committee's report, a decision now upheld by the Supreme Court. The Goa government had filed an appeal in the Supreme Court over the NGT order dated August 18 (and corrected as on August 31, 2020). The state had sought to have the NGT order set aside. The top court, in a brief order issued earlier this month, has now rejected the state’s appeal. In the August 2020 order, the NGT had approved over 46 sq km of private forest, which was the first such parcel to be accepted as private forest in Goa. The NGT order was based on the findings of the Sawant and the Karapurkar committees, later reviewed and confirmed by the Sharma committee. The state government is required to notify the area approved as private forest by stating the dos and don’ts inside these parcels of land. The criteria to identify the private forests applied by the Goa government in the case of all committees beginning with the Sawant committee, formed in 1997, is that 75% of the tree composition of such lands should be of forestry species. The other criteria state that the area should be either contiguous to the government forest lands or, if in isolation, the minimum area identified should be 5 ha. And, canopy density should not be less than 0.4. The state government’s contention about finalising the survey numbers identified as private forests is that it will have implications for owners of the private lands. In July 2019, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that still there are complaints about inclusion of private properties as private forests, even though the Thomas and Araujo committees were formed post the Sawant, Karapurkar and Sharma panels, as also two review committees to re-examine the findings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngt-order-on-pvt-forests-stands-as-sc-dismisses-goa-plea/articleshow/80888799.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Pune||Pune: 23% deaths within 48 hours of hospitalisation in December & January||PUNE: A Covid-19 mortality report prepared by the PMC for December 2020 and January 2021 has revealed that a significant 23% mortalities during the months occurred on the same day or within 48 hours of patients being admitted to hospitals. Health experts said such a trend was indicative of the fact that despite being over 10 months into the pandemic, there was still a section of people who might be seeking medical intervention only after entering a more severe phase of the infection. A senior PMC official told TOI, “Statistics reveal that out of 300 deaths in the past two months, 13% (40) patients died on the day of hospitalisation. This means the patients were very serious and admitted to hospital in a late stage of the disease. They could have also been diagnosed and referred late. Those dying 1-2 days after hospitalization is indicative of seeking necessary medical help late.” The data further showed that a total of 221 of the 300 deaths were associated with comorbidities. A senior PMC official said the total monthly deaths have been reducing significantly since November last year in the civic areas. “The analysis of the mortalities in December 2020 and January 2021 was done following instructions from a central team that visited Maharashtra a few days ago. The team had told all the districts to analyze the Covid-19 mortalities with classifications such as age-group, comorbidities, sex, number of days between hospital admission and death etc. A similar analysis for months before December 2020 is still underway,” the official said. Kapil Zirpe, member of the Pune Covid-19 task force and head of the department of the neurotrauma unit of Ruby Hall Clinic, Pune, told TOI, “There is a possibility that such deaths occur in the high-risk groups of patients who may get tested late. They may have been having symptoms such as cough, upper respiratory tract infection, fever and breathlessness, but delayed testing due to fear, ignorance or some personal reasons. This is not true of those under home quarantine. Such patients are monitored by their respective physicians. The physicians can refer such patients to emergency medical aid on seeing any warning sign.” Zirpe said if someone had symptoms like fever, breathlessness and chest pain, it would be risky for them to get tested and hospitalized after a few days of these signs. Piyush Chaudhari, infectious diseases specialist at Jehangir hospital ,told TOI, “Since the pandemic has been past its peak, a lot of medical facilities and physicians have started treating Covid-19 patients. In the past, only the designated healthcare facilities treating such cases. Though this has advantages, it may be leading to a situation when some patients may not be coming to the tertiary care hospital till the onset of very severe symptoms. As the fear related to adverse outcomes in Covid is decreasing, some patients are also not getting tested or seeking medical attention till the symptoms are severe.” Health experts said there were clear guidelines on when a Covid patient should seek admission into a hospital. Persistent fever, breathlessness, pain or tightness in the chest are some of the conditions that need hospitalization of a patient. The bed availability situation in Pune started improving significantly by November 2020. “A shortage of beds could not be a reason for delayed medical help in December last year and January this year. We did not have a single complaint after October 2020 citing any mortality due to unavailability of beds,” said Rajendra Muthe, head of the PMC’s building and establishment department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/23-deaths-within-48-hrs-of-hospitalisation-in-dec-jan/articleshow/80887322.cms||Neha Madaan
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand govt ups compensation of foresters who die in line of duty from Rs 2.5 lakh earlier to Rs 15 lakh||Dehradun: Days after two forest personnel died while dousing forest fires, the Uttarakhand government on Friday raised the compensation of foresters who die in line of duty from the Rs 2.5 lakh earlier to Rs 15 lakh. “This is a very praiseworthy move by the government. The forest authorities take on a great challenge and save our land and all the creatures. In Uttarakhand, their role is all the more imperative as we share borders with other countries. Also, we have very different types of terrain and most charismatic species of wildlife. In the hills, our state has alpines and species like snow leopards, musk deer, and Himalayan brown bear which need protection from poachers. Similarly in plains, we have Corbett and Rajaji reserves that house big cats and thus require protection. Timber and high-value medicinal plants also needto be protected by the forest staff,” said Rajiv Bhartari, head of forest force (HoFF), Uttarakhand forest department. The foresters are also tasked with checking wildfires and human-animal conflict. “We have been asked to re-assess the situation. Firelines need to be cleared on priority as we are heading for the forest fire season,” added Bhartari. The Forest Survey of India states that Uttarakhand has 38,000 sq km recorded forest area (RFA) — encompassing six national parks, two tiger reserves (Corbett and Rajaji), seven wildlife sanctuaries, and four community reserves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-ups-compensation-of-foresters-who-die-in-line-of-duty-from-rs-2-5-lakh-earlier-to-rs-15-lakh/articleshow/80886044.cms||Shivani Azad
February 13, 2021||Pune||Shivneri fort up for conservation with Rs 23.5 crore government funds||PUNE: The state government has given an administrative sanction of Rs23.5 crore for the conservation, beautification and development of Shivneri fort, the birth place of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Junnar tehsil, about 100km from the city. The state tourism and cultural affairs department released the government resolution on Thursday. The work would be carried out by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the state forest department and the Public Works Department (PWD). The crucial preservation work, such as reconstruction of the fallen fort wall, improvement of pathways, restoration of the ambarkhana, rajwada and its adjoining structures would be done by ASI. A senior official of the ASI from the Mumbai circle, who did not wish to be named, told TOI over the phone, “We have got the administrative sanction for different works. We will submit our detailed work plan to our directorate in New Delhi, and thereafter further process will begin. But, our endeavour would be to commence work at the earliest. We will make it our priority and accordingly start the work at the site.” Jayramgowda R, deputy conservator of forest, Junnar division, said, “We will be mainly involved in the landscaping for the garden to preserve native species of plants and construction of the Gabion wall. We have already submitted our architecture plan to the state government in the last month. The entire work would be carried out on the fort. It would be a time-consuming exercise. We will soon start the process of floating tender for each work.” The PWD’s work will be constructing roads in and around villages at the foothill of the fort. Several social organisations and NGOs working for the fort’s preservation have been seeking funds for restoration for years. Lakhs of people every year visit the fort on historic occasions connected with Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Sanjay Khatri, president of Sahyadri Mountaineering Organisation, who has been pursuing various issues related to the fort for the last few years with the government, said, “The ancient structures on the fort should be maintained to give history the apt perspective. We have demanded that the government construct a museum on the fort so that ancient weapons and other items of the Maratha empire can be put on display. The government should complete all the work in a time-bound manner to restore the real value of the fort.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shivneri-fort-up-for-conservation-with-rs-23-5-crore-government-funds/articleshow/80887334.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 13, 2021||Pune||Centre has to bear jab cost of 50-plus people: Maharashtra deputy CM||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the Centre would have to bear the cost of vaccinating 50-plus beneficiaries. “The Centre has been repeatedly making announcements regarding the vaccination of priority population. It has to fund the vaccines for 50-plus people too, given the current funds crunch faced by the state,” the guardian minister told TOI. The central government is yet to take a final decision on the funding aspect of the 50-plus beneficiaries. Sources in the ministry of health and family welfare, however, hinted at the Centre and the states sharing the cost of vaccinating 50-plus beneficiaries as well as those with comorbidities. Ajit Pawar said, “Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had issued a statement earlier that they would be providing vaccines to three crore people, including healthcare and frontline workers. He issued another statement now that 30 crore people would be given the vaccine. It means the Centre has to cover the cost of vaccinating all the 30 crore people.” The deputy chief minister also directed all the district administrations to ensure that the Covid-19 mitigation funds allotted to them were spent before March 31. Around Rs887 crore of these funds have remained unspent because some districts incurred less expenditure. “We have directed all the guardian ministers and the district collectors to spend that amount by March 31 on the healthcare infrastructure. They could use the funds for ramping up the primary healthcare centres and district hospitals,” he said. He added that in case some funds remained unspent, they should be passed on to other local bodies in the same district to ensure that the money was utilised properly. ‘Pune was on top of chart as reconciliation was not done’ Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said Pune district was on top of the chart of Covid-19 cases on the public portal because the reconciliation of figures were not carried out. The state health officials carried out the reconciliation of figures from over 13,000 active cases to about 5,500 last week. TOI had highlighted the issue. Still, Ajit Pawar said, there was need to follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/centre-has-to-bear-jab-cost-of-50-plus-people-dy-cm/articleshow/80887359.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 13, 2021||Goa||GoaMiles was brought in after cabbies refused to fix meters: Manohar Ajgaonkar||PANAJI: Tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar on Friday said that GoaMiles got entry into the state simply because of tourist taxi operators’ unwillingness to install meters. Increasing conflict between the two taxi operators has been the fallout of issues that have been festering for more than two years now, since the state’s Goa Miles — the state’s first taxi app — was launched. Ajgaonkar said that prior to the launch of GoaMiles in the state leaders of tourist taxi associations had met him at which time he “clearly told them the necessity of installing taxi meters. Install meters and you will have no competition”. The tourism minister said he had received feedback that tourist taxis in Goa charge their customers extra. “Even if a few of them do such things it gives a bad name to the whole fraternity. We felt there has to be a solution to the problem and we decided to have an app-based taxi service,” he said. “I’m not opposed to tourist taxi operators, they are our own,” Ajagaonkar said while refusing to comment on the recent assault of three GoaMiles drivers. The implementation of taxi meters is the responsibility of the transport department and that he will not say anything further on this point, he said He said the decision of allowing Goa Miles was taken after all were taken into confidence. “There was a half hour discussion in the Goa legislative assembly on the issue,” said Ajgaonkar when pointed out that some MLAs have been saying that they were not consulted over GoaMiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goamiles-was-brought-in-after-cabbies-refused-to-fix-meters-ajgaonkar/articleshow/80888843.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Agartala||Agartala-Anand Vihar special Rajdhani to get a Tejas-style upgrade||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways will replace the rake of Agartala-Anand Vihar special Rajdhani Express with Tejas sleeper coaches with upgraded facilities from Monday. With smart features, the coaches of this New Sleeper Type Tejas Train will offer best in class travel experience, the ministry said. The national transporter plans to introduce 500 such luxury sleeper coaches in the next year to gradually replace the premium long-distance trains on the network. The ministry said this will be the beginning of a “new era of train travel experience”. The new train comes with smart sleeper coaches in the First AC, Second AC and AC 3 tier category. The Indian Railways has finalised the production plan for such special Tejas AC sleeper coaches at Modern Coach Factory Rae Bareli and Integral Coach Factory Chennai in 2021-22. The new Tejas-style sleeper train is similar in its branding and colour theme to the AC chair car Tejas trains that already run on the network. These trains have automatic plug door and all main entrance doors have centralised control functions with the guard. Train will not start until all doors are closed, an official release said. The features of new Tejas-style Rajdhani Express include improved seats and berths, reading light for each berth, air quality measurement for AC system, mobile charging points next to each berth and roller blinds on windows for better hygiene. The other features include modular bio-toilet with vacuum assisted flushing, touch-less fittings, marble finish with anti-graffiti coating, toilet occupancy sensors, gel coated shelf, door latch-activated light new design dustbin and one mother and baby friendly toilet in each coach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agartala/agartala-anand-vihar-spl-rajdhani-to-get-a-tejas-style-upgrade/articleshow/80893997.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Min: Let tribals do podu cultivation||Hyderabad: Tribal welfare minister Sathyavathi Rathod on Friday warned forest department officials against troubling tribals engaged in podu cultivation. “Tribals who are in possession of the land under cultivation should not be disturbed. If forest officials trouble them, it will be viewed seriously,” the minister said while launching the TRS party membership drive in Mahabubabad. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-let-tribals-do-podu-cultivation/articleshow/80887418.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||‘Mask breaks’ between classes to breathe easy||Kolkata: Masks may have become part of school uniform but the authorities feel youngsters may find it difficult to keep the masks on for the entire day, that they may need small breaks to breathe easy. So, almost all institutes have started a 10-minute break after every class for kids to pull down their masks a bit or to allow them to go to the washroom to freshen up and sanitise their hands. At DPS Ruby Park, the mask break is being given after every two periods, when the students are allowed to stretch, do a bit of guided exercises, take the mask off in the washroom and freshen up. At this time, hand sanitisation is also a must. The idea is that the kids will return refreshed for the next two sessions. “Wearing masks is the new norm. We are giving short breaks after every 80 minutes,” said vice-principal of DPS Ruby Park Indrani Chattopadhyay. The schools decided on the break after consulting doctors. Students at Lakshmipat Singhania Academy have been told they can pull the mask down a bit at times when they feel uncomfortable. When the masks get soggy, they will have to be changed. After every class of 40 minutes at Heritage School, students will get short, monitored breaks. “They may feel stuffy and hence, this break. But they will be monitored. The initial days will be tough as kids will be put into a system again, but habits will gradually form,” said principal Seema Sapru. Doctors pointed out the breaks would make the mask experience more bearable. Mukesh Kochar, a doctor at Belle Vue Clinic, said, “Kids can wear masks at a stretch for as long as they are comfortable.” Child specialist Abhijit Sarkar said, “Masks should be changed when soggy. There is otherwise no harm in keeping it on for a long stretch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mask-breaks-between-classes-to-breathe-easy/articleshow/80887370.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Waive farm loans, Revanth tells CM||Hyderabad: TPCC working president A Revanth Reddy, who has undertaken Rajiv Bharosa yatra in protest against the farm laws, demanded that the state government waive farm loans. In a letter to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Revanth asked the CM to resolve the issues of farmers immediately. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waive-farm-loans-revanth-tells-cm/articleshow/80887341.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: International passengers can now travel to quarantine centre in private car||MUMBAI: International passengers who have to undergo the mandatory week-long institutional quarantine in Mumbai can now opt to travel from the airport to the hotel in a private car. Till now, such passengers had no option but to travel in BEST buses. Following complaints and requests from passengers since the ones dropped last ended up spending a lot of time in the bus, the BMC on Thursday allowed transportation by private vehicles as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/international-passengers-can-now-travel-to-quarantine-centre-in-pvt-car/articleshow/80888887.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Pune||Pune: Vaccination of frontline workers gathers pace||PUNE: The improved turnout of frontline workers in the rural areas of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits propelled the day’s vaccination to 61% in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday. A total of 1,114 frontline workers, mainly police, revenue department and civic staffers, and 2,669 healthcare workers were administered the Covid vaccine in PMR on Friday. Of these, the centres in the PCMC and rural parts collectively recorded vaccination of 970 frontline workers (87%). “The inoculation numbers among frontline workers are slowly catching up with the healthcare workers in PMR,” district health officer Bhagawan Pawar said. However, the PMC areas continued to lag, with only 144 frontline workers reaching out to the vaccination centre on Friday. Among the 144 frontline workers, 121 were the Pune police personnel. “We are working on to improve the vaccination of our ward office employees. In addition to two PMC-run hospitals, we have also roped in Noble hospital in Hadapsar and Bharati hospital for vaccination of our employees attached with Hadapsar and Sahakarnagar ward offices. We hope to improve the numbers within a week,” said Ashish Bharati, chief of the PMC health department. On Friday, 24 vaccination centres in the PMC areas collectively inoculated 1,798 beneficiaries. Kharadi-based Shree hospital, one of the newly roped-in private hospitals in the vaccination drive, is inoculating 20 healthcare daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccination-of-frontline-workers-gathers-pace/articleshow/80887351.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 13, 2021||Ludhiana||Cops attacked amid rumours of minor rape survivor’s death||Ludhiana: Tension prevailed outside a school here after a rumour of the death of a seven-year-old rape survivor spread. The child is an LKG student of the school.On learning the hearsay, people gathered outside the school and raised slogans against it and the Punjab Police. When cops tried to pacify them, the crowd threw stones and bricks at them. The police then resorted to lathicharge.Inspector Gopal Krishan said, “The police had gone to the school to investigate the rape case. We had also called the school staff for recording their statements. To ensure security, force from three police stations was present there. However, some people had already gathered near the spot. When cops reached there, the crowd started raising slogans against the police and the school and claimed that the rape survivor had died. The cops tried to pacify them, but to no avail. We also showed them a video of the girl in the hospital, but they refused to believe it.” “The agitators, especially the women, had bricks in their hands and they started attacking cops. Police had to lathicharge them. ASI Sawinder Singh was injured in the incident,” the inspector added.Later, cops recorded a video of the mother of the rape survivor and showed it to the protesters which mollified them. The inspector said, “The medical examination of ASI Sawinder Singh is being conducted. As per the directions of senior officials, we may register a case against the agitators for attacking police and spreading rumours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-attacked-amid-rumours-of-minor-rape-survivors-death/articleshow/80886059.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Agartala-Anand Vihar special Rajdhani to get a Tejas-style upgrade||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways will replace the rake of Agartala-Anand Vihar special Rajdhani Express with Tejas sleeper coaches with upgraded facilities from Monday. With smart features, the coaches of this New Sleeper Type Tejas Train will offer best in class travel experience, the ministry said. The national transporter plans to introduce 500 such luxury sleeper coaches in the next year to gradually replace the premium long-distance trains on the network. The ministry said this will be the beginning of a “new era of train travel experience”. The new train comes with smart sleeper coaches in the First AC, Second AC and AC 3 tier category. The Indian Railways has finalised the production plan for such special Tejas AC sleeper coaches at Modern Coach Factory Rae Bareli and Integral Coach Factory Chennai in 2021-22. The new Tejas-style sleeper train is similar in its branding and colour theme to the AC chair car Tejas trains that already run on the network. These trains have automatic plug door and all main entrance doors have centralised control functions with the guard. Train will not start until all doors are closed, an official release said. The features of new Tejas-style Rajdhani Express include improved seats and berths, reading light for each berth, air quality measurement for AC system, mobile charging points next to each berth and roller blinds on windows for better hygiene. The other features include modular bio-toilet with vacuum assisted flushing, touch-less fittings, marble finish with anti-graffiti coating, toilet occupancy sensors, gel coated shelf, door latch-activated light new design dustbin and one mother and baby friendly toilet in each coach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/agartala-anand-vihar-spl-rajdhani-to-get-a-tejas-style-upgrade/articleshow/80888858.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||Court junks Sudha plea in Elgar case||MUMBAI: A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday rejected a plea made by Elgar Parishad case accused, Sudha Bharadwaj (58), seeking expunging and withdrawal of certain “scurrilous” statements made by the NIA in response to her plea seeking unredacted statements of a few witnesses. An unredacted statement refers to a statement that has not been truncated or where certain sensitive and confidential portions are not obscured. Bharadwaj’s plea said the NIA in its reply on December 21, 2020 had alleged that through the application, she was digging into the identities of the witnesses to cause them harm. The NIA, however, said it was well within the provisions of law to express apprehension that there might be threat to witnesses. Bharadwaj had moved the plea in December. “The applicant is an undertrial prisoner with the presumption of innocence in her favour and there is absolutely no proof that she would cause harm to witnesses. On the contrary, she has spent over 20 years in service of the people,” Bharadwaj’s plea said. It added that the prosecution cannot be allowed to level defamatory and scurrilous allegations against her merely because she is accused of a crime. “As officers of the court, the prosecution has a responsibility to act with fairness and cannot run roughshod over a vulnerable and incarcerated person by indulging in scandalous mudslinging,” the plea added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/court-junks-sudha-plea-in-elgar-case/articleshow/80890209.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Meerut||Priyanka Gandhi to hold 4 'kisan panchayats' in next one week||Meerut: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi is slated to hold four 'kisan panchayats' in the next one week which is expected to further intensify agitation against the three controversial farm laws in parts of western Uttar Pradesh.After her first 'kisan panchayat' in Saharanpur on February 10 where she announced that the Congress Party will repeal the farm laws if it comes to power, the next 'kisan sabha' would be held in Meerut on February 15, followed by another in Bijnor on the same day.The local administration in these districts has begun preparations for the panchayat. An application for permission by the local party unit has also been sent to the respective district administrations.In Saharanpur, the district administration had denied permission to the party to hold the event scheduled on February 8 following which the venue was shifted from city limits to Chilkana in the outskirts.The 'panchayats' come in tandem with another opposition party Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) organising a series of 'mahapanchayats' in several districts of western UP.RLD has also kicked off a door-to-door campaign where workers, with a letter of party chief Ajit Singh in the name of farmers, are mobilising people against the three laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/priyanka-gandhi-to-hold-4-kisan-panchayats-in-next-one-week/articleshow/80885182.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Denial of state plane to Maharashtra Governor for official work is a complete misuse of power: U’khand CM TS Rawat||Dehradun: A day after Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari was denied use of the state plane for an official visit to Dehradun by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress) government, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the denial of state aircraft to a governor for official work was a “complete misuse of power”. Koshyari, on Thursday evening, met CM Rawat and the two had discussed the natural calamity in Chamoli. Reacting to the issue, CM Rawat on Friday said, “It is a complete misuse of power. It is wrong. It is against modesty and dignity. A Governor is the constitutional head of a state and a representative of the President of the country. In democracy, modesty and traditions should be followed and maintained.” Koshyari was to attend the valedictory function of the 122nd induction training programme of IAS officers at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration at Mussoorie. The governor’s secretariat had, on February 2, written to the state seeking permission to use the plane and the CMO was informed about Koshyari’s itinerary. On being asked if the Uttarakhand government would provide a state plane to Koshyari, CM Rawat said, “If he asks for it, we will definitely provide him the service.” A former chief minister of Uttarakhand, Koshyari was elected to the Lok Sabha in 2014 from the Nainital-Udham Singh Nagar constituency. In September 2019, he was named the Governor of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/denial-of-state-plane-to-maharashtra-governor-for-official-work-is-a-complete-misuse-of-power-ukhand-cm-ts-rawat/articleshow/80886062.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 13, 2021||Kochi||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan set to open first Water Metro route||KOCHI: After much delay, the state government and Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) is set to inaugurate the first route and terminal buildings of Kochi Water Metro. On Monday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will launch the Vyttila-Kakkanad route through video conferencing. According to KMRL, the work of the vessel which will service along the route is completed. “The vessel is with the Cochin Shipyard Ltd. But commercial operations of the boat along this route will begin after getting statutory clearance. It is expected that the chief minister will announce the date for launching commercial services at the inaugural function of the first route,” said KMRL spokesperson. The chief minister will also open the Panamkutty bridge also known as Petta Bridge for traffic and launch the integrated urban regeneration & water transport system (IURWT) project on the day. The opening of the bridge will enable a hassle-free journey between Petta and SN Junction. The total length of the bridge is 250m, of which around 70m is over Poorna river. It is constructed as part of the Metro’s preparatory works for the phase-one extension from Petta to Tripunithura. There will be two bridges for traffic. One is the old structure, and the other the new structure. Approximate cost of construction is Rs 17.2 crore. The construction of the bridge began in November 2019. Meanwhile, the IURWT project is envisioned to renew and rejuvenate five major canals in Kochi. The idea is to develop the urban area for inland navigation, thereby providing with last-mile connectivity and to promote tourism and recreation.  Netherlands-based consortium Antea Nederland BV and Unihorn have prepared the master plan and detailed project report. The state government on Wednesday gave the nod for the DPR with a revised estimated cost of Rs 1,528 crore. The project will be implemented with Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) funds. The major canals — Edappally canal (11.15km), Chilavanoor canal (11.023km), Thevara–Perandoor canal (9.84km), Thevara canal (1.41km) and the Market canal (0.66km) will be developed. The illegal encroachments along these canals will be evicted and recreational spaces will be constructed. The widened canals will be used to for improving public transport systems in the city, it will act as a facility for feeder services to Kochi Metro. The KMRL, which is implementing the project, has also completed the social impact assessment study, water quality studies and bathymetric survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-set-to-open-1st-water-metro-route/articleshow/80886063.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chennai||No distancing as fans throng Chepauk||Chennai: There was little social distancing as hundreds of fans flocked to the MA Chidambaram stadium in Chepauk on Friday, a day ahead of the start second cricket Test between India and England. A similar throng was noticed on Thursday as well. Many had come to collect physical copies of the tickets they had booked online, while others rushed to the spot unaware that there was no physical sale of tickets and had to be turned back. Only 50% occupancy is permitted, but there is big enthusiasm as international cricket is returning to the city after a long time. Also, the three stands that were sealed after the 2011 World Cup owing to various issues have been thrown open. Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) secretary R S Ramasaamy said acquiring a physical copy was necessary to keep track of the headcount and ensure that people did not misuse tickets. “Multiple people can take a printout of the same ticket and misuse it. We wanted to avoid that,” he said. A police constable on duty at the stadium said many did not know that it was only redemption of online tickets. “They thought it was sale of tickets. We had to send them back with explanation,” he said. “Those who were not wearing masks were given masks free of cost.” The TNCA has put strict Covid-19 protocols in place for the fans entering the stadium to follow. Face masks and social distancing will be mandatory always during the duration of the match and fans will have to be seated in every alternate plastic chair. Anybody found flouting the rules will be given a warning and be asked to leave the premises if they don’t heed the warning, an official said. At each of the 17 entrance points to the famous stadium, temperature checks and hand sanitizing will be carried out. Five medical kiosks have been set up and there will be four ambulances on call at the ground. There will be a medical room with a doctor as well as an isolation room. Anyone found to be coughing or sneezing after entering the stadium will be immediately moved to an isolation room. Medical aid will be administered before they are moved out, another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-distancing-as-fans-throng-chepauk/articleshow/80887407.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Pune||Steep drop in corneal transplants across state, 835 on the waiting list||Pune: Lata was forced to live a near-blind life for eight months owing to a long waiting list for corneal transplant in Maharashtra. She finally got the corneal tissues of a deceased donor and underwent the much-needed procedure in January. A total of 835 patients are currently on the waiting list for corneal transplants in the Maharashtra government’s centralized portal. A steep drop in the collection of corneal tissues in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions imposed on voluntary eye donations have badly hit many patients requiring corneal transplant surgeries in the state. “There has been a massive 70% drop in corneal transplant surgeries post-pandemic, resulting in a longer waiting list and equally long waiting period. The transplant surgeries have slowly started picking up after the Union government lifted the restrictions on voluntary eye donations across the country in December, but it will take some time to regain the early pace,” said eye surgeon Jai Kelkar, director of the Pune-based National Institute of Ophthalmology, a dedicated tertiary care eye hospital. She said, “We have performed 13 transplants in December and January so far. Still, we have a total of 10 patients on our hospital’s waiting list for corneal transplant.” Patients need corneal transplants when they suffer from severe conditions where corneal repair is not possible and the transplant is the only resort. Mumbai-based consultant cornea specialist Quresh Maskati of Eye Bank Coordination and Research Centre, said, “Prior to the pandemic, a person used to get the donor cornea tissue within a month in big cities like Mumbai and Thane. But now the waiting period has gone up to two to three months even in these cities.” State ophthalmic officer Padmaja Jogewar confirmed that 835 patients were on the waiting list for corneal transplant in Maharashtra. District ophthalmic officer Vandana Shirsikar said, “We recorded 296 cornea collection in 2020. Our yearly cornea donation figure would be in the bracket of 1,400 to 1,600 every year prior to the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/steep-drop-in-corneal-transplants-across-state-835-on-the-waiting-list/articleshow/80887397.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 13, 2021||Pune||Wellness within the safety of your society||The pandemic has forced everyone to focus on the improvement of their physical and mental health. Yoga serves as a great way to do just that. Doctors have also recommended the daily practice of yoga for Covid patients to boost their immunity and build their strength. While the elderly and children were at high risk, and may still be sceptical about stepping out, a yoga-themed event will soon be organized at your housing society. In an effort to bring wellness for your family in the safety of your residential premises, The Times of India, in partnership with Yoga Institute, is launching yoga sessions to be conducted at housing societies every Sunday for the benefit of its residents. Pune is the first to host this initiative, called Yoga at your Doorstep, which will be followed soon by other cities across the country. The first of the series will be held at Mont Vert Pristine Society, Aundh Road in Bopodi, on February 14, between 7am and 8am. The hour-long event will include a yoga session with breathing exercises, meditation, basic poses, nutrition tips and some fun games. A letter will be put up on the notice board of the society urging residents to participate and WhatsApp messages in the residents’ groups will be circulated. Residents of the society can register for the event on www.yogaatyourdoorstep.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wellness-within-the-safety-of-your-society/articleshow/80887403.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Ludhiana||60-yr-old ends life after killing wife & daughter||Ludhiana: A 60-year-old man hammered his wife and daughter to death at their house in Sherpur Kalan village on Friday morning. Later, he committed suicide by jumping into Doraha canal.Accused Pyara Singh was a factory worker. While his wife, Swaranjit Kaur, 53, died on the spot, his daughter, Rajwant Kaur, 28, succumbed during treatment at a hospital. Rajwant was to get married on February 21. She earlier worked as a teacher at a nearby private school and had recently cleared IELTS.  The murders came to light when Pyara Singh called up his nephew, Gurpreet Singh, who lives nearby.Gurpreet said, “I was home when I received a call from my uncle, Pyara Singh, around 8am. He said everything was over and he was ending his life by jumping into Doraha canal. I asked him to return home so that we could talk out the issue. But he refused. He asked me to open the main gate of his house and directed me to a key, which was kept near a pipe. I opened the door and found his wife and daughter in a pool of blood.” Gurpreet called up a nearby doctor, who declared Swaranjit dead. Rajwant was alive and taken to a hospital at Chandigarh Road, where she succumbed hours later.Moti Nagar police station SHO inspector Parmod Kumar said, “Prima facie evidence suggest that Pyara Singh attacked Swaranjit and Rajwant with a hammer multiple times while they were sleeping. There were no signs of struggle.”“Rajwant had a double master’s degree. She had also cleared IELTS. She was engaged to a Ropar man and scheduled to get married on February 21. On Thursday, the family had gone to the house of her fiancé to give a formal wedding invitation. We questioned their relatives and neighbours. However, everyone is clueless about the murders and suicide motive,” the inspector added. The police have recovered the scooter and the cellphone of Pyara Singh from near the Doraha canal. Divers are searching for his body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/60-yr-old-ends-life-after-killing-wife-daughter/articleshow/80886064.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Rejigged museums tell thematic stories||KOCHI: The newly-renovated galleries at Hill Palace Museum at Tripunithura and Bastion Bungalow at Fort Kochi tell stories of the Kingdom of Kochi and the mercantile relations the city had with the outside world. There was no dearth of objects with historical and archival value at the imposing Hill Palace Museum in Tripunithura. But viewing them felt like flipping through a huge catalogue as they numbered a total of 2,725, including 416 manuscripts, and were displayed based on classifications like weapons and jewellery. The galleries at the museum, which have been rejigged after a period of 36 years, now follows a thematic pattern and has storytelling at its core. The exhibits were curated by Prasanna Varma, author and member of the Kochi royal family. “The exhibits portray different facets of history. This environment where the palace is situated itself is remarkable. It talks about architecture, about the botanical richness of the site, about the royal family and how they influenced socially, culturally and politically, the life of this part of our country,” said Venu V, additional chief secretary in charge of departments of archaeology, archives and museums.  The walls have not been touched and displays are showcased in special cases with LED warm lights. Once complete, the gallery would also offer audio guides for visitors, Venu said. Spread in 52 acres, the palace is made up of 49 buildings. The new galleries have been set up in three buildings - Vadakke Malika, Thekke Malika and Naduvile Malika. Earlier, only the larger rooms were used for display. Now, nearly 99% of the space is being utilized. The palace has close to 97 rooms. In the Bastion Bungalow, 10 galleries, spread out in 6,000 sq ft, have been arranged to inform visitors about the mercantile history of the port city. The first gallery, narrates the history and timeline of the Bungalow itself, while the second one would discuss the trade history of Malabar coast. The third attraction is the map of Tabula Peutingeriana, a replica of the 13th century area of the provinces under Roman rule, which marks the Port of Muziris. The 10th gallery is dedicated to Hortus Malabaricus. It has a mini-theatre, coffee shop and curio shop attached. Both the museums were thrown open to the public by Kadannappalli Ramachandran on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rejigged-museums-tell-thematic-stories/articleshow/80886083.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Jogging tracks at Nehru Park delayed, likely to be completed by July||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council’s (NDMC) project for constructing synthetic jogging tracks at Nehru Park is now likely to be completed by July. After objections were raised by the forest department, the project was put on hold for some time, said officials. “Though we submitted a reply to the environment department after they raised objections over violating norms, work was put on hold for some time. The department also asked us to de-concretised area around some trees. The work has started at the site but so far, only 500-metre stretch has been completed. It will take at least four months to complete the project,” said an NDMC official. The forest department had conducted a fresh survey of the area recently and found concretisation done around some 40 trees within one-metre area. “We have asked them to make a rectification and come with a compliance report in the next hearing. They have been allowed to construct synthetic tracks in kuccha area provided they take permission from Ridge Management Board,” said a forest department official. The civic agency had started work at the site in December, 2020 and a deadline of six months was set to complete it. The idea to prepare the tracks came after NDMC received complaints of people losing balance in the rocky area or getting their knees injured. Also, the track there used to get slippery during monsoons, said a civic body official. “To resolve the issue, we decided to make a small EPDM flooring or track with rubber flooring where people could walk easily,” said the NDMC official. But, as soon as the work started, a notice was issued by the forest department stating that Nehru Park was a deemed forest. “We replied that the Nehru Park was nowhere mentioned in the list of notified forest areas on the Delhi government’s website. Also, as per Delhi Master Plan-2021, only Talkatora and Buddha gardens are included in the Central Ridge area. It is a recreation place and minor changes, which will not affect nature and add to convenience of walkers, can be done,” asserted the NDMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jogging-tracks-at-nehru-park-delayed-likely-to-be-completed-by-july/articleshow/80888915.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||HC poser to T, SEC over civic body polls’ delay||Hyderabad: Telangana high court on Friday sought to know from the government and the state election commission as to why they are failing to conduct elections to the municipalities and municipal corporations on time. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, while hearing a PIL filed by M Dharma Rao, gave time to the authorities to explain their stand till March 25. The petitioner brought to the notice of the court several instances of civic bodies running without elected bodies. Though the term of the previously elected councils was over in Nakirekal, Jadcherla, Kothuru and Zaheerabad municipalities, polls for these local bodies have not been held, he said. The tenure of the council of Siddipet municipal corporation would end by April this year. The bench sought replies from the authorities and posted the case to March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-poser-to-t-sec-over-civic-body-polls-delay/articleshow/80887432.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Pune||Day’s recoveries exceed infections in PMR, six dead||PUNE: The number of daily Covid-19 recoveries exceeded new cases after a gap of two days in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Friday. As many as 619 patients were discharged in PMR against the addition of 519 cases in the last 24 hours. The PMC recorded the highest 350 recoveries, followed by the rural areas (160) and the PCMC limits (109). A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that among 519 new cases registered in the region on Friday, 258 were from the PMC areas, 144 from the rural parts and 117 from the PCMC limits. With this, the total recoveries in the region has climbed above 3.78 lakh, while its positive caseload has reached 3.91 lakh. Six patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Friday, taking its total toll to 9,131. While five deaths were recorded in the PMC limits, one patient died in the rural areas. No death was reported in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas due to Covid-19 on Friday. Sample testing tally in PMR increased to 21.75 lakh on Friday evening. As many as 6,339 samples were tested in the region in the last 24 hours.So far, more than 10 lakh samples have been tested in the PMC limits, followed by more than 6 lakh tests in the PCMC limits. The DHO’s report stated that tally of active patients in PMR stood at 4,488 on Friday, of whom 2,689 patients were in home isolation and 1,799 undergoing treatment at various hospitals. The highest number of active patients (1,771) were in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-recoveries-exceed-infections-in-pmr-six-dead/articleshow/80887414.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Law against land-grabbing challenged in Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The newly implemented law against land-grabbing was challenged in the Gujarat high court on Friday on the grounds that its provisions violate the Constitution and encroach upon the powers of the high court. Kamlesh Dave and Pankaj Patel from Sabarkantha, who have been booked under the Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act, have urged the court to strike down the law. The state assembly does not have the legislative competence to enact such a law, said the petitioners’ advocate Virat Popat. The petitioners have contended that the provisions of the law empower a special court to nullify duly recorded orders/decree by a competent court. Moreover, this law can be invoked for incidents that took place prior to the commencement of the law, the petitioners have said. It has also been argued that this law unsettles existing executions such as agreement and sale deeds. Its Section 2(d) read with Section 4(2) has retroactive effect and hence is ultra vires to Article 20 of the Constitution, the petitioners have said. The petitioners have also contended that this law’s provisions encroach upon the powers of the high court concerning the appointment of judges under Section 9 for criminal trial of the CrPC. “Since the provisions are repugnant to the CrPC and the CPC and the subject matter being in the concurrent list, the enactment requires the assent of the President under Article 254,” the petition reads. It further says that the delegation of powers under this law is arbitrary and therefore it violates the provisions of Article 14. Citing their own case, the petitioners claimed that they have been wrongly booked because the provisions of this law are such that unscrupulous litigants will take undue advantage of the legislation. Besides, the petitioners have claimed that if an issue of jurisdiction arises between two special courts, the issue is to be settled by the state government. This issue can only be addressed by court and such judicial powers cannot be delegated to the state government. This violates the doctrine of separation of powers envisaged as fundamental structure of the Constitution, the petitioners have said. The petition has also taken exception to the formation of the committee that probes a complaint and refers the issue to court for prosecution. This matter may come up for hearing next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/law-against-land-grabbing-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/80887430.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Shenoys theatre reopens after major renovation||KOCHI: The Shenoys theatre, which was closed for renovation in 2015, was thrown open to the public again on Friday. The cascading ramps and the huge auditorium of the iconic circular structure, which was first opened in 1969, has now given way for state-of-the-art facilities and five multiplex screens, including a screen with exclusive recliner seating. The circular structure, making Shenoys a landmark building for visitors and natives alike for decades, has been preserved by the owners. On Friday, spectators and celebrities thronged the theatre to watch the first show to be screened after the renovation. “I must have been in school when this theatre was launched. We had a place called the box to watch films from. From Prem Nazir and Sathyan to Sankaradi and Adoor Bhasi, it was a place where legends enjoyed cinema. I don’t think there is another theatre that can boast of the unique structure of Shenoys,” says Suresh Shenoy, managing partner of the theatre group. He said the original architect of the theatre was Govinda Rao from Chennai who built the building in accordance with the curved screen of the theatre, which is one of the first theatres in Asia to have the Vistarama projection (120mm). The present reconstruction was done by architect Tony Joseph.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shenoys-theatre-reopens-after-major-renovation/articleshow/80886099.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Madurai||If held in April-end, poll will clash with Chithirai festival||Madurai: The representation by state political parties to the Election Commission of India (ECI), seeking to hold the assembly elections by the end of April this year, will result in the dates clashing with the famous Chithirai festival. Local politicians are now planning to make a representation to the ECI against holding the elections at that time, as it will make the process difficult for officials, similar to what was witnessed during the Lok Sabha election in 2019. Madurai’s Chithirai festival, extends to about 15 days and involves the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar and the Alagarkoil Sundarajaperumal temples. Last year, the festival was not held due to the Covid-19 lockdown. It is during this time that lakhs of people from across the state congregate in Madurai to redeem their vows. This year, people would not want to give it a miss. During the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the election date clashed with the car festival of the Meenakshi temple and special arrangements, including security and extension of voting timing had to be arranged. It also required additional manpower. Though special measures were taken, the voting percentage came down to 65.83% in the last Lok Sabha polls, which was about 2% lesser than the previous election. The poll percentage in Madurai was the lowest among the southern districts in 2019. Clashing of the polls and the festival was stated to be the reason for the low voter turnout. Executive officer of the Meenakshi temple, K Chelladurai said that the flag-hoisting for the festival would be held on April 15, the ‘Thirukalyanam’ on April 24 and the car festival on April 25. This has also been communicated to the state government and the election commission, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/if-held-in-april-end-poll-will-clash-with-chithirai-festival/articleshow/80888922.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||‘Centre attacking farmers whoprotect the soul of country’||Jaipur: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the Narendra Modi government at the Centre was attacking farmers and agriculture that protect the soul of the country while, on the other hand, it was giving away the nation's strategic land to China. Rahul alleged that by agreeing to keep its troops till Finger 3, India was giving away the land between Finger 3 and 4 near Pangong area in Ladakh to China. The Congress leader began his two-day tour of Rajasthan in support of farmers’ agitation by addressing two kisan sabhas in Hanumangarh’s Pilibanga and Sriganganagar’s Padampur on Friday. He said the central government should first repeal the three controversial farm laws and only then would the agitating farmers talk to it. Rahul said the three laws were an attack not on farmers alone but on the country's 40% population dependent on agriculture. “Farmers are alert and understand it, so they are the first to hold the torch against these laws,” he said, suggesting that other sections of the society would join the agitation in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-attacking-farmers-whoprotect-the-soul-of-country/articleshow/80888969.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||CITU protest near GHMC head office||Hyderabad: Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) members protested in front GHMC head office on Friday, demanding that permanent employees should get atleast Rs 24,000 under Pay Revision Commission (PRC) . They also demanded that outsourced staff be made permanent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citu-protest-near-ghmc-head-office/articleshow/80887443.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Trichy||Police book 6 employers of rescued teen labourers||Trichy: A few days after six adolescent labourers were rescued from six commercial establishments in Trichy city, police have registered cases against the employers following complaints from the Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) and the National Child Line project (NCLP). The Cantonment police on Thursday booked a case against Nousath, 40, of a radiator service centre at Convent Road for employing a 15-year-old boy. In the same case, G Suresh, 30 of an optical showroom at Cantonment was also implicated for employing a 17-year-old boy. A Sagayaraj, 60, of a commercial establishment at Cantonment was also booked for subjecting a 16-year-old boy to work in his concern. The Palakkarai police also registered three cases against R Nagarajn, 65, of an automobile showroom in Convent road, A Pakkianathan, 67, of a two-wheeler workshop in Cantonment and A Aasad Hussain, 45, of a two-wheeler workshop at Morsingpet for subjecting three teenagers - a 17-year-old and two 15-year-olds - to work in their establishments. All of them were booked under sections of the Juvenile Justice (care and protection) Act, 2015 and Child Labour Prohibition and Regulation Act 1986. No one was arrested.The action was taken based on a complaint from the state coordinator of BBA H Natharsha Malim who lodged a complaint with the police soon after the joint raid at the commercial establishments on February 9. Malim expressed concern that the intensity of the issue of child labourers was not taken seriously by the police most of the times. He also cited the lack of attention from the police to such issues resulting in delay in registration of cases for even a long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-book-6-employers-of-rescued-teen-labourers/articleshow/80888924.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||Phased reopening of some schools from next week in Kolkata||KOLKATA: On a day many schools across the state resumed on-campus classes after around a year, some schools didn’t. A few schools in Kolkata have decided to start classes in a staggered manner from next week while some others have decided to focus only on practical lessons and projects before starting full-fledged classes from classes IX to XII. The government did not made it mandatory to reopen schools from Friday. The school authorities can decide the date of reopeing after consulting the parents and completing their preparedness. The principal of a reputable school in central Kolkata said it made sense to reopen after Saraswati Puja so that classes can be held in a stretch. Principal of another school in south Kolkata said that most parents were reluctant to send their children to school and have cited reasons like old grandparents at home and asthmatic children. Calcutta Girls’ High School will be conducting in-person classes from Monday onwards. “We decided to reopen from Monday. In-person classes will start for students of classes IX to XII in a staggered manner so that all Covid-19 guidelines can be implemented effectively,” said principal Basanti Biswas. “We have called students from Class XII only on Monday,” said Devi Kar, director of Modern High School for Girls. Many students have decided to just focus on practical lessons and projects for the time being because their teachers have been able to complete the syllabus while teaching online but students due to take their board examinations have not spend any time in the labs this year. “For the time being we are going to focus on students who are due to take their board examinations this year but have not been able to attend any practical classes as schools were shut. We are calling them from next week onwards in small batches for practical classes. The labs will be cleaned and sanitised every day after the classes are over,” said John Andrew Bagul, principal of South City International School. At Calcutta Boys’ School, in-person classes will resume from February 17. “The classes will be in small batches following all safety guidelines,” said Raja McGee, principal and secretary of Calcutta Boys’ School. St Augustine Rippon Street will resume in-person classes for classes X and XII from February 18. “We will be calling the students of the two outgoing classes in a staggered manner from February 18. Students from classes IX and XII will come from March onwards,” said Richard Gasper, principal of the school. At Vivekananda Mission School, there was an online examination for the students of senior school which is why school authorities have decided to reopen from next week. “Next week students from some of the sections from classes X and XII will come for practical lessons and projects. We will further divide them in smaller batches so that there is enough space for social distancing,” said principal Sarmistha Banerjee. Meanwhile, about 50 parents of students of classes IX and XI agitated in front of DPS Ruby Park on Friday. They demanded that the students should be allowed to continue on virtual platform since they are not board year students. They also demanded that the students be allowed to write final exams online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/phased-reopening-of-some-schools-from-next-week/articleshow/80887450.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 13, 2021||Chennai||Anna University can’t have 2 MTech courses this year, AICTE tells Madras HC||CHENNAI: The two Centre-sponsored M Tech courses for which admissions were cancelled by Anna University over quota-related controversy cannot be offered this year as the cut-off date set by the Supreme Court is over, AICTE told the Madras high court on Friday. The deadline for completing admissions to M Tech biotechnology and M Tech computational biology courses expired on December 31, 2020, AICTE told the court, adding: “It is practically impossible to commence the courses this academic year.” The All India Council of Technical Education’s submission has come after Tamil Nadu government mooted creation of nine more supernumerary seats to offset the difference between Tamil Nadu’s 69% reservation policy, and the Centre’s 49.5% ceiling. Tamil Nadu, however, said it would not be able to offer Rs 12,000 to Rs 12,500 monthly stipend to these nine students. The case relates to a petition filed by an M Tech aspirant who wanted admissions to the course to be resumed this year. It all started when Anna University made an announcement that it was constrained to cancel admission for the two sponsored courses as the Centre was insisting on following its 49.5% reservation policy. On Friday, when the plea came up for further hearing, Justice P Pugalendhi wondered whether approval of AICTE is required since the courses were not technical/engineering. To this, counsel for the Centre said no other authority has powers to approve the courses except the AICTE. Recording the submissions, the court suggested that either the state or the university could approach the apex court and seek extension. “Since both the university and state are willing to conduct the courses one of you can approach the Supreme Court for remedy,” the judge suggested. There are about 45 sponsored seats in these two MTech courses, and till last year the Centre used to directly fill them. This year, however, the admission job was handed over to the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-univ-cant-have-2-m-tech-courses-this-year-aicte-tells-hc/articleshow/80887442.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Trichy||Woman dies after fall in ICU toilet at Trichy GH||Trichy: A 29-year-old woman, who got admitted to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy for family planning operation, died of injuries she sustained from a fall in the toilet of its intensive care unit (ICU) a couple of days ago. M Revathi, of Idaiyatrumangalam near Lalgudi, died on Wednesday night after undergoing treatment for the injury on forehead she suffered during the fall at the hospital. She is survived by her husband C Mahesh, 37, a 12-year-old son and a 10-year-old daughter. According to the complaint filed by Mahesh at the Government Hospital police station on February 11, his wife decided to undergo family planning operation and got admitted to the hospital on February 6. Her mother Tamil Mani was taking care of her at the hospital. The operation was performed on her on February 8 and she was admitted to ICU when she slipped in the toilet and injured her forehead. The doctors sutured it and provided her treatment but she failed to recover resulting in her death. Police registered a case of suspicious death under section174 of CrPC on Thursday. Sub-inspector of police M Sivasubramanian said the woman may have developed giddiness resulting in her fall on the floor. “She should have been accompanied by someone in the family to the toilet. We need to enquire if the floor was slippery,” SI told TOI. MGMGH dean Dr K Vanitha said on Friday that the floors of the toilet were maintained as it was supposed to be. “The toilets should be cleaned six times a day by workers. The floors are maintained well,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-dies-after-fall-in-icu-toilet-at-trichy-gh/articleshow/80888935.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Madurai||284 Indian fishermen held by Sri Lanka from 2019-20||MADURAI: A total of 284 Indian fishermen were arrested and as many as 53 boats confiscated by Sri Lanka during 2019 and 2020, the Centre said in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday in response to unstarred questions from Anbumani Ramadoss, MP. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said that 210 men were arrested and 42 boats seized in 2019 while 74 were arrested and 11 boats confiscated the next year. Last month, 12 Indian fishermen were arrested and two boats confiscated. With sustained diplomatic efforts, the Indian government had secured the release of all the fishermen, he said. At present, 62 boats remain in Sri Lankan custody. Muraleedharan stated that the government has been taking up the release of Indian fishermen and their fishing boats with the SL government at the highest levels through diplomatic channels. Meanwhile, expressing the government’s anguish over the loss of lives of fishermen, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said India had asked Sri Lanka to deal with issues pertaining to fishers in a humane manner. He was responding to questions raised by Rajya Sabha member Vaiko with regard to the collision of a fishing vessel and Sri Lankan Navy vessel that claimed the lives of four fishermen from Ramanathapuram district on January 18. Jaishankar stated that “a strong protest in regard to this incident was conveyed by our high commissioner to the Sri Lankan foreign minister. A strong demarche was also made to the Sri Lankan acting high commissioner in New Delhi.” It was stressed that existing understandings between the two governments should be strictly observed and utmost efforts made to ensure there is no recurrence. As soon as reports of apprehension of Indian fishermen were received, the government through diplomatic channels took up the matter with the Lankan government. Issues relating to Indian fishermen were raised in a virtual bilateral summit in September last year between the Prime Minister and his Sri Lankan counterpart, he said. In a statement in this connection on Friday, Vaiko stated that there was a debate following Jaishankar’s answers with AIADMK MP Thambidurai and Trichy Siva raising questions pertaining to the arrests and boats detained. To an unstarred question of Rajya Sabha member A Vijayakumar on steps taken to get back Katchatheevu from Sri Lanka, minister of state V Muraleedharan stated that the 1974 and 1976 agreements on demarcation of International Maritime Boundary Line between India and Sri Lanka delineated Katchatheevu as part of Sri Lankan territory. He added that the matter is currently sub judice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/284-indian-fishermen-arrested-by-sl-53-boats-seized-in-two-years-centre-in-rs/articleshow/80888939.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Madurai||27K birds spotted in Tamiraparani waterbird count||Tirunelveli: A total of 26,868 birds belonging to 73 species including thousands of migratory birds from Siberia and Mongolia were recorded in the 11th edition of the Tamiraparani waterbird count (TWC) 2021 that was conducted in the waterbodies of Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Tenkasi districts. More than 120 volunteers comprising nature enthusiasts, students, entrepreneurs, farmers, housewives and physicians participated in the three-day count from January 29 to 31, covering 62 waterbodies. Result for the count that was released on Friday shows a marginal increase in the numbers compared to the 10th edition in 2020 when 24,411 birds from 74 species were spotted. Breeding colonies of Asian open bill, oriental darter, little cormorant, Indian shag and black-headed ibis were recorded in Gangaikondan tank. A good number of oriental darter breeding colonies with chicks were recorded in Nainarkulam in Tirunelveli city. Black-tailed godwit (Limosa limosa), a migratory bird from Siberia was seen in Sengulam near Mukkudal and Kalkurichikulam near Thalaiyuthu. The species is listed in the near threatened category in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)’s red list. Bar-headed geese (Anserindicus) a migratory bird from Mongolia, known to be one of the highest flying bird species was spotted at Vepankulam in Sivanthipatti village. “Sivanthipatti and grasslands around it support diverse flora and fauna. The district administration should facilitate protection of the entire site,” said coordinator of the count M Mathivanan. The number of birds recorded this year is much less than the numbers recorded in seven editions. The highest was 67,194 birds belonging to 72 species in 2014, followed by 60,966 of 70 species in 2013. The lowest is 8,256 of 57 species in 2017. Mathivanan said that the number of birds was less this year due to the unexpected heavy rainfall in the Tirunelveli region in January compared to the previous years. “Tirunelveli district alone received 350mm rainfall. Tamiraparani river was flooded and it flooded the irrigation tanks downstream. This resulted in fewer waders and shore birds due to shore line being inundated by high water level in the tanks,” Mathivanan said. Volunteers observed that most of the tanks continue to be polluted due to garbage disposal with liquor bottles, water sachets, single use plastics and old clothes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/27k-birds-spotted-in-tamiraparani-waterbird-count/articleshow/80888944.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Trichy||Traffic on NH hit as villagers protest for Cauvery water||TRICHY: Residents of Periyar Nagar in Kambarasampettai undertook a road blockade on the Trichy-Karur national highway on Friday, demanding the supply of Cauvery water, which was temporarily suspended for an ongoing road work. The road blockade resulted in vehicles pile up for a few kilometres on the highway affecting the office-goers. The protesters alleged that potable water supply through drinking water pipes was not available as the state highways department is redeveloping the Karur highway. Since the water pipelines had to be shifted outside the boundaries of the road being widened, they said that they were deprived of Cauvery water for the past few weeks. Condemning the officials, the villagers blocked vehicular movement on the highway on Friday morning. “Around 200 families in Periyar Nagar are in need of Cauvery water. We staged the protest to attract the attention of the authorities,” M Ravichandran, a villager said. An official said that villagers have access to groundwater water drawn and supplied by panchayat but the villagers were adamant in particularly seeking Cauvery water for their basic needs. “Kambarasampettai villagers did not raise any complaints with us. As road work is under way, Cauvery water will take time to be supplied to the village,” a source with the panchayats department said. He added they will request the Jeeyapuram police to initiate action against the locals for disrupting the traffic.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traffic-on-nh-hit-as-villagers-protest-for-cauvery-water/articleshow/80888972.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Trichy||Abandoned railway quarters near Trichy Fort station now a haven for anti-socials||Trichy: Stating that the abandoned railway staff quarters situated on the premises of the Trichy Fort railway station has become a haven for anti-social elements, rail users and public have appealed to the authorities to utilise the land for something useful after removing the structures immediately. Two roads – one branches off the LA cinemas main road and the other Old goods shed road, connect the station with the city. The LA cinema theatre road is frequented by commuters. The old quarters was located along the northern side of the station. However, after the construction of the new quarters beside the Old Goods Shed Road, the old quarters were abandoned. According to commuters and railway staff, these empty and dilapidated houses have emerged as hubs for illegal activities, especially during the nights. In addition, the unhygienic surroundings are attracting pigs, while the wild plants and shrubs growing around the abandoned houses are becoming a shelter for snakes. Due to these, commuters and women residents of the new railway quarters hesitate to walk along the stretch during evenings and nights. “If the entire dilapidated structures are razed down immediately, it would be good for the commuters when normal train services resume,” P Shanmugam, a rail user said. “Nowadays, railways is keen on making only revenue without considering the public. So, railways can utilize the site for paid parking since there are no proper parking lots for people visiting NSB Road, Singarathope, Big Bazaar and Main guard gate,” president of Air, Rail, and Road Travellers Federation, M Sekaran said.Officials from the Trichy railway division said that as of now there was no proposal to make use of the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/abandoned-railway-quarters-near-trichy-fort-station-now-a-haven-for-anti-socials/articleshow/80888943.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 13, 2021||Trichy||New UGD line to plug sewage let into Uyyakondan from GH||Trichy: Trichy corporation will build a fresh underground drainage (UGD) line for Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) to plug the sewage discharged from it to the Uyyakondan canal passing through the city. Addressing a long-pending demand of environmental activists, the civic body will monitor and move the sewage through the line to its treatment plant (STP) at Panjappur. The fund for the project has been made available from the constituency development funds of Trichy MP Su Thirunavukkarasar and Perambalur MP T R Pachamuthu.Since 2011, the intensive pollution in an 8km city stretch of Uyyakondan irrigation canal has been a subject of public discussion. Apart from private institutions that were polluting the canal, the MGMGH campus on EVR road — a medical hub for the central districts — has been discharging about 2 lakh litres of sewage into Uyyakondan every day. The wastewater seen merging in the canal near Chettipalam bridge is the largest polluter of the 1,000-year-old Chola era waterbody, causing aquatic weeds to thrive and slow down the water flow. Although activists had raised objections to the uncontrolled pollution, the fund required for establishing a sewage treatment plant (STP) exclusively for MGMGH was not forthcoming. Since Trichy corporation could not fund the project within the GH campus, a sum of Rs 70 lakh was recently mobilised from the constituency development fund of Su Thirunavukkarasar and T R Pachamuthu. Subsequently, Trichy corporation, instead of going for an STP, has planned to establish a new and separate UGD network for the hospital.“Sewage from MGMGH was one of the main contributors to pollution in Uyyakondan. We will revamp the existing infrastructure in a manner preventing the sewage discharge,” an official source with Trichy corporation said. The civic body will place a giant sieve within the GH campus to prevent solid waste from entering the sewers and causing a clog. Inspection chambers and sewage collection point will be established at a cost of Rs 40 lakh. The sewage collected from the GH will pass through Aruna Nagar and Vannarapettai to reach Vayalur road pumping station near the Bishop Heber College. A sum of Rs 30 lakh was sanctioned for constructing the UGD network. The civil work to facilitate the UGD is likely to commence by March. “We can complete the construction work in less than four months,” the corporation official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/new-ugd-line-to-plug-sewage-let-into-uyyakondan-from-gh/articleshow/80888947.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 13, 2021||Madurai||Sasikala will have no impact in TN: Vaiko||Tirunelveli: MDMK general secretary Vaiko has said that expelled AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala will not make any impact on Tamil Nadu politics. He was speaking at the party’s election fund raising meeting held in Tirunelveli on Friday, in response to a question on Sasikala’s statement that she will enter active politics. Vaiko denied rumours that are doing rounds that his son Durai Vaiyapuri would contest the assembly elections, saying there is no room of dynasty politics in the MDMK. Expressing confidence that the DMK-led alliance is sure to win the polls, he added that the number of seats MDMK would get is yet to be discussed. He also denied rumours that Congress would be getting lesser seats. On talks doing rounds about a possible third front led by Kamal Hassan’s MNM, he said he was neither aware of it nor about parties that would be part of it. Stating that the advertisements released by the state government boasting their achievements will be in vain, he added that the people will not take them seriously as they are aware of the reality happening around them. Party functionaries handed over Rs 1.9 crore to Vaiko as the election fund collected from Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Tuticorin, Kanyakumari and Virudhunagar district units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sasikala-will-have-no-impact-in-tn-vaiko/articleshow/80888955.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chennai||32-year-old robs over 20 senior citizens in Chennai, lands in police net||CHENNAI: The city police arrested a man who robbed more than 20 senior citizens of valuables in Mylapore and surrounding areas. Police said the robber came out on bail on January 13 and then started targeting senior citizens. Thirumalai, 32, a resident of Perambur, was remanded in Puzhal prison after police produced him before a magistrate court at Egmore. Police tracked and nabbed Thirumalai with the help of CCTV camera footage. A special team formed by assistant commissioner of police Nelson of Mylapore police station was assigned the task of tracking the suspect as several senior citizen lodged complaints. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Thirumalai who grew up in an ashram in suburbs stayed at a house in Perambur. Thirumalai would approach senior citizens promising to get them money if they came with him and blessed children of a family. After taking them to a secluded place, he robbed them. Police said Thirumalai was first arrested two years ago in a robbery case. Preliminary inquiries revealed that he robbed more than 20 people at Mylapore, Mandaveli, Abiramapuram and other areas of south Chennai. Police collected his fingerprints and sent them to state crime record bureau (SCRB) to check if he was involved in any other criminal cases reported in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/32-yr-old-robs-over-20-senior-citizens-lands-in-police-net/articleshow/80887463.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chennai||Shame if advocates refuse to vacate rented premises: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Censuring an advocate for refusing to vacate a rented property, the Madras high court has said some advocates are now-a-days looked upon as ‘rowdies and third rated criminals’ (due to their activities). “It is very saddening to note that it is a shame on the part of an advocate to refuse to vacate the premises, when a landlord requires it. Advocates are referred to as gentlemen in the Preamble to Chapter-II of the Bar Council of India Rules under Section 49(1)(c) of the Act read with the proviso thereto,” Justice S Vaidyanathan said. The court made the observation on a plea moved by advocate V K Kumaresan seeking to set aside an ex parte order passed against him in favour of his landlord P Jayaseelan. “This court as early as on February 19, 2020 directed the petitioner to vacate the premises within two weeks. It is very unfortunate that the petitioner took one long year to comply with the said order. However, this court is of the view that the approach adopted by the petitioner in a clandestine manner to defeat the orders of this court, is clear abuse of process of the court,” the judge said. Under the pretext that a review application has been filed, this matter was dragged on by the petitioner to deceive the court and the landlord, the judge added. The court then asked the bar council to take action against the petitioner and proceed further for the misconduct on the complaint. “Registry is directed to send a copy of this order to Madras High Court Advocates Association, Madras Bar Association and Women Lawyers' Association to inform their members that they should not defend a dishonest tenant, who happens to be a deceitful advocate, like the petitioner herein, who is not a gentleman, in order to safeguard the reputation of this profession, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shame-if-advocates-refuse-to-vacate-rented-premises-hc/articleshow/80887458.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Court: Place chargesheet in sealed cover||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Friday asked the police not to file chargesheet in the special court for anti-land grabbing cases, but instead submit it in the high court in a sealed cover in connection with the arrest of a septuagenarian from Paldi, Ahmedbhai Patel. In response to a habeas corpus petition filed by Patel’s son Sameer, the bench headed by Justice Sonia Gokani has restrained the cops from filing the chargesheet in special court. This happened after the petitioner’s advocates vehemently objected to the procedure adopted in the case and the powers of the police to investigate the case. The judges thought it fit to direct the government to place the investigation report before it for its perusal first. Patel was arrested on January 13 and the chargesheet needs to be filed within one month. The HC has posted further hearing on February 20. Patel, who was arrested under the newly legislated Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act for occupying a 8,030-sq-metre land, for constructing and leasing godowns and shops on the plot in Sarkhej. He was in possession of the land for more than 30 years. After his arrest on charges of land-grabbing, his son moved the HC last month and questioned the process the inquiry made by the committee. The lower court had sent Patel to five-day custodial interrogation. But upon hearing the case, the HC quashed the remand and ordered to release him on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-place-chargesheet-in-sealed-cover/articleshow/80887460.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Trichy||Collector inspects sugarcane harvester machine in Ariyalur||Trichy: Ariyalur district collector D Rathna on Friday inspected various development activities initiated by the agriculture engineering department such as development made in the farm mechanization in the district. A sugarcane harvester machine worth Rs 1.13 crore purchased by a farmer in Thirumanur block with the financial assistance of Rs 41.08 lakh from agriculture engineering department was inspected by the collector.Compared to the manual harvesting, the usage of machinery in harvesting sugarcane is said to be a quicker process covering more than an acre in less than an hour. The machine also cleans the sugarcane and bundles it in the tractor, expediting the shipping work. Farmers said that the mechanized harvester will be boon to overcome the shortage of labourers.The collector also visited the value addition processing centre of a farmers’ producers organisation (FPO) in Thelur village. The agriculture engineering department had provided Rs 10 lakh as assistance to purchase the machinery for value added processing. “Solar pumps are being provided with a subsidy of 70%. The machines shall certainly simplify the process of farmers, which ought to be utilised,” the district collector said during the inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/collector-inspects-sugarcane-harvester-machine-in-ariyalur/articleshow/80888945.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Trichy||‘Focus on other discharge points too’||Trichy: While the effort to plug sewage discharge from MGMGH was welcomed by civic groups associated with cleaning Uyyakondan canal, similar initiatives have been sought to prevent the massive discharge of sewage in other locations. Instead of diverting sewage to existing UGD infrastructure, setting up satellite sewage treatment plants (STPs) has been proposed so that the treated water can be let into the canal again.“We have been insisting that the authorities consider establishing STPs at multiple locations where sewage merges with the canal. The treated water from decentralised STPs can be fed into Uyyakondan for irrigating crops,” S Vijayakumar, member, Citizen for Uyyakondan, said. Two more locations near Lawsons road behind MGR statue and adjacent bank of Kulimikkarai road in Thennur were identified as the largest polluters of the canal. The existing stormwater drains in Cantonment covering Reynolds road, SBI road and McDonalds road are being misused as sewage carrier to carry wastewater into the canal.Activists opined that the discharge of wastewater into the canal was the main reason for aquatic weeds enveloping the canal. PWD on an average spends Rs 7 lakh to Rs 8 lakh a year to clean the canal to ensure the flow of Cauvery water till ayacut. Since the cost of cleaning keeps on increasing every year, a significant investment in treating the wastewater through STPs and letting into the canal may benefit stakeholders. On a trial basis, activists said that one of the spots where water pollution is happening can be chosen. Trichy corporation sources said that the UGD revamp proposed under smart cities mission will offer a solution by eliminating sewage discharge into stormwater drains. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/focus-on-other-discharge-points-too/articleshow/80888958.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Pune||PMC sites to give 2nd shot of Covid vaccination from today, PCMC centres next week||PUNE: Vaccination sites in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas will start administering the second dose of Covid vaccine from Saturday while those in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits and rural areas are likely to begin the process next week. A total of 1,805 healthcare workers in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) had received the first dose of the vaccine on January 16, the day the vaccination was rolled out nationwide. The two doses of the Covid vaccination are given four weeks apart. “A total of 441 healthcare workers who took the first shot at eight vaccination centres in the PMC areas on January 16 are now being asked telephonically to reach out to the same vaccination sites for the second dose from Saturday. Those who can’t make it on Saturday can always walk in for an on-the-spot vaccination as per their convenience,” said PMC health department chief Ashish Bharati. Senior physician Vinod Shah (74) was the first to get the Covid vaccine on January 16 in the PMC area. “Instead of Saturday, I am planning to take the second shot at Poona Hospital at 10am on Monday as the day, time and place are convenient for me. The hospital has already scheduled my slot in consultation with the PMC health officials,” he told TOI. Shah has been diabetic and asthmatic for the past 45 years. “That’s the reason I decided to take the shot. Post-vaccination, I didn’t experience any symptoms, but my wife had minor flu-like symptoms,” he said. Anuj Darak, a postgraduate student of medicine at Bharati Medical College and Hospital, was the first to take the shot at the Bharati hospital’s vaccination site on January 16. “I have not received any call or message yet for the second shot. But even if I get a call or message on Saturday morning, I will take the shot the same day,” he said. The PCMC, where 456 healthcare workers had taken the first shot on January 16, is planning its second dosage from Monday. PCMC additional health chief Pavan Salve said beneficiaries will get text reminders. The rural parts of Pune, which had recorded maximum vaccination of 908 healthcare workers, are yet to fix the day for the second shot. District health officer Bhagwan Pawar said, “We are planning to administer the second dose within a week.” Experts underline that a delay of a few days in administering the second dose is fine and won’t affect the protection level. The second dose can be administered between 4 and 6 weeks after the first dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-sites-to-give-2nd-shot-of-covid-vax-from-today-pcmc-centres-next-week/articleshow/80887459.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 13, 2021||Trichy||Shallot farmers told to use Co6 for better yield||Trichy: Farmers were given training on small onion cultivation by adopting latest technology by the department of horticulture on Friday in Trichy. District collector S Sivarasu inaugurated the training programme.“Farmers from Thuraiyur, Uppiliyapuram, Mannachanallur, T Pettai, Musiri, Thottiam and Pullambadi blocks in the district cultivate small onions on around 7,500 acres every year. They had been using Co4 seed variety. As its yield is low, officials from the horticulture department recommended Co5 variety. Though it gave good yield, its shelf life was not as much as farmers expected,” said C Vimala, deputy director of horticulture department.“Since the new variety Co6 can be stored up to 6 months for seeding purpose, farmers were advised to use the new variety during the programme,” the deputy director said. Stating instances of crop damage during the recent rain, farmers were advised to ready their field by doing summer plough. To use water judiciously, onion farmers were also asked to install drip irrigation in their fields.Drip irrigation ensures optimum growth, better bulb and early maturity of crops by assuring optimum soil moisture, air and nutrients throughout the crop growing period, officials said. This would be result in uniform bulb growth with good yield, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shallot-farmers-told-to-use-co6-for-better-yield/articleshow/80888976.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Madurai||Dengue control intensified as cases cross 100 in Madurai||Madurai: As dengue cases continue to rise in Madurai - 106 cases have been recorded in the district so far this year, with two suspected dengue deaths - health officials have intensified dengue control and preventive measures.In 2020, 279 dengue cases were reported in the district. During the onset of monsoon in September and October, only nine dengue cases were reported in the district. In November, 14 dengue cases were recorded and 45 in December. In January, 68 new cases were reported while in February 38 cases have been reported till now.Two boys, aged 7 and 8, both from S Alangulam, had died of suspected dengue on January 22 and February 7 respectively. The deaths have not been considered as dengue deaths as officials maintained that the boys tested positive only on dengue NS1 antigen rapid test, which is not a confirmatory test and died shortly after. “We are on alert as dengue cases have cropped up in densely populated urban areas like S Alangulam. The unseasonal rains in January and with now all educational institutions and public places open unlike in October when lockdown was in place are leading cases being reported,” said a corporation health official.Though dengue was showing a declining trend this monsoon, it is almost closing in on last year’s count. In 2020, 156 dengue cases were reported in January and February. Both rural and urban areas reported almost 50% each of the total cases.“We have intensified dengue control and preventive measures. We were carrying out general preventive measures on a scheduled basis and now we are focusing on hotspots. We intensified control measures like holding medical camps and door-to-door fever surveillance in areas where dengue cases were reported,” said Dr KV Arjun Kumar deputy director of health services, Madurai. As many as 1,086 DBCs have been engaged in dengue preventive measures across the district. Rather than anti-larval work, health workers are focusing on removing and eliminating mosquito eggs commonly found in stored water like overhead tanks or containers. Fogging, chlorination and spraying of abate solution, bleach etc., is also being carried out. Those with symptoms of dengue, which include high fever, headache, rashes, muscle and joint pain, have been urged to immediately consult a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dengue-control-intensified-as-cases-cross-100-in-madurai/articleshow/80888974.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 13, 2021||Salem||Burdened with loan, autorickshaw driver kills self||Salem: A 59-year-old man committed suicide by consuming poison in Salem on Friday. The deceased was identified as Saravanan of NGGO Colony at Ponnammapet. He had been working as an autorickshaw driver for more than 30 years, police said. “He had borrowed money to buy the autorickshaw and was struggling to repay the amount. He was found unconscious on February 3 in his house and was admitted to the government hospital in Salem, where he died without responding to the treatment on Friday,” a police officer said. Saravanan left a suicide note saying that he was not able to earn enough money to pay back the loan. The Ammapet police registered an FIR on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/burdened-with-loan-autorickshaw-driver-kills-self/articleshow/80887544.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Maharashtra Gov attends LBSNAA valedictory event||Dehradun: The Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) held its valedictory function of the 122th Induction Training Programme in Mussoorie on Friday. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari was the chief guest. The induction programme was organised for civil services officers, who are getting promoted to the Indian Administration Service, better understanding of the nature of the country’s administrative service and develop a pan-India perspective on the working of public administration and macro-economy of the country. The function saw 59 officers participating from 14 different states. The training helps the officers in getting accustomed to the tough challenges which they will have to deal with during their administrative career. Koshyari addressed the officers and asked them to fulfil all the duties enshrined in the Indian Constitution and work hard for the development of the country. He further said that the only aim of the public servants should be to serve the people. Director of LBSNAA, Sanjeev Chopra, advised the participants that the responsibility of creating a ‘New India’ lies with the civil servants and the goal can only be achieved through teamwork.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/maharashtra-gov-attends-lbsnaa-valedictory-event/articleshow/80886134.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 13, 2021||Pune||Covid vaccination: Solapur mega drive a big success||PUNE: As many as 7,410 or 101% of the target beneficiaries were vaccinated under the ‘mega vaccination drive’ held across Solapur district on Friday. “With more session sites, we were able to achieve 101% target in just one day,” Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services, Pune region, said. Of the 7,410 beneficiaries vaccinated across Solapur on Friday, as many as 2,882 were health workers, while 4,528 were frontliners. The district has nearly 20,200 registered frontline workers and 32,373 healthcare workers. In Solapur, all government and private medical establishments were roped in for the pilot mega drive. The state has been asked to finish administering all first doses by February 20 and all second doses by March-end. As for frontline workers, the first-dose round has to be completed by March 15, according to guidelines issued by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/solapur-mega-drive-a-big-success/articleshow/80887484.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 13, 2021||Madurai||69 new coronavirus cases in south TN, 59 in central region||Madurai/Trichy: With the number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the ten southern districts lingering around 50 in the past few days, the count witnessed a spurt on Friday to 69 besides two deaths. The central region recorded 59 fresh cases and one casualty on Friday. The Covid tally in south Tamil Nadu now stands at 1,36,704 cases, including 410 active ones, 1,34,161 recoveries and 2,133 deaths. Madurai reported the most number of cases, 15, followed by Tenkasi (13) and Tirunelveli (12). Except for Dindigul (11) and Kanyakumari, all other districts reported in single digits while Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Tuticorin and Virudhunagar reported only one fresh case each. Kanyakumari (79) remains the district with the most number of active Covid-19 cases, followed by Madurai (71). Except Tirunelveli (60), all other southern districts have less than 50 active cases while Ramanathapuram (9) continues to have less than 10. A 72-year-old man from Madurai with diabetes and acute kidney injury (AKI) died of Covid-19 on Wednesday at a private hospital. The second death was of a 52-year-old man with hypertension at Theni Medical College Hospital on Thursday. The central region comprising eight districts including Trichy registered has now recorded 76,552 positive cases in all. Trichy topped the table on Friday recording 17 fresh cases. Thanjavur registered 16 fresh cases totalling 17,876 to top the table in the region. The other districts except Ariyalur registered fresh cases in single digits. Ariyalur had no fresh cases while Perambalur had two. The number of active cases was highest in Thanjavur (130) while Perambalur had the lowest of eight and Ariyalur nine. The death toll of the region touched 948 with Thanjavur recording one more casualty, of a 65-year-old man on February 10. Thanjavur has recorded 249 deaths so far, the highest in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/69-new-coronavirus-cases-in-south-tn-59-in-central-region/articleshow/80888977.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Sambar deer enters residential area, rescued||Rudrapur : A Sambar deer which strayed into Raja colony of Udham Singh Nagar district headquarters in Rudrapur on Friday evening caused a lot of commotion among the locals who tried to capture the animal. The animal was found inside the boundary wall of a house. A forest department team reached the spot and rescued the animal which was later released into Tanda range in Terai west division. Forest ranger Pankaj Sharma said, “With the help of locals, we caught hold of the animal and rescued it successfully. No injuries were reported to the villagers or the deer.” Veterinarian Dr Aayush Uniyal, who had accompanied the forest department team, said, “The animal had no injuries. We did a thorough check up of the Sambar deer and released it into the jungle after ensuring it was fit to be back to its natural habitat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sambar-deer-enters-residential-area-rescued/articleshow/80886150.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 13, 2021||Goa||VKSS, Indraprastha credit societies on path of closure||Panaji: The registrar of cooperative societies plans to shut down Maharashtra VKSS Society and Indraprastha Urban Co-operative Credit Society due to poor financial outlook. The Task Force Committee for Credit and Urban Societies (TAFCUS) held a review meeting and felt that there is “very limited scope” for improvement in the financial situation of the two entities. The registrar for cooperative societies had imposed restrictions on Maharashtra VKSS and Indraprastha Urban. The two entities were prohibited from accepting any deposits and disbursing fresh loans. The TAFCUS held a meeting on January 8 to review the financial situation of the two entities but felt that it was best to wind up both their operations. Referring to the Indraprastha Urban Co-operative Credit Society, the TAFCUS said, “there is very limited scope” for the credit society to continue with restriction for an unabated period. “Therefore, recommended that the assistant registrar of cooperative societies, Ponda zone to assess the financial position and viability of the Indraprastha Urban, Ponda at her level and after being satisfied, if required take appropriate action for winding up or liquidating the affairs of the society,” the TAFCUS recommendation said. With regards to the Maharashtra VKSS Society which is based in Gokulwadi, Sakhali, the TAFCUS has asked the assistant registrar of co-operative societies, Bicholim zone, to review the overall status of the society and explore the possibility of discontinuing with the credit business. The TAFCUS has suggested that necessary directions should be given to settle all the assets and liabilities so that the entity can come out from the financial crises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vkss-indraprastha-credit-societies-on-path-of-closure/articleshow/80889097.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Tattoo on woman’s arm leads court to bail rape accused||NEW DELHI: A man whose tattoo was found engraved on the arm of a woman accusing him of rape, has been granted bail by Delhi High Court. Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar gave the relief to accused Sanjay, taking note of the fact that the married woman, who levelled the rape allegations, had a permanent tatoo of his name on her forearm. While the woman claimed the tattoo was forcibly engraved on her by the accused who also held her captive, the high court wasn’t quite convinced. “In my opinion, making tattoos is an art and a special machine is required for the same. Moreover, it is also not easy to make such a tattoo, which is on the forearm of the complainant, if there is some resistance from the other side. It is not everybody’s job and it is also not the case of the prosecutrix that the petitioner had anything to do with the tattoo business,” the judge observed. The court also factored in the statement of the landlord of the house where the woman alleged she was kept captive. He told police that he had rented out the house to the woman and was under the impression she lived alone. The court was hearing a plea where the woman alleged she met Sanjay for the first time in 2016 and at that time was married. She further alleged that between 2016 and 2019 Sanjay forced her into having physical relation with him, by keeping her nude photographs. She said due to this threat, she remained silent for three years and did not file any complaint against him nor disclose it to her husband. The woman further alleged that she told the accused he has ruined her life and asked him to keep her but he was not ready to keep her with him. Appearing for Sanjay, who has been in jail since June last year, advocate Sahil Mongia said his client was being framed in the case and it was a consensual relationship. He highlighted that the married woman got the name of the accused tattooed on her forearm, which shows her love towards him. The counsel also told the court that she clicked selfies with Sanjay, exchanged garlands with him, attended festivities and celebrated functions, which is evident from the photographs filed on record. The accused said the woman was in love with him and when she failed to convince him to carry forward the consensual relationship, she alleged rape. The court noted that the police probe revealed that at the time of arrest the accused’s mobile phone was seized but no nude photographs were found and that there was a delay of seven months by the woman in lodging the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-tattoo-on-womans-arm-leads-court-to-bail-rape-accused/articleshow/80889030.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad West MP Kirit Solanki throws frisbee a chance||AHMEDABAD: The MP from Ahmedabad West, Kirit Solanki, has in the ongoing session of the Lok Sabha made a pitch for promoting Ultimate, or frisbee, as a national sport. Interest in the sport has been increasing rapidly and more than 10,000 athletes across India currently play it. Solanki’s written question was tabled in the Lok Sabha, in which he sought to know whether the government intends to recognize the sport and form a national team. He also sought to know if the government proposes to set up training and tournament facilities for the sport in the major cities of the country. “The sport has been becoming very popular among youth and should get national recognition,” Solanki said. In his written reply, Kiren Rijiju, the Union minister of state for youth affairs and sports, said that national sports federations (NSFs) concerned are responsible for the promotion of their respective sports along with state governments. “Only recognized NSFs are eligible for financial and other forms of support under the Scheme of Assistance to NSFs,” the minister said in the reply. “At present no NSF has been recognized for the sport of Frisbee/Ultimate.” The question was listed for Thursday, February 12. The Ultimate Players Association of India (UPAI), which has been running the sport in the country, has so far taken the sport to 17 states. They are Gujarat, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan, Nagaland, Manipur, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand, and Meghalaya. The Indian team won a bronze at the Asia Oceanic Beach Ultimate championships held in Japan in 2019. The UPAI has submitted its application to be registered with the National Sports Federation of India (NFSOI), a statutory body under the Union ministry of youth affairs and sports. “The application is currently under review and we hope to be recognized soon,” Chaitanya Deshpande, the UPAI spokesperson, told TOI. “We are a growing sport around the country and pursue the dream of qualifying for the Olympics when the sport is included, possibly in 2028.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-west-mp-throws-frisbee-a-chance/articleshow/80887550.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Residents around Pondrick Park march against parking||JAIPUR: Hundreds of people living around the Pondrick Park area marched towards the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Heritage office against the construction of basement parking in the park. Hundreds of people shouted slogans while walking towards the Heritage office. The march started from Pondrick garden at 10.30am passing through Brahampuri, Choti Chaupar, Badi Chaupar to JMC, Heritage office. Underground parking at Pondrick Park has become a major issue as the residents in the area are opposing the idea and want the park to stay at its place. Residents are opposing the cutting of trees for underground parking. Recently, while digging, water was found at five feet depth due to which people said it will not be feasible to construct parking there. Manish Soni, member of the resident welfare association of Pondrick Park area, said, “We organised this foot march to highlight our issue which we have been fighting for the past one month. We do not want trees to be cut in our park and another underground parking which would be of no use. We have given a memorandum of demands to Smart City CEO and commissioner of JMC, Heritage Lok Bandhu and expect things to change soon.” Residents also said that the area of the park is a low-level area where water gets accumulated in monsoon. In earlier times, there used to be a pond at this place called Rajamal ka Talaab where water around the area was accumulated. There are high chances that parking will also get water-logged. Rajat Vishnoi, councillor from ward no 9, JMC, Heritage, who was part of the march said the only park in the area is also a culture hub for people who celebrate Gangaur, Teej and Basant there. Destroying the park will be a huge loss for the Walled City’s heritage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/residents-around-pondrick-park-march-against-parking/articleshow/80887522.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Help desk set up to counsel parents on school fees||JAIPUR: Joint Parents Association set up a help desk at Shaheed Smarak on Friday to counsel parents who are in distress regarding the payment of fees after the interim order of the Supreme Court. Parents said that it is not possible to pay full year fees. They oppose the idea of fees for the facility that was not used. The parents whose children have used the online class have only spent two to three hours, but when the children went to school, they used to study for six to seven hours. To advice parents regarding the legal aspect of it and how they should further proceed with the situation of school fees, Joint Parents Association were present at Shaheed Smarak at 3.15 pm. A charter of signature campaign was launched to help the parents. Abhishek Jain, spokesperson of the association, said, “The parents of Rajasthan do not have to worry about the expensive fees of lawyers. Every parent affiliated to the Joint Parents Association will be lobbying in the Supreme Court on behalf of the various organisations that carry forward the fight of the parent teacher committee without any fees.” At present, a four-day programme has been scheduled in Jaipur in which the help desk was set up on Friday & Saturday at Shaheed Smarak on MI Road, Sunday in Gaurav Tower and in Mansarovar on Monday. State general secretary Sanjay Goyal said that this help decks, including the capital Jaipur, will be installed in all 33 districts of the entire state. In the first phase, the schedules of Ajmer, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Alwar, Bharatpur, Kishangarh, Bhiwadi, Kota will be set up and the teams of the state and districts will take this campaign to each parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/help-desk-set-up-to-counsel-parents-on-school-fees/articleshow/80887568.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot-B’luru flight from February 24||Rajkot: For the first time, the city will get air connectivity to Bengaluru from February 24. Air India, which is operating a flight three days a week to Mumbai will increase frequency to seven days a week, while private airline, IndiGo too, is mulling to start operation from Rajkot airport from May. Director of Rajkot airport, Digant Borah said, “Spice Jet will start operation from Rajkot to Bengaluru from February 24. The flight will arrive at 2.30pm and depart at 3pm.” The airport authority also confirmed that Air India, which is currently operating flights for three days to Mumbai will operate on all seven days starting from February 19. Currently Spice Jet is operating one daily flight to Mumbai and Delhi, while Air India also operates one daily flight to Delhi. According to sources, IndiGo is in talks with the airport authority and is planning to start operation from Rajkot in May. They have scheduled a meeting with Rajkot airport officials next week. This is the first time that Rajkot will get a flight for any other destination other than Mumbai and Delhi. A statement by Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry reads: “It’s a result of our continuous effort to provide air connectivity to industrially developed city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-bluru-flight-from-february-24/articleshow/80886216.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Coimbatore||Frost glitters across Ooty as mercury dips to 0.4 deg C||Udhagamandalam: A white blanket of frost enveloped the hill town with temperature dipping to 0.4 degree Celsius on Friday, forcing people to stay indoors.This year, Ooty has been experiencing late winter, as December and January saw no frost formation.Though the temperature touched lowest of this season at zero degree Celsius 10 days ago, frost formation was not found in much of the town then. According to joint director of horticulture department Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, Government Botanical Garden (GBG) registered 0.4 degree Celsius in the early hours of Friday. “This is the first time in this season that a vast area of lawn in the GBG saw frost formation, despite regular watering of the grass to save it from frost. Even when the temperature dipped to zero degree Celsius 10 days ago, there was no frost formation on the lawn,” Samraj said.Every year, the temperature will fall to zero degree Celsius anytime between November 15 and February 26.“In the winter season in 2008, the temperature touched minus two degrees Celsius,” an official said.He said, “The severity of the winter season depends upon the rainfall. During the winter season, if the day is bright and very sunny, the following night will be chilly, and the temperature will fall accordingly.”The weather in Ooty is generally pleasant throughout the year. Nikhil, a regular tourist from Karnataka said, “Winters in Ooty are thrilling while the summers are charming.” He said Ooty has grown to become an important holiday destination mainly because of the different refreshing quality of its weather and hospitable environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/frost-glitters-across-ooty-as-mercury-dips-to-0-4-deg-c/articleshow/80887583.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Lawyer, five aides held for running extortion racket||New Delhi: Delhi Police has arrested a lawyer and his five associates for allegedly posing as members of International Human Rights Organisation and extorting money from employees of wine shops by accusing them of selling liquor to minors. The advocate has been identified as 27-year-old Kumar Shashank, a resident of Neb Sarai. Naresh, Pradeep, Neeraj, Nitin and Shatrughan were his accomplices. The forgery came to light on Thursday after an employee of a liquor shop in south Delhi’s Saket approached police and informed them that some people claiming to be officials of “International Human Rights Organisation” had come to their shop and were demanding Rs 2 lakh from the manager accusing him of selling liquor to minors. The employee claimed that the accused even threatened to cancel their licence if the money was not paid. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said that a police team was rushed to the wine shop. “A car with a board reading ‘National Secretary (Legal Cell) International Human Rights Organisation’ was parked there. Five men, including two armed men, claiming to be the PSOs of the officer of the organisation were found in the shop. They were all detained for questioning,” Thakur said. “Shashank confessed that he had hired a taxi with a driver at Rs 50,000 per month and two armed PSOs for Rs 32,000 each per month. He had also hired a bouncer and was paying him Rs 25, 000 per month to run the extortion racket. On their instance, the police recovered the car, letterhead of the organisation, Rs 20,000 in cash and two rifles from the PSOs,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lawyer-five-aides-held-for-running-extortion-racket/articleshow/80889152.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Coimbatore||2 realtors thrash medical college manager, held||COIMBATORE: Two realtors have been arrested for circulating a message that a private medical college at Othakkalmandam was up for sale at Rs 1,650 crore and assaulting the medical college manager, who questioned them for spreading the false message. The Chettipalayam police identified the accused as V Shankar, 49, of BR Puram at Peelamedu, and C Ramachandran, 54, of NGGO Colony at Thudiyalur. Police sub-inspector Arul Prakash said the two were nabbed based on a complaint lodged by S Sivakumar, 33, manager of Karpagam Medical College at Othakkalmandapam. According to the officer, two realtors - Selvaraj from Pollachi and Kumar from Dindigul - had approached Sivakumar on Thursday morning, inquiring whether the college was up for sale. “During his conversation with them, Sivakumar came to know Shankar and Ramachandran had circulated a message among the realtors that the medical college was up for sale and they had fixed a price of Rs 1,650 crore.” Sivakumar subsequently contacted the realtors over phone, disguising himself as a prospective buyer and asked them to meet him. “The duo invited him to JJ Nagar at Chettipalayam. Sivakumar, along with two others, met the realtors on Thursday afternoon and questioned them for spreading the false message. In a fit of rage, Shankar and Ramachandran assaulted Sivakumar and threatened him of dire consequences,” the officer said, quoting the medical college manager’s complaint. The Chettipalayam police registered a case against the realtors under sections 294 (b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506(i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested them the same night. On Friday, the two were produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded them in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-realtors-thrash-medical-college-manager-held/articleshow/80887627.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||CDR racket: 4 who procured docus land behind bars||Mumbai: Probing the Call Data Record (CDR) racket, the city crime branch on Friday arrested four people, including a woman, who procured the CDR, Subscriber Details Record (SDR), and other bank statements for monetary consideration for the gang involed. So far, six people have been arrested, and key accused Saurabh Sahu is on the run. Crime branch unit 5 arrested Eleen Mitehlesh Sharma, Manish Baldebraj Arora, Satyaveer Rajveer Singh and Rahul Pundir, all from Delhi. Sources said the four sold the CDR and other documents to Sahu, who in turn sold them to private detective agencies. Sources said Sharma’s husband used to worked at a private detective agency, and after his death, she took over and started procuring CDRs, SDRs and bank statements by submitting bogus letters from investigating agencies. “We believe that suspects from mobile service providers helped Sharma,” said a source. The three other accused opened bank accounts with fake names, in which money was deposited by private detectives.Police said that most of the clients were businessmen seeking information on rivals, and spouses keeping a tab on their husbands when they suspected an extra-marital affair. — S Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cdr-racket-4-who-procured-docus-land-behind-bars/articleshow/80889117.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid loosens grip on Hyderabad, positivity rate nosedives||HYDERABAD: After recording over a 1,000 cases per day in 2020, the Covid graph is fast moving southward in Hyderabad. According to government records, the city’s positivity rate has touched 0.4% now — a sharp drop from the 9.1% recorded in August last year. Positivity rate is calculated by identifying the total number of Covid-19 positive cases from the total number of tests conducted. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) standards, a positivity rate of below 5% is considered safe. If it is below 5% for a period of 15 days, it suggests that the situation is very stable. A scan of records show that the GHMC area witnessed an initial sharp drop in numbers between August and September — from 9.1% in August to 3.4% in September. At present, Hyderabad’s positivity rate is similar to cities such as Delhi where it stands at 0.22%. Predictably, the daily average of Covid-19 cases too has reduced drastically with 25 positive cases on an average being reported from within the GHMC limits per day. Data shows, the GHMC area recorded 12,560 Covid-19 cases in August 2020, which dropped to 1,568 in January. In contrast, this month, the city saw only 298 cases being reported till February 11. “This confirms that we are in a good place in fighting the virus. While we are certain that the initial measures have helped in reducing the case load, still need to be careful to ensure there is no possibility of another wave,” said Dr G Srinivas Rao, director of health, Telangana. Agreed, Dr Subhodh Kandamuthan, professor and director, Centre for Healthcare Management, Administrative Staff College of India. He said: “In some states like Kerala, despite all measures and vaccine drive, there has been increase in the number of cases. It is better to maintain safety measures till the pandemic completely subsides.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-loosens-grip-on-city-positivity-rate-nosedives/articleshow/80887630.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Govt provoking farmers to create chaos: Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: State BJP president Satish Poonia has called the ‘kisan panchayat’ by Rahul Gandhi in Hanumangarh an attempt to deviate people’s attention from real issues in the state on Friday. Poonia accused the ruling government of provoking the farmers in the state to create chaos at the Shahjanahpur border by calling their national leaders here. “Rahul Gandhi’s family ruled for 50 years in the country. Had his forefathers did something for the farmers, the country wouldn’t have gone through the turmoil. He is looking for an opportunity to re-start his politics riding on the farmers’ issues,” said Poonia, who asked Gandhi to name laws made for farmers and which have had benefited them during their rule in the country. He added that former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the first PM who had taken initiatives to help farmers. “PM Narendra Modi is following the initiatives taken by Vajpayeeji by introducing the world’s biggest direct cash transfer scheme for farmers PM Kisan Nidhi Yojana which is transforming the lives of the farmers,” said Poonia. He reminded Gandhi of the poll promise made by him before the assembly elections of waiving of farmers’ loans. “Gandhi should first answer when his government in the state would waive of 69 lakh farmers’ loans. Many farmers have committed suicide under pressure from the local moneylenders,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-provoking-farmers-to-create-chaos-poonia/articleshow/80887607.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||With Amritsar as epicenter of earthquake, Rajasthan felt tremors||Times News NetworkJaipur: Tremors were felt at several parts across the state on Friday evening 0when an earthquake with a magnitude of 6.1 on the Richter scale was measured. People came out of their houses and flats and called up each other to know their well-being. No loss of life or any damage was witnessed in Rajasthan. High-intensity earthquake jolted Amritsar as its epicentre at 10.34 pm on Friday. In Rajasthan, tremors were also been witnessed at Sriganganagar, Bikaner, Churu, Hanumangarh districts. At Jaipur as well tremors were felt when people in fear came out of their houses and called up their near and dear ones on their well-being. However, many did not experience it. According to the state control room, no loss of life or any causality was witnessed in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-amritsar-as-epicenter-of-earthquake-rajasthan-felt-tremors/articleshow/80887636.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Power privatisation: Tech evaluation to start in 2 weeks in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: The engineering department of the Chandigarh administration will take at least two weeks to start technical evaluation of the six companies which have applied for the power privatisation project. Since the department has decided to call representatives of eligible companies to open the tender before them, the process will start by next week. “Since technical evaluation consists of verification of submitted documents and related papers of all the selected companies, we will call them next week to open tender before them. This is to keep the process fair and transparent. After that, the technical evaluation will begin, where we can ask for additional documents and papers if required. After completion of the technical process, eligible companies will go for financial evaluation,” sources said. Since the ministry of power of the Central government is involved in the process, the technical committee will also have members of the ministry. The committee will have at least six members comprising members of the ministry of power, engineering department, finance department and personnel department of the UT administration. Sources in the Chandigarh administration said since the Centre has been minutely monitoring the exercise, the UT administration has taken the project of power privatisation seriously. After getting the Supreme Court stay vacated, the department has expedited the process to select the company for power privatisation. Out of 20 companies, six were selected to participate in the tender process. These six companies deposited EMD (earnest money deposits) of Rs 10 crore with the engineering department of Chandigarh administration. Since February 8 (Monday) was the last date to deposit the EMD of Rs 10 crore, 14 companies which had purchased documents of power privatisation on payment of Rs 5 lakh each, failed to deposit the EMD. Therefore, they are out of the contest. These six companies include Tata Power, Adani Transmission Limited, Sterlite Power, ReNew Wind Energy, NESCL (NTPC) and Torrent Power. Sources said besides depositing the EMD by the last date, all these companies have also deposited related documents with the UT engineering department and have conducted other exercises, as per requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/power-privatisation-tech-evaluation-to-start-in-2-weeks/articleshow/80886231.cms||Deepak Yadav
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Tackle hooch menace sternly: Rajendra Rathore||JAIPUR: To deal with the menace of illegal manufacturing of liquor, the government should seriously implement Navjeevan Yojana launched to rehabilitate the bootleggers, said deputy opposition leader Rajendra Rathore during zero hour on Friday. Referring to the recent loss of life at Bharatpur and Bhilwara, he alleged that illicit liquor manufacturing and bootlegging has become a cottage industry in the state with the connivance of excise department officials and police. He added that the FSL report found sleeping pills and pesticides were mixed with methyl alcohol to make hooch. How the hooch makers got their hands on large quantity of sleeping pills without prescription is a matter of investigation, he said. He said that after the hooch tragedy in Bharatpur and Bhilwara, the excise department launched a campaign against illicit liquor traders. In the week-long campaign, 10 factories producing hooch closed, 9,873 litres of spirit and 7,636 bottles were seized. He demanded a sustained campaign against such illicit traders to save public. Rathore said that a large section of the people are engaging in this illegal business which is a threat to the health and life of the people. This must be dealt with sternly by rehabilitating people engaged in this business. Encroachment in SariskaMinister of state for forests Sukhram Vishnoi told the Assembly on Friday that the cases of Hotel Sariska Palace, Tiger Haven and Aman Bagh Resort operating fully or partially on forest land in Sariska sanctuary area are under consideration in the court. Any kind of action will be taken only after the decision of the court. Vishnoi was replying to supplementary questions asked by the MLAs during the Question Hour. He said that Hotel Sariska Palace belonged to the Alwar Maharaja, which he sold to Yogesh Singh in 1972. It was subsequently sold by Yogesh Singh to M/s Shibba Wheels Private Limited in 1982. The court has fixed the matter for hearing on March 17, 2021. Similarly, the Tiger Haven case is also under consideration in the divisional commissioner's court. Its hearing date is fixed on February 16, 2021. He informed that proceedings are also under consideration in the high court in the Aman Bagh Resort case. It was heard on February 2, 2021, after which the court gave four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tackle-hooch-menace-sternly-rathore/articleshow/80887647.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Two held for theft of Jain temple idols||Jaipur: Police on Friday arrested two persons in connection with the stealing and buying idols from the Digamber Jain temple Bapu Nagar on February 4. Accused Sunil Choudhary was part of the seven-member gang including history-sheeters along with one Satish Soni who brought the idols from them.Police said that they formed different teams to arrest the accused on the basis of technical leads. “Our teams did an intensive search on all CCTV cameras spread in 5 kilometre area from the temple to identify the mode of transport used by the accused. Also, every hotel and guest house has been searched to check any suspicious activity on the day of the crime in the locality,” said Jaipur police commissioner Anand Srivastava. The police also scanned thousands of mobile numbers registered at the mobile towers to identify the accused. All leads took police to an old car which was stolen two days before the crime under the Shyam Nagar police station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-held-for-theft-of-jain-temple-idols/articleshow/80887651.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Coimbatore||2 HM cadres held for murder attempt||Coimbatore: Two Hindu Munnani cadres were arrested on Thursday evening on charges of attempting to murder a 27-year-old man for speaking to a woman of their locality at night. Police identified the accused as M Karthik, 27, and O Sanjay alias Sachin, 26, of Olympus at Ramanathapuram. A police officer said the two had attacked M Aaqil Ahmed, 27, of Kottaimedu, on Tuesday night when he was speaking to a woman near a temple at Ramanathapuram. “Ahmed had befriended Charulatha, of Udhagamandalam in Nilgiris district, around six months ago and used to speak to her over phone. She was staying with a friend at Ramanathapuram. On Tuesday night, Ahmed went to meet her as she had asked him to arrange some money for her.” While they were speaking, the officer said, Karthik and Sachin reached the spot on a bike and assaulted Ahmed with a helmet. “While one of them also stabbed Ahmed on his chest and thigh, the other one attacked him with an iron rod. They allegedly asked him whether he was into love jihad.” Ahmed managed to escape and was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. Based on his complaint, the Ramanathapuram police registered a case against the two under sections 294 (b), 307 (attempt to murder) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and formed a special team to nab them. The team arrested Karthik and Sachin on Thursday evening and produced them before a judicial magistrate at night. Later, they were lodged in jail under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-hm-cadres-held-for-murder-attempt/articleshow/80887640.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Second dose of vaccination from today||Hyderabad: The health department will start administering the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine from Saturday in all the districts of Telangana. As per the current government protocol, two doses of vaccine are to be administered within a gap of 28 days, as part of the immunization process. This means that the beneficiary who took the first dose of the vaccine will receive the second dose of the same company after a gap of 28 days. Telangana currently uses Oxford University’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, for which phase 3 trials are underway. However, till February 6, only Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India, was administered across the state. The director of public health G Srinivas Rao earlier said, “We have kept enough stock for of the same company in reserve for the second dose.” The healthcare workers from the government sector were the first group to receive the much-awaited Covid-19 vaccine followed by healthcare workers in the private sector. The nationwide vaccination started on January 16. The health department administered the Covid-19 vaccine to 7,591 beneficiaries on Friday. Senior health authorities said they explained importance of taking the shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/second-dose-of-vaccination-from-today/articleshow/80887649.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||As TV shows resume, faceless applauders eager to reclaim seats, lives||These days, every time a famous deadpan Hindi comedian unleashes another dry punchline on his TV screen back home in Rajasthan, Gulshan must fight the impulse to clap and hoot too loudly. Trained by the applause cues of TV shows in Mumbai’s Film City for four whole months before lockdown, cheering is muscle memory for Gulshan, a 25-year-old Bollywood hopeful who had been working as a paid TV audience member since December 2019 to afford both his Rs 4,000-per-month paying guest rent in Borivli and his “struggle”. “My mother knows about my acting dreams but not about this,” says Gulshan, referring to the job that required sitting all day, controlling your bladder through prolonged shoots and screaming hoarse at opportune moments in the hope that the capricious cameras glimpse your aspiring-model face. At Rs 300-odd-plus-meals-a-day, this daily grind hardly felt like showbiz but it assured enough sustenance and “inspirational” star-gazing to make him hunger for the old normal after he fled home to Rajasthan penniless following lockdown. “Clapping with family around feels weird,” says Gulshan, now eager to book a return ticket to professional invisibility in Mumbai next month. It seems the cautiously-reopening floors of TV shows are their own applause cue for these faceless extras of reality TV, whose livelihood comes from feigning high spirits and who found themselves temporarily replaced by non-hungry cardboard cutouts and video standees onscreen. Desperate, these fleetingly-acknowledged audiences on the fringes of the entertainment industry have been doing odd jobs through Unlock, all the while texting audience co-ordinators and crowd suppliers for work. Among the floating 150 to 200 faces that appear in each show are middle-aged housewives and retirees too but chiefly college students who pay their fees this way. “Some do it for time pass or pocket money but a majority of them are underprivileged people who depend on it for survival,” says Nitu Kothari, an audience coordinator who has been avoiding several calls and text messages with the same question: “Didi, kuch kaam hai?” While TV embraces all age groups in its seats, it follows its own hierarchy--seating the “fair and good-looking types” in the front, reserving the “aunties and uncles” for serious talk shows. After the pandemic stole their seats, some returned to their hometowns and turned salesmen while some others have been coasting along on what model coordinator Tarif K calls their “balance”. Zoheb—another model coordinator who himself started out as a prolific applauder for Rs 125 per day 16 years ago—has been undertaking catering and driving jobs to live up to his earlier standard of Rs 30,000 a month. Fighting even deeper facelessness in Kalwa is 23-year-old background artiste Shubham Tiwari, the breadwinner of his three-member home and a full-time fan of choreographer Ganesh Acharya. The lockdown intensified Shubham’s camouflage further when he donned gloves over his former clapping hands and spritzed local offices with disinfectants clad in a PPE kit. Today, Shubham works as an errand boy in a local guest house, treasures a selfie with Acharya from a pre-Covid shoot and, unable to afford dance classes, practices the dance moves of reality shows in private. Besides the dal, chicken, roti, papad and omelette staples, Shubham misses the glittery, air-conditioned, buzzy TV ambience that paid his electricity and water bills. Even though he never got to sit in the prized front row and screamed several times to seduce the camera in vain, that one time he appeared behind a dance contestant in a rickshaw driver’s garb was its own high. “I had to borrow Rs 20,000-Rs 30,000 from my uncle to survive six months of lockdown,” says Shubham, adding that he will go back to clapping for a living in a heartbeat. But won’t that train-less commute from Kalwa to Goregaon cost him almost Rs 400 more each way? “I’ll ask them for conveyance,” Shubham says, cueing neither for applause nor for laughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/as-tv-shows-resume-faceless-applauders-eager-to-reclaim-seats-lives/articleshow/80887654.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||27 years since his escape, Tehri fugitive nabbed in Madhya Pradesh||Roorkee: A 49-year-old man from Tehri Garhwal, who had been declared a fugitive offender by Roorkee police years ago in a document forgery case, was arrested after 27 years on Friday. Roorkee police nabbed him from a small village of Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh where he had settled down with his family. According to reports, one Gulab Singh from Silogi village of Tehri Garhwal had come to Roorkee to participate in an Army recruitment drive of local Bengal Engineer Group (BEG) after presenting a fake high school certificate altering his date of birth. His forgery was caught by BEG authorities during verification of his credentials. However, he managed to escape. Army authorities had registered a case with police against him under IPC section 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating in document) a few days later. Police said after committing the crime in 1993 in Roorkee, he moved to Nagpur in Maharashtra where he worked as an assistant in a hotel. He frequently changed his locations. He, finally, settled down in Manegaon village under Ranjhi police station in MP’s Jabalpur district after marrying a local girl. Since he could not be found in his native village of Tehri during police raids, a local court had declared him fugitive in 2005. Police also announced a reward of Rs 2,500 in 2018 on any information leading to his arrest. “We received information about his current location in Jabalpur recently after which we sent a police team to the city for his arrest,” in-charge of Civil Lines police station Rajesh Sah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/27-years-since-his-escape-tehri-fugitive-nabbed-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/80886218.cms||Tapan Susheel
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Over 800 rescue personnel deployed to search for 166 missing||Dehradun: Separate teams of ITBP, SDRF and NDRF have started searching for the persons missing in Sunday’s flash floods whose number was estimated to be 166 as of Friday evening. Officials said that 425 ITBP personnel, 176 from NDRF, 100 from SDRF, 124 army personnel, 16 navy commandos and two air force jawans have been pressed into search and rescue operations.The search and rescue teams recovered two more bodies on Friday, one from Raini village and another from downstream, taking the confirmed death toll in the disaster to 38. Out of these, 30 bodies have been recovered from Chamoli district, six from Rudraprayag and one each from Pauri Garhwal and Tehri Garhwal, rescue officials said. Nilesh Anand Bharne, spokesperson of the state police department said that 11 bodies have been identified while 27 are yet to be identified. “The search teams have also recovered 18 human parts from different parts of Chamoli district,” he added. Giving more details, Vivek Pandey, spokesperson of ITBP, said, “Multiple teams are carrying out a search operation along the Rishiganga valley for the missing persons. There are heaps of slush and debris along the river bank, which is being checked in search of bodies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-800-rescue-personnel-deployed-to-search-for-166-missing/articleshow/80886251.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Exporters suffer as AAI arm bars Rajsico cargo operations||Jaipur: Despite various departments, including the state chief secretary, writing letters to the Airport Authority of India (AAI) to allow Rajsico to continue to operate its Airport Cargo Complex (ACC) in Jaipur airport, there is no respite for the exporters.Exports from Jaipur airport have stopped for over a month and exporters are using road transport to reach Delhi airport to send their consignments, incurring higher costs and losing precious time.After the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) warned the airlines, they have stopped lifting export consignments from the ACC since January 8. BCAS has cited security reasons for stopping the operations of ACC, which has been working as the custodian of the customs since 1979.Sources in Rajsico, a state government PSU, said AAI wants its cargo handling subsidiary AAICLAS to start operations in Jaipur. “That’s why they do not want Rajsico’s operations. If there are security issues, those can be addressed by Rajsico, which has always complied with the requirements of AAI. Closing the unit was never an option.”When TOI spoke to Jaideep Balhara, director of Jaipur airport, he said, “There are security issues and that’s why BCAS has withdrawn the permission for operating the cargo complex. As regard to AAICLAS, it will start operations soon and this is not the reason for stopping ACC. There can be multiple custodians in an airport.”Sources in Rajsico said that the state PSU had invested over Rs 1 crore for buying a new X-ray and screening machines as per the requirement of the airlines and AAI. “We are ready to comply with any requirement. But they should tell us that instead of stopping the operations,” the source said.In the 2019 LEADS (Logistics Ease Across Different States) ranking, Rajasthan’s position has declined by five places to 12 from 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/exporters-suffer-as-aai-arm-bars-rajsico-cargo-operations/articleshow/80887668.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||‘Govt must give nod on time to prosecute corrupt officials’||Jaipur: Opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria demanded that the government should take a decision on prosecution sanction of officials caught by the ACB for corruption in a time-bound manner. He said 279 cases are waiting prosecution sanction from 2013- 2021. Kataria was talking during Zero Hour on an adjournment motion in the assembly on Friday.Quoting Supreme Court order, he said the apex court had ordered that the government to decide on prosecution sanction within three months. But the state government which claims ‘zero tolerance’ on corruption sits on such requests for years together and gives opportunity to the officials to manipulate.He said the government should take a decision in a time-bound manner which would save time of the ACB.Lauding the ACB for its bold steps and even high officials like collectors not spared, he said the efforts of the ACB would be successful only if the corrupt officials were brought to justice and punishment handed out.He said this would sent out a message to the public at large.Without naming a collector who was caught by the ACB recently, he said eight cases of corruption were registered against him by the ACB earlier and this is the ninth case he has been booked by the ACB. If the earlier cases were properly investigated and punishment handed out, he would not have the courage to indulge in corruption again.Kataria listed several high-profile corruption cases where the government has been sitting on the request for prosecution sanction for five to six years and delaying the legal process. The opposition leader said this would not only help the corrupt officials but would dent the morale, time and energy of the anti-corruption agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-must-give-nod-on-time-to-prosecute-corrupt-officials/articleshow/80887652.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Petrol nearly Rs 95 in Mumbai; truckers to join Bharat Bandh on Feb 26 in protest||Mumbai: The price of petrol is nearly Rs 95 in Mumbai, with the fourth consecutive hike in fuel rates witnessed in over 200 city pumps on Friday morning. Diesel breached the Rs 85-mark and is retailing at Rs 85.32, leaving transporters and scores of private car owners fuming. All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), an umbrella body, called for an emergency meeting on Saturday to discuss the crisis and decide on a nationwide protest. Mahendra Arya of All India Transporters Welfare Association (AITWA) said on Friday that truckers will join the Bharat Bandh on February 26 called by Confederation Of All India Trade Associations. Sources said one cannot rule out the possibility of a ‘chakka jam’. “All state-level transport associations have confirmed their support to AITWA for this one day non-operation of transport in protest of the fuel price hike and E-way bill,” Arya said. Petrol rice was hiked by 28 paise in Mumbai on Friday, to Rs 94.6. A member of Petrol Dealers Association said oil marketing companies were increasing rates based on fluctuating international crude oil prices. “It is high time the government steps in to give relief to consumers. The price of petrol, in Maharashtra was reduced by Rs 4.37 per litre on October 5, 2018, when both the Centre and state gave tax reliefs. A similar measure is required now,” he said. Maharashtra attracts the highest tax and VAT for both fuels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/petrol-nearly-rs-95-in-mumbai-truckers-to-join-bharat-bandh-on-feb-26-in-protest/articleshow/80887730.cms||Somit Sen
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Farmers’ protest: NHAI-run toll plazas affected adversely||JAIPUR: Several NHAI-run toll plazas and many on the state highways, including Shahjahanpur toll plaza near Haryana-Rajasthan border where farmers’ protest is going on, have been affected adversely on Friday due to Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s (SKM) call to make the plazas in Rajasthan toll free in support of the agitation against farm laws. Among the few toll plazas that have been hit badly are - on Suratgarh-Ganganagar section of NH-62 (Ganganagar), Salasar on Bikaner-Phalodi section of NH-11 (Bikaner), Nokhra on Bikaner-Phalodi section of NH-11 (Bikaner), Kheerwa on Bikaner-Phalodi section of NH-11 (Jodhpur), Akhepura on Reengus-Sikar section of NH-52 (Sikar), Lasedi on state border-Fatehpur section of NH-52 and 58 (Churu), Shobhasar on state border-Fatehpur Salasar section of NH-52 and 58 (Churu). However, according to officials, toll plazas in Jaipur district have not been affected due to the agitation. “Apart from these seven toll plazas, no other toll plaza has been affected. No law and order situation has been reported from anywhere across the state,” said M K Jain, chief general manager, RO-Jaipur, NHAI. The Akhepura toll plaza on Reengus-Sikar highway has not been functioning for the past six days owing to the farmers’ protest. “The situation continues to be the same since February 6. In Sikar district, almost all toll plazas, including those on state highways, have stopped functioning. Nimbi Jodha toll plaza in Nagaur district has also been hit due to the farmers’ agitation. “They are saying until the central government accedes to their demands, they won’t move,” said Ajay Tak, toll manager at Akhepura. On an average, the toll plaza has suffered a loss of Rs 9-9.5 lakh each day. It witnesses a movement of 12,000-15,000 vehicles per day. According to officials, in some areas even the locals and villagers, on the pretext of farmers’ agitation, have stopped the functioning of toll plazas. The operations at Shahjahanpur toll plaza on NH-8 was also stopped for over three hours by the farmers. Meanwhile, Kisan Mahapanchayat, led by Rampal Jat, organised a tractor rally as part of Kisan Adhikar Yatra in Baran district in support of farmers’ protest on Friday. Around 400 tractors participated in the rally. Before the rally, the farmers reached the local mandi with tractors where a meeting was held. Addressing the meeting, Jat said, “As per the recommendation of the Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP), the sale of crops should not be done at a rate less than minimum support price (MSP). It is the responsibility of the Government of India to ensure it.” “Therefore, the central government will have to enact a law to guarantee MSP for agricultural produce,” he said. He also demanded withdrawal of all three farm laws terming these as “anti-farmer”. A farmers’ delegation from Kashmir reached Shahjahanpur to extend support the farmers’ movement. A farmer leader from Kashmir Ghulam Kader Batt said the peasants of the Valley are also standing with the farmers of the rest country in their protest against the farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nhai-run-toll-plazas-affected-adversely/articleshow/80887658.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Relaxations for VPK Urban, depositors can now withdraw Rs 60k/mth||Panaji: In a decision that is bound to provide some relief to customers, the registrar of cooperative societies has decided to relax the restrictions imposed on VPK Urban Cooperative Credit Society. The withdrawal limit for depositors has been now increased to Rs 60,000 per month, while loans up to Rs 15 lakh has also been permitted to be disbursed. The relaxations, registrar for cooperative societies Arvind Khutkar said, are based on the recommendations of the Task Force Committee for Credit and Urban Societies (TAFCUS). The TAFCUS met on February 8 to take a review of all the cooperative credit societies that are under financial stress. TAFCUS was convinced of the efforts made by VPK Urban to reduce its administrative costs and streamline its functioning. In June 2020, restrictions were imposed on the Mardol headquartered credit society, preventing the entity from accepting any deposits and disbursement of fresh loans. VPK Urban has been permitted to sanction loans from existing limit of Rs 5 lakh to Rs 15 lakh against secured collateral security. “On medical and educational grounds, the society is allowed to sanction loans on a case-to-case basis against the total accumulated deposits as on the date of application, with an upper limit of Rs 20 lakh and as per loaning policy of the society,” Khutkar said. The credit society can also allow withdrawals of matured pigmy deposits without any restrictions. The other recommendations of TAFCUS are an embargo on remuneration for the board of directors, disposal of old and unused vehicles, preparation of a branch-wise viability report and if required retrenchment of staff. “The society shall prepare branch-wise viability reports of all the 38 branches and resort to merger of non-viable branches with the nearest branch offices. Staff assessment and selection committee shall be constituted to assess the total staff requirement and if found in excess, formulate a staff retrenchment scheme to reduce the staff strength and also explore the possibilities of floating Voluntary Retirement Scheme,” the registrar said. On medical and educational grounds, the society is allowed to sanction loan on case-to-case basis against the total accumulated deposits as on the date of application with an upper limit of Rs 20 lakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/relaxations-for-vpk-urban-depositors-can-now-withdraw-rs-60k/mth/articleshow/80889187.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Vice-principal, lecturer held for molestation||Hyderabad: Madhapur police arrested a vice-principal and a lecturer of a private college for allegedly molesting a 22-year-old student. On February 9, the woman lodged a complaint with Madhapur police alleging that at around 7 pm on January 24, she along with her brother went to her lecturer’s house in Chanda Naik Tanda in Madhapur. “The complainant alleged that her college vice-principal and the lecturer had invited her to the latter’s house. Later they sent the victim’s brother out to buy snacks and molested her,” Madhapur inspector P Ravindra Prasad said. Police registered a case against the two offenders under sections 354-A, 354-B, 342, 506 r/w 34 of the IPC. “The complainant said that it took more than two weeks for her to lodge a complaint as the accused have been threatening her,” the inspector said. Police arrested the duo and sent them in judicial remand on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vice-principal-lecturer-held-for-molestation/articleshow/80887662.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Two held in bike theft case||Hyderabad: Nacharam police arrested, D Dhilip Kuamr, 34, a private employee from Neredmet and K Naresh, 30, of Kodakandla in Yadadri Bhongir district in a bike theft case. Police recovered two stolen bikes. The accused were sent in judicial remand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-held-in-bike-theft-case/articleshow/80887682.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Coimbatore||Commandos conduct drill at city hotel||Coimbatore: As many as 160 National Security Guard (NSG) commandos, who landed here on Sunday to conduct counterterrorism drills, completed the task on Friday. Commando teams had conducted a drill at Isha Yoga Centre on Tuesday and at the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University the next day. A commando team reached the Air Force School premises on Thursday around 3pm to conduct the drill. City armed reserve police personnel carrying AK-47 rifles and Race Course police personnel assisted them. Another team arrived at the ITC’s WelcomHotel at Race Course on Thursday at 6pm in cars to foil a ‘terror attack’. They secured the hotel from ‘terrorists’ and freed ‘hostages’ by 3am Friday. They used dummy bombs and dummy bullets, sources said. Senior NSG officers met city police commissioner Sumit Sharan on Friday and appreciated the cops for assisting the commandos. “We provided vehicles and created a green corridor for NSG teams to arrive at the hotel. Police assisted them to conduct the drills successfully,” Sharan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/commandos-conduct-drill-at-city-hotel/articleshow/80887655.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Former DPI, schools applies to be part of fee regulatory panel||Kamini.Mehta@timesgroup.com Chandigarh: Former director, public instructions (Schools) S K Setia is among those who have applied to be part of the fee regulatory committee to process complaints against private schools. Sources said Setia is reputed to be a strict officer who acted against various private schools during his tenure. Recently, UT education department uploaded a notice seeking details from candidates who applied to join the committee part-time to look into complaints received against private recognised schools. Names of 10 candidates have been mentioned in the notice and their additional details have been sought. Under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institution Act, 2016 as extended to UT, Chandigarh, formation of a committee to look into complaints filed by parents against private schools is mandatory. The notice states, “Public notice for empanelment as retired educationist and accounts professional on part-time basis to process the complaints received against Private Recognized Schools of UT, Chandigarh relating to charging of fee etc under ‘Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016’ as extended to UT of Chandigarh was uploaded on official website of department on August 13, 2020.” Through the notice, the education department sought additional details for processing of applications. Applicants include Randhir Singh, Vinay Kumar, Asha Bali, S K Setia, Dr Rajiv Bhandari, Inder Prakash Bhatia, Narinder Singh, Surinder Paul Gupta, Pardeep Kumar Soni, and Parveen Kumar Chaudhary. Documents required have been mentioned against each candidate and they have been asked to send e-scan copy of the documents (duty self-certified), failing which their request/ candidature will not be considered. Selected candidates will work with the fee regulatory body. Under the Act, any parent or student can file a complaint with a regulatory body with a self-attested affidavit. The committee will have to scrutinise it within 15 days and redress it within 60 days. Also, schools will have to justify the fee hike. The regulatory body can fine the school if it has been found to have charged more fee than justified, on the parents’ complaint. The regulatory body can also impose fine on the schools and seek cancellation of affiliation from the respective board, if required. To make this Act stronger, the decision of the body will not be challenged in court. Schools have been barred from taking capitation fee. The regulatory body includes all top officials of UT education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-dpi-schools-applies-to-be-part-of-fee-regulatory-panel/articleshow/80886259.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Patients’ footfall with other ailments at SMS hosp up||Jaipur: As the number of Covid-19 cases has gone down in the past one month, more and more patients with heart, kidney and other ailments are coming to the Sawai Man Singh Hospital (SMS).Patients, who had postponed their surgeries, are now consulting doctors for operation. In February so far, the SMS Hospital has witnessed a daily footfall of 25,000 patients at OPDs and IPDs. This number is equal to pre-Covid times.Attributing this confidence among the patients visiting SMS Hospital to the fading fear of Covid-19 and urgency, senior doctors at the hospital stated that some changes in the duties of resident doctors, para medical staff and other staff have been made to accommodate patients.“Prior to Covid-19 outbreak, we have been witnessing more than 25,000 patients per day which included almost 3,000 from outside Rajasthan. Since February 1, we are getting the same number of patients for various ailments,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Hospital on Friday.Bhandari stated that in past one month, the SMS Hospital underwent 10 successful organ transplants. “We have had transplanted four kidneys, two livers, two hearts and two lungs in past one month. Also as far as our investigation wings are concerned, they have started witnessing the same pre Covid-19 scenario,” he added.Bhandari added that with no major restrictions in travelling, patients from at least five states, including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, are coming at SMS Hospital.Doctors further stated that many patients who were postponing their procedures during the month of November and December last year during peak are now turning up.“Patients requiring dialysis are coming in numbers. We are doing 20 to 30 dialysis every day,” said Dr Vinay Malhotra, senior professor, department of nephrology, SMS Hospital.Senior professor (cardiology) of SMS Hospital Dr Anoop Jain said, “We were into 15 to 20 angioplasty every day during pre-Covid times apart from seeing patients at the OPDs. For the past two weeks, we have started doing the same number of angioplasty. Things are back to normal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patients-footfall-with-other-ailments-at-sms-hosp-up/articleshow/80887689.cms||Ashish Mehta
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||HC’s interim order on Arnab’s plea on March 5||Mumbai: The Bombay high court on Friday said it would hear and pass interim orders on March 5 on a petition filed by Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and his company ARG Outlier Media that runs the channel to quash the TRP manipulation scam case. The state said it cannot extend its statement of no coercive action till March 22. State counsel Kapil Sibal said it would however continue its assurance of not taking any coercive action against the owners of Republic TV till March 5. Sibal said the state would need time to respond to “new points’’ made by Goswami and ARG in their rejoinder to the police reply to his petition. It has new documents which are not part of his petition and hence need to be replied to, said Sibal, saying if the hearing was to proceed via videoconference on Friday, Goswami’s counsel Harish Salve ought to exclude those documents. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hcs-interim-order-on-arnabs-plea-on-march-5/articleshow/80889182.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Request T, AP cops for help: Kin of accident victims||Hyderabad: Over 600 km away from Visakhaptanam, in Hyderabad’s Shaikpet area, Naresh and his family are still in a state of shock. Around 8.30 on Friday evening, they were informed by the AP police that at least four of their relatives had died in a bus accident near Araku Valley, while several others were critically injured. “We are in a state of shock ... We request both the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana police to help our family members, who were involved in the accident, to reach Hyderabad at the earliest. Some of our family members have left for Visakhapatnam to take stock,” the distraught relative said, struggling to speak. “They first travelled to Vijayawada and visited the Kanaka Durga temple. Later they went to Annavaram temple in East Godavari district, Simhachalam in Visakhapatnam. On Friday, they went to Araku,” the relative said adding that all the families are residents of the Shaikpet area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/request-t-ap-cops-for-help-kin-of-accident-victims/articleshow/80887694.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Coimbatore||Race Course to turn more alluring for fitness freaks||Coimbatore: A year down the lane, Race Course road, a favourite spot for fitness enthusiasts, joggers and walkers, would have a smart look with separate workout space for men and women, children’s play area, amphitheatre and a wider footpath. The city corporation, which is renovating the road under the smart city mission, is now carrying out the work in top gear.Almost two years after the civic body proposed to develop the 2.5km stretch into a model road, municipal administration minister S P Velumani had inaugurated the project in June 2020. The road would be modified at a cost of Rs40.67 crore.Pointing out that the road was one of the favourite public places in the city with both residential and commercial spaces, a corporation source said the uniqueness of the stretch would be retained during renovation.“Apart from widening the existing footpath along the inner circle of the road, another footpath with a separate parking space would be created on the outer ring of the road. While walkers and joggers could continue to use the existing footpath, the new one would be set aside for shoppers,” the source said.While the men’s gym would get a facelift with EPDM (ethylene propylene diene monome) flooring and additional equipment, a similar workout area for women and a children’s park would be set up near the State Judicial Academy, the source said. By establishing the children’s park next to the women’s workout area, he said, mothers could easily keep an eye on their children while they workout. The existing children’s park near the Government Arts College would be turned into an amphitheatre.All the junctions on the stretch would also be redesigned under the project and there would be tabletop zebra crossings, which will allow pedestrians to cross roads along the same level of the pavements. A traffic island would be created at the entry points from Red Fields and Trichy Road to streamline the traffic.“While maintaining the existing green space on the road, additional green space would be created. Information boards, water fountains and shaded walkways would be set up at a particular distance. Power lines and telecom cables would be placed underground,” the source said.Pointing out that the civic body had been carrying out the work in a phased manner, he said presently work was on to renovate the footpath for about 1km near KG theatre. “After its completion, work to set up the footpath along the outer ring of the road will begin.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/race-course-to-turn-more-alluring-for-fitness-freaks/articleshow/80887731.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Protest staged over demand for fee from SC students||Chandigarh: Students of Punjab University staged a protest on campus regarding fee in constituent colleges. Protesting students stated that the constituent college, Balachaur recently issued a notice demanding fee from SC students enrolled under the Postmatric Scholarship Scheme. They said students were not informed of any fee either at the time of admission or in previous years. According to them, students from marginal sections have only been able to study due to scholarship but are now being asked to pay fee if they wished to complete their courses. The students requested authorities to resolve the issue by allowing PMS students to continue their studies with the promised fully-funded scholarship and roll-back the fee notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protest-staged-over-demand-for-fee-from-sc-students/articleshow/80886269.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Cidco earns Rs 677cr through sale of 19 plots||Navi Mumbai: City & Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) on Friday earned a whopping Rs 677 crore through sale of 19 commercial and residential plots measuring over 44,000 sqm in Sanpada, Kalamboli, Kharghar and Ulwe. When bids were opened on Friday, a Sanpada plot, a little over an acre, went for Rs 2.6 lakh per sqm, to Neelkanth Infotech. The base price was Rs 95,074 per sqm. The second highest bid was at Rs 2.2 lakh per sqm, again in Sanpada’s Sector 18, made by Jui Habitat Pvt Ltd. The base price for the less-than-an-acre plot was Rs 77,468 a sqm. The e-auction through e-tenders received a huge response from bidders. “Under this residential-cum-commercial scheme, nine plots were offered at Kharghar Sector 27, four at Kalamboli Sector 17, three at Sanpada Sector 8 and two at Sector 18 and one was available at Ulwe Sector 19 for sale on lease. Sanpada plots were sold at a higher price against their base price,” said a Cidco official. Cidco managing director Sanjay Mukherjee said, “The encouraging response is a sign of resolute trust that citizens have on the corporation.” The highest bid for a Cidco plot so far was Rs 3.3 lakh per square metre at Sanpada along Palm Beach road in 2016 and the winner of the bid was Niswati Developers. Developer Manohar Shroff, said, “Builders should control prices and provide cheaper houses. Today’s bid was quite high and developers should be cautious about the trend. More tenders are on cards. There’s no scarcity of land in Navi Mumbai since NAINA area is enough.” Another builder, Rajesh Prajapati, said, “The price was huge during the pandemic. Prices of Kalamboli and Kharghar plots were reasonable, but Sanpada was too much.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cidco-earns-rs-677cr-through-sale-of-19-plots/articleshow/80887160.cms||B B Nayak
February 13, 2021||Meerut||Govt must end its stubborn attitude, says Naresh Tikait||Bareilly: The government should end its stubborn attitude towards farmers, said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national president Naresh Tikait at a well-attended 'mahapanchayat' held in Bilari area of Moradabad district on Friday afternoon.“If the government doesn’t listen to our demands then we won’t listen to them. And the peaceful protest will continue," the farm leader said while addressing a large gathering of mainly farmers from Moradabad and its neighbouring districts. A few Samajwadi Party workers were also present.The Hindu-Muslim divide in 2013 [that led to Muzzaffarnagar riots] was a "huge mistake", he said, adding that the Jats and Muslims have joined hands against the three farm laws. “Our panchayat is growing every day. The government has blamed our union and tried to defame us and end this farmers' movement. This is a very stubborn government. If the farmers won’t wake up now then our future generations won’t forgive us. We need to rise above casteism and personal animosities and stay united,” Tikait, who has been addressing several 'mahapanchayats' in western Uttar Pradesh, said.He further said that the Prime Minister had used the word "andolanjeevi" followed by the word "jamaat" for panchayat. "The PM has insulted farmers by associating us and using the word 'jamaat' and he should publicly apologize.""We need to make a lot of improvement. This movement is yet to spread across the state. It is limited to the Ghazipur border only,” he further said.Urging everyone to protest peacefully, he said that it is the biggest weapon of this movement."Maintain peace and discipline and no one can [infiltrate and] cause trouble. The government will bend, not the farmers," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/govt-must-end-its-stubborn-attitude-says-naresh-tikait/articleshow/80885325.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Meerut||Prez confers gallantry award on Agra farmer who saved 20 lives||Agra: When a letter with the Government of India insignia addressed to Nihal Singh, 27, was delivered at his house, he was taken aback. As it was in English, he sought help with translation. The letter was from home secretary Ajay Bhalla, congratulating him for being conferred with the ‘Jeevan Raksha Padak’ by President Ram Nath Kovind. As tears streamed down his cheeks, news spread like wildfire at his Chougaan Baghel Ki Thar village under Etmadpur police jurisdiction. People gathered to laud him for saving 20 passengers on board a state roadways bus that fell from a bridge into a narrow drain on Yamuna Expressway on July 8, 2019. Twenty-nine passengers were killed in that accident. Since receipt of the letter, life has not been the same for this marginal farmer. Speaking with TOI on Friday, Nihal Singh said he was working in his field and was jolted by a loud crashing sound. He rushed to the spot and saw people trapped in the bus. Showing presence of mind, he jumped into the drain, broke open a window to enter the bus. He was able to open the jammed door to help the injured passengers to get out. “I was fortunate to be able to save the lives of at least 20 passengers. I am very happy about being chosen for the national award,” said this shy braveheart.The entire village is proud of Nihal, said his father, Ram Singh. Nihal Singh is the youngest of six siblings. His three older brothers work as labourers in Delhi-NCR while two of his sisters are married. He has four children, including twin daughters. According to the letter, the Jeevan Raksha Padak comprises a medal, certificate and lump sum monetary allowance, which will be presented to him on behalf of the President by the government of Uttar Pradesh. Jeevan Raksha Padak awards, an offshoot of the Ashoka Chakra series of Gallantry awards, were instituted in 1961. It is awarded to civilians for displaying “courage and promptitude in saving life under circumstances of grave bodily injury to the rescuer”. While the award has capitulated him to fame, Nihal wondered if it could help him financially. “I would like to request the government to help me get a job. I will put my best effort into serving people. I am a small farmer and not able to take proper care of my family,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/prez-confers-gallantry-award-on-agra-farmer-who-saved-20-lives/articleshow/80885336.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand records 49 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths||Dehradun: The tally of coronavirus cases shot up to 96,722 in Uttarakhand after 49 new infections surfaced from across the state on Friday. Also, two coronavirus-related fatalities pushed the toll of the virus to 1,678 in the state. Meanwhile, 63 patients recovered from Covid-19 infection on Friday, taking the number of cured cases to 93,013 in the state. According to the health department data, 9,845 Covid-19 samples tested negative on Friday. Among the 49 new cases recorded on Friday, 23 were reported from Dehradun, 11 from Haridwar, six from Nainital, four from Udham Singh Nagar, two from Chamoli, and one case each from Tehri, Champawat, and Pauri districts,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid 19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-49-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/80886298.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 13, 2021||Coimbatore||Residents call for parking lot, removal of encroachments||Coimbatore: Residents of Race Course are happy about their locality getting a facelift and excited to get a glimpse of the final picture at the earliest. They, however, also have certain concerns, which the residents want the civic body to address for once and all. Satish Balagopal, secretary, Race Course and Neighbourhood Association, said the city corporation should create a proper parking space, as the road was mostly used by fitness enthusiasts and walkers from different parts of the city. “Presently, there is no sufficient parking area. The corporation should take steps to convert some of the abandoned land into parking lot, as the road would see about 200 to 300 vehicles on weekends.” While the civic body had allotted space on the road for parallel parking, he said the same would further shrink the width of the road. J Sathish, a resident, has advised the civic body against setting up lots of eateries and kiosks on the road. “If they were to come up in large numbers, the road would resemble more or like VOC park area and foodies and shoppers would start crowding the road, which is filled with fitness enthusiasts as of now. It will also cause inconvenience to the residents.” Pointing to the building extensions, he also urged the city corporation to remove encroachments on the stretch. “The road is filled with greenery and is an urban lung space for the people. The civic body should retain the green space.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-call-for-parking-lot-removal-of-encroachments/articleshow/80887781.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||On day 1, supporters’ flexi show puts mayor in a tight spot||Hyderabad: Day after being elected as the Hyderabad mayor, G Vijaya Laxmi, came under criticism from some sections of locals, activists and opposition members after her cadre put up flexi banners in the city — in violation of civic norms. Banners of the mayor surfaced at multiple places on Road No 10 and Road No 12 Banjara Hills, with many spotted in and around the TRS Bhavan. Similar flexi banners were seen near ESI Hospital (Erragadda) too. As per norms of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) these banners are banned within its limits. “The mayor should have instructed her cadre not to raise such flexi banners, and GHMC officials should have removed them to assure people that nobody is above the law. She should have set an example by ensuring that this di not happen,” said Srinivas Bellam, an activist from the city. Baddam Mahipal Reddy who contested against the mayor from Banjara Hills and lost with a margin of approximately 700 votes said that celebration should have been held in a responsible manner. “Celebrations should be held but norms should not be flouted. As a mayor one has to be more responsible. When we (BJP) put up advertisement material, the civic body issued challans,” said Reddy. A commuter near Maharajashri Agarsen Statue, Banjara Hills also expressed concern over it and recalled an incident wherein techie died after a banner came crashing on her in 2019. When asked, P Pravinya, GHMC zonal commissioner (Khairatabad) said that the flexi banners have been removed. Meanwhile, deputy mayor visited the GHMC head office on Friday and decided to shift into the office designated for the mayor. “She did not like her existing office and is planning to shift to the mayor’s office on the ground floor. The new mayor will shift to another office on seventh floor,” said GHMC office. The new mayor will take oath on or after February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/on-day-1-supporters-flexi-show-puts-mayor-in-a-tight-spot/articleshow/80887740.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Healthcare workers to get second dose of Covid shots from Saturday||Shimona.Kanwar@timesgroup.com Chandigarh: The second dose of Covishield vaccine will be administered to 370 healthcare workers from Saturday. The Union ministry of health and family welfare recommended a booster shot after 28 days of receiving the first shot. There have been publications which have found evidence that the booster dose is effective after a gap of three months. This might reduce attendance of health workers to get the second shot on Saturday, sources said. “I had been waiting for complete immunisation, which will be over by tomorrow. I did not have a reaction and have been working in hospital without any break,” said Murari, a health worker at GMCH 32, who was the first in the city to get the jab on January 16. The UT health department has sent messages to all health workers for the second dose. “I am excited to receive my second dose. All those who are are at risk must be inoculated. There are many people who have stopped wearing masks and we must not let our guard down now,” said director, health services, UT, Dr Amandeep Kang. Sources said most healthcare workers have requested deferral of the first shot on Saturday. “I do not want to stay back home the next day as it will increase my body pain after the shot. So I might go for spot registration later for my second dose,” said Prof Ravi Gupta, medical superintendent, GMCH 32. Meanwhile, V P Badnore, governor, Punjab and administrator, UT directed all health institutions to ensure that all OPDs became fully functional and the status was restored to pre-corona days. He also said that since 1,21,850 doses of covid shields are available, all efforts should be made to enhance the vaccination rating. All the 14 sites must be fully functional and there should be IEC campaigning to remove hesitancy from people’s minds regarding the vaccination, he said. PGI shared that Covid positivity rate at their hospital is 2% and at GMCH, it is 1%. “We had been at the forefront in the labour room throughout Covid and now again, we are in the first batch for the second dose without any fear,” said Harinder Kaur, member of the nursing staff at GMSH-16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/healthcare-workers-to-get-second-dose-of-covid-shots-from-saturday/articleshow/80886287.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana HC ropes in CBI’s security cell to look into Ind-Barath account||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Friday brought CBI’s banking security and fraud cell (BSFC) as a necessary party into a legal tussle raised by Ind-Barath Thermal Power Ltd and its director Kanumuru Raghu Rama Krishna Raju and others, who challenged several banks’ action for describing their company account as a fraud account. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, which heard the matter on Friday, said the CBI could go ahead with it probe and wanted the CBI’s Delhi BSFC wing on board to look into the matter of declaring Ind-Barath account as fraud account. Raju is a sitting MP from West Godavari district. He won from Narasapuram on a YSRCP ticket 2019 general elections. The banks were aggrieved with Ind-Barath defaulting in repaying Rs 860 crore loan it took and declared the company account as a fraud account in tune with an RBI circular that asked banks to do so. The high court earlier found fault with certain provisions of the RBI circular saying that they gave no opportunity to the alleged defaulter to explain his case before declaring his account as fraud and issued a stay. Aggrieved by the HC stay on the RBI circular, the RBI and SBI have already filed a special leave petition challenging the action of Telangana HC in restraining them from dealing with fraudulent accounts. Ind-Barath’s non-executive directors — Kanumuru Rama Devi and K Indira Priyadarshini — also filed another petition challenging the banks’ declaration of their company account as fraud. They wanted the court to declare the RBI circular unconstitutional. According to these two petitions, Punjab National Bank, Union Bank of India, Indian Overseas Bank, Axis Bank, State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Central Bank of India, Canara Bank, Syndicate Bank, Bank of India and Indian Bank had classified the company’s account as fraud at varying dates between November 2018 and February 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-ropes-in-cbis-security-cell-to-look-into-ind-barath-account/articleshow/80887727.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||346 inoculated, highest attendance at PGI||Times News Network Chandigarh: On Friday, 11 sites were opened for healthcare workers, while eight sites were operational for frontline workers. A total of 346 healthcare workers were inoculated out of the 1,777 targeted. Out of 1,099 beneficiaries, 297 frontline workers received the jab. Till date, 8,129 out of 23,003 health and frontline workers have been vaccinated. This includes 6,600 healthcare workers out of 19,611 beneficiaries and 1,529 frontline workers out of 3,887 beneficiaries. At the three sites of PGIMER, 181 of the 644 beneficiaries were administered vaccine shots. Highest attendance was seen for healthcare workers at PGI, while the least was seen at GMSH-16, where only 64 out of 415 beneficiaries got vaccinated. As for frontline workers, highest attendance was seen at ITBP, where 78 out of 135 beneficiaries were inoculated. The least attendance was observed at the health and wellness centre in Sector 49, where out of 200 beneficiaries, 10 frontline workers got the jab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/346-inoculated-highest-attendance-at-pgi/articleshow/80886296.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Underpass approved on Doon-Haridwar NH route||Dehradun: The Union government has approved the construction of an underpass at Motichoor on Dehradun-Haridwar National Highway route. In the absence of an underpass, long jams and road mishaps were reported at the location in Haripur Kala village. On the request of the state government, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has approved the underpass at Haripur Kala village. The underpass would be maintained by the Public Works Department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/underpass-approved-on-doon-haridwar-nh-route/articleshow/80886290.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 13, 2021||Udaipur||NREGA: 200 days of work for tribes of Baran, Udaipur||JAIPUR: The state government has decided to provide 200 days of employment under MGNREGA (additional 100 days of work), to the families of Sahariya and Khairua tribes of Baran district and Kathaudi tribe of Udaipur district. They will be provided additional days of employment on completion of 100 days of work under the financial year 2020-21. “In excess of 100 days of work, the expenditure will be borne by the state government. It has been approved by the finance department,” said P C Kishan, secretary, rural development department. Meanwhile, additional chief secretary (ACS) rural development and panchayati raj department Rohit Singh on Friday informed that under MGNREGA scheme, training for skill development will be provided to unskilled labourers up to March 2022 by the krishi vigyan kendras under the agricultural universities. Singh said that skill development training will be provided to 20,000 unskilled labourers, who belong to those families that completed 100 days of work under ‘Unnati’ in the financial year 2018-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/nrega-200-days-of-work-for-tribes-of-baran-udaipur/articleshow/80887734.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Jodhpur||36 Army personnel get awards in Jodhpur event||JAIPUR/JODHPUR: The Southern Command Investiture Ceremony was conducted at the Konark Corps at Jodhpur on Friday. Lieutenant General J S Nain, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Command, presented gallantry and distinguished awards to 36 Army personnel including one next of kin of a posthumous gallantry award winner Nk (Late) Rajendra Singh and 22 units of Southern Command for their outstanding contribution in various fields. While addressing the audience on this occasion, the Army Commander congratulated the awardees and recipients of unit citations and exhorted all ranks to emulate the awardees and give their best to make the nation proud of its Army. The Army Commander interacted with the award winners and their families after the presentation ceremony wherein he said that recognition of such acts of selfless service motivates the rank and file in the Army, to draw inspiration and re-dedicate themselves to uphold the honour and dignity of the country in the best traditions of the Indian Army. He further highlighted the importance of integration with other services and civil agencies in the 11 states and four UTs of Southern Command. He applauded the efforts of all ranks despite the challenges of Covid-19, in ensuring operational preparedness of very high order. Three Army personnel were awarded the Yudh Seva Medal (YSM), including Jaipur native Brigadier Suresh Kumar Sheoran, who was awarded the Sena Medal previously. He was commissioned into the Sikh Regiment in 1992 and is an alumnus of Military School Ajmer, Maharaja College, Rajasthan University Jaipur, Indian Military Academy, Defence Services Staff College and Army War College. During his career spanning over two and a half decades, he has commanded his battalion (4 SIKH) in the Siachen Glacier and was awarded Sena Medal for his distinguished service and accomplishments over there. He has served extensively in the Jammu and Kashmir and the North East. On Friday, he was awarded YSM for his resolute leadership and indomitable will in planning and executing operations in Nagaland which resulted in the destruction of underground camps along the Myanmar border, apprehension of the most dreaded self-styled major general Yangang of a banned organisation (NSCN K-YA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/36-army-personnel-get-awards-in-jodhpur-event/articleshow/80887788.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kolhapur||90 test positive in Satara, Solapur city reports 38 cases||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 90 fresh Covid cases and two deaths since Thursday late night, taking the total number of cases to 57,297. The death toll has risen to 1,835. Satara taluka recorded 36 cases, Koregaon and Maan taluka added nine cases each, seven people tested positive in Phaltan taluka, Khatav and Khandala talukas identified six new patients and Karad tehsil registered four cases among others. As many as 54,563 patients have recovered so far while 899 patients are undergoing treatment. Solapur city registered 38 new Covid patients on Friday. The city has 12,001 cases so far, including 645 deaths, 499 active cases and 10,956 recoveries. Solapur rural reported 25 cases while 32 patients were discharged after recovering on Friday. The rural parts have reported 39,908 cases, including 1168 deaths, 254 active cases and 34,486 recoveries. Meanwhile, Kolhapur district reported 22 fresh cases of Covid on Friday, which is the highest number of cases recorded in a single day in recent weeks. Of the fresh cases, Kolhapur city added 14 cases. The number of active cases in the district rose to 134 while four patients were discharged on Friday. The district has recorded 50,078 cases, including 1,729 deaths and 48,215 recoveries. Sangli district reported 10 fresh cases and one death on Friday. The district has 48,254 patients, of them, 1,753 have died and 46,371 are being treated. Sangli district has 130 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/90-test-positive-in-satara-solapur-city-reports-38-cases/articleshow/80885353.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Green Mile for Senapati Bapat Marg||Mumbai: Encroachments, lack of space for pedestrians and an unstructured, chaotic and congested Senapati Bapat Marg will soon be a thing of the past as the arterial stretch that passes through Dadar-Prabhadevi-Parel areas is undergoing a green transformation. Under its ‘Green Mile’ project, the BMC is beautifying the 1km stretch with pedestrian-friendly intersections, street furniture and signages, vertical gardens, shaded pathways and using the space under the flyover for sporting activities and celebrate local art and culture. The aim is to transform Senapati Bapat Marg into a world-class commercial street that will set a benchmark for street design in Mumbai. The makeover work had already started in December and is expected to be completed in May. “One of the crucial changes would be to use the space under the flyover,” said assistant municipal commissioner Sharad Ughade of G-South ward. “We propose to create over 1,000 sq m of space. In the future, we could use the space to encourage sporting activities like skating and badminton,” he said, adding the project is being done through corporate social responsibility with real estate manager Nucleus Office Parks. The proposal to beautify Senapati Bapat Marg was mooted in August last year. The existing road is plagued by encroachments in the unused space below the flyover and pavement, lack of walking space and trucks taking over pedestrian space. With thousands of vehicles, including intercity buses, plying on all four lanes, heavy traffic congestion is a perennial problem on this road. Ughade said they wanted to rectify this situation and hence, several interventions were planned accordingly. The BMC plans to create an additional 2,233 sq m of concrete footpath space due to the proximity to Dadar, Prabhadevi and Parel railway stations. At present, the footpath is 6,844 sq m long. The corporation also proposes to construct cycle tracks and set up a barcoded informative system. A civic official said: “These barcoded stickers will provide information on Senapati Bapat and his contribution to the Independence movement.” Quaiser Parvez, CEO, Nucleus Office Parks, said, “We are happy to begin work on th-is streetscape redevelopment project, leveraging our real estate expertise and experiences of transforming properties to enhance the quality of life for Mumbai residents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/green-mile-for-senapati-bapat-marg/articleshow/80889189.cms||Richa Pinto
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Haridwar hoteliers to stage protest against Kumbh SOP||Haridwar: The hoteliers in Haridwar have announced to stage a protest against the final SOP for the Kumbh Mela which mandates registration and carrying a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test for pilgrims. The association has said that the government must give them compensation for the losses incurred during Kumbh Mela period due to low turnout of pilgrims or else, they will intensify protest against the SOPs.  Vibhas Mishra, president of Hoteliers' association of Haridwar, told TOI, “A meeting was called on Friday by all the hoteliers in this matter and we decided to oppose government decisions. We will stage a protest on Saturday with local traders. Thereafter, we will announce further plans of protest.” Mintu Panjwani, a local hotelier, said that around 5,000 bookings were cancelled on Mauni Amavasya bathing festival due to confusion over the Covid-19 SOPs. The hotel industry has lost everything and now, hoteliers have no option other than shutting their establishments. The government shall either give us compensation or clear the confusion regarding the Kumbh Mela and its SOPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-hoteliers-to-stage-protest-against-kumbh-sop/articleshow/80886305.cms||MS Nawaz
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Bhati posthumously awarded Sena medal||Jaipur: Naik Rajendra Singh Bhati was awarded the Sena medal posthumously for his act of bravery during a counter-terrorism operation in Kashmir in 2019 when terrorists had taken a civilian hostage.During the operation, Singh, who was just 26-year-old at that time, was shot and succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment. Hailing from Jaisalmer’s Mohangarh the young soldier came from a family of Army personnel.In September 2019, three terrorists entered a house in Ramban’s Batote while attempting to flee the security forces after a gunfight with them. The encounter happened after the terrorists tried to stop a civilian vehicle which instead of stopping fled the spot and informed the Army personnel.Bhati’s younger brother Samundra Singh, who was at Jodhpur to receive the gallantry award told TOI, “Although from Rajput Regiment, he was posted in Rashtriya Rifles in Kashmir. During the operation Trishakti, a civilian was held hostage by the terrorists and despite Army personnel asking them to surrender, they did not do so. In the ensuing gun fight, while the three terrorists were killed, my brother also sustained bullet injuries and succumbed to them.”Bhati served in the Army for eight years and at the time of his demise, his wife was five-month pregnant who later gave birth to a son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhati-posthumously-awarded-sena-medal/articleshow/80887824.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Protest against agri laws: Farmers to organise 4-hr nationwide rail blockade on Feb 18||Rudrapur: The farmers protesting at the Ghazipur border of Delhi have decided to intensify their movement against the three contentious agricultural laws. Tejender Singh Virk, president of the Terai Kisan Mahasabha, said, that on February 14, the second anniversary of the terror attack in Pulwama, farmers from all across the country would take out a candle march to commemorate the Pulwama martyrs and martyrs of the farmers’ movement. “On February 16, the birth anniversary of the farmer leader Chhoturam will be observed. There will be a four-hour nationwide rail blockade on February 18 from 12 noon to 4 pm,” Virk said. He said that all the protests will be held peacefully. Notably, the Kisan Andolan Committee of Ghazipur has prepared a roadmap for the nationwide protests to be held in the coming week, said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, spokesperson of the committee. The committee has also decided to safeguard the interests of farmers and have formed a panel of advocates to help those agitating farmers who have been booked by the Delhi police in different cases. Speaking to TOI from Ghazipur border, Bajwa said that the police forces of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh are trying to intimidate farmers by issuing notices. “The Ghazipur Kisan Ekta Morcha has empanelled several renowned advocates to help the farmers who have been booked by the police. The same panel of advocates will also look after the bail proceedings of the jailed farmers,” said Bajwa. He added that any farmer — who is issued a notice for participating in the protest — should inform the Morcha promptly. Bajwa further said that the farmers from across the country will participate in the renewed strategy to the agitation. “It has been decided by all the constituting organisations of the Sanyunkta Kisan Morcha that from18 February, all the toll booths of Uttarakhand will be shut indefinitely till the agitation continues at the Ghazipur border. The farmer organisations at their respective functioning areas will make sure that the booths do not charge toll fees from the vehicles,” Virk added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/protest-against-agri-laws-farmers-to-organise-4-hr-nationwide-rail-blockade-on-feb-18/articleshow/80886303.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 13, 2021||Coimbatore||MBBS student leaves crutches behind, gets artificial limb, thanks to Good Samaritan||Coimbatore: R Gayathri, a final year MBBS student at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), had lost her leg in a road accident in Vellore when she was in Class II. While she had been on crutches until she moved to the city with her family a few years ago, her dreams of walking again with ease got a shot in the arm on Thursday, when the CMCH’s artificial limb centre fitted her with a new light weight below knee prosthesis, which was donated by the alumni of 1983 MBBS batch of Stanley Medical College. While Gayathri had got herself a prosthesis from a private artificial limb maker in the city in the past, she hardly used the same as that was heavy and used to cause severe stump pain. As she did not have a TN comprehensive health insurance scheme card, the alumni of Stanley Medical College came forward to her help. Dr Vetrivelchezhian, director, institute of orthopaedics at the CMCH, said, “The below knee prosthesis cost around Rs 13,000. It is priced anywhere between Rs 30,000 and Rs 1 lakh in private centres.” Gayathri said she found it easier to walk with the new prosthesis. “I definitely feel the weight difference, but I am using crutches, since it is my comfort zone. However, I think I will find it easier to walk with the prosthesis alone in a week.” The artificial limb centre at the government hospital has started a desk for people, who need artificial limbs but don’t have the state health insurance scheme card. “We have decided to open registration for such people and a desk where people can contribute for artificial limbs. A lower limb will cost only Rs 13,000-Rs 14,000, while an upper limb Rs 34,000 to Rs 35,000,” Vetrivelchezhian said. The next beneficiaries of artificial limbs are the hospital’s siddha officer, Chandrakumar, and a former house surgeon, who also graduated from the CMCH a couple of years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mbbs-student-leaves-crutches-behind-gets-artificial-limb-thanks-to-good-samaritan/articleshow/80887829.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Herbal formulation by PGIMER doctor promises quick healing||CHANDIGARH: While the wounds of patients with ulcer, dialysis and bed sores did not heal with existing antiseptics, a polyherbal formulation made by Dr Vikas Gautam of PGIMER showed results. This has been the preliminary result of clinical trials at the civil hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, where 30 patients have been enrolled. The formulation has been granted a patent and has also been approved for the trademark, Sepil. “Based on preliminary results obtained in a few of our patients and laboratory data results, this polyherbal formulation effectively counters infection and heals a wound very quickly. We were struggling on a patient for almost three months and planned to do surgery. However, within days, the wound healed completely with the sole use of this polyherbal formulation with no cover of antibiotics,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, chief medical officer at Panchkula hospital. The antiseptic is undergoing double blind randomised control trials at AIIMS, New Delhi and civil hospital, Panchkula. Another interesting aspect of this polyherbal formulation is the healing of a synthetic graft in a dialysis patient. A synthetic graft is rejected within 10 to 14 days but healing was observed with the use of Sepil. “These grafts are not healed at all. We found one case which showed healing after this herbal application but we need to have larger samples to conclude,” said Dr Ashish Sharma, head of the department of renal transplant surgery, PGIMER. At present, there are two main antiseptics used for wounds which do not heal easily. These include Povidone and Silversulphadiazine. “These antiseptics are however found to inhibit healing. There was a case of a 95-year-old woman who was bedridden and had a wound on the back. For three months, antibiotics and all antiseptics were used, but nothing helped. She was referred for surgery for grafting but when this formulation was tried, there was complete healing within 40 days,” said Dr Vikas from the department of microbiology, PGIMER. “I have been working on this for the past 15 years as this is our indigenous science. Now we are looking for an industry partner,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/polyherbal-formulation-made-by-pgimer-doc-promises-quick-healing/articleshow/80886302.cms||Shimona Kanwar
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Won mayor & dy mayor posts on our own, claims Talasani||Hyderabad: A day after the TRS secured both mayor and deputy mayor posts in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav said the party won both posts on its own with simple majority. He said the AIMIM was not an untouchable party and that the BJP was using the communal card for political mileage. Yadav said the BJP must appreciate that the TRS gave both mayor and deputy mayor posts to women. Addressing a press meet in Telangana Bhavan on Friday, the minister said the whole word knows how the BJP secures power with ‘unholy alliances’ in states such as Karnataka and MP. “The local BJP leaders are using objectionable language against the CM. We can also use such language against the BJP leaders at the Centre, but the TRS respects all leaders,” he said, adding Telangana’s development is being done irrespective of politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/won-mayor-dy-mayor-posts-on-our-own-claims-talasani/articleshow/80887784.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||New corporators run into poll code hurdle||Hyderabad: Newly-sworn in corporators need to wait till mid March to take any major decisions in the GHMC. Since their election, they have already waited for more than two months to enter the GHMC council. Now, owing to the model code of conduct ahead of the MLC polls, a general body meeting cannot be held till mid March. If work for a project exceeds Rs 3 core, it can be approved only in GHMC general body meeting. Cutting across party lines, GHMC corporatros said that proposals should be taken up on war footing. “The budget session should be held as soon as possible, a mechanism should be rolled out to ensure the works are executed despite general body meeting being on hold,” said Manne Kavita Reddy, Venkateswara Colony ward TRS corporator. AIMIM corporators said several works were already pending in their wards. “The council meeting should be held as soon as possible. If the meet to approve budget is not held, fund sanction will be delayed and contractors will not take up new works,” said Syed Minhajuddin, GHMC corporator from Akberbagh ward. The general body meeting was scheduled on January 29 to discuss and approve the budget, but due to model code of conduct ahead of mayoral election, it had to be called off. The plan was to approve the GHMC draft budget of Rs 5,600 crore. “We have to wait for two more months to get things done. Authorities are doing injustice to the city,” said BJP corporator from Begum Bazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-corporators-run-into-poll-code-hurdle/articleshow/80887807.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||‘GHMC in bad shape due to TRS misrule’||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy on Friday said the GHMC is in a bad shape due to the misrule of TRS in the last few years. Addressing a press conference, he said the BJP will play a big role in restoring the GHMC’s glory. He said the TRS-AIMIM tacit understanding was exposed during Thursday’s mayoral election when the Majlis party openly supported the TRS. Meanwhile, state BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar asked the college managements to convene a meeting with lecturers and pay their salaries without any delay. “The managements are collecting fees from students, but are not paying salaries to lecturers on time,” he said. Speaking to mediapersons in Delhi, he demanded that the state government immediately implement PRC for government employees. Alleging that police had shown high-handedness against BJP activists in Khammam and Nalgonda by foisting false cases against them, he said the issue will be taken to the notice of Union home minister Amit Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-in-bad-shape-due-to-trs-misrule/articleshow/80887840.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Central Railway to promote electric bike, provide space at eight stations||MUMBAI: As part of its efforts to improve last-mile connectivity, Central Railway (CR) has decided to provide space outside eight suburban stations to operate app-based electric bike (e-bike) services, and allow app-based bus services from Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CSMT) and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) at Kurla. CR expects to earn non-fare revenue of around Rs 30 lakh per annum by leasing these spaces. “We expect e-bikes to become popular among passengers,” said CR chief PRO Shivaji Sutar. The e-bike services will be offered at CSMT, LTT, Byculla, Parel, Dadar, Bhandup, Mulund and Thane stations on areas ranging from 45 sqm to 150 sqm. CR will also make space for charging stations and parking for the operators. TimesViewLast-mile connectivity is crucial in Mumbai as most users of the suburban railway network work far away from the stations. Crucial time is spent in waiting for buses or taxis to reach the workplace and vice versa. The e-bike and app-based system should be promoted to encourage quick travel and de-congestion, but operators should ensure customers are not overcharged.“It is a win-win situation for both the operators and passengers who want improved first- and last-mile connectivity. It will also put an end to fleecing by autorickshaw and taxi operators and help reduce burden on existing public transport,” said Amit Bhatt, director of transport, World Resources Institute, India. But not all are convinced. “The BMC should offer space for docking these e-bikes at crucial boarding points. It will not attract users if the pick-up and drop facilities are far from the business areas,” said Pankesh Damania, a commuter. Transport planner Vijayshree Pednekar pointed out: “The BMC and railways should set up an integrated transport hub outside the stations to ensure easy access to all forms of public transport, instead of just giving priority to app-based operators.” E-bike services have been receiving a good response at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) since the launch on August 31, 2020, for last-mile connectivity to Bandra station on Western Railway and Kurla station on CR under the Public Bicycle Sharing system. Till December, more than 7,000 people had used the e-bike facilities operated by Bengaluru-based Yulu. For the app-based bus services at CSMT and LTT, the CR will soon float a fresh tender as the three-month contract offered to All Miles last year lapsed when the city was in lockdown. The app-based bus fare to be fixed by the operators is expected to be costlier compared to the BEST as the services will run on specific routes—buses from CSMT can operate via Ballard Pier, Nariman Point and Mantralaya, and those from LTT can operate within 5-km radius to areas like BKC, Diamond Garden, RCF and Chembur station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cr-to-promote-e-bikes-provide-space-at-8-stns/articleshow/80887897.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 13, 2021||Rajkot||Five more wild animal poachers held in Junagadh||Rajkot: Days after busting a gang involved in trapping wild animals, the forest officials in Junagadh on Friday arrested five persons suspected to be poachers who had killed a lion cub earlier. Last week the forest department had arrested 38 people for trying to trap wild animals including lions in Khambha village of Sutrapada taluka in Gir Somnath district. The foresters had also seized about a dozen traps from the forest area. A preliminary probe into the matter revealed that one of the accused, a resident of Dungarpur village of Junagadh, had allegedly trapped and killed a lion cub some years ago using a snare he had purchased from another accused. The person who provided the foot traps also revealed names of other accused. Chief conservator of forest K Ramesh said, “We got some names who provided the traps to these people. That led us to Dwarka. From there we arrested five persons and shifted them to Junagadh. During interrogation one of them who is a native of Dungarpur area of Junagadh admitted that he had killed a lion cub in the recent past. We have registered an offence against the five under Wildlife Protection Act.” According to forest officials, the person who supplied the trap revealed names of suspected poachers who could be involved in lion poaching. “We are searching for more people who could be involved in lion poaching. We are also investigating the claim of one accused of killing a lion cub.” There is a possibility that the accused could be misleading the investigators. The five accused were produced before the court which sent them to remand of the forest department for five days. Meanwhile, the court also rejected the bail application of 10 other arrested earlier on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-more-wild-animal-poachers-held-in-junagadh/articleshow/80885390.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kolhapur||Hawkers agree not to sit in 25m periphery of Mahalaxmi||Kolhapur: The disagreement between the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the hawkers has come to an end after both agreed to a common proposal of no-hawking within 25m periphery of Mahalaxmi temple.For the last few days, the face-off between the hawkers and KMC authorities was witnessed several times after the civic body tried to evict hawkers from 100m periphery of the temple citing Bombay high court’s order issued two years ago. The KMC had started evicting the hawkers from the 100m periphery but the hawkers claimed that the action is illegal as it has not been approved by the town vending committee, which is yet to be constituted.However, now the hawkers have agreed to shift from 25m periphery of the temple.Pandit Pawar, the head of KMC’s anti-encroachment department said, “It is a temporary arrangement. We will ensure there will be no hawkers within 100m periphery in future in order to abide by the court's order. The safety of visitors is important. We will start evicting those sitting within 25m periphery from Saturday as it has been agreed from both sides.”Despite the hawkers and KMC reaching to an agreement, around 16 hawkers sat inside the 25m periphery of the temple. Then the authorities requested the hawkers’ representatives to ask the 16 hawkers to shift on their own. Upon the request, R K Powar, the convenor of hawkers associations, asked the hawkers to shift and not to sit within 25m periphery until a concrete decision over making temple premise free from hawkers is not made.There are thousands of hawkers, small vendors within 100m periphery of the temple. They have occupied that space for a long time. KMC has now marked both 25m line and 100m line. Boxes for each hawker have been marked staying within which is mandatory. Samir Nadaf, a hawkers’ representative said, “The boxes marked are very small and a hawker with his or her belongings cannot be accommodated within it. It will also cause hindrance to the customers visiting the shops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/hawkers-agree-not-to-sit-in-25m-periphery-of-mahalaxmi/articleshow/80885354.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Erode||‘5,817 students undergoing NEET coaching’||Coimbatore: The government schools in the state do not have trained staff to teach students for all-India entrance examinations like the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE). So, online training is provided only with the help of private staff, school education minister K Sengottaiyan said. He spoke to reporters after distributing welfare schemes – Asil chicken to 400 beneficiaries and cows to another to another 40 beneficiaries – at Kullampalayam in Erode district. As many as 21,000 students have applied for NEET coaching but only 5,817 are undergoing free training, he said. The department has directed school managements of those schools that are functioning with less than 10 students to increase the enrollment. Works are going on to assess the students, who are studying with the help of Kalvi TV channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/5817-students-undergoing-neet-coaching/articleshow/80893680.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Coimbatore||‘5,817 students undergoing NEET coaching’||Coimbatore: The government schools in the state do not have trained staff to teach students for all-India entrance examinations like the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE). So, online training is provided only with the help of private staff, school education minister K Sengottaiyan said. He spoke to reporters after distributing welfare schemes – Asil chicken to 400 beneficiaries and cows to another to another 40 beneficiaries – at Kullampalayam in Erode district. As many as 21,000 students have applied for NEET coaching but only 5,817 are undergoing free training, he said. The department has directed school managements of those schools that are functioning with less than 10 students to increase the enrollment. Works are going on to assess the students, who are studying with the help of Kalvi TV channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5817-students-undergoing-neet-coaching/articleshow/80887854.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kolhapur||Do not hike water and property taxes: Activists||Kolhapur: The city based activists said the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) should refrain from increasing the water and property taxes and instead focus on plugging the revenue losses caused due to poor management of water supply system and adding untaxed properties in the tax net. A team of activists met with civic chief Kadambari Balkawade on Thursday and said there should be no hike in any taxes in the upcoming budget. For several years, the water tax and property tax rates have remained same mainly due to the opposition from the corporators. This time, since the civic body elections are yet to take place, civic administrator Balkawade is the sole authority to draft the budget and propose the hikes in taxes. Baba Indulkar, an activist said, “The citizens are already paying the highest tax rates as compared to other cities. We demand the losses of all sorts must be plugged. For instance, there is a need to stop the leakages and water thefts to avoid unnecessary expenditure to run the system. In case of property tax, more number of properties are untaxed. Bringing such properties in tax net will help KMC increase it’s revenue.” The budget for 2021-22 will be finalised in the coming two weeks. Balkawade has asked the people to share novel development ideas that can be incorporated into the budget, the task is almost complete. The heads of the departments have been asked to submit the requirements of every department in the budget. Sanjay Sarnaik, the chief accountant of KMC said, “The tax hike idea is only up for discussions at the department level and there is no concrete proposal yet. The suggestions made by activists are been seriously considered to increase revenue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/do-not-hike-water-and-property-taxes-activists/articleshow/80885363.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kolhapur||Girl, 11, among 5 killed in jeep crash||Kolhapur: An 11-year-old girl was among five people killed when their jeep rammed into a parked truck along the Pandharpur-Sangola road in Solapur district around 6am on Friday. The jeep carrying 16 people from Kolhapur and Belgaum districts was heading to the Vitthal-Rukhmini temple in Pandharpur when it hit the truck bearing a Gujarat registration number near Kasegaon. Four people died on the spot — Sakharam Lambhor (50), Shantabai Lambhor (62), Nagubai Lambhor (65) and Sunita Lambhor (11) — all from Dhamne village in Belgaum. Tukaram Kadam (50) from Kadwale village in Chandgad, Kolhapur, was seriously injured in the accident and died later at the Pandharpur civil hospital. Police inspector Kiran Avachar said the jeep was speeding and the driver may not have seen the parked truck due to the dense fog or may have lost control. “The travellers who died were sitting in the front seats of the jeep. The other passengers have suffered minor injuries. They have been admitted to the Solapur civil hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/girl-11-among-5-killed-in-jeep-crash/articleshow/80885378.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Coimbatore||Poacher shoots down friend||Coimbatore: A man from Vanniyapuram was shot dead by his friend, who mistook him for a wild boar inside a reserve forest at Anjetti near Hosur in Krishnagiri district on Thursday night. Police identified the victim as Pasappa of Vanniyapuram. “Pasappa and his friend Nagarajan of Thottamanji village near Anjetti had entered the forest with country-made guns to hunt wild boars. They wandered off in different directions in search of boars. Nagaraj noticed a movement and fired in the direction, only to realise that he had shot his friend dead,” a police officer said. Nagaraj surrendered before the Anjetti police. A police team rushed to the forest and sent Pasappa’s body to a government hospital at Denkanikottai for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/poacher-shoots-down-friend/articleshow/80887876.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||11 of 38 bodies found identified so far||Dehradun: Search and rescue teams have recovered 38 bodies of the Chamoli disaster while 166 are still reported to be missing. Out of the total recovered bodies, 11 have been identified while the identities of 27 are yet to be ascertained. Acscording to officials, the identified disaster victims include Narendra Lal, Jitendra Thapa and Awdesh, all three residents of Joshimath and employees of Ritvik company. The other victims were Deepak Kumar, resident of Bageshwar, Balbeer Gadiya, resident of Chamoli, Manoj Chaudhary, resident of Karnaprayag in Chamoli, Rahul Kumar, resident of SIDCUL in Haridwar and Ravindra Singh, resident of Uttarkashi. The remaining three victims belong to UP and have been identified as Ajay Sharma, resident of Aligarh, Sooraj, resident of Lakhimpur Kheri and Bimlesh, also a resident of Lakhimpur Kheri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/11-of-38-bodies-found-identified-so-far/articleshow/80886335.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||6 weeks for financial year to end, Nagpur civic body revenue short by Rs 1,100 crore||NAGPUR: New year, same old story. Like for some years now, this year too the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is set to miss its annual revenue target by a huge margin unless, of course, it wields a magic wand and mops up about Rs 1,100 crore shortfall in the next one and a half month or six weeks. The then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had projected NMC’s income for the current financial year at Rs2,545 crore, while standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke’s budget pegged expenditure for the year at Rs2,731 crore. As against a target of Rs2,731 crore, the civic body has recovered only Rs1,618 crore in 10 months. By this time of the year, the NMC should have earned at least Rs2,275.83 crore. This revenue shortfall will reflect in the revised budget for the current fiscal to be presented by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, who will also present the budget for 2021-22 at a special meeting of the standing committee this month. Of the Rs 1,618 crore revenue earned in 10 months, the civic body received over Rs1,242 crore from the government, while generating a paltry Rs 368.99 crore from its own sources like property tax, water works dept etc. It shows NMC’s increasing dependence on the state government’s largesse due to its inability and poor efforts to generate own funds. According to sources, the property tax collection in the previous year was adversely affected as the lockdown led to halt of commercial activities, sources said. Moreover, the slowdown in real estate during lockdown months led to decrease in revenue of the development plan department, they said. The budgets were to be presented on or before February 15 but got delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. Radhakrishnan B will present the budgets before Zalke, whose tenure will end in March first week. According to data procured from accounts and finance department, till February 3 the NMC received Rs4.02 lakh as local body tax, property tax (Rs179.66 crore), water works (Rs125.34 crore), market (Rs6.75 crore), town planning department (Rs25.90 crore), health department (Rs7.22 crore), birth and death certificates (Rs52.02 lakh), miscellaneous (Rs9.40 crore) and Goods and Services Tax grant (Rs1,007 crore). Given the poor revenue generation, Radharksihnan has already clamped restrictions on development works. Besides this, he has announced 50% cut in the development works by eliminating low priority works. Sources pointed out the shortfall was due to the inflated revenue targets set by the standing committee. But the elected members keep inflating the budget every year while opposing any tax reforms to generate more revenue. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, Zalke had presented his budget almost eight months late.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-weeks-for-financial-year-to-end-nmc-revenue-short-by-rs1100cr/articleshow/80886348.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Woman who killed step-daughter and hacked her body gets life term||Dehradun: A woman who in 2018 had killed her 21-year-old stepdaughter, an aspiring air hostess, in Dehradun, has been sentenced to life imprisonment by the court of additional district judge (ADJ) on Friday. Found guilty under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC, the court of Gurbaksh Singh also imposed a fine of Rs 30,000 on Meenu Kaur, convicted of murdering her stepdaughter Prapti Singh. When the sensational crime came into light on February 10, 2018, after police found Prapti’s mutilated body inside their house on Ansari Marg, it sent shock waves across the city. During interrogations, Meenu Kaur confessed to first hitting the girl’s head with a brick, then using a machete to chop her body into pieces, and packing those in a sack, which she had kept in her own room for three days. Prapti’s father was a property dealer who had passed away a year and a half before the crime. Nivedita Kukreti, then senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Dehradun, expressed her happiness that the case has reached its logical conclusion. “Meenu Kaur had filed a missing complaint with ISBT police outpost, claiming she had dropped Prapti at ISBT on February 7, who has been missing since then. But we nailed Kaur’s lies after we retrieved call records of Meenu and Prapti, and found Prapti had never left the house the night she was reported missing, said Kukreti. She added, “On the basis of their call records, we questioned Meenu who broke down and confessed to her crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-who-killed-step-daughter-and-hacked-her-body-gets-life-term/articleshow/80886321.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Why do Amdavadis fight over public space?||AHMEDABAD: For a decade now, politicians have been ranting about ambitions to pit Ahmedabad against global cities and improve it’s Quality of Life (QoL). But our city planners and policymakers have defied every benchmark meant for global cities. Globally, cities are defined by quality urban spaces. By that standard, every Amdavadi has access to a pitiable 1.33 sq m of space, while a person in Gandhinagar has access to 160 sq m! The root of this problem lies in severe underutilization of urban land. A large chunk of this land lies in private hands. In Ahmedabad, only 18.36% land area is under public domain. In world cities, the proportion of land under public streets and open spaces is 35.44%. Why is that? TimesViewUrban regulatory frameworks today have become barriers to Ahmedabad’s growth, causing the city to expand horizontally and resulting in suburban sprawl. Urban scholars have now argued how these regulatory frameworks are not able to realize larger public benefits and accommodate growth. While urban regulations are valuable, the government must review their impacts periodically and remove irrelevant regulations. Sticking to old rules will only weaken Ahmedabad’s urban core as newer developments will be pushed to the peripheral areas of cities. Limiting access to prime commercial, retail and office space in well-developed central city areas leads to price escalation.In Ahmedabad land is consumed as private open spaces — especially as margins and setbacks around buildings — leading to excessive fragmentation. A recent research paper published by department of political science, Auburn University and faculty of planning at Cept University calculated how in four prime commercial areas — Ashram Road, Prahladnagar, CG Road, and SG Highway — buildings accounted for only 28.3% of total land area. In contrast, in the world cities, land utilization is much higher with 53.77% area being under building footprint. “It is understood that urban land is in short supply due to restrictive regulations, which limits the maximum amount of built space that can be built by imposing maximum building height and Floor Space Index (FSI) limits, as well as minimum ground coverage, margins, setbacks, and multiple other requirements,” claims the research paper authored by Sweta Byahut, Bimal Patel and Jignesh Mehta. The paper points out how existing land-use zoning, structural road network, and General Development Control Regulations (GDCR) for the city only creates artificial scarcity of land and raises prices. The existing laws “provides for the allocation of a maximum of 15% and 5% of the gross area for roads and public open spaces, respectively, allowing a total of up to 20% of total land area in the public domain.” The paper adds, “Planning and land development regulations are uniformly applied across Ahmedabad and that there is a disconnect between planning objectives in Ahmedabad’s 2011 Development Plan and its proposals. The plan imposes uniform low density in the city through ‘blanket’ FSI , regardless of location that may vary from central city to periphery and is contradictory to the plan’s compact city objective. This uniformity creates an artificial scarcity of land and raises prices, since it does not respond to market demand.” Margins and setbacks?There is widespread misuse of setback and margin spaces. Illegal commercial activity is rampant across these spaces. Are margins required for fire safety?The rationale for margins around buildings is to ensure clear access to firefighting vehicles. However, in Ahmedabad, margins are either in disrepair or are inaccessible. In Paris, there are no margins, streets are able to provide parking for vehicles of emergency services. Are margins required for parking?Ahmedabad’s GDCRs permit parking in margins. But narrower margins are often used for two-wheeler parking. Spaces for parking are underutilized and people prefer to park on streets. Common open plots wastedMost common open plots (COPs) are used solely for parking and do not provide any other community benefit. These are neither well used nor well-maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-do-amdavadis-fight-over-public-space-/articleshow/80887893.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||Spent Rs 8cr on ads to bust farm bill myths: Govt to Rajya Sabha||NEW DELHI: Amid protests against farm laws, the Centre has spent nearly Rs 8 crore on advertisements and production of promotional films for clarifying on contentious issues on the legislations ever since these were enacted in September last year. The government during the period also reached out to Indian diaspora on its “considered position and useful information on the farm laws” through diplomatic missions. These efforts, however, did not cost anything as it was done as part of regular diplomatic works. The agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar shared this information through his written answers to different Parliament questions on farm laws in Rajya Sabha on Friday. He also claimed to have consulted states before promulgation of Ordinances. Responding to a question on expenditure incurred on government’s ‘Myth-busting on Farm Laws’ publicity campaign, Tomar said the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC) of ministry of information and broadcasting had committed over Rs 7.25 crore for release of advertisement on issues related to farm laws' publicity campaign in the country between September 2020 and January 2021 on behalf of his ministry. The money was spent on print advertisements through BOC in Hindi, English and regional language newspapers for “clarifications related to farm laws including on myth and realities etc. for creating awareness among the farmers and other stakeholders”. In addition, the agriculture ministry had incurred an amount of around Rs 68 lakh on production of three promotional and two educational films on farm laws for its wider publicity through electronic media, social media and webinars, among the farmers and other stakeholders. Besides, miscellaneous expenditure of over Rs 1.50 lakh was incurred on development of creatives for print advertisement. Responding to other question “whether pre-legislative consultation policy was followed by government prior to introducing the farm laws in Parliament”, the minister claimed to have followed the due procedure and said, “State governments were also consulted through video conferencing on May 21, 2020, which was attended by the officials of states/ UTs, to obtain feedback on new legal framework facilitating barrier free inter-state and intra-state trade in agriculture produce to provide choice to farmers.” Seeking to justify the Ordinance route, the minister said there was utmost need to allow free direct marketing outside 'mandis' to facilitate the farmers in selling their produce near farm gate at remunerative prices due to disruption of markets and supply chains during Covid-19 lockdown. He said, “As Covid-19 situation may have a prolonged effect globally on demand side, hence the urgency for promulgation of an Ordinances was necessitated to provide a new facilitative framework to promote barrier free inter-state and intra-state trade to increase market accessibility for farmers to realize their income.” In view of Covid-19 situation, the government had also proactively undertaken many webinars interactions with farmers and other stakeholders on new farm laws during the period from June 5, 2020 to September 17, 2020, said Tomar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/spent-rs-8cr-on-ads-to-bust-farm-bill-myths-govt-to-rajya-sabha/articleshow/80890212.cms||Vishwa Mohan
February 13, 2021||Kolhapur||Udayanraje Bhosale urges Sharad Pawar to look into Maratha reservation issue||KOLHAPUR: BJP Rajya Sabha member Udayanraje Bhosale has asked NCP chief Sharad Pawar to look into Marath reservation issue and ask the state government to take decisive steps to resolve it. He has also demanded that the government should put all its decisions in the public domain to clear the confusion. Expressing concern over the Thackeray government’s approach towards the issue of Maratha reservation, Bhosale has warned that any delay regarding it could cause serious unrest in the community. Bhosale, the 13th descendent of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, has mentioned the events in the past one year in his letter and raised doubts over the moves of the Thackeray government. ‘The issue of Maratha reservation is pending before the Supreme Court since September 2020 and the government has failed to retain the law on the issue,’ it states. The letter states that the government has not given 2,150 appointment letters even after the completion of process. Bhosale has also expressed his displeasure over the steps taken by the government after a stay was granted by the Supreme Court. ‘State government did not take any concrete steps to vacate the stay. It neither filed any review petition nor asked for lifting of the stay,’ the letter claims. The letter further states that the government had only argued that it wanted hearing before the constitutional bench. Bhosale has pointed out that the government had thrice asked for postponement of the hearing after the constitutional bench took up the matter. It further states that the Maratha community was left with an option to accept the reservation only in the category of economically backward class and the decision of the socially and economically backward class was pending. “How Maharashtra Public Service Commission can ask to drop the names of Maratha candidates from the SEBC list without knowledge of government?” it further states. In the letter, Bhosale has claimed that Thackeray government was ‘adopting delaying tactics by demanding to make all the states party in the case and formation of 11 members’ constitutional bench.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/udayanraje-urges-pawar-to-look-into-maratha-reservation-issue/articleshow/80885394.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Corruption is like snake in systems’: Gujarat high court||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has made scathing remarks about the corrupt practices by bureaucrats and termed corruption “a termite and a poisonous snake which has penetrated deeply into our systems”. The observation about corrupt practices has come from Justice R M Sareen while refusing legal protection against possible arrest of an assistant director of Gujarat State Land Development Nigam Ltd, Ramendrainh Kushvah, in connection with the alleged Khet Talavadi scheme (farm ponds) scam. The judge echoed the observations made earlier by Justice Bela Trivedi while describing the role of the government officials in this scam. On Thursday, Justice Sareen said, “It cannot be gainsaid that corruption has become a social menace and is very much rampant nowadays. It is like a termite or a poisonous snake which has penetrated deeply into our systems. It is often quoted that the public servants are like fish in the water, none can say when and how a fish drank the water.” Kushvah was booked by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) last year in Godhra for an alleged scam in the farm pond scheme. He was posted in Shahera town then. The Prevention of Corruption Act was invoked against him on the ground that there is rise in Kushvah’s income to an extent of 62.68% as compared to the sources of his official income.  Kushvah told the court that some of the contractors were politically connected and he had been falsely accused under political pressure. The court rejected the bail and said, “Considering his designation, there are all likelihood of petitioner having misused his official position by involving himself in purchase of immovable property. The importance of custodial interrogation in such nature of accusation becomes more necessary for verifying the actual nature of transaction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corruption-is-like-snake-in-systems/articleshow/80887929.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||NMC proposes 15-fold hike in fee for regularisation of plots in Gunthewari layouts||NAGPUR: The town planning department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has proposed a 15-fold hike in fee for regularization of plots in Gunthewari layouts. The proposal will be tabled before the NMC general body in its meeting on Thursday. Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) had transferred hundreds of Gunthewari layouts to NMC, which had been given the powers of plot regularization from November 1, 2020, by the state government. NIT used to charge a regularization fee of Rs1,000 per plot since 2002. Now, the cash-strapped NMC has decided to charge Rs15,000 instead. According to the town planning department, there has been a phenomenal rise in real estate prices over the past 20 years and hence a paltry regularization fee of Rs1,000 was not justified. The officials said thousands of plot owners have not got plots regularized during these years. However, they used civic amenities provided by NIT. Now it was no longer possible to provide civic amenities at old rates and hence regularization fees needed to be increased. The town planning department has also proposed a 100% hike in development charges levied during sanctioning building plans in Gunthewari areas. At present the rate is Rs56 per square feet. If the two proposals get the nod from the general body then residents of Gunthewari layouts will have to shell out a lot more money. Along with this, the civic administration has also submitted a proposal to run 75 private health care centres with the help of non-government organisations. After becoming mayor, Dayashankar Tiwari had announced they would mark the country’s 75th year of independence in 2022, and he aims to create 75 new clinics across the city. These hospitals, which will be known as Vande Mataram Urban Health Facility Centre (VMUHFC), will come up with the help of NGOs. Currently, NMC has 65 medical treatment facilities, including four hospitals and 28 primary health centres, which were insufficient during the coronavirus pandemic. As per the establishment department’s proposal, NMC will provide infrastructure to establish VMUHFCs, while NGOs will provide MBBS doctors, assistants and class IV employees. Providing basic amenities like water, power and maintaining hygiene will be NMC’s responsibility, the proposal stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-proposes-15-fold-hike-in-fee-for-regularisation-of-plots-in-gunthewari-layouts/articleshow/80886365.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi starts making space for eco-friendly travel||NEW DELHI: In a major step towards promoting the adoption of electric vehicles (EV) in the capital, Delhi government on Friday started the process of demarcating 100 charging stations in the city. Delhi Transco Limited (DTL), the transmission utility of the capital that has been designated as the nodal agency for setting up the charging infrastructure by Delhi government, initiated the process for setting up 100 public charging stations with total 500 charging points last week. Power minister Satyendar Jain had said the entire power infrastructure cost would be borne by the government and the charging points would be ready within 12 months. Providing accessible public charging facilities within 3km of travel from anywhere in Delhi is a key objective of the ambitious EV policy launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. DTL hasfloated tenders inviting bidders for setting up and operating charging and battery-swapping stations at 100 concessional locations. The successful bidders will also maintain the charging stations for five years and have to provide to the users options for all modes of payment, including cash, credit or debit card, ONE Delhi common mobility card, and mobile applications. The charges can vary depending on the speed — slow, moderate or fast — of charging opted for and the concessionaire can also have subscription plans for regular users. However, they will not be allowed to restrict services to subscribers. The service charge for using the chargers can be increased year-over-year basis to account for inflation but should not exceed 5% within the span of one year. Delhi government’s transport department will also provide a one-time grant of up to Rs 6,000 per charging point for the purchase of the minimum mandated slow chargers at each location. Out of the 100 sites earmarked for the charging stations, the lion’s share — 71 — are located at parking lots of Delhi Metro stations, followed by 11 sites of Delhi Transport Corporation, including bus depots; four at places belonging to the transport department, three each of power discoms BRPL, BYPL and TATA Power-DDL, three of Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd and one site each at locations belonging to Delhi Jal Board and the irrigation and flood control department. To begin with, eight out of the 11 districts of the capital will have EV charging stations, with the highest number of sites — 22— being in North West district. South district will have 19 sites, followed by West at 18, South West at 15, North East at nine, East at eight, North at five and New Delhi at four. The districts where sites have not been earmarked yet are Central, South East and Shahdara. The charging stations have a mandate for minimum 20% slow chargers and 10% fast chargers to cater to all kinds of electric vehicles, apart from battery-swapping stations. Barring a few, most earmarked sites have enough space to accommodate five cars at a time with an area of 115 square metres. An official said that apart from sites where space could be available, the government is also looking at locations where people would require a charging station, such as near workplaces or educational institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-starts-making-space-for-eco-friendly-travel/articleshow/80887997.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 13, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 17 killed in explosion at Sattur fireworks factory, 35 injured||VIRUDHUNAGAR: In one of the worst fireworks unit blasts in Tamil Nadu in the past nine years, 17 people, including seven women, were killed and 35 others were injured in an accident at a unit at Achankulam near Sattur on Friday. The condition of many of the injured is said to be critical. According to sources, the accident took place on the premises of Sri Mariamman Fireworks around 1pm when workers were engaged in filling chemicals for fancy fireworks. The blaze soon spread to other sheds in the unit. While nine people died on the spot, the fatalities kept going up with 17 deaths being reported till 8.30pm. “We have identified five men and five women. Two women are yet to be identified while the gender of three other bodies is yet to be ascertained,” collector R Kannan told TOI. Distraught families of the victims were waiting at Sattur and Sivakasi government hospitals where the bodies of the victims were kept for postmortem. The 35 injured, including 14 women, were being treated at various hospitals in Sattur, Sivakasi and Kovilpatti. Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami has announced Rs 3 lakh relief each to the kin of the dead and Rs 1 lakh each to those injured. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia to the families of the deceased and Rs 50,000 each to those seriously injured. Virudhunagar district is not new to fireworks tragedies with as many as 41 people perishing in a blast in 2012. Sources said several violations were identified at the cracker unit. As many as 70 people were employed at the unit which was way above the stipulated number. DIG of Madurai range S Rajendran said initial investigation revealed that the owner of the cracker unit had illegally leased the unit to a person named Sakthivel. Five special teams have been formed to arrest them both. He said that officials from PESO, revenue department and police would organise a meeting to ascertain the violations at the unit before registering cases. Virudhunagar district fire officer (DFO) K Ganesan said that of the 60 working sheds on the premises, 15 were completely damaged and 13 partly hit. “We got the call around 1.15 in the afternoon and 36 firefighters and officers from Sattur, Sivakasi and Vembakottai fire stations rushed to the spot. We retrieved nine bodies from the spot. The others died at hospitals,” he said. A team from Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) comprising controller of explosives K Pandey and deputy controllers of explosives Nitin Goel and Amit Goel which visited the unit said the owner had leased the working sheds to four others. “We observed many violations such as unauthorised manufacturing and excess manpower against the permitted capacity,” an official said. Elayirampannai police have registered a case and are investigating. The DIG said that special teams comprising police and revenue officials would be formed to inspect cracker units in the district to ensure that no such units are illegally leased out. While DMK president M K Stalin called the accident a fallout of the negligence of the AIADMK government, TNCC president K S Alalgiri attributed it to slackness on the part of the state in implementing laws. He demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. AMMK founder T T V Dhinakaran, AISMK founder R Sarathkumar, TMC president G K Vasan and PMK founder S Ramadoss also offered their condolences to the victims’ families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/17-killed-in-explosion-at-sattur-fireworks-factory-35-injured/articleshow/80887941.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Chanda Kochhar granted bail, can’t leave India sans court nod||MUMBAI: Following a summons by the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court, former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar appeared before it on Friday and was granted bail on a bond of Rs 5 lakh. The court directed her to surrender her passport immediately and not leave the country without its permission. The court also directed Chanda Kochhar to report to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) as and when required for further investigation and attend all the dates of the trial, unless exempted. “The applicant (Chanda Kochhar) shall not tamper with the evidence or attempt to influence or contact the complainant, witnesses or any person concerned with the case. The applicant shall inform her latest place of residence, landline and mobile phone numbers as well as e-mail address immediately after being released,” the court said. Her husband, Deepak Kochhar, has been in custody since September and was produced before the court on Friday. Earlier, in a detailed order, the court had held that it appeared Chanda Kochhar had misused her official position in granting loans to V N Dhoot of Videocon group companies and got illegal gains through her husband. Taking cognisance of the Enforcement Directorate’s chargesheet against the trio, the court had said that the material produced by the investigating agency constitutes offences under PMLA. “I am of the opinion that this material is sufficient to proceed against the accused persons,” the court said. It also said that the ED was granted leave to continue with the investigation and take action as per the law. Dhoot too has been summoned by the court. The case will be heard again on March 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chanda-kochhar-granted-bail-cant-leave-india-sans-court-nod/articleshow/80889248.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Body of Kashmir engineer found in debris||Dehradun: Hope of a miracle died out for Salik Zargar on Friday when rescue teams recovered the body of his father Bashrat Ahmed Zargar, 53, from the debris near the Rishiganga power project site. Salik, who had reached the disaster site on Monday, told TOI that he had left no stone unturned to find his father since the last four days including tracing his last call details from his telecom operator. The body was found in an extremely distorted form. It was first identified by Salik who is at the spot along with two of his friends and two uncles. The distraught youth said that he is now seeking help from the district administration to transport the body of his father to Srinagar in Kashmir. As reported by TOI, the missing engineer was working on the Rishiganga project and was sent to the site in January last week from Delhi for around 10 days. Sunday was expected to be his last day at the site and he was all set to return home when disaster struck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/body-of-kashmir-engineer-found-in-debris/articleshow/80886388.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nashik||No deaths due to Covid in Nashik city for 2 days||Nashik: There have been no Covid deaths in Nashik city for the last two consecutive days on Wednesday and Thursday. There have been zero Covid deaths on six days between February 1 and 12. Not more than eight fatalities from the infection were reported from the city during this period. The city had registered 41 Covid deaths in January. Previously, the city had reported no deaths from the infection for three consecutive days between February 2 and 4. The drop in the number of Covid deaths has taken the Covid fatality rate (CFR) of the city down to 1.32%, which is the lowest CFR since May. Nashik city had reported the first Covid death on May 5 — almost a month after it reported the first Covid patient on April 6 last year. The city did not report any Covid deaths in April last year. The number of Covid deaths by the end of May stood at 10. The CFR of the city was 4.27% by May 31 and 4.81% in June. The CFR declined from July due to the various measures taken by the Nashik Municipal Corporation. Early detection of suspects and administering timely treatment led to a drop in the number of new cases and also number of serious patients. This also led the number of Covid deaths in the city to plummet. The CFR of the city had reduced to 1.43% by September last year. Currently, the CFR stands at 1.32%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-deaths-due-to-covid-in-nashik-city-for-2-days/articleshow/80885426.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Three held for posing as CM Yogi Adityanath’s OSD, threatening officials||LUCKNOW: Three impostors posing as officers on special duty (OSDs)of chief minister Yogi Adityanath were nabbed by Rae Bareli police on Thursday night. The accused were identified as Sahil, Mohammed Shadab and Pradeep Shukla, all from Lucknow. They would call up district officials and threatened them for getting their works done, said police. Police also recovered two luxury cars from them. Another member of this gang, Abdul Saleem, was arrested last month for posing as OSD and threatening SP Rae Bareli. Gang’s mastermind, Sahil, had a cash reward of Rs 25,000 on his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/three-held-for-posing-as-cms-osd-threatening-officials/articleshow/80889240.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Summer heat: Hotels, malls worry about temperature SOP||AHMEDABAD: With summer close at hand, malls as well as hotels are now confused on implementing ambient temperature in accordance with Covid-19 SOP. According to the guidelines by MHA, ambient temperature needs to be maintained in the range of 24°C to 30°C. However, with markets opening, footfalls are increasing in hotels as well as malls. If at all there is more crowding, ambient temperatures needs to be reduced below 24°C levels for comfort of clients and guests, hoteliers and mall-owners say. “We’re maintaining ambient temperature of 24°C at our hotel right now in the public spaces such as lobbies and restaurants, whereas in rooms, guests have the liberty to set the temperature in the range of 18°C to 30°C. At present, the footfall is moderate and therefore, the requirement of maintaining a lower temperature does not arise. However, there is certainly a concern regarding the coming summer months and we will take appropriate steps to best serve our guests, in accordance with the SOP,” said the manager of a hotel on SG Road. Similar confusion is prevalent among mall-owners as well, where footfall is relatively much higher than in hotels. “At a given point in time, there are more people in a mall and even though social distancing is duly enforced, there will be suffocation. We are waiting for a revision in norms for the same. In order to ensure pleasant ambient temperature, we’ve added more blowers so that fresh air can circulate within the mall,” said a senior official at a mall in Ramdevnagar area of the city. Several banquet hall operators also are facing similar issues. Manish Sharma, chairman - Gujarat, Travel Agents Federation of India, said, "As summer months approach, if the rules are not revised, it will be no more feasible for hoteliers as well as convention hall owners to maintain ambient temperature at 24°C. Tourism and holidays are all about experience and Gujarat summer weather is harsh in terms of heat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/summer-heat-hotels-malls-worry-about-temperature-sop/articleshow/80887965.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Vaccine counselling held for healthcare workers||AHMEDABAD: While over 70% of the vaccination drive among healthcare workers in Gujarat is over, on Friday the state health department in Medicity campus organized a ‘counselling session’ for those who didn’t turn up for vaccination. Sources close to the development said that the step was perhaps necessary, as even some staff members at the Medicity are yet to get vaccinated. The senior management has allegedly faced allegations of forcing subordinates to get inoculated. Even at SVP Hospital, some junior doctors alleged similar action, though authorities have maintained that the vaccination is voluntary. The state health department has also shied away from sharing the data on percentage of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated so far. Cumulatively, 68% of the target vaccination for phases I and II have been completed since January 16, when the drive was launched in the state. The event, where speakers included Dr Girish Parmar, additional director of health and medical education, and Dr Satish Makwana from regional drug depot, discussed ’quality of vaccine, misconceptions about its side-effects. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaccine-counselling-held-for-healthcare-workers/articleshow/80888006.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Two booked for abusive video on BJP leaders||MUMBAI: The Bandra police recently registered an FIR against a former reality TV show contestant for allegedly making derogatory and abusive videos against BJP leaders. No arrest has been made so far and police will take action after the probe is completed. The case was filed against Zubair Khan. “The duo’s names were mentioned in the FIR based on a complaint from a Wakf board member and state BJP vice president (minority) Khalid Babu Qureshi. Khan threatened and abused Qureshi in a video and in a voice recording where he was having conversations with Radiowala,” said the police. Deputy police commissioner (zone IX) Abhishek Trimukhe confirmed the FIR with TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-booked-for-abusive-video-on-bjp-leaders/articleshow/80888041.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Bharadwaj plea to expunge NIA statements turned down||Mumbai: A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday rejected a plea made by Elgar Parishad case accused, Sudha Bharadwaj (58), seeking expunging and withdrawal of certain “scurrilous” statements made by the NIA in response to her plea seeking unredacted statements of a few witnesses. An unredacted statement refers to a statement that has not been truncated or where certain sensitive and confidential portions are not obscured. Bharadwaj’s plea said the NIA in its reply on December 21, 2020 had alleged that through the application, she was digging into the identities of the witnesses to cause them harm. The NIA, however, said it was well within the provisions of law to express apprehension that there might be threat to witnesses. Bharadwaj had moved the plea in December. “The applicant is an undertrial prisoner with the presumption of innocence in her favour and there is absolutely no proof that she would cause harm to witnesses. On the contrary, she has spent over 20 years in service of the people,” Bharadwaj’s plea said. It added that the prosecution cannot be allowed to level defamatory and scurrilous allegations against her merely because she is accused of a crime. “As officers of the court, the prosecution has a responsibility to act with fairness and cannot run roughshod over a vulnerable and incarcerated person by indulging in scandalous mudslinging,” the plea added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bharadwaj-plea-to-expunge-nia-statements-turned-down/articleshow/80889252.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||With a day left for govt’s deadline, 53% healthcare workers take Covid vaccine in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: With only a day left for deadline given by the state government, around 53% healthcare workers (HCW) took the Covid-19 vaccine in 11 districts of Vidarbha on Friday. The second dose of HCW will begin from February 15 before which the government has asked all the districts to finish with the first dose by February 14. As per the state government’s data, 1,34,151 HCW and frontline workers (FLW) were vaccinated in the region between January 16 and February 12. Of the total, 1,05,273 are HCW and remaining 28,878 are FLW. Total 1.60 lakh HCW had registered for taking the jab before the launch of vaccination programme on January 16. Though the exact count could not be known, it is believed that the registered number of HCW increased to around 2 lakh. Thus, 52.6% HCW have turned up for the inoculation till date. Collector Ravindra Thakre and district health officer Dr Dipak Selokar, in a press conference on Friday, claimed that the turnout of HCW is 75.5% in Nagpur rural. “Vaccination percentage gradually increased with each passing day. It will be 100% for sure,” Thakre said. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) increased vaccination centres for FLW from seven to 12 on Friday considering the low turnout from the HCW. Now, there are only seven centres for the HCW. The civic body has also discontinued one of the two centres at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Of the total target of 1,900, 1,051 (55.3%) HCW and FLW took the jab at 19 centres in the city on Friday. Total 349 (49.8%) of the targeted 700 HCW turned up for the inoculation. In case of FLW, 702 (58.5%) of the targeted 1,200 took the jab. The turnout of FLW at the centre situated in Kingsway Hospital was highest at 150% followed by 122% by HCW at NMC’s Isolation Hospital and 100% by FLW at CIIMS Hospital. The remaining centres saw percentage below 100 and lowest of 7% was witnessed at the AIIMS centre. Despite witnessing low turnout, Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI) and Alexis Hospital continued to ensure record of zero wastage of doses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-a-day-left-for-govts-deadline-53-healthcare-workers-take-vaccine/articleshow/80886431.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 13, 2021||Chennai||CM Edappadi K Palaniswami promises 24-hour power to Tamil Nadu farmers||TIRUPUR: Days after the Rs 12,110-crore loan waiver bonanza, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday wooed TN farmers with yet another sop by promising round-the-clock power for agricultural pumps. Campaigning for the second day in Tirupur, the CM said the decision was taken to address the long-pending demand of farmers for 24-hour power instead of the 12-hour supply being provided to them now. Farmers had again raised the issue at a consultative meeting held recently in the western district. EPS said the AIADMK government was fulfilling the demands of farmers one by one as a result of which foodgrain production has shot up in Tamil Nadu. “Farmers wanted copra procurement price to be hiked. I will request the PM to hike the price when I meet him,’’ EPS said. Hitting out at DMK president M K Stalin for levelling corruption charges, EPS dared the opposition leader for a debate on his accusations. “I am ready to answer each and every question about corruption. You can ask me any question. Why are you peddling false information?,’’ the CM asked Stalin. EPS said the government was following e-tender and was transparent in awarding contracts. Terming the DMK as a ‘corporate company’ run for the welfare of M Karunandhi’s clan, EPS said that DMK was propagating dynastic politics while in AIADMK merit was being rewarded. Even an ordinary party worker can become a chief minister, he said. “In DMK, earlier it was M Karunanidhi, then Stalin came, now Uthayanithi is being groomed,’’ the CM said, adding that there was Kanimozhi and other leaders like Dhayanidhi Maran from the same family. “Even now only Stalin’s family members are campaigning. Are there no leaders in DMK other than his family?,’’ the CM asked He also attacked DMK MP Kanimozhi, who had criticised EPS a day ago in Tirupur, accusing her of being ignorant about the welfare measures implemented by the AIADMK government. “More than 6,000 water bodies have been desilted under ‘kudimaramathu scheme’,” he said responding to allegations of Kanimozhi that the scheme was a farce. “She should also learn about the schemes we are implementing for the welfare of women,’’ he said listing out amount disbursed as loans for self-help group women, number of beneficiaries under marriage assistance scheme and a host of other schemes. “We are planning more welfare programmes for women,’’ the CM said at an interactive session with self-help group women in Palladam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-promises-24-hour-power-to-tn-farmers/articleshow/80888025.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: WPL begins awareness hashtags & psychometric profiling of offenders||LUCKNOW: To broaden the reach of awareness on women’s safety, the Women & Child Security Organisation (WCSO) and Women Power Line (WPL) 1090 of UP Police have launched a digital outreach programme. Called ‘Humari Surakhsa’, under the programme, WPL 1090 will reach out to people digitally, creates awareness, and captures data signals to devise integrated solutions. WPL will target audience on social media by running campaigns with hashtags such as ‘Chuppi todo, 1090 hai na, Feel safe with 1090, Khabar lega 1090, Ab khair nahi, Karoge to bharoge’, among others. “We have developed a 360-degree ecosystem for women’s safety in Uttar Pradesh. From Friday itself, we will implement it across the state,” said WPL and WCSO ADG Neera Rawat. “A cultural change on the psychological level is important to prevent offences against women. This psychology is required to be implemented in real actions. We realised that the traditional modes of marketing were inefficient in today’s world and since a large population uses mobile phones, we decided to launch a digital outreach,” said Rawat. She added that a specialized team of data scientists will execute the mammoth task of generating awareness among the people of Uttar Pradesh. “We will use the availability of around 11 crore users on social media in the state to spread our initiative,” she said. The data scientists will do psychometric profiling and target offenders, while predictive analytics will help in audience engagement. Once cyber bullies are identified, they will be counselled. “We have forensic tools and a strengthened cyber wing at WPL 1090. More women and girls should file complaints with us if they are being blackmailed on social media by miscreants morphing their pictures or are being harassed via WhatsApp or calls. A call to WPL 1090 can solve the problem,” said the ADG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wpl-begins-awareness-hashtags-psychometric-profiling-of-offenders/articleshow/80889250.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram tops in number of fatal accidents in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As per the statistics released by the state crime records bureau, the capital district tops the list of most number of fatal accidents reported in the state in the last year. Thiruvananthapuram city and rural police districts have recorded a combined total of 348 fatal accident cases in which 367 individuals died. Of this, Thiruvananthapuram rural police district has contributed more than half the cases. As per the statistics, Thiruvananthapuram rural police district recorded as many as 241 fatal accident cases in which 259 individuals died. In the city police limits, the figures are 107 and 108 respectively. Palakkad district comes second with 252 fatal accidents and 273 deaths. There were a total number of 2,343 accident cases reported in Thiruvananthapuram rural police limits last year in which 1,987 sustained grievous injuries. In the city police limits, the corresponding figures are 1,214 and 976 respectively. Meanwhile, the number of accidents reported is lesser than previous year, which is attributed to the lockdown induced by pandemic when there were less vehicular movement on the roads. Rural SP P K Madhu said there were higher number of fatal accident cases in the rural police district because of its geographical features. “We have higher number of major roads, especially inter-district roads, including the national highway, MC Road and Kazhakootam–Adoor model road that witness relatively high traffic volume,’’ he said, adding that this directly have an impact on the number of accidents. Traffic SP (South Zone) B Krishnakumar said post the lockdown, the density of vehicles on roads too had increased. “Safety concerns prompted more people to avoid public transport and use their own vehicles. This resulted in around 15 % increase in the vehicular density on roads and it has impacted the accident figures,’’ Krishnakumar said. He added that improved road conditions too make way for accidents as motorists tend to go beyond permissible speed limits. The relatively new Kazhakootam–Adoor model road stretch is an example for this. The stretch witnessed a high number of accidents following which more number of patrol vehicles were introduced here. Meanwhile, road safety experts opined that increased traffic volume was not the only reason behind the accidents. The road user behaviour also has an important role in the accidents reported.  ‘’It has been noticed that the road user behavior has changed for worse post the lockdown induced by the pandemic. Motorists have a presumption that roads have become safer due to the restrictions during the lockdown and as a result their alertness level has gone down,’’ said Shabeer Mohammed, a road safety expert. He said this attitude of the road users cannot be changed by mere law-enforcement activities by uniformed officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/district-tops-in-number-of-fatal-accidents-in-state/articleshow/80886433.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
February 13, 2021||Goa||Centre transfers Rs 45.7cr to Goa for GST shortfall||Panaji: The Union finance ministry has released Rs 45.7 crore to Goa as part of the 15th instalment to meet the shortfall in Goods and Services Tax compensation owed to states. The Centre on Friday released a total of Rs 6,000 crore to states and Union territories through a special borrowing window setup to meet the shortfall in revenue due to GST implementation. The Centre borrowed the Rs 6,000 crore at an interest rate of 5.53%, taking the total borrowings to Rs 90,000 crore through the special borrowing window. The average interest rate for the funds comes to of 4.8%. The total amount disbursed to Goa stands at Rs 749.5 crore. According to the state government, the Centre owes Goa Rs 1,018 crore as compensation to meet the shortfall in annual GST collections. According to the department of expenditure, which reports to the Union finance ministry, 81% of the total estimated GST compensation shortfall has been released to states and Union territories. The Centre set up a special borrowing window in October last year to meet the estimated shortfall of Rs 1.10 lakh crore in revenue, arising on account of implementation of GST. The Centre borrows through the special window on behalf of the states, and the repayment will be done from the compensation cess collected through the GST regime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-transfers-rs-45-7cr-to-goa-for-gst-shortfall/articleshow/80889254.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Boosting the shield: Delhi ready for second round of Covid jabs||NEW DELHI: The administration of the second dose of Covid vaccine will start from Saturday and the authorities expect over 4,000 people to arrive at the vaccination centres for the shots. The first dose was given on January 16 to 4,319 healthcare workers across 11 districts in Delhi. The vaccination protocol requires individuals to receive two shots for protection against infection. The first injection of frontline workers will continue alongside the administration of the second dose to earlier recipients. Meanwhile, the vaccination turnout dipped on Friday with only 14,843 healthcare workers and frontline workers turning up, a percentage of 57.7% against 62.4% on Thursday. Seven adverse events were reported in four districts. A health department official said that the percentage fell due to an increased target number after the vaccination centres went up from 184 to 253 and then to 257 on Friday. “Since each centre is expected to carry out 100 vaccinations a day, the target number increases accordingly,” explained the official. The turnout is expected to increase on Saturday when the healthcare workers who received the Covid shots on the first day of the vaccination drive have to get the second dose. Dr Pragya Shukla, head of clinical oncology at Delhi State Cancer Institute, who was the first recipient of the vaccine at the institute on January 16, said she would also be the first to receive the second dose. “I did not report any health issues after the jab. Since the outset, I believed that the vaccine was totally safe. I am excited to receive the second dose,” said Shukla. It is not mandatory for the healthcare workers to receive the second dose at the same vaccination centre where they got the first jab. An official, however, said, “The healthcare worker who received Covishield as the first dose must get Covishield as the second one also. Those who received Covaxin must get a second shot of Covaxin only.” The number of those coming for the injections increased in Central, North-East and North-West districts on Friday, while all other districts reported a marginal decrease in the turnout. In the past few days, the number of individuals getting the shots each day is increasing as Delhi Police and paramilitary personnel are turning out in large numbers to protect themselves from the novel coronavirus because they are deployed in the frontlines and the danger of Covid infection continues despite the intensity having diminished. The percentage turnout was higher in the past few days because the daily target of the vaccination centres was lower. There were only 184 vaccination centres, but the government recently increased the number of these facilities to ensure a smooth inoculation programme when the healthcare workers came back for the second dose. The number of total vaccinated persons increased to 1.77 lakh. In the first phase, the Covid vaccine is being given to 51 lakh people in Delhi, including the priority groups of 2.5 lakh healthcare workers and 6 lakh frontline workers as well as over 42 lakh people either aged above 50 years or below 50 but with comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/boosting-the-shield-delhi-ready-for-second-round-of-covid-jabs/articleshow/80888096.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 13, 2021||Delhi||New wine in old bottle: Vintage rides go green||NEW DELHI: For Chaitanya Shashwat, finding an ideal mechanic and spare parts for his 1936 Austin 10 vintage car was a task well near impossible. He was ecstatic to learn of the electronic retrofitting carried out on a 1948 Beetle last November at IIT-Delhi's Centre of Excellence for Research on Clean Air (CERCA). “It is difficult these days to find mechanics who can take care of such cars,” smiled Shashwat. “I want to use the vintage car, so converting it into an electric vehicle is beneficial because these old cars create a lot of pollution. This option is not only good for the environment, but also increases the life of the vintage car.” The car has been with the family since 1980 when Shashwat’s father purchased it. After converting it into an electric vehicle, he hopes to keep it with him for several more years. CERCA project coordinator Hemant Kaushal believes that if the government incentivised retrofitting into electric vehicles, then there would be mass consumption of the eco-friendly cars. “If someone has the chassis and body of the car in good shape, then instead of scrapping the vehicle after 15 years of use, one can get it retrofitted as an EV and continue using it. This will be beneficial for the environment because it prevents scrap build-up,” said Kaushal. He added that the whole process of retrofitting and converting cars into EVs could lead to the rise of an industry in India that would also generate employment. “This can also be a way to supplement our EV policy and add to India's EV numbers,” he reasoned. Jawaad Khan, who collaborated with IIT-Delhi's CERCA to retrofit a Beetle in November last year, said that petrol cars could be modified to run on electricity after completing their permitted 15 years because such cars then created no vehicular pollution. Since Khan's Tadpole Projects collaborated with CERCA for the Beetle car, there have been a number of requests from people for getting their cars retrofitted with electric engines. Kaushal said, “The institute has received 10-15 such requests. CERCA has forwarded their requests to Jawaad Khan’s company which then takes it forward.” The requests have been not only for vintage models, but also for contemporary cars such as Swift Dzire, WagonR and a 1984 Mercedes. Last week, CERCA got the car as part of an event of the Indian Postal Services during which the government agency launched a special postal cover on vintage cars of Delhi. Kaushal said that a retrofit cost over Rs4 lakh, a large portion of the cost going into the installation of the electric battery. “However, when we begin to build electric vehicle batteries in India, then the price of retrofitting will go down,” said Kaushal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-wine-in-old-bottle-vintage-rides-go-green/articleshow/80888076.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 13, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Oil leak: Fishing, tourism ban lifted in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: District collector Navjot Khosa on Friday lifted the ban on fishing and tourism on Veli and Shangumugham beaches which was enforced following the spillage of oil from Travancore Titanium Products Limited (TTPL) after the leak of furnace oil in the factory. Meanwhile, the collector has also made an appeal to the people not to fall for the false propaganda that consuming fish caught from the coastline of the district was hazardous to health. Such campaigns were baseless, the collector said in a statement issued here on Friday. The district administration has not received any official study report that substantiates such claims. The food safety department officials are, however, conducting tests to determine the quality of fishes caught from the regions where oil from the factory was spread. Having said so, there are indeed some environmental problems caused in the regions affected by the oil spillage. This was why the fishermen were requested not to go for fishing in those regions, Khosa said. The Indian Coast Guard examined the sea along the district’s coastline and confirmed that the oil has not spilt wide. The fisheries department and pollution control board have submitted reports dismissing the claims that fishes were dying in mass in regions where oil spread, the collector said. It was on Wednesday, huge volume of oil spilled into the sea following leakage in the pipeline carrying furnace oil to the boiler of TTPL. The pipeline carrying the furnace oil runs above the drainage line and the spilled oil directly flowed into the drainage line leading to the sea. About 5,000 litres of oil is estimated to have been leaked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/oil-leak-fishing-tourism-ban-lifted/articleshow/80886475.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||Futala multimedia show to be ready by August 15: NIT||NAGPUR: Multimedia show and fountain project at Futala Lake, being executed by Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT), will be ready by August 15, says the trust’s superintending engineer Leena Upadhye. Upadhye told TOI that recently film actor Revathi had visited Nagpur and submitted script for the show. “The script as well as the music to be played along with it and after has been approved by the project’s steering committee,” she said. The technical committee had suggested some changes in the fountain design, which have been incorporated. Nagpur Heritage Committee had given in-principle approval to the project in 2016. Now, the project will come up before the panel for final approval on February 15. Once the NIT gets nod from the heritage committee, it will ask the contractor to import the fountains from France. “After installing the fountains, we will seek the approval of Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT),” she said. Upadhye said the project took some time because it had to get approval from several committees comprising eminent people. The multimedia show will be of 30 minutes duration. The first 10 minutes will be a commentary on the history of the city and the next 20 minutes will be pure entertainment. Music will be provided by Oscar winner AR Rehman while another Academy Award winner Resul Pookutty is the sound director. The commentary has been penned by eminent lyricist Gulzar. NIT had floated the tender for designing the multimedia show in April, 2017. The tender was bagged by a consortium of Studio One and Khalatkar Constructions. The then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had granted administrative approval to the project in March, 2018. The consortium had submitted the draft of the script in January, 2020, but it took the steering committee over a year to clear it. The members suggested many changes in the script. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, who is the brain behind the project, has told NIT that he wants to inaugurate the project on August 15. As a result, work on the project has picked up speed. Gadkari wanted a light and sound show on the life of Swami Vivekananda in Ambazari Lake, but it was shot down by Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC), which is developing a garden there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/futala-multimedia-show-to-be-ready-by-aug-15-nit/articleshow/80886481.cms||Ashish Roy
February 13, 2021||Indore||Voter gender ratio: Women over 80 years score the best||Indore: A draft electoral roll released by Indore election office has shown that there are just 678 female voters per thousand males under 18-19 years of age category. The voters’ sex ratio, however, goes as high as 1278 women/1,000 male in above 80-year category. Ahead of the civic body polls, Indore election office has released the draft roll and invited claims and objections till February 15 to prepare the final electoral roll by March 3. The age-wise comparison of the voters shows that the district has 11,462 female and 16,899 male voters at the sex ratio of 678 /1,000 in teen category. There are six transgender in this category. According to Indore district deputy election officer Pratul Sinha, “Boys seem to be more interested to get their name listed in the voters’ list as soon as they turn 18 while this excitement is comparatively low among the girls”. He said that even some families were not willing to reveal the real age of the girl for marriage or other reasons while many prefer to get voter ID card after marriage. “Under SVEEP and other activities, we emphasize on increasing participation of women in the election and also encourage them to enlist their name in the voters’ list,” Sinha said. As per the draft roll, the sex ratio improves in under 20-29 years category. There are 946 female /1,000 male electors while under 30-39 years of age category, local election office has recorded the sex ratio of 954. In the last category of voters above 80 years of age, there are 1,272 female/1,000 male. “Life expectancy of women is higher than the male and there are many factors behind it. While some hormones including estrogen protect their heart and blood vessels, there are external environmental factors that male are more exposed to like road accidents, diseases, addictions and less physical working,” MGM medical college dean Dr Sanjay Dixit told TOI. He said that everywhere in the world women tend to live longer than men. Ironically, a report released by PCPNDT on Wednesday showed that the sex ratio at birth in Indore district is 966 females per thousand males in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/voter-gender-ratio-women-over-80-years-score-the-best/articleshow/80885463.cms||Sagar Choukse
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Zero-fatality corridor closer to reality||NEW DELHI: The three-kilometre-long stretch of Outer Ring Road between Burari Chowk and Bhalswa Chowk is arguably Delhi’s deadliest, claiming many lives every year. This ‘killer stretch’ was chosen by Delhi government two years ago to scientifically assess the cause for crashes, in collaboration with SaveLIFE Foundation. Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday reviewed ‘Zero Fatality Corridor’ project, which is nearing completion, in a meeting that was also attended by Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi vice-chairperson Jasmine Shah, senior officials of the transport department and Delhi Traffic Police, apart from SaveLIFE Foundation CEO Piyush Tewari. “Delhi is defeating Covid, people are back on roads, so is risk of road accidents. This Road Safety Month, we’re back to ensuring Delhi roads are safe. Reviewed Savelifeindia’s Zero Fatality Corridor project—tactical redesign of Bhalswa Chowk, one of the major blackspots in Delhi,” Gahlot tweeted after the meeting. While the average national figure of fatalities per kilometre is 0.5 in a year, the average for the Burari Chowk to Bhalswa stretch was 11 deaths per kilometre per year when the project was started. Apart from Burari Chowk and Bhalswa Chowk, the two other black spots on this stretch are Mukundpur Chowk and Jahangirpuri E Block. Primarily, the road crash victims are pedestrians, followed by cyclists and two-wheeler users. The objective behind adopting this stretch is to turn it from the deadliest to the safest in the city and replicate its success at other similar traffic ‘black spots’ of Delhi. According to officials, the major reason behind the high number of road crashes on this stretch was due to the mix of heavy vehicles moving at high speed on the Outer Ring Road, along with large number of pedestrians, two-wheelers and slow moving vehicles merging with this high-speed traffic after emerging from the narrow roads coming out of the residential areas nearby. The tactical redesign carried out at the stretch as part of the project included infrastructural changes to the layout of the junctions and the use of traffic cones, safety barriers, spring posts, road studs and road markings to ensure safer mobility and refuge space for vulnerable road users.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/zero-fatality-corridor-closer-to-reality/articleshow/80889300.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Final-year PhD students can now enter JNU campus to submit thesis||NEW DELHI: Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), in a notification on Friday, stated that the eighth phase of the campus reopening plan would begin from February 15. “Final-year PhD research scholars, including 9B students (day scholars), who are required to enter into the campus to submit the PhD thesis on or before June 30 allowed to enter,” the JNU administration stated. As part of the phase-IX reopening, which would start from February 22, final-year PhD scholars who are residing in hostels are required to enter into the campus to submit their PhD thesis on or before June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/final-year-phd-students-can-now-enter-jnu-campus-to-submit-thesis/articleshow/80889260.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Cops nab duo with country-made guns||Cops from unit 11 of the crime branch arrested two persons and recovered two country-made revolvers from them. Police have booked Dhirendra Singh and Bansilal Jaiswal under arms act. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-nab-duo-with-country-made-guns/articleshow/80888119.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Posing as shipyard owners, mom-daughter con bizman||Mumbai: A mother-daughter duo were arrested from their Kalyan (west) residence on Friday for allegedly duping an Andheri businessman of Rs1.3 crore that he had paid them for a tugboat and a barge vessel during the lockdown. Businessman Sushant Shelatkar (39), who is into shipping logistics, registered the case at Andheri police station in October 2020 on learning that Raghini Khandelwal, 52, and Mansi, 22, had duped several people, including a politician, after showing them the same hull or outer body of the vessel. “The mother-daughter duo has duped my husband and several others as well. They made over Rs14 crore by selling the same hull to multiple people,” Sushant’s lawyer wife, Padma Shelatkar, told TOI. Sushant in his complaint has said in June 2018, he had made an inquiry with a website about tugboat and barge manufacturers. “Two days later I got a call from a person called Amir Khan. He told me Khandelwal, who was known to him, was in the business of building vessels,” Sushant has stated. In June 2020, Khan and Khandelwal called Sushant for a meeting. The Khandelwals claimed they were directors of Shree Tirupati Balaji company and owners of a shipyard at Ganesh Ghat in Kalyan. They showed him a hull and said they could build the vessels as per his requirements. Sushant made the payment. Soon after, he realised he had been conned. Explaining the modus operandi, an officer said the duo lured victims by claiming they chartered vessels to big corporate houses. Victims would be assured a monthly income of Rs15 lakh. The duo also allegedly threatened Sushant as well as another victim, Ravi Jaising. “My family business invested Rs70 lakh after an agreement was signed in 2018. The duo did not even return my wife’s Mercedes that they borrowed for a few days. They sent goons to my office and threatened me with dire consequences. I approached Khar police in 2019 but they did not act on my complaint saying it was a civil matter,” Jaising told TOI. Padma said Andheri police took action after they met home minister Anil Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/posing-as-shipyard-owners-mom-daughter-con-bizman/articleshow/80889275.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Cops to hold lok adalats to clear traffic challan dues||New Delhi: Delhi Traffic Police will organise a lok adalat on Sunday in coordination with Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DLSA) for amicable settlement of dues and other issues. Apart from the city courts where it is done on a regular basis, 33 more locations have also been identified. The Ghar-Ghar Lok Adalat will be held at all district court complexes in Delhi, including Tis Hazari, Karkardooma, Patiala House, Saket, Rohini and Dwarka, in addition to 33 community centres and schools premises. This will also ensure that people don’t have to visit court complexes. Manish Kumar Agrawal, joint commissioner of police (traffic), said, “On February 14, from 10am to 3.30pm, the court will sit for ‘on the spot’ and notice branch’s traffic challans of all types of vehicles, including commercial ones. DSLSA has taken such an initiative for the first time where the lok adalat will be held on public premises all over Delhi for easy access.” The proposal of Ghar-Ghar Lok Adalat came from DLSA to reduce pendency and also amicably sort out matters to help people. For easy access, around 99 courts will sit to hear the matters. Several people were fined for various offences during the lockdown and even after the restrictions were lifted. Some took to social media to complain that they had missed the date for sorting out their challan while some claimed they were not in town to address the issue. Some commuters have even said they did not know the process and received their notice late.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-to-hold-lok-adalats-to-clear-traffic-challan-dues/articleshow/80888123.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Goa||KTC asked to stop work on kiosk at Panaji bus stand||Panaji: The directorate of transport has written to Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTC) to stop the ongoing work of erecting the kiosk and restore the area for the convenience of the pedestrians. TOI had earlier reported that the kiosk was causing an obstruction at the Panaji bus terminus. “You are requested to immediately stop the work and restore the land to its original position and submit a compliance report to the general administration department within 15 days,” a letter signed by deputy director Nancy Fernandes reads. The transport department has also directed the KTC to submit this report to the Goa Consumer Action Network (Goacan) within 15 days. The obstruction was caused as the kiosk’s construction was blocking the alternate passage available for pedestrians,thereby forcing the passengers to use the ramp meant for disabled persons and senior citizens instead. In a letter addressed to the North Goa collectorate, KTC, transport department and the traffic cell, Goacan had sought immediate intervention in this regard “in the interest of the safety of passengers” using the KTC bus stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-asked-to-stop-work-on-kiosk-at-panaji-bus-stand/articleshow/80889307.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||Groundwater found at 2m in pit near Futala lake||Nagpur: Environmentalists who have been claiming that the water level in historic Telangkhedi lake is dropping due to cracks in its embankment, have found yet another reason to back their observation. Groundwater has been detected at just two metre on the other side of the Telangkhedi lake road where Maha Metro is constructing a multi-storey parking plaza. Groundwater at such a level signifies the lake water is seeping through the gaps and cracks in the embankment wall, said greens. On Friday, TOI visited the place along with volunteers of Green Vigil Foundation, an NGO from city. TOI had recently reported about falling water level of the lake. “Dip in water level of Futala lake at this time of the year is alarming,” said Green Vigil founder Kaustav Chatterjee. Even a week after TOI raised the issue with Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth, which owns the water body, nobody from the college has visited the lake. Associate dean DM Panchbhai said he will visit the lake on February 15. A pit dug up at the parking plaza site, which is coming up at 50 metre from the lake, has groundwater at only two metre. Normally, the groundwater level is high in areas surrounding a water body. “Another reason for finding the groundwater could be leakage from Futala lake through cracks in the embankment wall,” said Chatterjee. Surprisingly, the water level of a well which is also at the same site, is much lower as compared to the pit. Considering the hydraulic profile of Futala lake, the water will flow towards the low-lying area where the construction work is going on. A water pump fitted with pipe released into the pit shows that water from here is being used for construction work. “Excessive use of groundwater will also result in reduction in water level of the lake. Utmost care needs to be taken during construction in order to minimize the impact on the lake, water table and ecosystem,” said Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/groundwater-found-at-2m-in-pit-near-futala-lake/articleshow/80886528.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Covid positivity rate below 1% for over 30 days in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 141 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Friday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.2%. A total of 63,022 tests were conducted the previous day, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. This included 41,077 RT-PCR tests and 21,945 rapid antigen tests. The infection tally in the city rose to 6,36,670 and the death toll mounted to 10,889 with three new fatalities. The active case tally on Friday rose to 1,053 from 1,051 the previous day, according to the bulletin. Delhi’s positivity rate has been below one % for over a month now. New cases and deaths due to the infection are coming down in other parts of the country too. But doctors warn against complacency in following Covid-appropriate behaviour, including wearing a mask in public places, maintaining physical distance and washing hands regularly. A recent serosurvey conducted in the national capital shows more than 56% of the population has antibodies against the coronavirus. Dr Sanjay Rai, professor of community medicine at AIIMS, said people have developed antibodies through natural infection, which is likely to protect them from the infection or severe symptoms caused by it for some time. Dr Rai, however, added that mass immunisation was still needed. “Vaccines are safe. People shouldn’t get complacent and get the jab when their time comes for additional protection,” the AIIMS professor said. Currently, the vaccines are being administered to healthcare and frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/positivity-rate-below-1-for-close-to-50-days/articleshow/80888167.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||New Chinchbhuvan ROB to be opened on February 14||NAGPUR: After a delay of almost two years due to technical querries raised by Central Railway (CR) and Airport Authority of India (AAI) time to time, the much awaited new 1.1-km-long Chinchbhuvan railway overbridge (ROB) is completed now and it will be opened by Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday. Three ministers of the state government have also been invited for the function. Work on the structure began in April 2017 and was slated to be completed in March 2019. But in 2020, work on the project was hit as the NHAI had difficulty in meeting simultaneous requirements of CR and Airports Authority of India (AAI). The ROB site is near the Nagpur airport and permission was required from the AAI to launch girders. The AAI provided a time slot between 1.30 pm and 3.30 pm but the CR found it difficult to stop trains in the slotted time frame. The initial girders’ launch plan was rejected by commissioner of railway safety (CRS) and hence a new plan was initiated where the girders were split to lower the weight. The NHAI split the 55-metre-long girder into two – having lengths of 33 m and 22 m, respectively. Work of the ROB was completed over three months ago except for the portion above the railway line. Central Railway head office in Mumbai asked the NHAI to change the design for the portion. The NHAI asked Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) to prepare a new design. Work began on the stalled portion in early January after CR approved VNIT’s design. The new ROB will put an end to traffic jams on the old ROB during peak hours as a large number of people, commuting to Butibori MIDC and Mihan from Nagpur, will use this ROB, completed at a cost Rs 50 crore, along with the old one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-chinchbhuvan-rob-to-be-opened-tomorrow/articleshow/80886571.cms||Ashish Roy
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||2 on bike defy cop orders, ram barricade, die||Kalyan: Two men on a bike were killed after they rammed into a nylon police barricade in Kalyan on Thursday. They were stopped by Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel from entering restricted area on railway premises, but they did not listen and went ahead at a high speed and hit the barricade, said the police. Both the deceased were residents of Kalyan (east), and between 25 and 30 years old. Yogesh Sangle died after neck got entangled in the nylon rope. Pillion rider Mukesh Rai fell off the bike and sustained head injuries, which he succumbed to. The families of the deceased have blamed railway administration for not having proper barricades and using nylon ropes that are not easy to notice. Rai’s brother Sunil has demanded a probe. He said both friends would have been alive had there been a better barricade arrangement. Rai, who got married two months ago, had offered to drop Sangle to the station, said the police. Rai used a shortcut through the restricted area to reach get near platform number 7. Police have registered an accidental death report and are carrying out a probe. — Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-on-bike-defy-cop-orders-ram-barricade-die/articleshow/80889296.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Four-day Great Backyard Bird Count begins in Jaisalmer dist||Jaisalmer: The Great Backyard Bird Count (GBBC) started in Jaisalmer on Friday. The four-day event will go on till February 15. For the first time, the event is taking place in Jaisalmer. Bird watchers Shyam Meena, Radhe Shyam Pemani Bisnoi, Sumer Singh Bhati, 8-year-old Athari Jagani and Divesh Saini participated in the event. On the first day, 46 species were observed by Parth Jagani at Gajroopsagar while 34 species were observed by Shyam Sunder Meena in Amar Sagar area. Meanwhile, one more demosaille crane died on Friday. Assistant professor zoology Dr S S Meena said, "There are few names of the birds from the today's checklist Red Vented Bulbul, White Chick Bulbul, Ring Necked Dove, Rock Pigeon, Rufouse Dove, Desert Lark, Variable Wheatear, Grey Fronkolin, Indian Robin, House Sparrow, Black Redstart Male, Lesser White Throat, Common Tailor Bird, Green Sandpiper, Common Crow, Brahminy Maina, Common Maina, Brown Rockchat, Northern Shoveler, Gadwall, Mallard, Green Winged Teal, Common Pochard, Ferruginous Duck, Little Grebe, Rock Pigeon, Yellow Footed Green Pigeon, Little Swift, Euresian Moorhen, Black Winged Stilt, Little Ring Plover, Common Snipe, Little Cormorant, Yellow Bittern Grey Heron, Indian Pond Heron, Shikra, White Throat, Rose Ring Parakeet, Common Chiffchaff, Purple Sunbird, Citrine Wagtail, White Wagtail, White Browed Wagtail, Tawny Pipit, etc. Out of these some are winter migratory birds while rest are resident." He said, "GBBC was one of the first online citizen science projects, also referred to as community science, to collect information on wild birds. GBBC was also instrumental in the creation of eBird back in 2002." Birdlover Divesh Saini said, "It is the 24th annual Great Backyard Bird Count (GBBC). GBBC collects data of bird populations around the world on the four days of the event. Everyone who submits a checklist or saves a bird with Merlin Bird ID from Feb 12-15 will be part of the global effort. Help us make the best, most detailed picture possible of bird distribution." He said, "GBBC has revolutionised the way in which bird watching is done in the state. "Earlier, birding was limited to those who were interested in the subject. But, things have started changing since the launch of eBird. Many took up the initiative and started recording bird sightings. It resulted in the accumulation of a huge number of bird records in India." Parth Jagani, an avid bird watcher, said, "One can document bird species and count their numbers for at least 15 minutes every day and upload the observations on eBird and submit the species list." "With avid bird watchers of Jaisalmer waking up at daybreak to participate in the annual GBBC on Friday, the event got off to a flying start in Jaisalmer and surrounding regions of Pokhran, Rasla & Dholia." Parth Jagani, said, "I am happy to see youngsters and even school children show a keen interest in birds and in the environment. Our team visited Gajroop Sagar and where we saw 44 bird species including resident and migratory birds."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-day-great-backyard-bird-count-begins-in-jaisalmer-dist/articleshow/80886608.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: No radiotherapy services at Safdarjung hospital for months||NEW DELHI: The radiotherapy unit of Safdarjung Hospital has been non-functional for the past few months. Sources in the hospital said the old machine used for the critical service was being replaced. “We are getting a new machine for radiotherapy. The services will resume soon,” said a senior official. Radiotherapy is the mainstay of cancer treatment for nearly 50-60% of the patients. It is used both for cure and palliative care, say doctors. “How can a hospital like Safdarjung, which is visited by hundreds of patients daily for superspecialty care, not have basic cancer treatment services for months? This is sheer negligence on part of the authorities,” said Ashok Agarwal, lawyer and public health activist. He added that he had come across several patients suffering from cancer who were referred to Safdarjung for radiotherapy, but the treatment couldn’t be provided as the machine wasn’t functional. “Very few government-run hospitals in Delhi have cancer treatment facilities. They have a long waiting time. Poor patients cannot afford private treatment,” Agarwal pointed out. The radiotherapy unit of Safdarjung Hospital was affected in 2015 and 2016 as well. In 2016, Atomic Energy Regulatory Board (AERB) asked the hospital to shut down the services for not complying with its directives on safety measures. Similar orders were issued in 2015, too, but AERB said it had allowed resumption of services after the hospital promised that all non-compliance issues would be rectified within a month. According to AERB’s 2016 order, which was reported by TOI, the hospital did not have working and calibrated measuring instruments, among others. “Cancer cases are growing in India. If we don’t upgrade our infrastructure to treat it, many people will die without treatment. It is costly and everyone cannot afford to get treated at a private hospital where the cost of care is very high. That’s why the government must ensure well-equipped centres for cancer care in the public sector,” said a senior doctor at Safdarjung Hospital. According to a report by World Health Organization (WHO), India had an estimated 1.16 million new cancer cases in 2018. More than 7.84 lakh people succumbed to the disease in that year. The report said the six most common types were breast, oral, cervical, lung, stomach and colorectal cancer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-radiotherapy-services-at-safdarjung-hosp-for-months/articleshow/80888201.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Around 50% posts vacant in public health engineering department||JAIPUR: At a time when Rajasthan is dealing with water crisis, Public Health Engineering Department (PHED) has 50% vacant posts. According to the data given by the PHED, out of 3,413 sanctioned posts more than 1,590 posts are vacant. The main reason for the vacant posts is non-formation of Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC) and recruitment exams. As per sources in the department, for 2020-21, DPC wasn’t formed which has affected the functioning of the department as many projects are pending. Around 1,000 posts of assistant engineer, 497 of junior engineer, 60 posts of executive engineer are vacant in the department. Trilok Chaturvedi, president of Graduate Engineers Association of Rajasthan (GEAR), PHED said that there is a need to form the promotion committee and complete the process of recruitment sooner. “Recruitment and promotion will give youngsters a good opportunity in jobs. There is a need to complete the process as we urgently need officials in many pending projects,” said Chaturvedi. In the vacant posts of assistant engineers 698 will be filled through recruitment, rest by promotion but in junior engineers all the seats will be filled by recruitment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/around-50-posts-vacant-in-phed/articleshow/80886605.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Assistant officer at BMC held for graft||The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Friday arrested an official from the drainage department of the BMC for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000. The ACB arrested Sambhaji Devkate an assistant officer with the drainage department G north ward of Dadar under the prevention of corruption act after he allegedly demanded the bribe to carry out repair of a housing society in Dharavi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/assistant-officer-at-bmc-held-for-graft/articleshow/80888200.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Lt Gen P S Minhas takes charge of Konark Corps||Jaisalmer: Lieutenant General Anil Puri on Friday handed over the reins of Jodhpur-based Konark Corps to Lieutenant General P S Minhas. Puri led Konark Corps to greater heights of professionalism during his tenure of one year. On assuming Command of Konark Corps, Minhas exhorted all ranks to focus on operational preparedness and combat readiness with realistic training to achieve an outstanding level of military professionalism. Lieutenant General P S Minhas was commissioned into the Central India Horse. During his service career spanning four decades, he has held prestigious command, staff and instructional appointments allow flexibility to adjust programs in order to meet the changing needs appointments both in India and abroad. He hails from a complete services background. He is an alumnus of Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, where he was awarded the coveted 'Sword Of Honour' for best all-round performance in his course. He has served with the United Nations Force in Lebanon on the Israeli border and has attended the prestigious National War College Course at Washington DC. He holds MSc in Defence and Strategic Studies in India and MSc in National Security Strategy from Maryland, USA. In his outstanding career, he has commanded an Armoured Brigade and an Armoured Division. He has also served as Brigade Major of a Frontline/Sensitive Brigade in the Kameng Sector of LAC in Arunachal Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lt-gen-p-s-minhas-takes-charge-of-konark-corps/articleshow/80886600.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Politics around midday meal taken to rights body||NEW DELHI: In 2002, following a complaint to National Human Rights Commission and on its direction, Delhi government banned the practice of distributing items to the students at a public show. The practice is back now. In schools run by the municipal corporations, principals have even been instructed to distribute ration kits, part of the mid-day meal, only in the presence of the area municipal councillor. While the midday meal is a centrally sponsored scheme, municipal schools have photos of the councillors on banners that claim the ration kits are a “gift to the students”. NGO Social Jurist had complained about this earlier to National Human Rights Commission and reiterated the complaint on February 12. The instructions of a Shahdara district education official to school principals said, “All the school heads are directed that all dry rations be distributed in the presence of the area councillor. It should not be distributed at all without them. The school should inform the area councillor when the distribution is to take place.” Nirmal Jain, mayor of East Delhi Municipal Corporation, insisted there is no official order to this effect. “The presence of the elected member is only to ensure proper monitoring of the distribution of rations.” While, SDMC mayor Anamika could not be reached for her response, north corporation mayor Jaiprakash said, “In our corporation, the distribution process is yet to start. But the attendance of councillors shouldn’t be a problem because it is for monitoring.” The Social Jurist letter to NHRC says, “Such practice is not only derogatory to the dignity of the school children most of whom belong to the lower strata of the society, but also tantamount to the violation of human rights of these children. Articles 39 and 40 of United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child state that no degrading treatment can be meted out to children.” Ashok Agarwal, advisor, Social Jurist, said, “Is the government violating its own orders. I am told CM Arvind Kejriwal started the trend. The poor students are led to believe that they are being given such treatment because of their poverty and not as a matter of right.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/politics-around-midday-meal-taken-to-rights-body/articleshow/80889322.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 13, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS turns the heat on BJP, demands BC ministry at Centre||HYDERABAD: With BJP exerting pressure on TRS about backward classes (BCs) being neglected in the state, the ruling party has decided to turn the tables on the saffron party by demanding setting up a BC welfare ministry at the national level. TRS is writing letters to leaders and ministers from the BC community in Karnataka, Maharashtra and other states to join hands with them to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the request for an exclusive BC ministry at the Centre. Another main demand is seeking reservation for BC community candidates in the state assemblies and the Parliament for political upliftment of the BCs, who comprise, on an average nearly 50% of the population, in the country. Backward classes welfare minister Gangula Kamalakar confirmed to TOI that they have already spoken on phone to ministers and leaders from the BC community in various states and explained the need to come on a platform, cutting across party lines. “We will also request BJP state president Bandi Sanjay and Nizamabad MP D Arvind to come along with us to meet the PM soon. If the state BJP is so sincere about the upliftment of BCs, Bandi Sanjay and other BJP MPs from Telangana should prevail upon PM Modi to set up a BC welfare ministry and extend political reservations in assemblies and Parliament,” Kamalakar said. Hitting back at TRS for playing BC politics, Bandi Sanjay said: “I recently visited the site wherein land for construction of BC Bhavans for various BC castes, including Yadav, Mudiraj, Goud, Munnuru Kapus to name a few have been allotted. Even boundaries for each BC Atma Gaurav Bhavans have not been demarcated. This TRS government comes up with big announcements for BCs only during elections and forgets it after getting their votes,” Sanjay said. While TRS leaders said the KCR government has been extending Kalyana Lakshmi, Shaadi Mubarak, sheep distribution, BC overseas education scholarships and numerous other BC welfare schemes, Bandi Sanjay said why 2-BHK housing units, ration cards, full fee reimbursement was not being given to poor BCs. BJP pro-OBC party, there is a ministry: Rao BJP Telangana unit chief spokesperson Krishna Saagar Rao said there was already a social empowerment ministry for SC, ST and OBC welfare. “BJP is a pro-OBC party. We are with the poor, oppressed backward classes not only in Telangana but in the country. Indian government already has a Union social justice and empowerment ministry, which encompasses all oppressed and backward castes,”he said.. “The demand for a separate ministry at the national level for OBCs does exist, but one cannot refrain from giving Prime Minister Narendra Modi the credit for constitutionalising the OBC Commission in the last term. It was a historic step taken by PM Modi which BJP believes is larger than just a ministry,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-turns-the-heat-on-bjp-demands-bc-min-at-centre/articleshow/80886708.cms||Roushan Ali
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||CBI gives clean chit to FDCM in Khamgaon plantation scam||NAGPUR: The central bureau of investigation (CBI) has given a clean chit to the forest development corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), a state-owned corporation engaged in commercial felling of timber, in the so-called Rs 134 crore plantation scam in Khamgaon. Irked by the farce probe conducted by the FDCM, a CBI inquiry was ordered on August 1, 2018 by the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. The directives were issued while hearing a PIL (34/2015) filed by Madhukar Chopde (69), a retired clerk with the corporation. In a letter to the FDCM managing director and divisional manager, Yavatmal, on January 19, 2021, the CBI SP informed that after the preliminary inquiry, the case has been closed and that the FDCM can collect the seized documents. State PCCF (head of forest force) N Rambabu confirmed to TOI that the CBI has closed the inquiry against FDCM. According to petitioner Chopde, the forest department had given 19,300 hectares of land near Khamgaon (Buldhana) to the FDCM to carry out teak plantation. The corporation carried out various plantation and nursery works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Chopde had alleged that the FDCM submitted bills worth Rs134 crore to the government for various plantation and nursery works from 1988 to 2003. However, statutory provisions were not followed while paying the beneficiaries. The plantation didn’t yield any revenue for the government as none of the trees survived. According to FDCM sources, “The complaint by Chopde was bogus. We never received Rs134 crore. Only Rs20 crore was received and out of this amount, 18% was incurred on the establishment. We returned the said land in 1996. The CBI collected 70,000 papers from FDCM and yet did not find any irregularities and closed the inquiry.” However, Chopde, who is now settled in Muktainagar (Jalgaon), cried foul over the ‘bias’ inquiry by the CBI. “I had asked then divisional commissioner to probe fictitious payments to labourers. All my allegations are based on documentary evidence,” he told TOI. “The CBI never called me for a face-to-face inquiry and instead, asked me 21 questions on June 30, 2020. I went to the CBI office four times and submitted all the relevant papers. Even the FDCM-audited report by CA upheld my charges,” said Chopde. He will now appeal to the director of CBI, Delhi, against the clean chit to FDCM. “Though I’m a complainant, I have not received any communication regarding the closure of the case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbi-gives-clean-chit-to-fdcm-in-khamgaon-plantation-scam/articleshow/80886625.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 13, 2021||Jaipur||Post-MoU, 1st flight with 57 passengers lands in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: After the MoU with Spicejet, the first flight carrying 57 passengers arrived here on Friday afternoon. The tourism businessmen of Jaisalmer welcomed the tourists. Local folk artistes gave the tourists a grand welcome by playing folk music and by putting teeka on their foreheads, and welcoming them with garlands and turbans. Hotelier and NGO ‘I love Jaisalmer’ founder Manvendra Singh, who played an important role in the MoU, was also extended a grand welcome. On this occasion, collector Ashish Modi, Airport Authority of India BS Meena, tourism businessmen federation Jitendra Singh Rathore, Sam welfare vikas samiti president KK Vyas, hotelier Mayank Bhatia, leading tourism businessman Vimal Gopa, Arjun Chandak, officers and others were present. Around 10 days ago, to save tourism in Jaisalmer, the businessmen signed an MoU with the airline company and on Friday, the first flight came to Jaisalmer. Maximum trains to Jaisalmer were also stopped due to the coronavirus pandemic. In such a situation, the businessmen took the initiative to compensate for the loss of each trip of Spicejet to Jaisalmer. After this, the first flight of Spicejet started from Delhi to Jaisalmer. Tourists said that they were very happy with the way they were welcomed. Collector Modi said that the flight services could be resumed due to the help of various people associated with tourism business. To maintain the services of Spicejet, all representatives of hotels, resorts, tours and travels, taxi association, Sam welfare vikas samiti and others came forward to compensate the loss and then, an MoU was signed and the flight services resumed. Manvendra Singh, who had played a vital role in the initiative, said that it was easy to start with the help of all but it is a challenge to continue it and it could be made possible only with the help of tourists. He appealed to all the tourists to extend maximum cooperation to take this effort further and said that the agreement has been made till March 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/post-mou-1st-flight-with-57-passengers-lands-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80886628.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||India||Cases top 12,000 again, signs of spike in Maha||NEW DELHI: Fresh Covid-19 cases in India topped 12,000 again after a day’s gap and daily deaths from the virus crossed 100 on Friday, amid signs in Maharashtra of another surge in cases, although minor as of now. Maharashtra reported 3,670 new Covid-19 cases and 36 fatalities on Friday. This was the highest daily case count in the state in 34 days and the third day in a row that tally had topped 3,000. In this three-day period, the number of cases in Maharashtra and Mumbai city rose by 45% and 60%, respectively. In Mumbai, 599 new cases were registered as against 375 on February 9. The number of deaths has, however, not increased in this period. Four deaths were recorded in the city on Friday. Overall, India recorded 12,148 new cases on Friday, up marginally from 11,977 reported a day earlier. The daily toll from the infection was recorded at 104, as compared with 85 on Thursday. The rise in toll was on account of a higher number of deaths in Maharashtra — 36, up from 25 on Thursday. Kerala registered 18 deaths, followed by Punjab (eight) and Chhattisgarh (seven). Kerala continued to log the highest number of cases in the country, with 5,397 fresh infections detected on Friday. All in all, cases continue to fall in the country although the rate of decline has slowed considerably in the past week or so. Kerala and Maharashtra continue to account for more than 70% of all new cases in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cases-top-12000-again-signs-of-spike-in-maha/articleshow/80890245.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||Two resorts 1 km away from Tadoba core told to pack up||NAGPUR: The eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) monitoring committee of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) headed by the Chandrapur district collector on Thursday rejected permission to two resorts which were just 350 metres away from the core boundary. As per the MoEFCC guidelines, construction of resorts is prohibited within one kilometre from the park’s boundary. The 1,346.61 sqkm (including buffer) ESZ of Tadoba was notified on September 11, 2019, with the extent of 3km-16km. Prior to the notification of the ESZ, over the years several resorts managed to come up very close to TATR from all sides by blocking the tiger corridors. The resort owners managed to get NOCs from the town planning department and constructed big properties by spending crores of rupees. However, this is for the first time that after the notification of the Tadoba ESZ was issued, permission to construct two resorts has been rejected. Thursday’s meeting was called to discuss preparation of a zonal master plan (ZMP), which is mandatory as per the Supreme Court directions. Deputy director (buffer) G Guruprasad, who is also member-secretary of the monitoring committee, said three proposals were forwarded by the town planning department to the committee. Out of these, permission to two resorts near Kolara were rejected. These resorts by Chandrapur businessmen were coming up on 5.18 hectares and 4 hectares of land. One of the resorts had already started construction. “One more proposal was for a ginning mill in the buffer zone, 6km away from the Tadoba core boundary. The unit is being set up by locals under the ministry of micro, small & medium enterprises (MSME). As the units were not detrimental, we cleared them,” said Guruprasad. TATR has very high flora and fauna diversity and it supports a large number of wild animals and birds. A large number of resorts have already blocked tiger corridors from all sides. Bandu Dhotre, one of the members of the committee, said, “The purpose of the meeting was to review the progress of the zonal master plan (ZMP), which is mandatory as per MoEFCC to regulate developmental activities in the region in such a way that it ensures environmental and ecological protection of the entire endangered area.” Nowhere in the state, a ZMP for wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves has been prepared even after notification of the ESZ four years ago. Dhotre said he had raised this issue in the state wildlife board meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on August 7, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-resorts-1km-away-from-tadoba-core-told-to-pack-up/articleshow/80886657.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 13, 2021||Delhi||SHO shunted, 2 cops suspended after S Delhi raid||New Delhi: The Lodhi Colony station house officer (SHO) has been sent to the district lines and two constables have been suspended following a raid by a vigilance team in Prabhu Market area in south Delhi where 17 men allegedly involved in gambling were arrested, police said on Friday. The action was initiated against the policemen for not initiating a probe against the gambling racket despite getting inputs, they said. DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said in the intervening night of February 11 and 12, a raid was conducted by the team of South District vigilance cell at Prabhu Market when they saw people gambling by using plastic charts and chits. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sho-shunted-2-cops-suspended-after-s-delhi-raid/articleshow/80889340.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Rs 10k cr required to relocate U'khand villages from disaster-prone belts||Dehradun/Pithoragarh: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday approved Rs 2.38 crore for the relocation of five villages out of over 385 situated in disaster-prone belts of 12 districts in the hill state which are awaiting a shift to safer areas. According to an earlier study carried out by the state, the entire process may cost a whopping Rs 10,000 crore. A maximum of 129 villages are in Pithoragarh district followed by 62 in Uttarkashi, 61 in Chamoli, 42 in Bageshwar, 33 in Tehri, 26 in Pauri, 14 in Rudraprayag, 10 in Champawat, nine in Almora, six in Nainital, two in Dehradun and one in Udham Singh Nagar district. Orders were issued on Thursday for relocation of the five villages in districts of Tehri, Chamoli, Uttarkashi and Bageshwar and the funds were approved. The funds were allotted for house construction, a 'gaushala' and also a relocation allowance. “We are working on the issue and the required steps are being taken to relocate such disaster prone villages to safer locations,” CM Rawat said. The issue of relocation has once again gained momentum in the state after the natural calamity at Raini and Tapovan. Former CM Harish Rawat met CM Trivendra Singh Rawat and appealed for the relocation of such villages to safer locations. “There are places in Pithoragarh, Chamoli and other districts which are disaster prone and slightest of calamity can cause maximum damage,” the former CM said. In July 2020, landslide had damaged six houses and farming fields of Dhapa village in Munsyari. Though no loss of life was reported, 52 out of 136 families were directly affected. Several families took shelter in government buildings and tents, ex-gram pradhan Mahiman Singh said. “Last September, district geological officer Pradeep Kumar came to the village and after a survey declared it unfit for staying,” Singh added. Thereafter, Kumar and a team of revenue officers went to Suring village in search of a new location. “The site was not selected as it did not suit the villagers. Since then we don't have any update. Villagers who took temporary shelter have returned to their damaged houses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rs-10k-cr-required-to-relocate-ukhand-villages-from-disaster-prone-belts/articleshow/80886667.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: North corporation gives relief to guesthouses||NEW DELHI: The final budget of the BJP-run North Delhi Municipal Corporation for the financial year 2021-22 has many ambitious plans to increase revenue collection. However, the opposition AAP called the proposals disappointing and far from reality. Leader of House Yogesh Verma on Friday not only announced plans to increase the councillors’ discretionary funds but also shared proposals to provide them health facilities at CGHS rates. Due to its poor financial condition, the corporation could not pay any discretionary funds in 2020-21 and paid Rs 50 lakh in 2019-20. “Though the situation has not improved yet, but we expect the revenue collection to increase and accordingly funds can be allocated to councillors,” said Verma. The corporation already spends under various heads such as horticulture, sanitation, schools and parks, but councillors can always use their discretionary funds to improve civic infrastructure, he added. The health facility at CGHS rates will not add to the corporation’s financial burden, Verma claimed. Among the new moves are issuing guidelines for health licences to guesthouses of up to 12-metre height, amnesty scheme for 1,500 godowns — mostly of paper and foodgrains, allowing multiple weddings or social events at 1,352 farmhouses and motels after desealing, and collecting licensing fees from 29 refugee markets. “Huge farmhouses or motels, which were desealed on the Supreme Court’s direction, can hold multiple events by establishing temporary pandals, provided they abide by all building bylaws,” said Verma. “But the total coverage can’t be more than the permissible limit and facilities can be availed only after paying the annual tax.” On guesthouses of up to 12-metre height, he said no special exit and no fire NOC would be required. To simplify operation of factories in the conforming areas, a list of industries allowed on upper floors after paying the conversion charges and licensing fees has been released. “Only four documents will be required,” said Verma. The traders at 29 refugee markets, transferred to the corporation years ago, haven’t been paying licensing fees for seven years, but the issues have been sorted out, pointed out the councillor. “They will be allowed to transfer their properties after paying requisite fees.” The corporation is also waiting for completion of 13 major multilevel parking projects, including the Omaxe parking-cum-commercial complex at Chandni Chowk, to generate revenue. To tackle the problems of stray cattles, the civic body has started imposing Rs 5,000 environmental compensation per day on their owners from Thursday and already penalised 78 people. The standing committee has already passed a resolution to tag a microchip on these strays to identify their owners. Leader of Opposition Vikas Goel, however, alleged none of the points raised by them was incorporated in the final budget. “Their projects are ambitious and far from reality. We recommended to focus on recovering pending dues from government bodies, including south corporation and Delhi Development Authority, and advertising agencies. But there is no mention of it,” Goel said. “Unfortunately, the Leader of House didn’t even come up with a plan to pay the pending salaries and resolve the issue in the long run,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-gives-relief-to-guesthouses/articleshow/80888266.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 13, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Satellite images confirm new lake near Rishiganga ‘growing’||NEW DELHI/DEHRADUN: About 5km from where a peak broke off and triggered the floods on Sunday and 17km from the Tapovan rescue site, a new lake is growing by the Rishiganga every day. Satellite images from NDRF and a spot visit by DRDO confirmed its presence and the CWC is running simulations to pre-empt the possibility of another round of floods. So far, about 0.7 million cubic metre (70 crore litre) water has accumulated in the new lake. It is about 350m long, thrice the size of a football field, and the natural ‘dam’ about 60m deep with a 10° slope. If the lake were to be breached at that angle from that height (2,383m above sea level), it could be dangerous. “The size of the lake is increasing with every passing day. However, some of the water is also flowing out. It doesn’t look alarming as of now,” NDRF director general SN Pradhan told TOI. Read AlsoAnother lake formed upstream, poses danger: ExpertsGeologists of the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garwal University (HNBGU) who are conducting a survey of the Rishiganga area — from where the flash floods started on Sunday — have said a water body has formed near the Rishiganga which can cause floods again.On Thursday, geologists from the Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University had released a video of a lake that had formed near the Rishiganga. The department of science and technology-run Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) had then confirmed the accumulation of water but could not immediately say if the lake was new. Now, satellite images captured by the NDRF have validated Thursday’s findings — that it’s a new lake — and triangulated the spot where it has been formed.  At the same time, DRDO scientists visited the site and submitted a report to the Central Water Commission (CWC), which corroborated the findings as well. WIHG director Kalachand Sain said, “The new lake also looks like it was formed after the disaster. Our scientists are working to figure out the causes behind its formation.” Read Also385 Uttarakhand villages at risk, Rs 10,000 crore needed to move themUttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday approved Rs 2.38 crore for the relocation of five villages out of over 385 situated in disaster-prone belts of 12 districts in the hill state which are awaiting a shift to safer areas. According to an earlier study carried out by theUttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the government has taken this into account. “We are alert. In the morning, the lake opened up naturally and the water started flowing out. It looks like snow had accumulated in the area, was covered in debris and, later, took the form of a lake,” he told TOI. “I had spoken to the Air Force on Thursday. They had confirmed NDRF and SRDF personnel, and experts would visit the spot.” DRDO drones, meanwhile, are collecting images every hour and sending them across to the Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory in Chandigarh. And the IMD has predicted 1cm rainfall and 10cm snowfall on Sunday and Monday. The plan, now, is to use all this information and map out flood possibilities, vulnerable zones and response times. The CWC is running simulations based on the maximum discharge rate of water from the lake, estimated to be 891 cubic metre (8.9 lakh litre) per second. “And it can take nine minutes for the water to travel 2.5km downstream and 53 minutes to reach Joshimath. There is no immediate concern, we are taking all precautions,” Sharad Chandra, director of flood forecasting at CWC, told TOI. But in case of a breach, the water can travel up to 53km in three hours at a rate of 418 cubic metre (about 4.2 lakh litres) per second. Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat told TOI that besides monitoring the water level, “a strategy is being worked out to drain collected water” in flood-hit areas. "Our men in CWC earlier had immediately conceived a model to find the possible levels of water at Joshimath, Karnprayag, Devprayag. We shared that model on what situation would look like with all other agencies. This information forecast helped us mitigate the damage” he added. He also said that scientists and other agencies were quick to ascertain the cause of Uttaranchal tragedy to a rock that fell on glacier, causing avalanche. “And our agencies under MHA such as NDRF and ITBP and even Air Force under defence ministry coordinated with Uttarakhand government for a timely response to further damage. I hope the Opposition must never do any politics over a tragedy” he added. Watch Tasked CWC to devise strategy to drain water from new lake near Rishiganga : Shekhawat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/satellite-images-confirm-new-lake-near-rishiganga-growing/articleshow/80886693.cms||Rohan Dua
February 13, 2021||Jamshedpur||36 fresh infections, 51 recoveries, zero deaths in Jharkhand; over 13,000 inoculated||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported 36 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 51 recoveries on Friday while the number of active cases stood at 441. Meanwhile, for the second time in a row, no casualties were reported and the overall death toll stood at 1,081. As per government data, as many as 1,19,242 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,17,720 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.72%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03% against the national average of 0.07%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 2197.44 days against the national figure of 989.10 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.90%. Meanwhile, a total of 13681 beneficiaries, out of the 29104 registered ones, were inoculated on Friday across over 200 session sites. Among those vaccinated, 4,861 were health workers and 8,820 frontline staff. The overall turnout hovered around 47%. As per health department data, a total of 2,01,862 beneficiaries, out of the 3,49,819 registered ones, have been given the jab and 261 AEFIs have been reported till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/36-fresh-infections-51-recoveries-zero-deaths-in-jharkhand-over-13000-inoculated/articleshow/80894031.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Ranchi||Mask, sanitizer demand declines as cases dip||Ranchi: Demand of masks, sanitizers and anti-bacterial sprays, which had skyrocketed after the pandemic hit the state in the last week of March, is now seeing a dip with the number of Covid-19 cases going down. The dip is so serious that those engaged in the trade have stopped ordering fresh stocks after they lost almost 90% business. Meanwhile, manufacturers of masks said they have reduced production by 60%. Ashwani Rajgharia, proprietor of Rajgharia specialty care which deals in sanitizers and disinfectant fogging, said, “There are two reasons which led to the dip in demand. The first one being lack of awareness and the second one is the reduction of fear among people due to dip in the number of cases. For example, when we were experiencing the peak of the pandemic, everyone wanted sanitizers for personal use as well as to get their homes, vehicles and societies sanitised, but with the decline in the number of cases, nobody is worried about the virus and everyone thinks the virus is gone for good.” On being asked about the how has it affected businesses, Rajgharia said, “A retailer used to sell sanitizers worth Rs 20,000 to 50,000 daily during June-July last year which has now come down to Rs 1,000.” The demand of disinfectants and anti-bacterial sprays have gone down in the same manner and people are now not interested in getting their homes and cars sanitised. Pankaj Poddar, a businessman engaged in the textile sector, said, “We used to supply around 50,000 masks of different types to various districts and neighbouring states on a daily basis. With the decline in demand, we are not even supplying even a thousand pieces within the state every day. We have stopped manufacturing too.” Public experts termed the trend as a behavioural change among people which is always affected by the sense of fear. “With the current infection rate where Jharkhand is reporting fresh infection in double digit and the recoveries are more than infections, people are thinking that the virus is gone and now they do not need masks and sanitizers. With each passing day, we are noticing that people are shunning masks and are going around without it which can be a risky affair as chances of developing infections hasn’t been eliminated completely,” said Dr Mithilesh Kumar, associate professor of community medicine at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mask-sanitizer-demand-declines-as-cases-dip/articleshow/80886309.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 13, 2021||Vadodara||Leopard keeps village on the edge||Vadodara: Residents of Ramangamdi village on the outskirts of the city have been living on the edge for the last few days. A leopard has attacked and killed goats in two different incidents near the village in the last one week. The forest department on Thursday set a trap for the leopard. According to the forest officials, the leopard first attacked three goats tied near a field about five days ago. It resurfaced the next day and attacked another goat in the same area but the locals shooed him away. “Leopards usually wander in their own territory that is usually of about 20 km. It ventures out sometimes in the search of food. This leopard too seems to have wandered into the village,” said Kartik Maharaj, deputy conservator of forests (DCF), Vadodara. The big cat, though, hasn’t been spotted since the last three days. “It is possible that the leopard may have left the area. But we have kept a cage to trap the leopard if it comes for a kill in the village again,” Maharaj said. Locals are on alert over the last few days but the leopard hasn’t attacked any human yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-keeps-village-on-the-edge/articleshow/80885748.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand orders Covid data audit after Bihar ‘scam’ expose||RANCHI: The state health department on Friday directed deputy commissioners all 24 districts to initiate an independent audit of Covid-19 testing data to ensure that there is no possibility of the numbers being fudged at any level. The order comes after a massive testing fraud was exposed in the neighbouring Bihar, prompting the Nitish Kumar government to launch a probe into the alleged scam. On Friday, RJD’s Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Kumar Jha mentioned a news report about testing data being fudged and manipulation in Bihar through a Zero Hour mention the Upper House. He said the number of tests to detect the coronavirus infection jumped from 10,000 to one lakh in seven days and to two lakh in a fortnight. He added that names of people registered as being tested either do not exist or their contact numbers and other details are false. In a letter issued to the DCs, National Health Mission (NHM)’s Jharkhand director Ravishankar Shukla asked them to constitute district-level teams to validate all the testing data in their jurisdictions and ensure that all possibilities of irregularities are eliminated in the state. Talking to TOI, Shukla said, “We have asked all DCs to audit and validate the Covid-19 testing data at the earliest. They have also been asked to share the findings of the same with the health department as soon as possible.” When asked who will be conducting the audit, Shukla said, “We have given specific instructions on how to conduct the validation, but the decision to carry it out has been left on DCs by constituting a district-level committee.” In the letter, all the districts have been asked to select patients on a random basis and verify his/her identity by cross-verifying details like SRF ID (specimen referral form identity number), mobile number and address provided against the name of patient. The districts have also been asked to analyse the Turn Around Time (the time gap between sample collection, testing and generation of results) to check for irregularities if any. The letter also directed the district authorities to ensure there is no pendency in updation of data on the ICMR portal and it should be done on a daily basis. As per government data issued on Thursday night, till date 53,31,888 swab samples have been collected in the state, of which 53,22,362 and 9,526 samples are pending. The data added that 1,19,206 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand and 1,17.669 (98.71%) of them have recovered. A total of 456 cases are active while 1,081 patients have succumbed to the illness. Recently, all the districts in the state were asked to increase the rate of testing after a significant fall was recorded in the figures. Compared to 40,000-odd tests on an averagher every day in September, , Jharkhand’s daily testing rate has plumetted to less than 10,000 in recent weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-orders-cov-data-audit-after-bihar-scam-expose/articleshow/80887363.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 13, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat earthquake Samaritan chained for 9 years rescued in Kutch||RAJKOT: When the killer earthquake ravaged Kutch in 2001, Sachinsinh Vadher, then 22 years, worked over time, rummaging through the debris for bodies and hoping to find a lucky survivor. Vadher even took the pains of giving a dignified cremation to the victims in Bhuj. But the quake inflicted such a mental trauma that Vadher, a promising cricketer too, sank into depression and never came out. In fact, he was diagnosed with schizophrenia in 2004-5 that only grew severe. The poignant story of this man was revealed when he was freed of chains that he was tied with for the past nine years by his family members. When a team of a voluntary organization reached his house in Sukhpar village of Nakhatrana on Friday, Vadher was in a semi-nude condition. He emanated strong body odour as he was not given a bath for months, said Hemendra Jansari, a social worker associated with Lok Seva Sarvajanik Trust that rescued him. “Vadher’s family treated him for schizophrenia in the early stages, but they couldn’t afford the treatment cost later. As he used to turn violent at times, the family moved him to their native Sukhpar village to avoid embarrassment,” said Jansari. Sources close to the family said Vadher was abandoned by his elder brother who lives in Bhuj. “His younger brother’s family chained him in a small room on the outskirts of Sukhpar village. Th family members work as casual labourers. The team found that his legs and hands were tied with a chain. His movements were extremely feeble too. Vadher used to drag himself out of the room during day and go back inside in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/quake-samaritan-chained-for-9-years-rescued-in-kutch/articleshow/80886844.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Ranchi||36 fresh infections, 51 recoveries, zero deaths in Jharkhand; over 13,000 inoculated||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported 36 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 51 recoveries on Friday while the number of active cases stood at 441. Meanwhile, for the second time in a row, no casualties were reported and the overall death toll stood at 1,081. As per government data, as many as 1,19,242 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,17,720 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.72%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03% against the national average of 0.07%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 2197.44 days against the national figure of 989.10 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.90%. Meanwhile, a total of 13681 beneficiaries, out of the 29104 registered ones, were inoculated on Friday across over 200 session sites. Among those vaccinated, 4,861 were health workers and 8,820 frontline staff. The overall turnout hovered around 47%. As per health department data, a total of 2,01,862 beneficiaries, out of the 3,49,819 registered ones, have been given the jab and 261 AEFIs have been reported till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/36-fresh-infections-51-recoveries-zero-deaths-in-jharkhand-over-13000-inoculated/articleshow/80887413.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Ranchi||Weeding out rebels among foremost priorities: New Jharkhand DGP||Ranchi: Eradicating left-wing extremism (LWE) and ensuring law and order would be among his topmost priorities, new state DGP Neeraj Sinha said after assuming office on Friday. “I have already reviewed the LWE scenario in Jharkhand, including the nature and extent of Maoist violence here, and the Maoist hot spots,” Sinha said, adding, “Our focus will be on weeding out the rebels from the state.” Listing out his other priorities, Sinha said that ensuring women’s safety, high levels of investigation and prosecution, improvement in the working conditions of security personnel and encouraging a good team spirit in the entire force would be among his main jobs. He added, “Improving the working condition of the police force will not only benefit the cops, but also improve their performance.” He further said, “I will make sure that the police officials, particularly those in the lower rungs of the force, are courteous while dealing with the common people so that they are not afraid of approaching the cops for help. Moreover, a better rapport with the people will help the force in gathering inputs.” An IPS officer of the 1987 batch, Sinha did his schooling from Sahebganj and graduation from Patna Science College. He then did his MA in History from Jawaharlal Nehru University. Meanwhile, speaking to media persons at the police headquarters here, outgoing DGP M V Rao said, “I tried my best to fulfil my duties with the help and cooperation of my colleagues. Now it is up to the people to decide if I was successful in all my endeavours.” Asked about the controversies regarding law and order issues arising during his tenure, Rao said, “I worked to protect the law of the land and have no regrets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/weeding-out-rebels-among-foremost-priorities-new-jharkhand-dgp/articleshow/80886293.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Ranchi||Payment of compensation to victim no ground for bail: Jharkhand HC||Ranchi: In a landmark judgment, the Jharkhand high court struck down payment of victim compensation as a condition for bail. In a detailed judgement, Justice Ananda Sen said payment of victim compensation should not be considered as a condition for obtaining or granting bail to an accused in a criminal case. The issue was discussed in a 27-page judgment citing Supreme Court cases when Justice Sen was dealing with an order passed in an anticipatory bail petition on January 20, 2020 by the Ranchi Judicial Commissioner directing accused Sumit Shaw, Amit Shaw, Aweez Kamal and Sanchita Malakar to pay Rs 1 lakh as victim compensation to Mauman Alam. Alam had filed a case of cheating against the accused with the Lower Bazar police station in the capital. The accused challenged the order of the Ranchi Judicial Commissioner before the high court stating payment of victim compensation is improper. The petitioners’ counsel Indrajit Sinha said, “They are merely accused in the case filed against them by Alam and their guilt is yet to be proved after standing the test of a trial. The initial order of payment of victim compensation already puts them in the guilty box.” On the other hand, Alam’s counsel argued before the court that the petitioners had themselves offered and volunteered to pay Rs 1 lakh to the victim and seek bail. On this condition, the Ranchi Judicial Commissioner granted bail while recording their acceptance to pay the compensation. The high court set aside the order of the lower court and held that victim compensation, if allowed to be paid by the accused at the stage of bail, would tantamount to “allowing the accused to go with a knife in one hand and a purse full of money on the other. This is not the principal of law and is detrimental for the society,” Justice Sen observed in his judgment passed last month. The high court held that “compensation” in legal terms means payment of damages made to a victim for the injury suffered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/payment-of-compensation-to-victim-no-ground-for-bail-jharkhand-hc/articleshow/80886351.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Ranchi||‘Depressed’ teen kills self at cooling pond of BSL||Bokaro: An 18-year-old youth allegedly killed himself by jumping into the cooling pond of the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) under Harla police station here on Friday. The locals first spotted the body floating in the water and informed police. The scooty of the deceased, Harshit Kumar Singhal, was found parked near the spot. Harshit was the son of businessman Pawan Kumar Singhal. He was a resident of Sadar Bazaar in Chas. Pawan Kumar Singhal told police that Harshit was suffering from depression and was being treatment by a hospital in Vellore. Harshit was a Class XI student of DAV Public School. Pawan Kumar Singhal told police that Harshit went missing from Thursday night. He left home on his scooty around 9:30pm saying that he would be back in five minutes. When he did not return, his family members launched a search but without any success. A police officer said it prima facie appears to be a case of suicide. Harshit’s father has also not blamed anyone for his son’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/depressed-teen-kills-self-at-cooling-pond-of-bsl/articleshow/80887446.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Ranchi||Cong to boost social media presence, recruit 14k in Jharkhand||Ranchi: The state unit of Congress on Friday launched a campaign to recruit more than 14,000 social media volunteers to mount a counter-offensive against fake news, trolling and BJP’s social media blitz. The drive, which will be conducted for a month, is in sync with the party’s objective to recruit 5 lakh social media volunteers nationally, the party’s national social media co-coordinator Vinay Dokania said. “We will recruit 1,000 social media volunteers in every Lok Sabha segment and 100 office bearers. Our objective will be to reach district, block and assembly segment levels and provide a platform to people who want to speak their minds,” Dokania said. Jharkhand has 14 Lok Sabha constituencies. Interested candidates can make a call to a toll free number floated by the party. “Candidates will receive a link on their WhatsApp numbers for registration. After a month, the profiles of the candidates will be put through a scrutiny before hiring them as volunteers,” Dokania said. Gajendra Singh, the social media head of the state unit of Congress, said the party will soon present a platform where people can speak to ministers and legislators directly and apprise them of their problems. The launch was attended by state Congress chief Rameshwar Oraon and agriculture minister Badal Patralekh. Oraon mounted an attack on the BJP and accused it of spreading fake news on social media. “We are preparing to counter their false narratives right down to the booth level,” Oraon claimed. The party on Friday announced that it will organise a 10km-long padayatra (foot march) in all district headquarters on Saturday to keep up the ante against the Centre’s three controversial farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-to-boost-social-media-presence-recruit-14k-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80886263.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Goa||12 Joseph_Water supply stopped after contamination found in two Calangute wards||Calangute: Water supply to parts of Calangute has been affected following seepage of contaminated water into the water pipeline network in Umtawaddo and Cobrawaddo areas. Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martin said that though efforts have been made to rectify the problem, they’ve still not been able to locate the exact spot where the contaminated water is entering the water pipeline. “The PWD workers are checking all the internal roads and areas through which the pipeline passes. It appears that someone’s soak-pit has overflown or dirty water from a drain has seeped through a crack in the pipeline,” said Martin. Meanwhile, the water supply to the area has been stopped to avoid a health hazard. Martin said water is being supplied through PWD water tankers, while many have made their own private arrangements. “We’re co-ordinating the work of rectification with minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo who is monitoring the situation on a daily basis. He has called senior officials from the PWD and experts for a meeting on Friday evening to find a solution,” he said. The contaminated water was first detected almost one month ago,according to Calangute Constituency Forum president Premanand Divkar, who lives in the area. “Some days the water stinks, but sometimes it is clear and then it becomes muddy,” he said. Divkar said many release sewage into the drains when their soakpits overflow and that sewage then seeps into the ground. “It will be very difficult to find out where exactly it has entered the water pipeline because there are so many connections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-joseph_water-supply-stopped-after-contamination-found-in-two-calangute-wards/articleshow/80888333.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Carnival will boost tourism, says mantri as tourists flock sunshine state||Edited. 300 words. Times News Network Panaji: Amid demands from several quarters to shelve Carnival this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the crowds the event will draw, tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar on Friday said the government has decided to organise it in a bid to boost tourism. The float parade, however, has been planned only for Panaji and Margao and not at the other locations where it is traditionally held. Ajgaonkar said Goa would have been left behind in the competition with other tourist destinations if Carnival were to be dropped. “Carnival will be conducted in compliance with the standard operating procedures issued by the district collectors,” he said. When asked if it would be possible for social distancing norms to be followed considering people will gather in large numbers, the minister maintained that there is “space” to maintain social distancing. He also said the audience will be required to wear face masks. Just two months ago, locals and doctors had feared a spike in Covid-19 cases when tourists, who flocked to Goa for New Year celebrations, crowded beaches and other popular spots with no masks and no social distancing. While attendance of international tourists will be negligible at Carnival this year — only those who stayed back after the tourist season ended last year are likely to show up — there has been a surge in domestic tourist arrivals. Incidentally, Carnival coincides with Valentine’s Day this year. Eric Sixtus Dias, a 39-year-old hotelier from Candolim, has been selected as King Momo this year. At least 31 floats have been enlisted for participation in the parade, which begins in the state capital on Saturday. “It will be a fun event. I’m very excited. As King Momo says: Eat, drink, be merry, but also act responsibly,” Dias said. The government is spending Rs 54.7 lakh for the two-day celebration. The float parade will have six prizes, with the first prize being Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/carnival-will-boost-tourism-says-mantri-as-tourists-flock-sunshine-state/articleshow/80889373.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Gurgaon||Haryana: Three killed in firing at gymnastics hall of Rohtak college||ROHTAK: Three people were killed and a few others injured after some armed men opened fire on the family members of a wrestling coach in Haryana’s Rohtak on Friday evening. The incident took place at the gymnastics hall of a private college. “Three persons have died while some others are under treatment. We have formed teams to gather more information about the incident. As of now, there is no clarity on who opened fire,” Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma said. The incident is reportedly a fallout of old enmity and the suspects belong to a village in Rohtak district. “They were about six to eight persons, who looked like wrestlers. The attackers stormed into the wrestling akhara and started firing indiscriminately,” said sources. Sources said the deceased have been identified as Pooja, Sakshi and Pradeep Malik and the injured as Manoj, Satish, Amarjeet and 3-year-old Sartaj, who were rushed to PGIMS, Rohtak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/3-killed-in-firing-in-gymnastics-hall-of-rohtak-college/articleshow/80888343.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Children’s play zone canned at Samba square this year||220 words Panaji: With the ongoing pandemic there will be no play zone for children at the Samba square in Panaji this year. However the annual Samba square festivities will be held at the municipal garden till Tuesday on the sidelines of the Carnival in Panaji. “We have scaled it down in some respects this year due to the pandemic. The children’s play zone has not been allowed as a result,” CCP commissioner, Sanjith Rodrigues told TOI. The play zone would usually be set up on the lawns of the Jardin Garcia de Orta for children from 5pm and go on till late evening just before live music or onstage performances. On an average there are around 15,000 daily walk-ins at the Samba square. This year a slight drop in the number of attendees is expected due to the pandemic, Rodrigues said. The live music and stalls will continue this year and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has enrolled volunteers to ensure attendees maintain social distance and encourage people to wear masks. Around each stall, CCP has marked circles to ensure that the stall-operators stay within their designated spots. “There will be proper distancing with stalls being spread out, but the discipline depends on the crowd. The CCP staff will also be on-ground to impose a fine on non-mask wearers,” Rodrigues said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/childrens-play-zone-canned-at-samba-square-this-year/articleshow/80889376.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||MBBS seats in deemed universities are still ‘reserved’ for the rich||Though central counselling for MBBS seats in deemed universities was mandated in response to reports of seats being auctioned to those with the fattest wallets, seats in these universities continue to be an unofficial reserved quota for the rich. Extremely high fees have ensured that those applying for 8,000 plus MBBS seats in 48 deemed universities face the least competition with just about three candidates vying for each seat in 2018 and less than four per seat in 2019, a TOI analysis of publicly available data shows. In comparison, for seats outside the deemed universities there were nearly 21 applicants per seat in 2018 and nearly 18 per seat in 2019. With fees ranging from Rs 20 lakh to Rs 25 lakh per annum, and even higher fees for NRI quota seats, of the nearly 8 lakh who qualified through NEET in 2019, less than 26,000 applied for 7,099 seats in deemed universities. Similarly, of the 7.1 lakh who qualified in 2018, less than 29,000 registered for 6,204 deemed university seats. The Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) specifies that the quotas for OBC, SC, ST or PWD candidates do not apply in deemed universities. Thus, these seats effectively end up being reserved for the rich with wallets, not NEET scores, being the trump cards. To register for counselling for deemed universities seats, students have to pay Rs 2 lakh as security deposit compared to just Rs 10,000 for general candidates and Rs 5,000 for reserved category candidates applying for seats in the all-India quota (15% of seats in government medical colleges of almost all states) and seats in centrally-funded medical colleges. Every year, a large number of seats that are not filled through centralized counselling are returned to the deemed universities, instead of the state counselling committee, to be filled at the institutional level. There have been numerous reports of seats going to the highest bidders in this process. TOI calculated the number of candidates who registered for deemed university seats from the number of students refunded Rs 2 lakh at the end of the central counselling in 2018 and 2019. To this was added the total number of seats in deemed universities, since in the case of those who got a seat the security deposit was adjusted against college fees. Similarly, the refund data also helped calculate how many general and reserved category candidates applied for the MCC counseling. Seats matrices for each year showed how many seats were open to those from general and reserved categories in the two years. This shows that the overall seat to candidate ratio for general category students was about 1:29 in 2018 and 1:24 in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mbbs-seats-in-deemed-universities-are-still-reserved-for-the-rich/articleshow/80890263.cms||Rema Nagarajan
February 13, 2021||Goa||Dirty water seeps into Calangute water line||Calangute: Water supply to parts of Calangute has been affected following seepage of contaminated water into the pipeline network in Umtawaddo and Cobrawaddo areas. Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martins said that though efforts have been made to rectify the problem, they’ve still not been able to locate the exact spot where the contaminated water is entering the water pipeline. “PWD workers are checking all the internal roads and areas through which the pipeline passes. It appears that someone’s soak pit has overflown or dirty water from a drain has seeped through a crack in the pipeline,” said Martins. Meanwhile, water supply to the area has been stopped to avoid a health hazard. Martins said water is being supplied through PWD water tankers, while many have made their own private arrangements. “We’re co-ordinating the work of rectification with minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo, who is monitoring the situation on a daily basis. He has called senior officials from the PWD and experts for a meeting on Friday evening to find a solution,” he said. The contaminated water was first detected almost one month ago, according to president of Calangute Constituency Forum Premanand Divkar, who lives in the area. “Some days the water stinks, but sometimes it is clear and then it becomes muddy,” he said. Divkar said many release sewage into the drains when their soak pits overflow and that sewage then seeps into the ground. “It will be very difficult to find out where exactly it has entered the water pipeline because there are so many connections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dirty-water-seeps-into-calangute-water-line/articleshow/80888376.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Govt reconstitutes GIDC planning committee||Edited_ 120 words Panaji: The government has reconstituted the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) committee that grants all planning and development approvals for industrial land under Section 37B of the Goa IDC Act. The sub-committee is responsible for granting all necessary permissions to industrial plot allottees “expeditiously” and it functions like a planning and development authority. The committee is tasked with granting building licences, construction and other permits, technical clearances and development permissions. While GIDC managing director Derrick Neto will be the chairman of the managing committee, five other government representatives will be part of the committee. Arch Chandan Kalidas Parab, who is a director on the GIDC board, has been appointed to the committee from the private sector while the remaining members are government representatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-reconstitutes-gidc-planning-committee/articleshow/80889389.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Goa||No solution in sight to GoaMiles, tourist taxi conflict as govt adopts weak stand on taxi meters||Panaji: The assault of three GoaMiles drivers in Calangute allegedly by tourist taxi drivers in two separate incidents last week, brings to fore that the government is yet to seriously apply its mind to douse the burning issue of tourist taxis. Two years ago, the app-based taxi service, GoaMiles, made its entry into the state with hand holding by Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC). The dominant North Goa Tourist Taxi Owners Association (NGTTOA), along with other bodies of taxi owners in the state, made it clear that they were opposed to their entry, a stand that remains unchanged till date. Continued strained relations between the two — GoaMiles and other tourist taxis — have been cause of recurring flare-ups. Director of GoaMiles Utkarsh Dhabade said that there have been 52 incidents against their drivers, and that in 37 cases FIRs have been lodged, and in 15 non-cognisable offences have been registered. “Most incidents happened in Calangute, Baga and Candolim. The 15 cases that are non-cognisable offences pertain to use of foul language against our employees. We haven’t seen any tangible action taken, and even where arrests have been made, the accused were soon released on bail, including in the latest case,” Dhabhade said. The government has chosen to wait and watch and, at times, it follows the ‘go slow’ policy, and in the bargain destination Goa is getting negative reviews. While in greater parts it is because taxis are not using meters, it is also because as the destination has gained in popularity, it has inevitably been compared to other destinations. On the other hand, taxi owners can’t be held solely responsible for non-implementation of taxi meters because the government lacks will to be firm on the issue. Tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar, said the implementation of digital meters is not in his hand. “The responsibility lies with the transport ministry,” he said when asked why the issue has remained unattended for so long. Ajgaonkar said that whenever he attends trade fairs and road shows, the feedback he receives about Goa’s tourist taxis is not very encouraging. “The image of taxi drivers has got spoiled. I’m not saying all taxi drivers fleece travellers, but if even one or two of them make a mistake, then all get a bad name. When they came to me, I asked them to install taxi meters. If tourist taxi drivers here had to install taxi meters then there was no way GoaMiles could have got entry into the state,” he said. President of Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) Nilesh Shah said that everything is technology driven today and Goa’s taxi drivers, who have been opposing app-based taxi services, or rather technology, will ultimately lose. “What stops them coming up with their own app and offering a service as a cooperative initiative?” Shah said. Vice president of NGTTOA Ravindra Vengurlekar did not respond to calls made to him. Another office bearer of the association, however, said that the issue would have been settled at the time if the government had handled it in right earnest, and not rushed into getting an app-based taxi service. Meanwhile, TTAG has sent a notice to the government over non-implementation of the digital taxi meters in the state. It will file a contempt petition against the government if a positive response is not received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-solution-in-sight-to-goamiles-tourist-taxi-conflict-as-govt-adopts-weak-stand-on-taxi-meters/articleshow/80889437.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Business||Privatisation cannot solve all bank woes: RBI ex-dy guv||Kolkata: Bank privatisation cannot solve all the ills and myth has long busted that ownership changes behaviour, feels former Reserve Bank of India deputy governor S S Mundra. He was addressing a seminar organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCC&I). The government has announced its intent for privatising two banks and a general insurance company in 2021-22. Mundra stressed on retaining the sovereign ownership. He suggested that operational freedom along with government ownership may work better like it did in the western nations. Sovereign backing makes all the difference especially for a large section of depositors who feel it is much safer to put money in government-owned banks. “The government wants stronger entities, and not guzzlers of public money,” Union Bank of India chief executive Rajkiran Rai G said. “It’s a good move. About two-third of the credit market is still with public sector banks. So the role of public sector banks is not over but we need more competition,” he said at the webinar. PNB chief executive S S Mallikarjuna Rao mentioned the massive role of public sector banks in infrastructure financing. “The finance minister announces so many infrastructure projects, public sector banks would need to play a bigger role.” Rao, however, supported the privatisation proposal since the government cannot not infuse capital perennially in the banking sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/privatisation-cannot-solve-all-bank-woes-rbi-ex-dy-guv/articleshow/80889460.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Goa govt asks depts to accept digital documents||222 words Panaji: Goa government has directed all government departments and agencies to adopt the Central government’s DigiLocker platform so that citizens can submit digital copies instead of physical documents. The department of information and technology issued a notification mandating the adoption of DigiLocker in different government departments and their agencies to provide access to authentic digital documents to citizens through the digital document wallet. “All state government departments and their agencies shall ensure that if applicants share documents or certificates through DigiLocker to avail any services, then applicants shall not be asked to submit physical documents,” said information technology secretary Sanjay Kumar. With this service citizens can use digital documents to avail of government services and citizen-centric services. Kumar said that the department of information technology will act as the nodal agency to guide and oversee the implementation of DigiLocker in Goa with the assistance from the national e-governance division. DigiLocker is an initiative of the Union ministry of electronics & IT (MeitY) under the Digital India programme, which provides users with a digital document wallet. Documents stored in DigiLocker system are legally valid and on par with original physical documents as per the information technology (preservation and retention of information by intermediaries providing Digital Locker facilities) Rules. While reducing administrative overheads and the verification process, DigiLocker also enables paperless governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-govt-asks-depts-to-accept-digital-documents/articleshow/80889457.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||12 Suraj_Goa Diary have its accounts reaudited over losses||PHOTOS EMAILED TO VALENCIA, ANURADHA, RAKESH, SHARMILA Ponda: The Goa Diary at its annual general body (AGM) meet on Friday resolved that it will recover from its past directors all losses incurred due to the director’s faulty policies during their respective tenures. The Friday’s AGM also witnessed uproar over the auditing carried out by auditors other than those authorized at a meeting earlier. Durgesh Shirodkar, chairman of the dairy administrative committee,said it was also resolved to reaudit Goa Diary’s accounts of the past financial years as the earlier auditing was done by the auditors not authorised by theAGM. During the AGM, milk producing farmer members of the dairy demanded that the loss be recovered from the directors responsible for their wrong policies of appointing the employees without the vacancies, Shirodkar said. However, the Goa Diary is not in favour of removing the surplus staff.Instead, these staffers will be retained, as around 59 workers of the dairy have retired and their posts are lying vacant, he said. The union has absorbed 35 of the employees and due to which the expenditure of the dairy on staff salaries had increased. Some members also had raised the issue on several occasions. A seal pack machine was purchased by the dairy about five years ago and the members believe the machine was purchased at an exorbitant rate when a similar machine was available for a lower cost, Shirodkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-suraj_goa-diary-have-its-accounts-reaudited-over-losses/articleshow/80889496.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||12 Denver_My father had a keen interest in farming: Joshua||Saligao: Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza on Friday said that his father, former minister Francis D’Souza, too was a farmer with a keen interest in growing different types of vegetables. D’Souza, speaking at a Krishi Mela, said that there are still many agricultural land parcels in Goa which are like uncultivated and waiting to be cultivated. D’Souza said that this is because procuring labour is an issue in Goa and said that youth in the state should come forward to cultivate fallow lands. “My father late Adv Francis D’souza was also a farmer and he showed his interest in doing farming by growing various kinds of vegetables. The backbone of our economy is farming and India is a farming based country and we are the largest producer in the world of food. There is a lot of vacant open space sin Goa but we have not utilised the place properly as there is a lot problem with labour,” said D’Souza. The Mapusa MLA said that the Covid-19 pandemic has thought everyone the importance of being self-reliant and self-sufficient,which is taking to farming and growing produce to meet one’s own requirement. D’Souza was speaking after inaugurating the farmers’ mela organised by the directorate of agriculture. He said the state government is providing a lot of support to farmers in the form of subsidies and called upon the youth to come forward to take up farming. “The Covid-19 pandemic has taught us a lot of things and it has showed us how much we are dependent on other states,” D’Souza said. Director of agriculture Nevil Alphonso said that under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampoorna Goem programme, farmers can be helped double their income by improving their marketing of the produce. “The farmers should come together under one banner and our department is thinking of forming an organisation of farmers in the next five or six months so that they get a chance to market their produce to other states,” Alphonso said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-denver_my-father-had-a-keen-interest-in-farming-joshua/articleshow/80889502.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Online fraud: Retired govt staff loses Rs 1.5L||PONDA: A retired government staffer was duped of Rs 1.5 lakh, after a fraudster got him to submit KYC documents online to continue with his mobile connection. Ponda PI Mohan Gaude said Dilip Nalawade, a resident of Ponda, was duped on Wednesday after he responded to a message on his mobile phone asking him to submit his Know Your Customers (KYC) details. When Nalawade called the mobile number from which he had received the text message, the conman asked him to install two apps, fill in his details and make payments of Rs 10 each on both apps. “Once he made payments of Rs 10 each, Rs 24,000 was debited from one of his bank accounts and Rs 1.3 lakh from another account,” PI Gaude said. Asking to pay a small amount such as Rs 5 or 10 is their modus operandi to trap the prey, he added. The police officer said citizens should always submit such details only to authorised outlets of mobile service providers. Police have registered an offence against unknown persons under various sections of the IPC and IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-fraud-retired-govt-staff-loses-rs-1-5l/articleshow/80889504.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Kavlem Shantadurga Temple annual jatra begins amid SOPs||Ponda: The committee of Shree Shantadurga Temple, Kavlem, won’t permit anyone inside the temple’s sanctum sanctorum during the annual jatra that began on Friday and will culminate on February 20. Committee secretary Dilip Gaitonde said that at a time only ten devotees are being permitted inside the temple premises to make offerings due to the pandemic. “Though this process is time-consuming, there is no any other way to avoid crowding,” he said. On February 16 night, a procession of the idol will be taken in a golden palanquin and it will be followed by a chariot procession around the temple on the next morning, but devotees wishing to offer coconuts after that will have to follow a queue system, Gaitonde said. Committee president Triloknath Borkar said that this year, the number of stalls at the annual fair has been restricted. “Only stalls dealing with traditional sweets, grams and bangles have been allowed,” he said. There is no ‘mahaprasad’ during the jatra this year, Borkar said. The temple committee has lined-up entertainment programmes during the festive period. It includes a Marathi play on February 13 and music shows on February 14, 15, 16 and 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kavlem-shantadurga-temple-annual-jatra-begins-amid-sops/articleshow/80889508.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Unit that sold counterfeit products of top brands busted||GURUGRAM: One person has been arrested and a Rohtak resident has been booked for allegedly running a factory that used to sell counterfeit products of top brands. According to the police, following a tip off about the fraud, a team led by sub-inspector Dalpat Singh, in-charge of the crime unit of Sector 10, raided the factory-cum-godown in Ashok Vihar and recovered a large number of products — washing powder, soap, tea, oil and flour. “We raided a building in Ashok Vihar and found a large quantity of counterfeit products. The factory was managed by a Rohtak resident,” said Singh. The owner of the unit, identified as Manoj Singh, resident of Ashok Vihar, was arrested from the spot. Singh was booked under section 420 (cheating), 467 (forging document), 468 (forging document for cheating) and 471 (using forged document) of IPC at Palam Vihar police station.r Pankaj Gupta, operation director of Greves Protection Management Pvt Ltd, authorised to file complaint against counterfeit products of Procter Gamble and Hindustan Unilever, said they filed a complaint after receiving info about the counterfeit products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/unit-that-sold-counterfeit-products-of-top-brands-busted/articleshow/80889509.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Priority is to save Goa, says GFP; seeks unity against BJP||Edited. 130 words. Times News Network Panaji: Stating that the immediate priority is to restore Goa’s integrity and future, GFP urged all political parties to come together and defeat BJP in the municipal and assembly elections. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said the damage done by the BJP-led government needed to be reversed. The former deputy chief minister said GFP was determined to “fight to save the soul and heart” of the state. “The extent of damage BJP has done through its manufactured majority is leading Goa to the pits, and we must come together immediately to save Goa now,” Sardesai said. He blamed the Pramod Sawant-led government for creating trouble in the state by threatening Goa’s environment, culture and heritage. The Fatorda MLA said GFP will remain steadfast in exposing the BJP government so that the people know its true intentions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/priority-is-to-save-goa-says-gfp-seeks-unity-against-bjp/articleshow/80889507.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||AP encroaching upon territory, breaching SC order: Odisha||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday asked Andhra Pradesh to file its response on the allegation levelled by its neighbouring state Odisha that it had encroached upon the latter’s territory in violation of the apex court’s order. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar asked the Odisha government to provide a copy of its contempt petition to the standing counsel of Andhra Pradesh and posted the case for February 19. In its petition, the Odisha government contended that Andhra Pradesh was acting in violation of the SC order by conducting an election in its territory by roping three villages under Koraput district of Odisha into Salur mandal of Vizianagaram district (AP). It said the three villages were under the administrative control of Odisha and urged the SC to initiate contempt proceedings against the authorities of Andhra Pradesh, including Vizianagaram district magistrate Muda Hari Jawaharlal. “The said notification issued by contemnor 1 (the district magistrate of Vizianagaram district), in unison with contemnors 2 (chief secretary of the state) and 3 (State Election Commission) is to invade into the territory of petitioner state at the cost of wilful violation of this court’s order,” the Odisha government’s petition said. “In the notification, the contemnors deliberately roped in three villages from ‘Kotia group of villages’ falling under the territory of Koraput district of Odisha into Salur mandal of Vizianagaram district. Clandestinely, the contemnors changed the name of the three villages of Kotia gram panchayat,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ap-encroaching-upon-territory-breaching-sc-order-odisha/articleshow/80890274.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||‘Will aim to grant 2-3 acres plot to rural landless’||Vasco: Union minister of state for social justice Ramdas Athawale on Friday said that his party, Republican Party of India, will organise a Bhumi Mukti Andolan on February 25 across the country, including Goa, demanding five acres of land for every Below Poverty Line (BPL) family in rural areas. The land is meant to help landless families survive through agriculture. “Goa does not have sufficient land and so, at least, two-three acres of land can be given,” he said. Athawale said he will be writing to chief minister Pramod Sawant to consider promotions for persons who come under the reserved categories. “The Maratha Samaj in Maharashtra is appealing for reservation and I feel that should be allotted to them. Even the Kshatriya Samaj should get at least 10-12% of reservation,” he said. Speaking about the ongoing farmers’ protests in the country, Athawale said the farm bills are aimed at empowering farmers. “These farmers elected Prime Minister Narendra Modi twice and so he will not work against their welfare. We are ready to talk and to make amendments, but the ‘kissan’ leaders are not ready for talks. We gave the permissions for all their rallies and in turn they insulted the national flag and attacked the police. If we had to not given them permission, they would have blamed the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-aim-to-grant-2-3-acres-plot-to-rural-landless/articleshow/80888466.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Goa||Goa CM for fast disposal of Mayem land cases||BICHOLIM: Chief Minister Pramod Sawant held an emergency meeting about expediting the custodian property matter after the office bearers of Mayem Bhuvimochan Nagarik Kruti Samiti (MBNKS) met him at Altinho Panaji on Wednesday. The meeting was attended by officials of the district collectorate, Bicholim deputy collector office and Bicholim mamlatdar office. The custodian property issue of Mayem was discussed threadbare with regards to expeditious disposal of all files and other submissions as well as rectification of errors. Samiti secretary Rajesh Kalangutkar, adviser Sakharam Pednekar and others demanded that due care be taken to ensure no error while undertaking the process of allotting sanads to the locals. After listening to their grievances Sawant said that the issue will be solved step by step while staying within the ambit of the law and achieving an amicable solution. He also assured to do everything possible to help the people get justice. Meanwhile, committee members have started organising awareness meetings in Mayem village from Wednesday to place the facts before the people. Pednekar said awareness will be created on various aspects of the custodian property issue. Recently, the committee had demanded that the state government set a deadline to resolve the matter while alleging that the government was bent on delaying the process of allotting sanads. “Every time the samiti brings the matter to light in the media, the process of allotting sanads begins, but later onthings slow down again,” Kalangutkar had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-for-fast-disposal-of-mayem-land-cases/articleshow/80870384.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Ghaziabad||Three of gang that posed as vendors to carry out loots arrested in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: With the arrest of three people, including a jeweller, the Ghaziabad police has claimed to have busted a gang of thieves that used to commit burglaries at houses in upscale localities. Police said that the gang members would pose as vegetable vendors and recce the area to gather information. The gang has committed over 200 burglaries in Delhi-NCR, Bulandshahr and Meerut since 2016, police said. The accused have been identified as Rashid and Shahid Ali, both residents of Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, and Naresh Kumar, a jeweller who is from Bulandshahr. Naresh would purchase the stolen valuables from Rashid and Shahid and sell it further. Interrogation revealed the involvement of two others -- Aas Mohmmad and Vinod – and a hunt has been launched to nab them. Police said that Rashid was the mastermind and they would flee from the city after every robbery. Shailendra Pratap Singh, SHO of Link Road police station, said that on 25, the gang burgled a house in Ramprastha colony of Sahibabad. “The family was on vacation and the accused fled with gold, silver and Rs 5 lakh. During interrogation, they said that they took the stolen valuables to Naresh’s shop in Bulandshahr and the latter gave them Rs 10.5 lakh,” Singh said. On February 9, the accused again returned to Ghaziabad. They were looking for a new target when cops arrested them from Jaipal Chowk in Sahibabad. Police recovered silver and gold valuables and over Rs 2 lakh from them. They have been booked under sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/3-of-gang-that-posed-as-vendors-to-carry-out-loots-arrested/articleshow/80889584.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
February 13, 2021||Delhi||Rinku Sharma's murder in Delhi: Lens on 'enmity' with 5||NEW DELHI: The murder case of lab technician Rinku Sharma, who was beaten up and stabbed by a group of men after being dragged out of his house in Delhi's Mangolpuri on Wednesday, is likely to be transferred to Crime Branch of Delhi Police. The fifth suspect in the case, Tajuddin - an ex-home guard - has been arrested and along with four others taken on three days' police remand. The primary line of probe, sources said, revolves around verifying reports of past enmity between Sharma and the accused men. A heavy police deployment remains in the tense locality. Charges fly in Mangolpuri caseEarlier, Tajuddin was attached with the local police station. Sharma’s family claimed that he was a police informer and used to flaunt his clout and threaten them. They will be questioned individually and then confronted with their versions. Police were told that trouble had been brewing for some time. The FIR, which was accessed by TOI, validates this as it talks about a brawl between Sharma and the accused during Dussehra regarding a religious programme at the Ram temple park in the locality. The family’s complaint mentions that the accused would often taunt Sharma. They were also miffed with his involvement in Ram Mandir-related activities. They further claimed that the accused assaulted other family members too, apart from a neighbour, Akash, when he tried to intervene in the fight. The accused, however, told police that Sharma and he had opened a restaurant in Rohini Sector 2, but they shut shop after incurring losses. They used to quarrel often and blame each other for the failure. A similar brawl occurred at a restaurant during a birthday party on Wednesday evening after which the accused planned to kill Sharma. However, Sharma’s family claimed they were never in business together and that the accused was concocting stories. Locals told police that both the accused and the victim had cordial relations till sometime ago and Sharma had donated blood for one of them too. Police are verifying these claims. Sharma’s family showed videos about how the accused men, armed with sticks and knives, had barged into their house. They even allegedly tried to blow up the house by banging the gas cylinder on the floor. A video shows Sharma’s mother trying to snatch back the cylinder and pleading for mercy. Manu, Sharma’s brother, alleged that one of the accused, Zahid, had even come to the hospital to attack them. While Delhi Police had initially denied a communal angle to the murder, on Friday spokesperson DCP Chinmoy Biswal said that investigation was being conducted to explore all angles. “We are in touch with the family and are looking into whatever information is coming to the fore,” he added. A heavy police deployment exists in the area to prevent communal skirmish. A probe is also on to ascertain if more people were involved in the crime. Of the four men arrested earlier, two are tailors, while the other two claim to be students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-mangolpuri-murder-lens-on-enmity-with-5/articleshow/80890287.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||Biden, Blinken talk about Myanmar with PM, Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and foreign minister S Jaishankar discussed developments in Myanmar with their US counterparts Joe Biden and Anthony Blinken. The government said on Friday, “India and the US have agreed to remain in contact and exchange assessments on the situation.” The external affairs spokesperson reiterated the Indian position that India would stay engaged with all sides in Myanmar. “We believe that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld. As immediate neighbours with close cultural and people-to-people ties as well as relations strengthened by exchanges in trade, economy, security and defence, we are closely monitoring developments in that country,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/biden-blinken-talk-about-myanmar-with-pm-jaishankar/articleshow/80890286.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Thane||Mumbra girl defies odds to top CA intermediate||THANE: The all-nighters spent studying in the kitchen of her modest 300 sqft home that she shares with her parents and three younger siblings, the limited resources and the apprehensions over whether she would even clear an exam that thousands of hopefuls take, proved every bit worthwhile for Mumbra girl Zarin Khan, when she topped the country in the chartered accountancy (CA) intermediate examination. 4,094 students took the exam held in the old syllabus. When Khan got news from her friends on Monday, she could barely believe it. “I had not expected to be a ranker, let alone be the first in the country as I was too scared to even take the exam. I had applied in 2017 and took a two-year gap. But with my family strongly backing me, I decided to take the exam last year. I used to study all night to focus better as in the morning hours, there is too much noise,” said Khan, whose house is alongside a main road. Zarin’s feat inspires her younger siblingsIt was a crucial time for her siblings too as both her brothers took their Class X board exams last year. State housing minister Jitendra Awhad felicitated Zarin Khan on Thursday. She is among the first generation of learners to pursue a professional course in her family. While her father, who could study only till class IX, is a mechanic, her mother is a homemaker. Seeing their oldest sibling ace the CA exam, her sister and brothers are now keen to pursue academics more seriously. Her younger sister has completed BSc and is working. “As no one is well educated in the family I wasn’t even aware about the courses available or what I should pursue. It was not until 2017 after I completed my graduation that I applied for CA. Later, I did an internship for a year, post which I worked in a Thane-based company. I used the money to pay for my CA classes.” After completing her articleship, Khan will pursue her CA final exams. Watch Mumbra’s Zarin Begum Yusuf Tops CA Intermediate Exam 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbra-girl-defies-odds-to-top-ca-intermediate/articleshow/80890291.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
February 13, 2021||Goa||Mauvin inspects track doubling work||Vasco: Transport minister Mauvin Godinho on Wednesday inspected the stretch of the double-tracking along with senior officers of South Western Railways (SWR) at Dabolim. He instructed officials to undertake work for facilitating the double tracks. Godinho reviewed the various areas along the railway track alignment which will come under the double-tracking and expressed happiness to note that no houses or structures would be affected or demolished in Dabolim constituency. He directed them to carry out work of rail over bridge in Shanti Nagar at New Vaddem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mauvin-inspects-track-doubling-work/articleshow/80888686.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Vadodara||Domestic tour operators’ convention to be held at SoU||Vadodara: The Association of Domestic Tour Operators (ADTO) has organized its three-day annual convention at the Statue of Unity in Kevadia, Narmada district. The convention supported by the ministry of tourism will begin on Friday.About 350 to 400 delegates including government officials, prominent speakers from the industry, domestic tour operators, airlines representatives and hoteliers from across the country are expected to attend the convention. Arvind Singh, secretary, ministry of tourism will address the session on ‘Role of Aviation in Promotion of Tourism’ during the convention.In an official release, Singh said that the convention there will be business sessions dealing with current topics on tourism, product presentations, business to business, meetings with travel, tourism and hospitality partners, along with an exhibition showcasing various travel products.He added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi too flagged off eight trains connecting different regions of the country to Kevadia January 17 through video conferencing to enhance the last mile connectivity for reaching the Statue of Unity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/domestic-tour-operators-convention-to-be-held-at-sou/articleshow/80885756.cms||---
February 13, 2021||India||385 Uttarakhand villages at risk, Rs 10,000 crore needed to move them||DEHRADUN/PITHORAGARH: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday approved Rs 2.38 crore for the relocation of five villages out of over 385 situated in disaster-prone belts of 12 districts in the hill state which are awaiting a shift to safer areas. According to an earlier study carried out by the state, the entire process may cost a whopping Rs 10,000 crore. A maximum of 129 villages are in Pithoragarh district followed by 62 in Uttarkashi, 61 in Chamoli, 42 in Bageshwar, 33 in Tehri, 26 in Pauri, 14 in Rudraprayag, 10 in Champawat, nine in Almora, six in Nainital, two in Dehradun and one in Udham Singh Nagar. Orders were issued on Thursday for relocation of the five villages in districts of Tehri, Chamoli, Uttarkashi and Bageshwar and the funds were approved. The funds were allotted for house construction, a ‘gaushala’ and also a relocation allowance. The issue of relocation has once again gained momentum in the state after the natural calamity at Raini and Tapovan. Former CM Harish Rawat met CM Trivendra Singh Rawat and appealed for the relocation of such villages to safer locations. In July 2020, landslide had damaged six houses and farming fields of Dhapa village in Munsyari. Though no loss of life was reported, 52 out of 136 families were affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/385-uttarakhand-villages-at-risk-10k-cr-needed-to-move-them/articleshow/80890295.cms||Prem Punetha
February 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Pandemic delays private school admissions in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 pandemic has not only affected school admissions this academic year but has also cast its shadow over the next. Several premier schools in Visakhapatnam, which usually finish their admission processes by January, are yet to start with admissions. Additionally, the global pandemic has dealt a severe blow to private educational institutions on both the financial front and on planning the academic calendar. Delay in reopening of schools, the conduct of examinations as well as widespread fee dues have pushed private schools into a wait-and-watch mode. School admissions in Visakhapatnam see fierce competition every year with students applying to a number of schools. Fees used to get revised year-on-year. However, chances of a fee revision seem quite bleak this year around. When TOI reached out to a number of Visakhapatnam-based private schools, the schools asked to keep following their websites and keep in touch regarding the announcement of admissions for next academic year. KSN Murthy, state chairman of AP Private Schools Association, said that the current situation is not encouraging for private schools, especially smaller ones. “The schools are not in a position to think about admissions for the next academic year as they are struggling to stay afloat at the moment. We request the government to consider our travails and offer some assistance during these difficult times,” Murthy said. T Pradeep, principal of Premier High School, said that it has been a challenging time for schools. “Apart from the 30 per cent fee cut announced by the state government, we have offered another 10 per cent cut. But the situation has not improved for us. Admissions have decreased this year,” Pradeep said. Further, a section of educators opine that remote learning necessitated by the pandemic outbreak has impacted learning outcomes among students. They are calling for urgent stress on addressing the learning gaps emanating from the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pandemic-delays-pvt-school-admissions/articleshow/80886144.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Celebrity businessman under lens in Mumbai porn case||MUMBAI: A celebrity businessman, husband of a well-known actor, is under the scanner in the porn video racket being probed by city police after a model alleged he forced her to pose in the nude for a video shot by his production house. Police are trying to verify the details. Meanwhile, police have registered a fresh case of gangrape and wrongful confinement against arrested model-actor Gehena Vasisth and three others after a 24-year old model alleged she was forced to engage in sexual acts with three men for a video. This is the fourth such complaint lodged by models in the case. Vasisth, 3 men booked for ‘rape’ in porn racket caseIn the complaint against the actor’s husband, the crime branch is in the process of verifying the details. “We are still recording the complaint and are in the process of verifying the authenticity of the model’s complaint before registering a case,” said a senior official. On Tuesday, police had arrested Umesh Kamat, a former employee of the celebrity businessman. Kamat, who represents UK-based production house Kenrin, is accused of uploading at least seven to eight “porn and obscene” videos shot by Vasisth on a social media app for monetary consideration. In the fresh FIR against Vasisth, another model alleged on January 11 she was offered a role in a web series. She said the script did not mention the role required her to act out a sex scene with three men. She told the police she was kept in the dark till the last moment and forced to indulge in sexual acts with the three men in Green Park bungalow at Madh Island. “Based on her complaint, we have registered an offence and have booked Vasisth and three unidentified men for outraging the modesty of a woman, rape and an obscene act. Further investigation is on,” said a Malvani police officer. The investigation has so far revealed that one of the accused, Yasmin Rowa Khan, and her team would allegedly shoot porn movies in the Madh Island bungalow and these would be uploaded on various mobile apps as well Vasisth’s website GV Studios. The case came to light after the crime branch raided a Madh Island bungalow last week and caught five persons, including Khan, “red-handed” while shooting a porn movie. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/celebrity-businessman-under-lens-in-mumbai-porn-case/articleshow/80890326.cms||S Ahmed Ali
February 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Eight-year-old girl raped by Class 10 student in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A 16-year-old boy allegedly raped an eight-year-old girl at Nillapudi village under Kruthivennu mandal in Krishna district. The incident happened on Thursday but came to light on Friday. According to Kruthivannu police, the incident took place at around 8 pm when the girl was on her way to a pani puri stall in the village. Police said that the accused, a class 10 student at a private school, lured the girl on the pretext of buying her snacks and took her to an isolated place near his house where he committed the offence. Later, he let her off, threatening her to keep the incident a secret. However, the girl narrated the ordeal to her parents after returning home in tears and upon her parents noticing injuries on her body. Later, based on a complaint by her parents, police registered a case under section 354(A) of IPC and relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act at Kruthivannu police station. Police sent the girl to Vijayawada Government General Hopsital (GGH) for a medical examination. Further investigation is still on. Police said the minor boy has been taken into custody for questioning and would soon be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/8-yr-old-girl-raped-by-class-10-student/articleshow/80886155.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Three youths from Vijayawada washed away at Marina Beach in Chennai||VIJAYAWADA: Three youngsters from Vijayawada were washed away while taking a swim at Marina Beach in Chennai on Thursday. The youths were identified as Sura Gopichand (18) from Adaviravulapadu of Nandigama mandal, Vakadani Akash (18) of Mallempadu village and Siva Balaji from Guntur. According to local police sources, the incident happened on Thursday and came to light on Friday after the dead body of one of the youths was washed ashore. Cops soon identified him as Siva Balaji and learnt that two others were missing. Chennai police began conducting a search operation across the beach area. Sources said that a group of five friends went to Chennai on February 8 seeking admission at an engineering college. After completing the counselling procedure, they decided to visit Marina Beach. Cops have shifted Siva Balaji’s body to Royapettah Government Hospital for autopsy. Search operations are still on for the remaining youngsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-youths-washed-away-at-marina-beach/articleshow/80886186.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Chennai||PM Narendra Modi in Chennai tomorrow, to hand over Army tank, launch projects||CHENNAI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is visiting Chennai on February 14, will hand over the indigenously designed and developed Arjun main battle tank (MK-1A) to the Indian Army. Designed, developed and manufactured by Combat Vehicles Research and Development Establishment (CVRDE) Chennai, DRDO along with 15 academic institutions, eight labs and several MSMEs, Arjun MK1A has completed all modifications and tests for the army. The army had placed an order for 118 tanks. The Prime Minister will inaugurate and lay foundation stones for a slew of projects at 11.15am at a function. He will inaugurate the Chennai metro rail phase-1 extension, the 22.1km fourth rail line between Chennai Beach and Attipattu among others. He will lay the foundation stone for the extension and modernisation of the Grand Anicut Canal System and a ‘discovery campus’ of IIT-Madras at Thaiyur. The Prime Minister will spend around three hours in the city. He will arrive by a special aircraft around 10.35am and will attend a grand function at Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium from 11.15am to 12.30pm. He will leave for Kochi around 1.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pm-narendra-modi-in-chennai-tomorrow-to-hand-over-army-tank-launch-projects/articleshow/80890337.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Four held for gangrape in Andhra Pradesh's Kadapa town||VIJAYAWADA: Cops on Friday arrested four persons including a rowdy sheeter for allegedly gang-raping a 32-year-old woman at Indira Nagar area in Kadapa town. The main accused was identified as R Satish, a rowdy sheeter and three of his associates – Sheikh Khadar (22), Tirumala Mahesh Kumar (22) and Devatala Sushant (22). Addressing the media, deputy superintendent of mahila police Shaukat Ali said that the incident happened on February 8 when the four accused kidnapped the woman at knife point while she was returning home after dropping her sister at RIMS Hospital. They then took her in a car to Balijapalli Smasana Vatika (cremation grounds) in the outskirts of the city and took turns in raping the woman. Cops said that they had also attempted to kill her in the process and later left the place. After which, she directly approached CK Dinne Police Station where a case was registered. Cops said that all the accused have been charged for rape, kidnaping, attempt murder and relevant sections of SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/four-held-for-gangrape-in-kadapa-town/articleshow/80886208.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 82 cops booked for smuggling liquor||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewed the Special Enforcement Bureau’s (SEB) performance and sought more honest officers to be deputed in the department after taking note that 82 police personnel have been arrested for smuggling liquor and sand so far. In the review meeting held at the secretariat, Jagan said that there shouldn’t be any scope for corruption and ensure better results in the next 15 days. He also asked the SEB officials to conduct reviews regularly and provide incentives to efficient SEB staff. Overall, 240 government employees have been booked and police personnel account for 33%. Jagan said to investigate and act as soon as information is received about any irregularities. He added that SEB should raid vigorously and focus on illicit liquor being smuggled in vehicles from neighbouring states. SEB commissioner Vineet Brijlal briefed the chief minister that since its inception in May, 2020, they have so far registered 79,632 cases against illegal liquor smuggling. From these cases, officials said that they have seized 4.85 lakh liters of alcohol, 12,766 liters of beer, 4.54 lakh liters of country liquor, 2.85 kgs of black jaggery, 22,715 vehicles and destroyed 1.12 crore litres of fermented jaggery wash. With regard to sand, 7,244 cases are registered, seized 4.79 lakh ton of sand, 9,689 vehicles and cases were registered against 22 government employees involved in irregularities of sand. Apart from liquor and sand, other enforcement achievements include seizure of 1 lakh kilograms of ganja, 90 lakh packets of banned gutka produce, 1,120 red sandalwood logs and Rs 4.92 crore of money is seized by raiding on poker camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/82-cops-booked-for-smuggling-liquor/articleshow/80886228.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Tourists rejoice as wintry weather continues in Vizag||Visakhapatnam: Wintry weather conditions continue to prevail in Visakhapatnam as the district reports temperatures below 10°C. Officials of the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) say that the chilly weather is driving up tourism in the district. APTDC Visakhapatnam divisional manager TG Prasad Reddy said, “We have not seen this kind of weather in the last few years. This is the first time we are seeing such high demand in tourist places like Lammasingi in February. This is because of the wintry weather.” Rooms at hotels and resorts are booked, Reddy added. The tourism corporation official further said that APTDC has so far earned Rs 13 crore as of date against the average Rs 35 crore this fiscal. “The loss is attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic. We were able to cover Rs 13 crore in revenue in December, January and February,” the official added. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) director for Andhra Pradesh said that the wintry weather conditions in February in certain parts of Visakhapatnam Agency are due to the presence of northerly and north-easterly winds. “Even some areas in Rayalaseema registered minimum temperatures below average in February. Some areas even reported fog,” added Stella. Meanwhile, an APSRTC bus met with an accident in Vizianagaram district recently as the driver lost control over the vehicle due to the foggy weather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tourists-rejoice-as-wintry-weather-continues-in-vizag/articleshow/80886258.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||Vaccinating 10 lakh 60+ people by April can help Mumbai reopen fully, says TIFR||MUMBAI: The Covid-19 graph in the city has a “long tail” and vaccinating people aged over 60 years and those with severe co-morbidities in the March-April period could help unlock the city completely. “We need to expedite the vaccination process to cover them at the earliest,” said Dr Sandeep Juneja, dean of the School of Technology and Computer Science at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR). ‘More building residents getting infected of late’According to the Centre, the third phase of vaccination (after four lakh healthcare and frontline workers) in the city will cover 30 lakh people aged over 50 and those aged over 18 with comorbidities. In an interview with TOI, Juneja, who was associated with BMC’s Covid-19 sero surveys conducted in June-August 2020, said first targeting an estimated 10 lakh individuals aged 60-plus which has emerged as the age group that is most susceptible to Covid—would be more beneficial for the community. “We can then fully start schools and offices without the fear of taking the virus home,” he said. The vaccination process has gained urgency due to the surge in cases in the city over the past three days. Cases had dropped to 300-400 a day in January but have risen to over 500 now. Some have blamed the rise on the restarting of trains for all on February1. Juneja said according to the TIFR model projections, an increase in the number of people travelling on trains would lead to a mild spike in cases and the situation should be closely watched for another week or two. For a few months now people have been travelling to work daily in crowded buses and trains. “Trains may have led to a small increase. However, I don’t anticipate cases to balloon. They are not expected to go beyond 700 or 800 (a day),” said Juneja. His team has worked on several projections for the Covid curve in Mumbai. The best case scenario is associated with vaccination of the elderly by April. “The story of Mumbai is that slums largely got infected early on in April and May 2020. We are not seeing cases coming in from there,” said the doctor. During the lockdown, though, large pockets of Mumbai, mainly buildings, were protected because people didn’t step out or, if they did, they observed social distancing and wore masks. “These are the people who are getting infected now, but at a slower rate. As they make up for a large population, we are seeing a longish tail for Covid-19 in Mumbai,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vaccinating-10-lakh-60-people-by-april-can-help-mumbai-reopen-fully-says-tifr/articleshow/80890350.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 13, 2021||Business||‘Indian rich top world in looking to leave country’||MUMBAI: The Covid may have put international travel plans on the backburner but it has not stopped high net-worth individuals (HNWIs) from shopping for new countries to set up base in — either as long-term residents or citizens. In 2020, wealthy Indians again topped the list of those making enquiries for ‘residence-by-investment’ or ‘citizenship-by-investment’ programmes. The number of enquiries rose from 2019, said a facilitating agency. Since India does not permit dual citizenship, opting for ‘citizenship by-investment’ means giving up one’s Indian passport. The combination of Covid and political turmoil saw the US, in sixth place in 2019, shoot up to the second slot. About 7,000 wealthy Indians left country in 2019, says reportThe third, fourth and fifth spots in terms of enquiries made were taken up by Pakistanis, South Africans and Nigerians, respectively. These details were shared with TOI by Henley & Partners, a global firm engaged in residence and citizenship planning. As per ‘Global Wealth Migration Review’, issued by New World Wealth, a wealth intelligence firm, Indians were the second largest contingent among the millionaire category to move overseas. Nearly 7,000 wealthy Indians (comprising 2% of the HNWIs) left the country during 2019. It appears that the interest is not waning. “We saw a 62.6% increase in the number of enquiries received from Indians in 2020 as compared to 2019. The base for 2019 was over 1,500 enquiries,” Nirbhay Handa, director and head of global South Asia team, Henley & Partners, told TOI. Investment-linked migration programmes do not come cheap, but for many, it is much more than just owning a luxury home in an exotic location. It could also mean spreading family assets across several jurisdictions or obtaining better access to a region — say European Union. As per Henley & Partners, the top investment-linked residence and citizenship programmes that Indians enquired about in 2020 were Canada Residency, Portugal Residency, Austria Residency and Austria’s Citizenship programme, Malta Citizenship and Turkey Citizenship. Historically, US, Canada, UK and Australia have been favourites among Indians. “Canada and Australia are key contenders, (but) the processing time for these programmes has become long and the investment amounts higher over time, so Indian HNWIs understand limitations,” says Handa. The interests of wealthy individuals in India and NRIs differ — the latter is more inclined to opt for ‘citizenshipby-investment’ programmes. The former, with overseas business interests, typically look at European ‘residenceby-investment’ options. The Portugal Golden Residence Permit Program, which requires a minimum investment of Euro 3,50,000 in real estate, is Europe’s most popular programme. NRIs tend to opt for European citizenship programmes. “Aside from the added benefit of better mobility (Austria’s passport, for instance, offers visa-free travel to 187 destinations), the citizenship programmes offered by Malta and Austria also provide the option of settlement anywhere in EU,” says Handa. International finance centres like Dubai, Hong Kong and Singapore have a large population of professional NRIs. If they are unable to get permanent residency or citizenship in these countries, they keep their options open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-rich-top-world-in-looking-to-leave-country/articleshow/80890334.cms||Lubna Kably
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||ICMR forms committee to allow MBBS+PhD holders as scientists||NAGPUR: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), New Delhi, has constituted an eight-member committee to consider amendments in health research scientist cadre rules, 2007. The committee will decide how to revise the existing rules and make medical student, who has done PhD after completion of MBBS, eligible for the post of scientist in grade E, F, G, H, director and director general (DG) of the apex body. Interestingly, a person completing PhD after traditional postgraduation degree in science (MSc) can apply for the same posts, but the rules were not allowing MBBS+PhD holder for these posts. TOI Nagpur, on December 16, 2020, had highlighted this issue after a city student organization raised objections over the selection criteria. “MBBS is considered equivalent to MSc/ masters level as far as academics is concerned. So, MBBS+PhD holders must get opportunity to become scientists in ICMR,” said Dr Siddhant Bharne, president of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar National Students Federation, Nagpur. “We are thankful that TOI raised the issue and we could create national awareness among MBBS+PhD holders through it. Finally, the committee has been formed and we are confident that it will do justice,” he added. Though MBBS is an undergraduate degree, medicos aspiring to go for PhD are allowed after completion of the course. This makes it equivalent to postgraduate degree in general sciences. ICMR had published several vacancies for scientist posts in December. But, the advertisement had clearly stated that the posts are only for MD/MS in medical field, thus making MBBS+PhD holders ineligible to apply. The committee constituted under the chairmanship of Dr VM Katoch, former DG of ICMR, will not only make way for MBBS+PhD candidates to become scientists, but also suggest amendments to include BDS/MDS candidates in the discipline of dental positions. Even master of public health, pharma D, and other degree holders will also be considered on scientific positions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/icmr-forms-committee-to-allow-mbbsphd-holders-as-scientists/articleshow/80886467.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 13, 2021||Mumbai||After B S Koshyari row, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray skips helipad at Raj Bhavan||MUMBAI: A day after governor B S Koshyari was denied permission to use state aircraft for an official visit to Uttarakhand, CM Uddhav Thackeray on Friday took off for his tour of Jawhar in Palghar district from the helipad at Mahalaxmi Racecourse instead of the one at Raj Bhavan which he has been using ever since he became CM. On his return too, he landed at the racecourse. Though a senior state official said the reason for the change was not known and it would be wrong to link it to the row over the governor’s flight, the worry apparently in the corridors of power was that Raj Bhavan might refuse per mission to use the helipad there. “In anticipation, the CM took the decision,” another senior official said. In Jawhar, Uddhav takes a dig at BJPSpeaking to mediapersons in Jawhar, Thackeray did not reply to a question on the controversy over the governor’s flight but said that there is a potential to construct airstrips in Jawhar and other areas so that aircraft can take off and land. The denial of nod to Koshyari, despite Raj Bhavan’s application for permission on February 2, has resulted in the deepening of the rift between the governor and the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi. In Jawhar, Thackeray took a jibe at the BJP, saying that simply carving out a district was not enough as it needs to be developed as well. He said his government was keen on developing the district which was carved out of Thane district in 2014. The chief minister met health workers, anganwadi workers and children and later held a review meeting with district officials. He said Jawhar could be developed as a hill station and added that the development of tribals was important, as was the protection of their culture. Asked what was discussed at the review meeting with district officials, the CM asked whether he should reveal what was discussed behind closed doors. Union home minister Amit Shah, during a visit last weekend to Konkan, had spoken about the Shiv Sena’s claim that the BJP had broken its promise of sharing the CM’s post after the October 2019 assembly polls. Shah had said that whatever he did was in the open and not behind closed doors, and that he had never promised the Sena that the CM’s post would be rotational. -Inputs by Sandhya Nair||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-b-s-koshyari-row-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-skips-helipad-at-raj-bhavan/articleshow/80890364.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||PDKV gets national award, adjudged best agricultural university||NAGPUR: Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV), Akola, has brought laurels to the region once again. The PDKV has won national award in agriculture education — ‘Krishi Shiksha Samman Puraskar’ — instituted by Mahindra Samruddhi Foundation, an initiative of Indian multinational auto major Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd. Not only this, but the PDKV has also been adjudged best agriculture university in the country. Though the award was announced in March, 2020, it could not be handed over due to Covid-19 situation. “Instituted in 2011, Mahindra Samruddhi India Agri Awards have emerged as the country’s leading honour in agriculture sector. We honour the real heroes of Indian agriculture,” said Roshan Mahatme, divisional manager of Mahindra and Mahindra group. The awards are given in a grand function traditionally. But, it was scaled down in 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic, he said. The PDKV is an unsung hero of Vidarbha’s challenging agriculture scenario. The university has made contributions that brought a difference in the field of Vidarbha’s farming,” he added. PDKV vice-chancellor Dr Vilas Bhale received the award in Akola. “PDKV’s explanatory work in dealing with the bollworm attack on Vidarbha’s cotton farms played an important role in getting this award. I dedicate it to the coordinated efforts of various departments, students of the university, and villagers who cooperated with our scientists,” said Bhale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pdkv-gets-national-award-adjudged-best-agri-varsity/articleshow/80886514.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Dirty water seeps into Calangute water line||CALANGUTE: Water supply to parts of Calangute has been affected following seepage of contaminated water into the pipeline network in Umtawaddo and Cobrawaddo areas. Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martins said that though efforts have been made to rectify the problem, they’ve still not been able to locate the exact spot where the contaminated water is entering the water pipeline. “PWD workers are checking all the internal roads and areas through which the pipeline passes. It appears that someone’s soak pit has overflown or dirty water from a drain has seeped through a crack in the pipeline,” said Martins. Meanwhile, water supply to the area has been stopped to avoid a health hazard. Martins said water is being supplied through PWD water tankers, while many have made their own private arrangements. “We’re co-ordinating the work of rectification with minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo, who is monitoring the situation on a daily basis. He has called senior officials from the PWD and experts for a meeting on Friday evening to find a solution,” he said. The contaminated water was first detected almost one month ago, according to president of Calangute Constituency Forum Premanand Divkar, who lives in the area. “Some days the water stinks, but sometimes it is clear and then it becomes muddy,” he said. Divkar said many release sewage into the drains when their soak pits overflow and that sewage then seeps into the ground. “It will be very difficult to find out where exactly it has entered the water pipeline because there are so many connections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dirty-water-seeps-into-calangute-water-line/articleshow/80889476.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Booking blues for Bor tourists||NAGPUR: Tourists making online bookings for entry to the Bor Tiger Reserve (BTR) are facing the problem of plenty due to glitches in online bookings. According to several guides and tourists, when they make online bookings, most of the times the amount is deducted but the ticket is not generated depriving them of entry. “Besides, the money deducted is also not being refunded for a long time. My two refunds of December are still pending. The problem started in December,” said one of the guides. “On request from regular tourists, many times we make online bookings on their behalf but as the ticket is not generated they do not report and pay us,” said a guide. “There have been occasions when tourist who had booked online tickets reach the entry gate assuming that the transaction was successful but are denied entry,” he added. Guides pointed out that as per the rules, no online booking should be allowed for the next day safari after 5pm, but it has been found that tourists can book a ticket even after 5pm. “But when they book tickets, money is deducted but a ticket is not generated,” said Ravindra Bhoyar, a tourist. On the contrary, online booking in-charge Dilip Borkar says, “There were some technical problems owing to server problem all over. However, there are no glitches now and we have refunded money till February 3.” Borkar added, “Every day, at least 50 online bookings are being done by Gorewada tourists and there are no problems. The issue of Bor is for the strike period in December by the guides in support of the attack on foresters. During the three-day strike many tourists had to return. Unless park managers intimate me about refund during the strike period I won’t be able to pay.” However, guides said refund is pending apart from the strike period for which RFO Nilesh Gawande is following up with officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/booking-blues-for-bor-tourists/articleshow/80886557.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 13, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Woman, fiance kill ex who was stalking, threatening her||GHAZIABAD: A second-year BCom student, who had been invited to a party by his former girlfriend last week, was found murdered in a house in Vaishali Sector-4 on Wednesday. Police said the youth, Nitin Chaudhary (26), had been threatening his ex-girlfriend and pressuring her to get married to him, even though she had moved on and was engaged to another man, Sunny. The woman plotted with Sunny, a history sheeter, and one of his friends to invite Nitin to the party on February 6, where they drank together till Nitin was forced to be drunk and then killed. Vinod Kumar, a 56-year-old Delhi government clerk and a Shahdara resident, has been arrested in connection with the murder. Efforts are on to nab the woman and her fiance, police said on Friday. In fact, cops recovered Nitin's body on February 10 after neighbours informed them of a foul smell emanating from the Vaishali flat. "A team from the local police station rushed to the spot and broke open the door of the locked flat to find the body lying in the kitchen, wrapped in a bed sheet," Anshu Jain, circle officer of Indirapuram, said. Initial investigation revealed that the flat belonged to one of Vinod's friends. The friend told cops that he had given the keys to Vinod for renting it out. "We called Vinod for questioning at the Kaushambi police station on Thursday. Initially he tried to mislead us but when we found the flat's keys in his possession, Vinod confessed to his involvement in the murder and spilled the beans. He also identified the victim," the CO said. Vinod told police that Nitin had been in a relationship with the 25-year-old woman for the past four years but two months back, her family fixed her marriage with Kulvinder Singh (32), alias Sunny, a resident of Yamuna Vihar, Delhi. After her engagement with Sunny, the woman severed her ties with Nitin. "But the victim kept on threatening her via messages. So she plotted with Sunny and his friend to get rid of Nitin."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-woman-fiance-kill-ex-who-was-stalking-threatening-her/articleshow/80890370.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||Vaccine antibodies to last for at least 8 months: AIIMS director||NAGPUR: In what could bring confidence to people hesitating in taking the jab, AIIMS director Dr R Guleria has said that antibodies developed from Covid vaccine will last for at least eight months. Two days ago, ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) had said research was underway to understand the duration of immunity provided by the vaccine being administered in the country. To clear confusion among the masses regarding Covid vaccines, the MoHFW, through Covid India Seva, is replying to queries raised by citizens on its official Twitter handle. City lawyer Ankita Shah had asked how long the protection offered by two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — will sustain in the body. Dr Guleria replied that a good amount of antibodies “will develop about 14 days after the second shot of the vaccine.” “It is not clear how long the protection will last, but it is believed to last for at least eight months or may be longer,” he said. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “The statement of Dr Guleria will encourage more health care, frontline workers and even common people to take the jab. It is said that antibodies developed after infection last for 3-5 months or more. If antibodies developed after vaccination protect us for eight months or more, it will be a major success of the vaccination programme. Vaccine of swine flu used to work for one year. There are even chances that immunity developed from the vaccine will sustain for one year or more.” As reported by TOI, one of the major reasons behind 40% health care workers not taking the jab was lack of clarity on duration of antibodies developed after taking the vaccine. Dr Guleria added that after two doses, “you are protected. But for protecting others would need you to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.” Dr Guleria said people above 50 years of age and those between 20-50 years but with comorbidities will get the vaccine from March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vax-antibodies-to-last-for-at-least-8-months-aiims-director/articleshow/80886583.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 13, 2021||Goa||‘Will aim to grant 2-3 acres plot to rural landless’||Vasco: Union minister of state for social justice Ramdas Athawale on Friday said that his party, Republican Party of India, will organise a Bhumi Mukti Andolan on February 25 across the country, including Goa, demanding five acres of land for every Below Poverty Line (BPL) family in rural areas. The land is meant to help landless families survive through agriculture. “Goa does not have sufficient land and so, at least, two-three acres of land can be given,” he said. Athawale said he will be writing to chief minister Pramod Sawant to consider promotions for persons who come under the reserved categories. “The Maratha Samaj in Maharashtra is appealing for reservation and I feel that should be allotted to them. Even the Kshatriya Samaj should get at least 10-12% of reservation,” he said. Speaking about the ongoing farmers’ protests in the country, Athawale said the farm bills are aimed at empowering farmers. “These farmers elected Prime Minister Narendra Modi twice and so he will not work against their welfare. We are ready to talk and to make amendments, but the ‘kissan’ leaders are not ready for talks. We gave the permissions for all their rallies and in turn they insulted the national flag and attacked the police. If we had to not given them permission, they would have blamed the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-aim-to-grant-2-3-acres-plot-to-rural-landless/articleshow/80889293.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||Schools, colleges in Amravati shut; Hinganghat schools closed too||AMRAVATI/WARDHA: All schools (except Std X and Std XII classes) and colleges in Amravati have been ordered shut till February 28 in view of the spike in coronavirus cases. The Wardha collector also ordered closure of all schools in Hinganghat for a week after 76 students and one staffer of a private hostel tested positive for the virus over Wednesday and Thursday. Amravati district reported 2,632 cases in 12 days of February, with 1,043 of these coming in last three days. The district collector of Amravati on Friday ordered closure of all colleges in the district till February 28 in view of rising coronavirus cases. The Amravati municipal commissioner too later ordered all schools shut for the same duration, except Std X and Std XII classes. Collector Shailesh Naval said, “I have issued orders to close colleges from today.” Naval said a ban is in place on programmes without permission, save marriages with attendance of up to 50 guests. “All fairs, processions, rallies, cultural, religious and political rallies have been banned, even for the forthcoming February 19 Shiv Jayanti celebrations,” Naval said. Shiv Jayanti celebrations will be allowed as per government guidelines only, he said. Meanwhile in Wardha, 31 students of a hostel tested positive on Wednesday, with another 45 students and one staffer testing positive on Thursday. All the students are aged below 12 years, and all are under treatment and reported to be stable. The Spandan school and hostel is run by a private organization at Satefal Road, Hinganghat. A total of 292 students and 30 employees are residing in the hostel. All the students were tested after a student showed symptoms and his report came positive. Wardha collector Vivek Bhimanwar said one student was admitted to hospital while all others are undergoing treatment in an isolated room in the hostel. He said most students have mild symptoms while some have none. Bhimanwar said, “It is worrisome that despite all precautions, students tested positive.” He issued an order on Friday to close schools for a week across Hinganghat. Taluka health officer Dr Madhuri Kuchewar-Dighe said all students who tested positive are from the same hostel and same residential school. She asked parents and students of Hinganghat tehsil not to worry as all those testing positive have been isolated. Superintendent of Hinganghat sub-district hospital Dr Kishor Chacharkar said, “All students are in an isolation room at the hostel and stable. The students belong to poor and marginalized community of five districts in Vidarbha; Nagpur, Yavatmal, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur and Wardha.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-colleges-in-amt-shut-hinganghat-schools-closed-too/articleshow/80886604.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Mauvin inspects track doubling work||Vasco: Transport minister Mauvin Godinho on Wednesday inspected the stretch of the double-tracking along with senior officers of South Western Railways (SWR) at Dabolim. He instructed officials to undertake work for facilitating the double tracks. Godinho reviewed the various areas along the railway track alignment which will come under the double-tracking and expressed happiness to note that no houses or structures would be affected or demolished in Dabolim constituency. He directed them to carry out work of rail over bridge in Shanti Nagar at New Vaddem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mauvin-inspects-track-doubling-work/articleshow/80889328.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur woman stranded in Saudi Arabia since 2018 returns home, narrates ordeal||NAGPUR: Twelve days after TOI reported the ordeal of a Nagpur woman who was allegedly under house arrest in Saudi Arabia’s Al-Jouf province since 2018 after being duped by a travel agent, the victim, Kiran Manmothe, 55, reached home on Friday. Kiran had an emotional reunion with her family members at their Christian Colony, Mecosabagh, residence. Kiran got a job as a domestic help in Al-Jouf province on August 4, 2016, on a two-year contract for a monthly salary of Rs 23,000. “As per agreement, I was supposed to be paid Rs 12.42 lakh in four and a half years, instead I got merely Rs 1.55 lakh,” Kiran told TOI. TOI had published a report on January 31, 2021, narrating how her husband Pradip, sons Daniel and Yusuf, made a fervent plea to the top city authorities to rescue Kiran. The family alleged Kiran was lured into a lucrative job offer in Al-Jouf by a travel agent Varsha Nagdive. Before going there, Nagdive told her the employer has a seven room house and six members in the family. “When I reached there, I was shocked. There were 15 rooms and over 20 members in the family,” she said. Through Nagdive, a native of Al-Jouf province, hired Kiran as domestic help for two years and the bond expired in 2018. Kiran claimed that neither her bond period of two years was extended nor was she allowed to return home. “My employer alleged I had damaged six refrigerators, seven washing machines, 10 water heaters. Hence they denied me my due salary. The fact is that I had not broken even a single glass. Yet, I accepted the paltry amount they gave me hoping they would allow me to return home,” she said. Manmothe ran from pillar to post to rescue her from Saudi Arabia and had even met Maharashtra ministers Nitin Raut and Anil Deshmukh, but in vain. “However, after TOI published the news, Aam Aadmi Party in New Delhi approached the ministry of external affairs that helped us in Kiran’s rescue,” said AAP’s city president Kavita Singhal and party activist Prabhat Agrawal. “I have been under pressure from my employer’s family not to reveal the truth after the Indian Embassy in Saudi contacted me asking if I needed any help. They threatened me with police action if I revealed my ordeal,” she said. But Kiran mustered the courage which helped her come back without further delay. “In the past too I had been abroad to work as domestic help but never experienced such nightmare,” she recalled and showed her injury marks which were a testimony of the torture by her employer. Recently, they had even tonsured her head. Whenever they tortured her, the employer's family used to ask Kiran to behave like a wall. “It means I could not respond,” she said. During her stay, Kiran was never allowed to move out alone. “I only went with my employer,” she said. On Friday, Nagdive approached Kiran and asked for Rs 10,000 from her so that she could help her to get money back from her employer. Manmothe urged the ministry of external affairs to keep a track of those who have gone abroad for a certain period to earn a living. If the ministry does so, many people will not suffer like Kiran, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-woman-stranded-in-saudi-arabia-since-2018-returns-home-narrates-ordeal/articleshow/80886646.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 13, 2021||Goa||Dirty water seeps into Calangute water line||Calangute: Water supply to parts of Calangute has been affected following seepage of contaminated water into the pipeline network in Umtawaddo and Cobrawaddo areas. Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martins said that though efforts have been made to rectify the problem, they’ve still not been able to locate the exact spot where the contaminated water is entering the water pipeline. “PWD workers are checking all the internal roads and areas through which the pipeline passes. It appears that someone’s soak pit has overflown or dirty water from a drain has seeped through a crack in the pipeline,” said Martins. Meanwhile, water supply to the area has been stopped to avoid a health hazard. Martins said water is being supplied through PWD water tankers, while many have made their own private arrangements. “We’re co-ordinating the work of rectification with minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo, who is monitoring the situation on a daily basis. He has called senior officials from the PWD and experts for a meeting on Friday evening to find a solution,” he said. The contaminated water was first detected almost one month ago, according to president of Calangute Constituency Forum Premanand Divkar, who lives in the area. “Some days the water stinks, but sometimes it is clear and then it becomes muddy,” he said. Divkar said many release sewage into the drains when their soak pits overflow and that sewage then seeps into the ground. “It will be very difficult to find out where exactly it has entered the water pipeline because there are so many connections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dirty-water-seeps-into-calangute-water-line/articleshow/80888326.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Goa||Online lecture by Damodar Mauzo in Netherlands||MARGAO: Konkani writer, Damodar Mauzo, will deliver an online lecture on the topic ‘Freedom of expression is vital for literature’ at the Night of International Relations of the University of Groningen, Netherlands, on February 15, at 11.30 pm (IST). The event will be held on the online communication platform Samba Live (https://www.digitalsamba.com/). The event is organised by Clio, the study association of International Relations and International Organisation (IRIO) at the prestigious University of Groningen, the second oldest university of Netherlands, established in 1614. The lecture will be followed by a question-and-answer session. The lecture is open to all, but non-members need to sign up beforehand, a press note stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-lecture-by-mauzo-in-netherlands/articleshow/80889341.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||Coal case: Relief to CBI to probe beyond rail zones||Kolkata: The Calcutta high court on Friday allowed the CBI to probe the coal scam case anywhere in Bengal, beyond railway zones, without seeking the state’s consent. The HC, however, will hear the case again on April 27 to decide whether the agency can probe cases in Bengal even after the state has withdrawn its “general consent” in 2018. The Centre told the HC that should the court decide later on any other agency to probe the case, CBI will transfer all case records to that agency but pausing the probe now will lead to witnesses being “won over” and probe-related seizures and reports can be destroyed or tampered with. A division bench of justices Rajesh Bindal and Aniruddha Roy said, “Proper investigation cannot be carried out if the investigation in such cases is divided in parts, drawing lines on territories once the premier central agency is in the process of investigation. From a plain reading of the FIR, it cannot be suggested that the offence has been committed at one place as these are chain of events, which are interlinked with the railways and other officers, including those of paramilitary force, namely CISF, who are drawing salaries from the central government.” The HC added that “grant or withdrawal of consent by the state government for investigation of offences under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 will not have any effect on railway areas”. CBI draws its powers from this 1946 Act. The HC said in this specific case, “railway areas is one of the major parts of the investigation” and “it cannot be disputed that the property of railways is interconnected throughout the country”. The HC said law must be followed for every investigation. Referring to the petition filed by Anup Majee against the CBI probe, the court said Majee has no right to choose investigation agencies. “His only concern can be fair trial,” it said, adding that a fair probe in this case will not be prejudicial to his rights. Pleading for an interim relief to allow CBI to probe the case beyond railway areas in Bengal without fetters, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the HC, “In case finally this court comes to the conclusion that CBI had no jurisdiction to investigate the offence, the material collected by that time will be transferred to the investigating agency having jurisdiction to investigate. However, any delay in the process will certainly hamper the investigation as during the interregnum the witnesses may be won over or the case property or records destroyed or tampered with.”Bengal advocate-general Kishore Datta said the core issue was “constitutional scheme of federal system in our country”. Without “general consent”, he said: “No investigation for any offence committed within the territorial jurisdiction of the State of West Bengal can be carried out by the CBI.” He also said if the question was about stolen railway property, it was the RPF and not CBI who can probe the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/coal-case-relief-to-cbi-to-probe-beyond-rail-zones/articleshow/80889195.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||Dilip’s Durga remark draws TMC ‘insult’ fire||Kolkata: Ma Durga has arrived in poll-bound Bengal several months early. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Friday provided an opportunity to Trinamool Congress to hit out at him after he attempted to pitch Durga as a mythological Goddess vis-à-vis Lord Ram, a king who is considered an incarnation “Bhagvan Ram was a king. Some believe he was an incarnation. And you will get to know his 14 ancestors. Will you get the same for Durga? Durga was worshipped by Ram. Even Gandhiji referred to Ram Rajya to harp on good governance,” Ghosh said. Trinamool reacted immediately, calling the remark “This was shocking”. Party MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said: “I am very shocked. How can anyone question Durga? How can anyone disregard such a revered Goddess? This is an insult to all Hindus.” In a statement, Trinamool said: “It is unthinkable. Devi Durga is our mother, strength, inspirtion. Those who claim to protect and support Hinduism have insulted Devi Durga.” Ghosh later questioned Trinamool’s habit of mixing of politics and religion and vice versa religion with politics. “Durga Puja is done by every Bengali household. We do not need sermons from a party that forces people to knock on doors of courts for permission for Durga immersions. All because it coincides with Muharram. This is unfortunate. They are bereft of any ideology.” He added: “They say Ram is alien to Bengal and yet at least one child in every three generations in every Bengal household is named Ram. Even Ramayana was later written in Bengal.” Both Ghosh and Dastidar were speaking at a conclave organised by a media group in Kolkata. In her rebuttal, Dastidar said: “People do not need lectures in Hinduism from BJP. First, they need to learn to respect women.” The increased political focus pitch on Durga and Ram comes as BJP is trying to fuse Durga into its Ram narrative in Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilips-durga-remark-draws-tmc-insult-fire/articleshow/80889253.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||Trivedi tells RS he’s ‘feeling stifled’ in TMC, quits on floor||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress MP Dinesh Trivedi resigned from Rajya Sabha on Friday, saying he was “feeling stifled” and his “conscience” told him to resign as MP and “go and work for the people of Bengal and India”. Trivedi’s resignation came in dramatic fashion in the Upper House after the time allotted to Trinamool Congress to respond to the Union Budget. He parroted several lines that BJP leaders have been using to describe Trinamool, including the charge that it is being “run by corporates”, indicating that he is headed out of Trinamool and towards BJP. Trivedi did not spell out his political future till Friday evening. “I am with myself,” he said. “Had I wanted to be in the RS, why would I resign?” he said when asked whether he was eyeing the March 1 Rajya Sabha election from Gujarat (where two seats were vacant). Trinamool reminded Trivedi that he felt “stifled” immediately after his loss in the 2019 Lok Sabha poll and added he would feel “stifled” in BJP if he did not get what he was looking for. Party leaders said the resignation would give the party an opportunity to send a “grassroots worker” to RS. Party RS chief whip Sabha Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said Trivedi had violated parliamentary procedures and he would ask the RS chairperson how an MP could speak when the party’s allotted time to respond to the budget was over. “I was not present when he managed the treasury benches and spoke out of turn. This violates all procedures,” Roy said. “And how frequently does one feel stifled? He felt the same way after he lost the LS poll. He is feeling similarly now.” Trivedi, after speaking of his “feeling stifled” and his “conscience”, lauded PM Narendra Modi’s leadership in dealing with the Covid crisis and referred to the political violence in Bengal. The Trinamool initially dubbed Trivedi’s move as “shocking and unfortunate” but sharpened its attack as the day wore on. He had been warned several times in the past three months for “speaking out of line”, Trinamool leaders said. “Loyalty is not transferable,” a party MP said, reminding Trivedi how Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee had “rehabilitated” him after his LS loss from Barrackpore. Trivedi’s social media posts, his reluctance to be a part of the Trinamool’s farm law protests and speaking out of line had cost him the party’s national spokesperson post earlier, Trinamool leaders said. “His defection will have no impact in Bengal even if he is fielded by the BJP,” a party MP said. The BJP said it had not yet approached Trivedi but he was “welcome” in the fight to unseat the Trinamool government. “It is difficult for honest and hard-working leaders to remain in the Trinamool. He has not broached it (joining the BJP) but, if he wants to, he is welcome,” Bengal party minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said several Trinamool leaders were feeling “claustrophobic”. BJP Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh, who defeated Trivedi in a bitter contest in 2019, said: “Whatever happened during the LS elections is in the past. Trivedi was only symbolic; my fight was against Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee. He is welcome to join the BJP in that fight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trivedi-tells-rs-hes-feeling-stifled-in-tmc-quits-on-floor/articleshow/80889542.cms||---
February 13, 2021||Kolkata||ED searches residence of cattle-smuggling accused||Kolkata: The Enforcement Directorate conducted a search on Friday at the residence of Binay Mishra, one of the accused in the cross-border cattle smuggling racket. Mishra, the agency has claimed, was absconding. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ed-searches-residence-of-cattle-smuggling-accused/articleshow/80889478.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 13, 2021||Ranchi||Shopkeeper stabbed by drug addicts in Ranchi||RANCHI: A shopkeeper was stabbed by three men on Friday for allegedly failing to provide them with hemp, police said. The trio — Sahid Ansari, Sajid Ansari and Razim Raja — has been arrested. “Victim Dhani Shankar Sahu, who owns a road-side hotel in an area under Chutia police station where the incident took place, has been in jail twice in the past for selling drugs,” city DSP Amit Singh said. Sahu is currently admitted at Guru Nanak hospital here. According to Sahu’s statement given to the police from the hospital, Sahid and Razim came to his shop and asked for the drug. When he told them that he does not sell it, the duo abused Sahu and left. They later came back with Sajid and attacked Sahu with utensils from his shop before stabbing him. Seeing this, the locals, who knew Sahu well, beat the assailants before handing them over to the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/shopkeeper-stabbed-by-drug-addicts-in-ranchi/articleshow/80886683.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
