February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Lock an object for romantic eternity on this Valentine's Day||Last year's lockdown is providing fodder to not just filmmakers who are vying to make films on the experience. Other people are also getting creative with the subject of lockdown. One such creative ideas is developed by a mall in city that has brought the concept of locked in love on the occasion of Valentine's Day. The experience not only intends sweeping the love birds off their feet but also bring back memories of travel enthusiasts. For the first time, the feel of Venice with the Venetian Bridge themed décor has been installed in the city. Known as the city of romance, the city of Venice radiates a unique old, antique charm with its canals, bridges, colourful arts, and its glorious history. To deliver the feeling of love right in the ambiance of Venice, the mall has done up its foyer in the shape of a Venetian bridge, giving photo opportunities. Another exciting activity here is that couples can lock an object on the heart shape installation. To mark the symbol of eternal love, the place will keep this heart shaped love-lock installation for infinite days at several prominent locations of the mall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lock-an-object-for-romantic-eternity-on-this-valentines-day/articleshow/80901955.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||Ashique set for return with a protective face mask||Panaji: Almost two months after undergoing surgery for multiple fractures to his face, Ashique Kuruniyan is expected to make a return to the field with a protective face mask against Mumbai City FC on Monday. The Bengaluru FC winger suffered a serious injury to his face during the Indian Super League (ISL) clash against Odisha FC on December 17. He was then moved to Bengaluru where a three-hour surgery was carried out by a maxillofacial surgeon. While the initial fears were that Kuruniyan would miss the entire ISL season, he has recovered sooner than expected and is now available for the team’s last three league matches, the first of which he is likely to start from the bench. “Ashique has started training with a specially-made protective face mask. We have to be a bit more careful with him since there are national team commitments as well. I think he should be available for the next game,” said Bengaluru FC CEO Mandar Tamhane. Bengaluru sourced three protective masks for Kuruniyan, including one from Spain. While abroad there have been plenty of instances – Petr Cech, Paul Gascoigne, Fernando Torres, Demba Ba and Ramires to name a few – Indian football hasn’t really seen a footballer with a mask. “We ordered one mask from Spain but there was a company in India which has done such masks for players in NBA and NFL. Ashique needs a mask to protect his cheek bone,” said Tamhane. When he returned to training, Ashique was initially uncomfortable with the first mask that he tried. The mask had just one strap above the ear, so the club spoke to the manufacturers and got another one customised to the star winger’s liking. He has been comfortable since then. “Happy to be back. The last two months have been very tough for me, unable to get on the field or be with my teammates and doing what I love. But, today I have trained with my team @bengalurufc and loved every second of having the ball at my feet. The road to recovery continues,” he posted on his Instagram account last week. Interim coach Naushad Moosa too has been encouraged with Kuruniyan’s return to the training field. “Ashique is doing well. He's started training with a mask and he's being careful. We don't want to risk playing Ashique because he's an important player for us, and for the national team. We are going to make sure he is in the best possible shape before he gets on the field again,” said Moosa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ashique-set-for-return-with-a-protective-face-mask/articleshow/80902489.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 14, 2021||India||NIA files supplementary charges against arrested Hizb commander||SRINAGAR: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday filed a supplementary charge sheet against arrested Hizbul Mujahideen commander Naveed Babu in the Banihal convoy attack case before the special court in Jammu. NIA had earlier filed charge sheets against seven Hizbul terrorists, including Naveed, for their role in the attack. An NIA statement said that the supplementary charge sheet against Naveed has been filed under relevant sections of Ranbir Penal Code (IPC), Explosive Substances Act, J&K Public Property (Prevention of Damage) Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. On March 30, 2019, a CRPF convoy was attacked by a terrorist at Tethar in Banihal in J&K’s Ramban district. The terrorist, who died on the spot, had attempted to ram an explosive-laden Santro car into the convoy, with the intention of killing security personnel and waging a war against the Government of India. Though no security personnel was killed in the attack, a case was registered at Banihal police station the same day. NIA re-registered the case on April 15, 2019 and took over the investigation of the case, the statement said. “Accused Naveed Mushtaq Shah alias Naveed Babu is an ex-constable of J&K Police. He had decamped with arms and ammunition in 2017, when he was posted as a guard at FCI, Budgam. After deserting the force, he had joined the Hizbul Mujahideen terror group and become an active militant,” the statement added. Investigation had established that Naveed was involved in the planning and execution of the Banihal attack along with six other Hizbul terrorists — Riyaz Ahmed Naikoo, Rayees Ahmed Khan, Dr Saifullah Mir, Sahil Abdullah Bhat, Adil Bashir Sheikh and Zubair Ahmed Wani — who were subsequently killed in encounters with security forces. It is these six and Naveed against whom NIA had earlier filed charge sheets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nia-files-supplementary-charges-against-arrested-hizb-commander/articleshow/80902663.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 14, 2021||India||Cracks in Gupkar alliance help independent win DDC chief’s post||SRINAGAR: Weeks after Sajad Lone's People's Conference pulled out of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), the coalition on Saturday suffered its second defeat in the battle for the chairpersonship of a district development council when cross-voting by its constituents enabled an independent candidate to trump her PDP rival in Baramulla. Victor Safeena Baig had been tipped to get the votes of six members – three from the People's Conference, two from Altaf Bukhari’s Apni Party and an independent member – but she ended up with 10. Her PDP rival Qurat-ul-Bashir received four votes despite the Gupkar alliance having a combined strength of seven in the 14-member council. The Gupkar alliance had been dealt a similar shock in the election to the Budgam DDC chief's post. Safeena's husband is PDP patron Muzaffar Hussain Baig, who has been critical of party chief Mehbooba Mufti in the past. The voting pattern in the election to the vice-chairperson's post appeared even more complicated. Sonullah Parray of People's Conference became the Baramulla DDC's first deputy chief by a draw of lots after he and independent member Irfan Lone were tied for votes. "The tie means three members who voted for Safeena didn't do the same for our candidate in the election to the deputy's post. Apni Party voted against us," a People's Conference functionary said. Elections to both posts had been adjourned on February 8 for lack of quorum after PAGD members abstained. The PAGD has so far won elections to the post of DDC chief in five districts of the Valley – Kulgam, Ganderbal, Pulwama, Anantnag and Bandipora— while losing to Apni Party-backed independents in Budgam and Baramulla. In Jammu, independents have wrested the posts of chairperson and vice-chairperson of the Poonch DDC. Voting is yet to take place in Ramban, Rajouri and Kishtwar, where the Gupkar alliance is theoretically poised to head the councils with support from Congress or independents. An uproar triggered by talk of dissent within National Conference and fears of cross-voting by Congress led to the authorities postponing Saturday's poll in Rajouri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cracks-in-gupkar-alliance-help-independent-win-ddc-chiefs-post/articleshow/80902687.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 14, 2021||India||Terrorist involved in killing BJP trio arrested||JAMMU: In a big catch for J&K police, a self-styled commander of The Resistance Force (TRF) wanted for the killing of three BJP functionaries and a cop in separate attacks in Kulgam last October was arrested in Samba district late Friday, IGP (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar said on Saturday. The capture of Zahoor Ahmad Rather comes a week after the arrest of Lashkar-e-Mustafa commander Hidayatullah Malik in Jammu’s Kunjwani area on February 6. Zahoor, alias Sahil, was part of the group of terrorists that shot dead BJP trio Fida Hussain Yatoo, Umer Rashid Beigh and Umer Ramzan Haja in Kulgam’s YK Pora locality on October 29. A resident of south Kashmir, Zahoor had moved to Samba to receive an arms consignment from Pakistan and was arrested from his rented accommodation in Bari Brahmana area during a joint raid by Anantnag and Samba Police, said sources. Zahoor had taken arms training in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in 2004 following which he infiltrated into India along with five foreign terrorists. He, however, surrendered in 2006, only to pick up arms again last year when he joined the Pakistan-backed TRF, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/terrorist-involved-in-killing-bjp-trio-arrested/articleshow/80902723.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 14, 2021||Guwahati||Earth falls on workers during railway construction work in Assam, 2 killed||GUWAHATI: Two workers were killed and four others injured when earth fell on them at a Road Under Bridge (RUB) construction site in the GuwahatiLumding section of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) on Saturday, an official said here. During construction of the tunnel between Panbari and Thakurkuchi stations, earth fell over labourers trapping nine of them, Chief Public Relations Officer of NFR, Subhanan Chanda, said. Seven of them were rescued with the help of local authorities but two labourers lost their lives, he said. Four workers who suffered serious injuries were taken to Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. The railway authorities are extending all help to the injured, Chanda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/earth-falls-on-workers-during-railway-construction-work-in-assam-2-killed/articleshow/80902750.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||India to organise another visit by foreign envoys to J&K||NEW DELHI: The government is likely to organise another visit by foreign ambassadors to Jammu and Kashmir this month, ToI has learnt. While the modalities are still being worked out, it is learnt that the group will comprise ambassadors from European and Gulf nations. The proposed visit follows India's February 5 move to restore 4G mobile internet services in the union territory (UT) exactly 18 months after India amended Article 370 to revoke the special status of the erstwhile state. India's decision to restore internet services was welcomed by the US as an important step for local residents. While maintaining that there's no change in the US South Asia policy, the Biden administration has said that it's looking forward to "continued political and economic progress" to restore normalcy in Jammu and Kashmir. The group of foreign envoys is also expected to interact with some of the newly elected District Development Council (DDC) members, with the government looking to highlight the turnout in the maiden DDC elections as a sign of the local people's faith in "grassroot democracy" and their rejection of any interference by external forces in, as the government says, India's internal matter. Security agencies are also expected to brief the envoys about the threat from cross-border terrorism that, as Indian authorities continue to maintain, is facilitated by Pakistan. The visit will also come at a time Pakistan is said to be making fresh peace overtures, starting with army chief Qamar Bajwa's comment that Pakistan wants to extend the hand of peace in all directions. Pakistan PM Imran Khan though has also said that India must first restore the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The ambassadors, who are likely to visit both Srinagar and Jammu, will form the third such delegation to visit the Valley since August 5, 2019, when the state was bifurcated into the separate UTs of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir. A group of 27 Members of European Parliament (MEPs) had visit Kashmir in October, 2019, at the invitation of a Delhi based think tank after they apparently expressed a desire to visit Kashmir to understand how terrorism was affecting India. A similar visit for Delhi based foreign envoys was organised by government authorities early next year. The government also clearly doesn't believe that such visits by foreign dignitaries can lead to internationalisation of the Kashmir issue. As the government said earlier, while defending the visit by MEPs, it believes such exchanges are consistent with India’s foreign policy objectives in promoting deeper people to people contact and ultimately help promote the larger relationship that India pursues with other countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-organise-another-visit-by-foreign-envoys-to-jk/articleshow/80902960.cms||Sachin Parashar
February 14, 2021||India||75% of poor households saw income drop as a result of road accidents, 42% forced to borrow: World Bank report||NEW DELHI: More than 75% of poor households in India, who were impacted by a road traffic crash, reported a decline in their income as a result of road accidents and nearly 42% of such households had to borrow to tide over the financial crisis, according to a World Bank report. According to the report, women bore the maximum burden of such road crashes across the low and high income households with about 50% severely affected by the decline in their household income and nearly 40% reporting a change in their working patterns post-crash. Another 11% reported taking up extra work to deal with the financial crisis. The report “Traffic Crash Injuries and Disabilities: The Burden on Indian Society” released by Union road transport minister Nirtin Gadkari on Saturday also found that 30% of the respondents in this study from low income families in Tamil Nadu and 44% in Maharashtra sold or mortgaged their assets to tide over the income loss and the burden of debt. The study conducted in collaboration with SaveLife Foundation, an NGO, covered 2,400 respondents from low and high income families across both urban and rural areas in Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Bihar. Most of the respondents were those whose one or more family members met with a road crash. It has found that low income households were three times more likely to seek financial help than their high income counterparts. Debt rates were also almost three times higher among the low income households compared to high income households. The report has also highlighted how the poor in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu fared better with a higher survivability rate of 75% compared to UP and Bihar that showed a survivability rate of 53%. This means ensuring quick access to trauma care can help the poor in a big way in saving lives in case of road crashes. The report comes barely a few months after IIT (Delhi) and DIMTS had submitted a report on the socio-economic cost of road crashes. TOI on September 27, had first reported how the report had estimated the total loss to the tune of Rs 5.9 lakh crore annually, which is 3.1% of the country’s GDP. While the last study took into account the loss due to death and injuries, the World Bank report has covered only the cost of crashes, which include medical expenses and loss of income. “This is an eye opening report. Simply shows how we need to work together to reduce crashes, injuries and deaths,” Gadkari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/75-of-poor-households-saw-income-drop-as-a-result-of-road-accidents-42-forced-to-borrow-world-bank-report/articleshow/80903160.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 14, 2021||India||Elderly show fewer post-vaccine symptoms than young: Study||MUMBAI: The elderly, who bore the brunt of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, have reacted with fewer symptoms after taking the vaccine against Covid-19 as compared to people in the 20-40 age group. This was the broad observation across the country 29 days after the vaccination drive started on January 16. Live updates: Coronavirus pandemicWith eight million healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated across the country by the end of Saturday, there are a range of observations that doctors’ associations and groups have made. For instance, most manage to make it to work despite suffering post vaccine symptoms, ranging from fatigue and headache to nausea. The majority of those vaccinated have some postvaccine symptom. Coronavirus pandemic: Complete coverageAlso, women are more likely than men to develop symptoms. The milder-symptoms-foraged theory has been confirmed by a study of 5,396 healthcare workers put together by the Kochi branch of the Indian Medical Association. Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, head of the epidemiology cell of Kochi IMA who conducted the study, said 947 of the respondents were over 60 years of age. The Kochi study, based on an online survey conducted between January 29 and February 4, also found that 66% of those vaccinated reported at least one post-inoculation symptom. The most reported symptoms were tiredness (45%), myalgia (44%), fever (34%), headache (28%), local pain at infection site (27%), joint pain (12%), nausea (8%) and diarrhoea (3%). The sharpest finding concerns the elderly who have accounted for almost 70% of mortalities caused by Covid-19 across the world. Infectious diseases specialist, Dr Tanu Singhal, from Kokilaben Ambani Hospital in Mumbai said, “People who are older have tolerated the vaccine better than younger people.” A doctor from a municipal hospital in central Mumbai said the elderly have had fewer symptoms of shorter duration. Incidentally, the WHO afew days ago recommended use of the Covishield vaccine in people aged 65 years and older despite the lack of evidence about its efficacy in the age group. “The chance of having symptoms decreased with advancing age. Older people also had later onset of symptoms, occurring at an average of 13.4 hours (70-79 years), compared to 10 hours in younger age groups (20-29 years) following vaccination,” Dr Jayadevan told TOI. About 80% of those who took the vaccine said the symptoms didn’t affect their work the next day. “Women were more likely to develop post-vaccination symptoms. This observation was consistent across all age groups,” said the study, which is in pre-print stage. A sticky topic has been the reaction among recovered Covid-19 patients who took the vaccine: while some doctors said recovered patients showed more symptoms after the vaccine, the study from Kochi hasn’t found this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/elderly-show-fewer-post-vaccine-symptoms-than-young-study/articleshow/80903239.cms||---
February 14, 2021||World||Trump, after acquittal, says movement 'has only just begun'||WASHINGTON: Former US president Donald Trump on Saturday welcomed his acquittal in the US Senate on an impeachment charge and said his political movement "has only just begun." "Our historic, patriotic and beautiful movement to Make America Great Again has only just begun," Trump said in a statement. "In the months ahead I have much to share with you, and I look forward to continuing our incredible journey together to achieve American greatness for all of our people," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-impeachment-trial-part-of-greatest-witch-hunt-in-the-history-of-our-country/articleshow/80903467.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||Statehood for J&K once development on track: Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday said that dilution of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir was not patently unconstitutional, else it would have been stayed by the Supreme Court. He also “assured” that statehood would be restored once development was put on track. Shah was responding to a debate on a bill which provides for the merger of the J&K cadre of IAS and IPS with the AGMUT cadre. Shah pointed to Congress’s opposition to the legislation and said that it had avoided taking a clear stance and has refrained from joining the challenge in the Supreme Court. Shah also said that the UT had seen record development during the last 17 months. He was responding to the opposition’s charge in the Lok Sabha that the government had failed to fulfil its promises. The around-five-hour-long debate on the J&K Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, cleared by avoice vote, generated a strong clash between the government and the opposition led by Congress. The home minister said Congress had no right to ask the government about development done in the last 17 months when “it had not given account of its work over 70 years in power”. In a televised address to the nation on August 8, 2019 after Parliament cleared the reorganisation of J&K, PM Modi had said: “As Jammu & Kashmir will see more and more development, I do not think it will remain a Union territory for long. Ladakh will remain the UT.” National Conference, DMK, Trinamool Congress and MIM slammed the abrogation of Article 370 while Congress’ Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said it was done without preparation. They argued that development had taken a backseat in the last 17 months while human rights violations were rampant. They repeatedly stated that the merger of J&K cadre with AGMUT cadre implied that the government intended to keep J&K as a Union territory. Chowdhury also mocked the government for “forgetting” its promise to Kashmiri Pandits. National Conference MP Hasnain Masoodi and Congress MP Manish Tewari said amending the J&K Reorganisation Bill, which was under constitutional challenge in the Supreme Court, was uncalled for. Tewari asked the government to urge the SC to start daily hearings to settle the challenge. Shah said “three families” and Congress kept giving people the “lollipop” of Article 370 and 35A and did not work for their health, jobs and education. He said post-370, important laws like on Dalit reservations and anti-corruption had been implemented. He said rumours about land laws and domicile had proved wrong while helping industrialisation. “Those who ruled for generations should introspect if they are capable of asking questions," he said in his long reply to the debate. The minister criticised MIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi for “seeing administration and officers through Hindu-Muslim lens”. Watch Statehood for J&K once development on track: Union home minister Amit Shah||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/statehood-for-jk-once-development-on-track-amit-shah/articleshow/80903502.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||SC: Right to protest can’t be anytime, everywhere||NEW DELHI: Holding that there cannot be a right to protest "anytime and everywhere" and rights of other people affected cannot be neglected, the Supreme Court has refused to re-examine its Shaheen Bagh verdict in which it had said public roads could not be blocked during the protest. The SC order comes in the midst of a prolonged protest by farm unions opposed to new farm laws at Delhi borders since November. Residents in these areas have protested barricades and restrictions affecting their movement and livelihoods. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari said there may be some spontaneous protests at public places but there could not be continued occupation of a place by protesters. It dismissed the review petition of a Shaheen Bagh resident Kaniz Fatima and others seeking review of the October 7 verdict. "We have considered the earlier judicial pronouncements and recorded our opinion that the Constitutional scheme comes with a right to protest and express dissent but with an obligation to have certain duties. The right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere. There may be some spontaneous protests but in case of prolonged dissent or protest, there cannot be continued occupation of public place affecting the rights of others. Accordingly, the review petition is dismissed," the court said . The court dismissed the review petition of one Shaheen Bagh resident Kaniz Fatima and others seeking review of last year's verdict of October 7. The top court also refused the plea to grant open court hearing on its review plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-right-to-protest-cant-be-anytime-everywhere/articleshow/80903518.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||Shiv Sena says Maharashtra governor acting like 'BJP puppet'; seeks recall||MUMBAI: Saamna has urged the Centre to recall Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for "trampling upon" the values that characterise his high office. Accusing Koshyari of being the BJP's "puppet," Saamna, in an editorial on Saturday, said the Centre should not place the gun on the governor's shoulder to target the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) regime in the state. "If the Union home ministry has any respect for the Constitution and rules, it should recall the governor before he further exposes himself," said the Sena mouthpiece. The face-off between the MVA government and Koshyari took an ugly turn when the former denied the governor use of the state-owned statecraft for his official trip to Dehradun on Thursday. The incident sparked fresh tension in political circles, and former CM Devendra Fadnavis slammed the MVA government for showing disrespect to the governor's office. Koshyari and his entourage reached the Kalina terminal and the governor boarded the state's Cessna Citation XLS aircraft too. However, he was told that there was no nod from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for use of the aircraft. The governor later took a commercial flight to Dehradun. Saamna clarified that the CM's office had denied permission one day prior to Koshyari's trip to Dehradun. "Why did Raj Bhavan lead the governor to the aircraft?" asked Saamna. Criticising Fadnavis, who described the unsavoury episode as proof of the MVA government's growing "ego," Saamna said, "In fact, the Modi government reeks of ego as it has refused to withdraw the farm bills despite deaths of agitating farmers."Saamna criticised Koshyari for not putting his seal of approval to names of 12 members who have been recommended by the MVA government as governor's nominees to the state legislative council. Pointing out that Koshyari has been impinging on principles that define his duty as governor, Saamna said, "The governor is being made to dance to the BJP's tune... He holds a high office and it is his solemn responsibility to uphold the prestige and dignity of the office." "The final act of the BJP's decline has begun and the governor is playing the villain," remarked the paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/recall-maharashtra-governor-koshyari-acting-like-bjp-puppet-says-shiv-sena-mouthpiece/articleshow/80903526.cms||Ambarish Mishra
February 14, 2021||Patna||Physiotherapy can prevent unnecessary surgeries: Doctor||PATNA: More than 400 physiotherapists from different parts of the world took part in ‘Physiocon’, which was inaugurated by Dr N R Biswas, the director of Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), on Saturday. The event will conclude on Sunday. Presenting their research papers, the experts pointed out that physiotherapy interventions should be provided to a stroke patient within the first 48 hours. They also claimed that Parkinson’s disease and compartment syndrome could be cured and many surgeries prevented with the help of physiotherapy. Senior therapist at the physiotherapy department of the IGIMS, Dr Ratnesh Chaudhary, recalled a case in which doctors did not chop off a compartment syndrome patient’s leg because of physiotherapy. “It can prevent unnecessary surgeries and help reduce the cost of treatment considerably,” he said at the event. Dr Rajiv Agarwal, who is the head of the neurophysiotherapy department at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Delhi (AIIMS-D), talked about the new guidelines for physiotherapy in case of a stroke. He said, “On an average, three patients are paralysed due to stroke every minute. Every district is supposed to have a stroke unit that comprises a physician, a physiotherapist and a nurse.” Another AIIMS-D doctor, Prabhat Ranjan, threw light on the new physiotherapy techniques for curing Parkinson’s disease. Dr Rohit Sinha, head of the physiotherapy department at the Institute of Physiotherapy-Bodh Gaya, delivered a lecture on the use of physiotherapy in the ICU. Dr Smita from Sitamarhi presented a research paper on physiotherapy techniques during pregnancy and delivery. IGIMS medical superintendent Dr Manish Mandal and dean Dr Raghavendra also spoke on the occasion. Health minister Mangal Pandey will attend ‘Physiocon’ on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/physiotherapy-can-prevent-unnecessary-surgeries-doctor/articleshow/80900900.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Patna||Bihar govt plans to develop web portal for job seekers soon||PATNA: The state labour resources department will soon develop an exclusive web portal for job seekers from Bihar to provide information related to vacancies in government departments across the country. State labour resources department minister Jibesh Kumar said on Saturday that the decision to develop a web portal was taken at a review meeting held with senior officials here on Friday. The minister said the portal, first-of-its-kind initiative in the state, would help the job seekers from state get relevant information about the vacancies on one platform. “The job seekers will have to register themselves on the portal digitally,” he added. Kumar said some officials were scared of the security of the web portal at the review meeting. “Since I am holding the IT portfolio as well, I think the problem of security of the proposed portal will be sorted out soon,” the minister said. Referring to the government’s initiatives for creating jobs, the minister said the state government was very serious about the job-related issues. “Every department has been asked to undertake the exercise for the purpose,” he said. The minister, however, made it clear that the recruitment process in government departments has undergone a sea change. “Earlier, recruitments were being done through employment exchanges. However, every department advertises the vacancies on its own these days,” he explained. In addition, the labour resources department is also trying to make the documentation and other loan related procedures easier for returnee migrants so that they can start small businesses. “While there is a provision of grant of Rs 5 lakh for skilled labourers, another Rs 5 lakh is being given at a low-interest rate,” the minister said. “We are in the process of making a cluster of skilled migrant workers who returned home from different states during the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. This will help create more job opportunities,” he added. “We will develop a single-window system to make the process of payment to workers transparent. Manual work will not be allowed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-plans-to-develop-web-portal-for-job-seekers-soon/articleshow/80901237.cms||Ramashankar
February 14, 2021||Patna||Lovebirds buy special gifts for each other||PATNA: With Valentine’s Day falling on Sunday, lovebirds have planned outings and bought special gifts for their partners. It is an epitome of romance and love and is celebrated all over the world. Data analyst Vaibhav Sharma will gift his wife new products from her favourite skincare brand. “Valentine’s Day is a reminder of the happiness that love brings in our lives,” he told this newspaper on Saturday. Unlike Vaibhav, Kankarbagh resident Rahul Mishra does not believe in exchanging gifts. He will, therefore, spend time with his partner on Valentine’s Day. A Patliputra Colony resident, who did not wish to be named, said, “My wife and I will play video games together and stay at home.” Valentine’s Day has different meanings for different age groups. Septuagenarian Ashok Singh claimed, “In our times, it was not easy to declare one’s love openly for someone. But now, people enjoy freedom of expression.” He added, “My granddaughter calls me her valentine. She draws me a card and I gift her chocolates.” Meanwhile, malls, restaurants, cafés and gift shops have geared up for V-Day celebrations in the city. Yashil Anand Singh, the manager of a popular café on Boring Road, said, “We have illuminated the café with red lights and balloons. There will also be live music for our guests.” The owner of a gift shop, Pradeep Kumar, pointed out, “Chocolates, greeting cards and teddy bears are a hit among youngsters. Photo frames, scented candles and accessories are also in demand.” Praresh Kumar, the owner of a confectionery in Kankarbagh, said, “Chocolate cakes are flying off the shelves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lovebirds-buy-special-gifts-for-each-other/articleshow/80901397.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Patna||Confiscate property of Agrani directors: RERA||PATNA: The Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Bihar has ordered confiscation of all movable and immovable property of the present and previous directors of Agrani Homes Private Limited and freezing of their bank accounts. The order was passed by the bench of RERA, Bihar chairman Afzal Amanullah and member R B Sinha on February 10. The two were hearing a bunch of complaints filed by the aggrieved real estate buyers, who have made payments to Agrani Homes but have not got possession of the property. The RERA has also ordered that utilisation of a building constructed on a residential plot in Patliputra area by Ruben Hospital (Ruben Patliputra Hospital Pvt Ltd) be stopped until further orders or an approval from Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) for utilisation of the residential property as a hospital, whichever is earlier. Ruben Hospital has been asked to explain why they were using the building for medical purposes without proper deed as well as authorisation from PMC. Incidentally, the plot was sold by Agrani Homes to Ruben Hospital using the proceeds of few real estate projects of the company. Agrani was required to use the proceeds from the sale of Patliputra property to reimburse its aggrieved customers. However, out of Rs 4.05 crore received from Ruben, Agrani deposited only Rs 2 crore with RERA. Now, Agrani has been directed to deposit another Rs 2.05 crore in the form of demand draft with RERA immediately. The RERA bench has observed that a part of the money paid by Ruben Hospital for buying the land at Patliputra was used by Agrai Homes for closure of a loan account of Indus Ventures, a firm run by Vijaya Raj Laxmi, wife of Alok Kumar, managing director of Agrani Homes. The RERA has stated in its order that all moveable and immoveable property of Alok, his wife Vijaya and their son should be brought under the lien of RERA with immediate effect. Similarly, all moveable, immovable properties and bank accounts of all its present and previous directors, their spouses, dependent children and all their power of attorney holders have been frozen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/confiscate-property-of-agrani-directors-rera/articleshow/80901356.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||TOI, DD-AIR off to a winning start||Lucknow: The all-round performance by Rishi Sengar (35 runs & four wickets) and Abbas Rizvi (three wickets & 15 runs) helped the Times of India register an astounding 7-wicket victory over the Indian Express in the inaugural match of the SBI T-20 Media Cup at KD Singh Babu Stadium on Saturday. Indian Express started off well with openers Vimlesh Singh and Asad Rehman contributing 28 and 26 runs, respectively, to their team. However, soon after their dismissal, Indian Express collapsed in the face of aggressive bowling attack by Rishi Sengar (four wickets conceding just 3 runs) and Abbas Rizvi (three wickets). Barring openers, no player could score in double-digit, and the team was sent packing at 91 in 17.4 overs. In reply, Rishi (35) and Abbas prepared the ground for TOI's victory. The team successfully chased the target in 13.4 overs at the loss of three wickets. Rishi was adjudged the man of the match. Brief score: Indian Express: 91 (17.4 overs) (Vimlesh 28, Asad 26; Rishi 4-3, Abbas 3-20) TOI: 93/3 (Rishi 35, Abbas 15; Vimlesh 2-16) DD-AIR beat Combined Press In another match of the day, Doordarshan defeated Combined Press by 33 runs. Batting first, DD-AIR scored 135 at the loss of five wickets. Bhola Ram and Sudhir Awasthi contributed precious 38 and 31 runs to their team's total. Ram Bahadur, Ravikant and Mohd Irfan of Combined Press took one wicket each. In reply, Janardhan Mishra (27) and Mohd Arshad (24) tried to consolidate their team's position Combined Press could score only 102 runs at the loss of three wickets in the stipulated 20 overs. Sudhir Awasthi was declared the man of the match. Earlier in the day, the tournament was inaugurated in the presence of Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur, SBI chief general manager Ajay Kumar Khanna, SBI DGM Neelesh Dwivedi, UP cricket team coach Gyanendra Pandey and others. The event is being organised under the aegis of Kaivalya Communications while the State Bank of India is the main sponsor. Today's fixtures: Dainik Jagran vs Digital Media; Photo Journalists vs The Pioneer||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/toi-dd-air-off-to-a-winning-start/articleshow/80902741.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Cargo operations start at Vijayawada airport||Vijayawada: Spice Express launched cargo flight services from Vijayawada International Airport on Saturday. A dedicated cargo carrier aircraft, Boeing 786-800, with a capacity of 20 metric tonnes landed in the city on Saturday morning. Fire brigades welcomed the aircraft with a water salute. Airport director Madhusudan Rao said cargo service will be beneficial to the farming and agro-processing industries across Krishna, Guntur and West Godavari districts. “Food processing industries and other producers of perishable goods are waiting for the launch of regular cargo service. Spice Express has launched a dedicated cargo service from the city which will be operated thrice a week. We are expecting good response from aqua exporters and shrimp seed farms. This service can help reach cargo to major cities in the shortest possible time. The dedicated flight can handle large packages.” Rama Rao, head of Shreepa Logistics, a private firm handling cargo services from Vijayawada, said, “Initial response for the service is good. Many vegetable, dairy and seafood exporters are willing to utilise the service and spread their market.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cargo-operations-start-at-vijayawada-airport/articleshow/80900471.cms||Venu Lanka
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Trip was occasion to celebrate retirement of victim||Hyderabad: The trip was supposed to be an occasion to celebrate the retirement of K Satyanarayana (one of the deceased) who was an employee of the State Bank of India. The relatives said that the trip was planned to celebrate his hard work all these years. Trying to control his tears while recounting the details of the accident and the trip, K Jagadeeshwar said, “My uncle (K Satyanarayana), who passed away in this accident, retired from his job six months ago. This trip was for a family get-together to celebrate that occasion.” Waiting to hear from the authorities about the condition of the injured family members, he said, “They were supposed to finish their trip and return on Sunday. We never imagined such a thing would happen and that we will never see the four of them alive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trip-was-occasion-to-celebrate-retirement-of-victim/articleshow/80903223.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Decks cleared for 12 governor quota MLC seats||PATNA: A day after CM Nitish Kumar declared that “there would not be any further delay" in the nomination of MLCs from the governor’s quota, both major ruling parties—BJP and JD(U)-- have expedited the process for finalisation of names to fill-up the 12 nomination seats in the 75-member legislative council. Aspirants for the governor quota seats in both BJP and JD(U) have now intensified their lobbying with their respective senior leaders. Two of the 12 seats are vacant since May 2019 after Rajiv Ranjan Singh and Pashupati Kumar Paras resigned after their election to the Lok Sabha from Munger and Hajipur respectively, while the rest 10 seats fell vacant on May 24 last year after their six-year term ended. Article 171 (3) (e) of the Constitution empowers the governor to nominate members against 12 seats in the 75-member state legislative council. Article 171(5) of Constitution requires that persons to be appointed should have special knowledge or practical experience in literature, science, arts, cooperative movement and social service. Sources said BJP and JD(U) has agreed to share the 12 seats on 50:50 basis. Of the total 12 seats, two are being considered as ‘reserved’ for the two cabinet ministers-- Ashok Choudhary and Janak Ram – who are currently not the member of any of the two houses of the state legislature. As per the constitutional provisions, Choudhary and Ram require to be a member of either of the two houses to continue as ministers after six months of their induction in the state cabinet. Sources said BJP’s state leadership has sent an informal list of 18 to 20 prominent members against the party’s six seats– average three names against each vacant seat—to its central leadership for finalization. The saffron party has prepared its list keeping in mind the caste equation and experience of the party workers, a senior BJP leader said on Saturday. From Bhumihar caste the party’s state vice-president Devesh Kumar, former MLCs Radha Mohan Sharma and Krishna Kumar Singh (Gaya district) are said to be the front runners for the MLC seat. Similarly from the Rajput community, Nivedita Singh (Sasaram) and Ram Naresh Singh (Saharsa) are said to be on the state BJP’s list. From Vaishya community, former MLC Rajendra Gupta (who is considered close to BJP chief J P Nadda) and the state organizing secretary Shiv Narayan Mahto are being considered as the front runner. From the extremely backward classes (EBCs), the names of Miss Baby Chanky (Munger), Pramod Chandravanshi and Jainath Chauhan are said to be recommended to the BJP’s central leadership, sources said. A three-term ward councillor and one-term deputy mayor in the Munger Municipal Corporation, Baby Chanky is said to be the front runner among all the BJP aspirants as she has the backing of several senior leaders of the BJP and the RSS, a party leader told TOI on Saturday. In the JD(U), sources said, the list of six persons for the governor’s quota post would be finalized by the party’s top leaders like Nitish Kumar and national president RCP Singh. Some former MLCs like Lalan Kumar Sarraf, Prof Ram Bachan Roy and Ranbir Nandan who are considered close to the party’s top leaders might be given one more term in the council, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/decks-cleared-for-12-governor-quota-mlc-seats/articleshow/80901300.cms||Madan Kumar
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Events, memorial on cards to mark Maharaja Suheldev’s anniversary||LUCKNOW/BAHRAICH: The Yogi Adityanath government has chalked out an elaborate plan to commemorate the contribution of Maharaja Suheldev to national integration. Various programmes will be organized across the state and a grand memorial will also be built at Chittaura in Bahraich where a huge statue of Raja Suheldev, who is revered by the backward Rajbhar community in eastern UP, would be installed. The event to mark the birth anniversary celebration on February 16 will be addressed virtually by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A government spokesman said it was for the first time that the governemnt was celebrating Suheldev’s anniversary. “While the PM will address the programme virtually, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will be in Bahraich that day. The CM is expected to announce major projects for Bahraich and Shrawasti. Among other projects, the memorial of Suheldev in the middle of Chittaura Lake will also get a facelift. Earlier, BJP had issued a postal ticket and also announced a train in his memory,” he said. The programmes will include poetry recitation by renowned poets followed by lighting of 1.25 lakh ‘diyas’ and other cultural events. “The state government has decided to organize the Maharaja Suheldev annual ceremony programme across the state. CM Yogi will visit Bahraich, the birth place of Maharaja Suheldev, and inaugurate the ceremony,” Bahraich DM Shambhu Kumar said. “The Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) has been entrusted with the responsibility of lighting 1.25 lakh diyas,” the DM added. BSA Dinesh Kumar Yadav said at least 300 people had been engaged for the work. The CM has issued directives to hold events to mark Suheldev’s birth anniversary at the memorials of martyrs in all districts. Police bands will play patriotic songs at the memorials on the occasion. As a member of parliament in 2004, Yogi Adityanath had visited Bahraich and had supported the demand for development of Chittaura as a tourist spot. He had also sought construction of Sun temple at the shrine of Sayyed Salar Masood Ghazi. An officer in the state tourism department said the government would expand Chittaura as a tourist spot and a memorial would be built which would have a meeting hall with the seating capacity of 2,000 people. The memorial would be built on 82 bighas of land belonging to the royal family of Payagpur. President of the memorial committee, Raja Yashuvendra Vikram Singh, has leased out his land for 30 years for the construction of the memorial. He met Yogi Adityanath last week to donate his land for the memorial. Availability of land was the biggest obstacle for the construction of Maharaja Suheldev Memorial. Most of the land here is owned by the Payagpur royal family. Raja Yashuvendra Vikram Singh has been appointed the lifetime vice-president of Maharaja Suheldev Memorial Committee while the Bahraich district magistrate would be the honorary president. “The temple of Maharaja Suheldev was built by Raja Virendra Vikram Singh of the royal family and his father Raja Yadvendra Singh has been the president of the temple,” Raja Yashuvendra Vikram Singh said. Suheldev was a legendary king of Shravasti (in present day north-eastern Uttar Pradesh) who is known to have defeated and killed the Ghaznavi general Ghazi Saiyyad Salar Masud in Bahraich in the early 11th century. Raja Suheldev finds mention in ‘Mirat-i-Masudi’, a 17th century Persian-language historical account. ‘Mirat-i-Masudi’ is the biography of Salar Masud, written by Abd-ur-Rahman Chishti during the reign of the Mughal emperor Jahangir (1605–1627). According to the legend, Suhaldev was the eldest son of King Mordhwaj of Shravasti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-plans-events-grand-memorialto-celebrate-king-suheldevs-legend/articleshow/80902822.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||VSP plays significant role in Vizag’s education ecosystem||VISAKHAPATNAM: In the lead up to the potential privatisation of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (RINL-VSP), popularly known as ‘Vizag Steel’, the Navaratna public sector enterprise’s connections to the academic environment have come to the fore. The plant is the go-to destination for students of various colleges from across the country for industrial visits, projects, apprenticeships, vocational training programmes and even employment. Around 6,000 students find exposure to the steel-making industrial environment at this PSE through various vocational training programmes conducted round-the-year. Nearly 1,000 apprentices receive hands-on training and acquire employable skills. Several scholars have made operations of the steel plant the subject of their research. The steel plant has a separate department looking after training activities. Additionally, many higher officials of the plant are members of governing bodies of various educational institutions in the region, guiding institutions on training and skilling needs. The technical training institute at the plant serves as the nodal department for industrial or project-based training. Speaking to STOI, Dr K Madhusudhana Rao, vice-principal and dean of Vignan’s Institute of Information Technology, said that the institute maintains a constant rapport with the steel plant as its students engage in case studies, projects, apprenticeships and other vocational training programmes at the plant. “Once privatised, the doors of the plant may close for job aspirants as the workforce may be reduced. It may affect enrolment into core branches such mechanical engineering,” Dr Rao added. B Ravi Teja, who is looking for a job at the Steel plant, said that he appeared for the junior trainee examination conducted nearly two years ago. “The privatisation move may shatter the hopes of several aspirants in the region,” he said. Several student unions and colleges have joined in protests against the proposed privatisation. Around 2,000 students of Vignan’s Institute of Information Technology took out a protest rally on Friday. The Andhra Pradesh unemployed joint action committee has been protesting against the proposal for the last several days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vsp-plays-significant-role-in-vizags-education-ecosystem/articleshow/80900434.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cinema halls pin biz boost hope on Saraswati Puja||KOLKATA: Twelve days after the government allowed 100% occupancy, this Friday was a litmus test for cinemas in Bengal. Despite the release of three Bengali movies, most cinemas failed to register impressive numbers. An iconic cinema like Paradise has decided to remain shut and if the weekend collections aren’t good, the only ray of hope for Bengal’s exhibitors will be the theatrical release of ‘Sooryavanshi’. Navin Choukhani, the owner of Navina, said the first day’s collection of ‘Prem Tame’ was below expectation. “With Saraswati Puja around the corner, we are hoping for a good week ahead,” Choukhani said. According to Arijit Dutta, owner of Priya that released ‘Magic’ and ‘Dictionary’, there has been no improvement in sales this week. “The situation has not improved. We are looking forward to the weekend to see if it changes. The film industry is going to be in a stressful situation,” Dutta said. It will require “real big movies” to release for things to change, he added. It’s a similar story at Bijoli. According to owner Suranjan Paul, who is screening two shows of ‘Prem Tame’ and one show of ‘Magic’, the footfall is not encouraging. “People are not turning up. The situation is no better at Chhabighar. I’m carrying on but with this kind of footfall, I sometimes feel it would have been better to keep the cinemas shut. The situation will improve when schools and colleges open in full swing and youngsters start coming in large numbers,” Paul said. Ratan Saha, chairman of the exhibitors’ section of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association, is worried. “The cinema industry is going through a very bad phase. Nothing will improve unless big Hindi movies release,” Saha said. Arun Mehra of Bengal Properties Private Ltd, which runs Paradise, told TOI that the cinema is “not reopening yet”. “We are ready to wait till we are sure that we have enough programmes one after the other so that we can judge whether we can reduce our loss or increase it,” Mehra said. The bigger worry is the onset of the summer months. In winter, cinemas usually switch on the AC for a short time. “Viewers feel cold after a point and ask us to switch off the AC. But summer will be different. Now, we can manage by paying Rs 40,000-Rs 50,000, but with the onset of summer, the expense will go up to Rs 2.5 lakh. If we don’t see that kind of coverage coming from the movies, why will we start? We don’t want to start a cinema hall just for the sake of it. We must be able to cover our cost,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cinema-halls-pin-biz-boost-hope-on-saraswati-puja/articleshow/80901107.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
February 14, 2021||Patna||Covid-19 test or vaccination report must for Kumbh pilgrims||PATNA: The railways has made it mandatory for devotees going to Kumbh Mela to carry a Covid-19 RT-PCR negative test report (done 72 hours before boarding) or Covid vaccination certificate before boarding a train to Haridwar. The religion event is likely to start on February 27 and end on April 30. According to the ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO), Rajesh Kumar, railways has issued this directive at the instance of Uttrakhand government, which has announced that RT- PCR or vaccination report must be of 72 hours before visiting Haridwar. The railways is also gearing up to tackle the huge rush of pilgrims to Haridwar for the Kumbh Mela. Howrah-Dehradun Kumbh Mela special trains (02327/02328, 02369/02370) are being run every Tuesday and Friday and every Wednesday and Saturday from the Dehradun end via Jhajha – Patna – Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction mainline route for the pilgrims. The railways has provided stoppages of these special trains at Jhajha, Jamui, Kiul, Mokama, Patna Junction, Ara, Buxar and Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction on the mainline route falling under the ECR jurisdiction. Besides, another Kumbh Mela special train ( 03009/03010 ) is running between Howrah and Rishikesh via Koderma – Gaya – Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction Grand Chord ( GC ) route to clear pilgrims’ rush. This special train is given stoppage at Dhanbad, Gomoh, Parasnath, Hazaribagh Road, Koderma, Gaya Junction, Guraru, Rafiganj, Aurangabad Road, Dehri on Sone, Sasaram, Kudra, Bhabua and Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction on the GC route under the ECR jurisdiction. “The ECR, which has adopted the newly introduced KOO app, is already giving information to passengers on its Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram handles. This facility will prove a boon for those who are keen to know every kind of information from railways,” the CPRO said. Passengers have the choice to send messages to railways with word limit of 400 only. “The KOO app which connects Indians in Indian languages is provided with the facility to post audio, photo and video messages to railways,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-test-or-vax-report-must-for-kumbh-pilgrims/articleshow/80900887.cms||Kumod Verma
February 14, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 10-year-old gang-raped||BIHARSHARIF: Two men allegedly kidnapped and gang-raped a 10-year-old speech-impaired girl at a village under the Silao police station area on Friday evening. An FIR was lodged in this regard and one of the two culprits arrested. According to a relative of the victim, the incident took place when she had gone to a nearby field to relieve herself. When she did not return home after half an hour, her family began looking for her. As soon as they reached a mustard field, the two rapists fled the spot. One of them was, however, caught and handed over to police after being thrashed. A cop told this newspaper on Saturday that the man, identified as Santosh Singh, was a resident of Nagarnausha in Nalanda. “The girl was taken to the Biharsharif sadar hospital for medical examination and her statement recorded under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,” he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/10-year-old-gang-raped/articleshow/80900946.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Patna||Vigilance raid at agriculture department director’s Patna house||PATNA: The vigilance investigation bureau conducted a raid on the private residence of an agriculture department director Ganesh Kumar at Magistrate Colony in Ashiana Nagar, Patna, on Saturday for allegedly amassing disproportionate assets worth more than Rs 1.7 crore as per government rates. Kumar, 59, is director, soil conservation-cum-CEO of Bihar Watershed Development Society in the agriculture department. He is also the nodal officer for Bihar Vikash Mission. As per vigilance sources, raid the on his two-story residence began around 8.15 am on Saturday and went on till around 7 pm. A disproportionate assets case was registered against him on February 11 after which the raid was conducted in the presence of the director and his family members by DSP Satyanarayan Ram. “Check period for calculating his disproportionate asset was from 1988 to March 2014. During this period, his total income from known sources comes to around Rs 60 lakh,” a vigilance source said. He said Kumar was found to be additionally possessing movable and immovable assets worth at least Rs 1.43 crore. “This includes a plot at Sampatchak worth around Rs 45 lakh and another one Phulwarisharif which is worth Rs 35 lakh. The estimated market price of these plots is actually in several crores,” a vigilance officer said preferring anonymity. He said the bureau also found Kumar possessing land and a house constructed over it in Kolkata. “He owns another plot at a prime location in Ranchi,” he added. “Rs 5.1 lakh in cash was seized from his residence during Saturday’s raid. Besides, gold and silver ornaments worth more than Rs 20 lakh was also found,” a senior vigilance bureau source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vigilance-raid-at-agriculture-department-directors-patna-house/articleshow/80901328.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 14, 2021||Patna||Covid vaccine drive in Bihar: Second dose from Monday||PATNA: The state health department will start administering second dose of Covid-19 vaccines to the healthcare workers from Monday. Special secretary of health department Manoj Kumar said all necessary arrangements have been made in this regard. The first phase of Covid vaccination had started in the state on January 16. So far, 4,89,449 beneficiaries, including 3,96,740 healthcare workers, have been inoculated in the state. The vaccination for frontline workers, including district administration officials, Bihar Military Police (BMP) and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawans and revenue as well as panchayati raj institution (PRI) officials had started on February 6 and Altogether 92,709 beneficiaries have so far been given the jabs in the second phase. The vaccination exercise has been carried out at 45,435 session sites across the state. Bihar stands at seventh position in the country in terms of total number of beneficiaries having received the vaccine against Covid-19. As per a statement issued by the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), 80.05% of the targeted healthcare beneficiaries have been administered the first dose in Bihar till date, while the corresponding figure for Lakshadweep stands at 81%. Meanwhile, of all those vaccinated in the state so far, 89 have complained of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI), such as pain, mild swelling, mild fever and nausea. In a letter to all states and union territories, union health secretary has pointed out that according to a rapid assessment system (RAS), while 97% beneficiaries are found to be satisfied with the overall vaccination experience, only 88.9% have indicated that they were provided information regarding AEFI at the session site. The states and union territories have been advised to ensure that all vaccination officers are trained and informed regarding AEFI, and they should provide AEFI-related information to all the beneficiaries receiving the vaccine. Meanwhile, 44 new Covid cases were registered in the state on Saturday. With this, the state’s Covid tally has increased to 2,61,689. As per the daily Covid bulletin issued by the health department, 80 people recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 99.17%. The health department reported only two deaths due to Covid in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-vax-drive-second-dose-from-monday/articleshow/80900867.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Allahabad||Army havildar on leave found murdered with head injuries||Prayagraj: An Army havildar, visiting home on leave, was attacked and killed by unidentified miscreants on late Friday night. He was found with severe head injuries in his car from Neem Sarai area under Dhumanganj police station. Police have registered an FIR against unidentified assailants and a woman who was with the havildar in his car at the time of the incident. Police have detained the woman and are also looking into her charge that she was gang-raped by the assailants. Reports said the havildar’s blood-stained body was found by his family members on the information given about the woman. They rushed him to the Military Hospital (MH), Prayagraj, where the doctors declared him dead. SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh said, “The 38-year-old victim, identified as Ashutosh Kumar Singh, was a resident of Mahendra Nagar under Dhumanganj police station. He was on the post of havildar in the Indian Army and was posted at Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir. He had come home on leave a few weeks back and was set to return back soon.” His father Ashok Kumar Singh informed the police that Ashutosh left home on Friday night on some errand. At around 10pm, Ashutosh’s wife received a call on her mobile phone from a woman who informed her that Ashutosh was seriously injured and that his car was parked at a ground in Neem Sarai area. The family members soon rushed to the site and found him with severe injuries, Singh said. The woman informed the victim’s kin that she was accompanying Ashutosh to check on a plot of land when they decided to buy momos but lost the way and ended up at Neem Sarai. Suddenly, they were interrupted by a few men standing blocking the road and entered into an altercation with Ashutosh when he asked them to give way for the car to pass. Those persons then attacked Ashutosh with bricks causing him serious injuries on the head. The family members rushed Ashutosh to MH where he was declared dead, the SP added. SP said that on the complaint of the family members, an FIR has been registered against the woman who was accompanying Ashutosh and unidentified miscreants in connection with the crime. “We have detained the young woman named bythe family members in the FIR. During questioning she first claimed that the unidentified miscreants also tried to rape her. However, she later changed her statement and claimed that she had been gang-raped. In the light of her conflicting statements, we are getting a medical examination of the woman conducted and have also sent her clothes for forensic examination,” he added. “The body of the victim has been sent for a post-mortem examination. Efforts are now on to identify and arrest the miscreants,” he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/army-havildar-on-leave-found-murdered-with-head-injuries/articleshow/80900503.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||Rly min defers events after DRM’s death||Kolkata: Railway minister Piyush Goyal has called off programmes of Eastern Railway (ER) and South Eastern Railway (SER) scheduled for the next two days after the demise of S K Saha, divisional railway manager (DRM), Howrah Division, on Saturday. Saha, an electrical engineer who served for several years at NITI Aayog as an advisor, was in his early 50s and passed away at a city hospital due to multi-organ failure. “Goyal was to inaugurate several projects virtually at Santragachhi, Sankrail and other locations over the next two days. After coming to know of Saha’s death, he expressed concern and called off the events. They will be held later,” a railway official said. Saha’s colleagues and seniors are shocked at how a person who was apparently totally fit on January 30 and completed a 12-hour inspection of Bolpur could have suffered this fate in a couple of weeks. Doctors at the private hospital on Bypass said he had contracted Hepatitis A, after which his vital organs started failing. “In a last-ditch effort, Saha’s wife donated her liver and is still in hospital. Their son has also been detected with Hepatitis A. Saha’s father, bedridden due to age-related ailments, suffered a stroke hearing about his son’s multi-organ failure and passed away a few days ago. We are still unable to reconcile with the tragedy,” a colleague said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rly-min-defers-events-after-drms-death/articleshow/80901112.cms||Jayanta Gupta
February 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Healthcare workers get second dose of vaccine||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 54 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,88,814. The state did not register any Covid-19 death on Saturday. Altogether, 71 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Saturday. There are currently 797 active cases with 8,80,855 cumulative recoveries and 7,162 deaths. For the first time in about eight months, all the districts reported single-digit or no new cases. Anantapur, Kurnool, Prakasam and Vizianagaram did not register any new cases. Nine districts have so far achieved an over 99% recovery rate, while the active case load is less than 100 in each of the 11 districts. Andhra Pradesh tested 33,415 Covid-19 samples on Saturday and detected 54 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.2%. Meanwhile, the state health department on Saturday started administering the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare workers who received their first dose about four weeks ago. According to health officials, the first dose of the vaccine would not be administered to healthcare workers after February 25. Similarly, frontline workers should take their first dose by March 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/healthcare-workers-get-second-dose-of-vaccine/articleshow/80900458.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Patna||Patna: Airlines optimistic despite hike in fares, flyers upset||PATNA: The hike in domestic airfares, announced by the ministry of civil aviation on Thursday, has evoked mixed response from flyers as well as different airlines operating from the city. The hike on different domestic routes ranges from 10% (minimum) to 30% (maximum), depending on distance covered. Airline executives at the city airport, however, said despite hike in airfares, people would continue preferring flights over trains. “Flights on most routes have no vacant seat within the allowed capacity. One of the reasons behind it is preference of air travel over other modes of transport in view of Covid-19 pandemic,” said an IndiGo executive. A SpiceJet executive too said the increase in fare band would not have any drastic effect on the basic fare. The minimum and maximum cap increase will only restore the pre-Covid prices airfares, he said. Rajesh Kumar, executive at a travel agency, said, “The government has only raised the fare band. This will benefit regular flyers especially during the festive reason when airlines charge unreasonable fares.” Kumud Ranjan, executive of another travel agency, said, “Travelling has been difficult for most people in Covid era. Not just airfares, but fares of other modes of transportation have also risen. The number of trains running presently is significantly less, forcing people to opt air travel.” Flyers, on the other hand, have expressed concern over hike in airfares. Mehul Singh, a marketing professional, said the government should do something to control fluctuations in airfares. “Air travel is comparatively safe than other modes of transportation under the present circumstances. However, constant rise in airfares has made it difficult for us to fly,” said Ankit Anand, a resident of Nehru Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/airlines-optimistic-despite-hike-in-fares-flyers-upset/articleshow/80901116.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Talk cancelled, former Delhi University teacher slams college||NEW DELHI: Calling it a subversion of academic freedom, former Delhi University assistant professor Sumail Sidhu claimed that he was disallowed from speaking at an online event of Ramanujan College on February 11. Sidhu alleged that his lecture on ‘From Baba Farid to Singhu Border: The Making of Punjabi Radical Tradition’ was cancelled by the college at the last minute. The college administration claimed that a technical error had led to the talk being cancelled. Sidhu said he had been invited by Sanskriti Society, the institution’s history club, to give the talk, but was told “just 10 minutes before it started that it was called off”. He had been requested to speak on Punjab’s historical journey and the aspects of this as manifested in the farmers’ protest underway on the borders of Delhi with the movement having been discussed even in Parliament. “It is the task of academics to provide that context,” Sidhu said of what he intended to say. The former DU assistant professor agreed the talk title was provocative but was chosen to give the talk the context. “The title was decided two-three days before the event and students of the college circulated it widely,” said Sidhu. College principal SP Aggarwal, while claiming that the history society hadn’t followed proper procedures when organising the talk, said, “There were some technical issues too and the college portal collapsed. It could be repaired only later. This was why the event was postponed. There was no problem as such with the talk.” Sidhu said that he was told that the troublesome word was ‘Singhu border’ in the title. “The faculty and students tried to reason with the administration, but clearly the administration was under pressure.” He claimed to be saddened because many had wanted to hear in in-depth analysis. “Some people had taken leave for the day to attend the lecture. I also got messages from people in the UK who wanted to hear what I had to say,” he said. The lecturer feigned surprise that the words ‘Singhu border’ could spook someone. “I was talking about a time-frame in my lecture title. Why is Singhu a problematic word? There is so much media coverage. Even Parliament discussed it. So why did the college have the problem with it?” Sidhu wondered, then mincing no words to add, “Acts like these compromise academic freedom and undermine academic spaces. Research requires new thoughts and ideas.” Sidhu, a former assistant professor at SGTB Khalsa College, is not new to controversies. “I was criticised for my paper on Baba Banda Singh Bahadur in a seminar in 2012. Some people claimed my paper hurt Sikh sentiments,” the professor remembered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/talk-cancelled-ex-du-teacher-slams-college/articleshow/80901285.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Dearth of hostels worries students as classes resume||PATNA: With schools, colleges and coaching institutes gradually resuming offline classes, a large number of students residing in different parts of Bihar and other states have started returning to Patna. While some outsiders are fortunate, many struggle to find accommodation in the hostels attached to their institutions and end up living in dingy lodges. Such lodges lack proper toilets, bathrooms and other basic amenities, but students have to spend anywhere between Rs 3,000 and Rs 4,000 every month for staying there. Many a time they have to arrange for their own meals or opt for monthly tiffin service. There is also no question of hygiene in such surroundings. “I came to Patna from my ancestral home in Siwan. I have not been admitted to any institution yet, but have rented a room in a private lodge in Mahendru. I am spending nearly Rs 7,000 per month these days,” Om Prakash, a student, told this reporter. Another student, Amit Kumar, living in a private lodge on Boring Road, rued, “I am preparing for my medical entrance test. I will, however, not stay here for long because my parents cannot pay so much money.” Patna University (PU), which has nearly 20,000 students, provides hostel accommodation to not more than 3,500. There are altogether 25 hostels in the university catering to the needs of its resident scholars. Students’ welfare dean N K Jha pointed out that students admitted to the undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses in the current academic session had been told to apply online for hostel accommodation. “The allotments will be made by February 25. At present, accommodation has been provided to some examinees or the students whose offline classes have begun,” he said. PU teachers’ association secretary Abhay Kumar, who has served as the superintendent of Patna Science College hostel, regretted that a number of students coming from distant areas did not get proper accommodation due to acute dearth of hostels. “The university should take immediate steps for construction of more hostels for students,” he said. Students’ union president Manish Kumar Yadav claimed that more than 70% of the students enrolled in PU were outsiders and needed hostels. “However, due to the shortage of hostels, most of them are compelled to stay in private lodges. The money paid by a student residing in a lodge every month is more than the amount spent by a hosteller in a year,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dearth-of-hostels-worries-pupils-as-classes-resume/articleshow/80900877.cms||B K Mishra
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Why increase councillors’ funds, says AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak||NEW DELHI: AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak said regardless of the claims that it did not have the funds to pay salaries of its employees, South Delhi Municipal Corporation has increased the funds for councillors from Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore, along with an extra Rs 50 lakh for the chairman and vice-chairman. Pathak, at a presser on Saturday, said Delhi government had given Rs 1,095 crores to the corporations to pay salaries for its employees, but they remain unpaid. He demanded an immediate rollback of the scheme to increase the funds for councillors. “For past several months, civic employees have not received their salaries. Pensioners are not getting health benefit because BJP has not paid the requisite amounts to empaneled hospitals,” added Pathak. Meanwhile, state BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra claimed why Pathak did not raise the question of treatment available for MLAs. “Councillors of all political parties will get the enhanced funds,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-increase-councillors-funds-pathak/articleshow/80901282.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Patna||Pending cases to be disposed of: ADG||PATNA: CID ADG (weaker section) Anil Kishore Yadav has initiated statewide review of cases related to crimes against women, scheduled caste and tribes, sexual offences against minors and anti-human trafficking in a bid to bring down case pendency rate and provide justice to victims. Yadav said he would visit all the police ranges of to get details of pending cases. The ADG has already completed the review of cases pending in Shahabad range comprising Bhojpur, Bhabhua, Buxar and Rohtas districts. He will visit rest of the 11 ranges – Magadh, Central, Champaran, Tirhut, Saran, Begusarai, Munger, Bhagalpur, Purnia, Saharsa and Darbhanga – over the next three months. At a meeting with senior police officers of CID and weaker section on January 6 this year, CM Nitish Kumar had suggested that field visits should be promoted. Yadav has asked all range IGs and DIGs, SSPs and SPs to hold detailed discussion on doubts arising under SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, review of prosecution stage of such cases and reason for pendency. Besides, he has issued specific directions for focusing on the procedures adopted by police in acid attack cases and if steps taken by police in such incidents are as per standard operating procedures or not. The ADG has also directed all to cite reasons for pending investigation and compensation in rape cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pending-cases-to-be-disposed-of-adg/articleshow/80901122.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Vadodara||Nobody’s child for many years, Bil-Kalali crying for recognition||Vadodara: For years, this area was nobody’s child as it was neither part of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) nor under Vadodara Urban Development Authority (VUDA). So, in recent years, when people started living in fast-developing residential schemes in Kalali, the area did not have proper roads nor there were any drainage lines or water connections. Now, Kalali, as well as Bill, come under VMC’s jurisdiction and the residents will vote for the first time in the upcoming civic body polls. Interestingly, even before starting development work here, VMC has started collecting tax and residents here feel the local infrastructure will be a major factor during the polls. “We do not have proper motorable roads and in absence of a proper drainage network, the dirty water overflows on the road and in the nearby farms. Several representations have been made but to no avail. But hopefully, VMC will now do something,” said Dalsukh Parmar, a resident of Bil. He added that during the monsoon months commuters have to take a longer route as the roads are completely inundated. In the past, before the VMC took over the areas, the developers of the residential projects had connected their drainage lines with VMC’s network, but the elected leaders of the civic body got it disconnected. The central government too had announced drinking water to all households but in Kalali and Bil the residents rely on brackish groundwater. “We have to rely on groundwater which has a TDS level of around 1,100. If they have covered our area under their jurisdiction then at least proving clean drinking water should be their priority,” said Mayur Shah, a snacks trader living in Bil. A road was laid by VUDA connecting Kalali and Bil with Vadsar, but several pockets still remain disconnected. Residents living near the Bil-Padra canal road have also made several representations to reconstruct the road. “Only one road has been constructed so far and that too not by VMC. All other roads are not motorable, so VMC should take that up too among other projects,” said Mahesh Desai, a resident of Kalali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nobodys-child-for-many-years-bil-kalali-crying-for-recognition/articleshow/80899941.cms||Jay Pachchigar
February 14, 2021||Allahabad||IIIT-A honours female faculty for contribution in field of science||Prayagraj: Authorities of Indian Institute of Information Technology-Allahabad (IIIT-A) honoured the female teaching faculty members of the institute at a special programme at its Jhalwa campus on Thursday evening. The event marked the International Day to commemorate the contribution of women and girls in the field of science. Prof P Nagabhushan, director, IIIT-A expressed pride in all 17 women teachers for their achievements in the institute and their respective fields. He expressed hope that such women power will continue to contribute in the all-round development of the institute. Prof Nagabhushan said that during his tenure there was never any gender discrimination. “The qualities in women such as patience and commitment make their personality vibrant. Women had played a leading role in the institute during the entire period of Covid-19 pandemic.” He said that by the resolution of the United Nations (UN) General Assembly on December 22, 2015, February 11 recognizes women and girls who play an important role in the field of science and technology. The day aims to promote full and equal access for women and girls to participate in science. On this occasion, Prof Nagabhushan honored the women teachers by offering certificates and mementos. Prof Krishna Mishra, a senior scientist was specially honored. On this occasion she encouraged women to continue their work in the field of science. “Women have made their mark in the field of science despite so many challenges, which is notable. Half of the population of the world at present is of women, who are playing their role responsibly,” she added. Prof Shekhar Verma, dean (human affairs) highlighted the contribution made by women in the field of science. Madhavendra Mishra, associate dean, also congratulated the women teachers present at the event. Sanjay Singh, programme in-charge, conducted the event. Among those who were honored on the occasion included Lakshmi Nagabhushan, Vijayashree Tewari, Anurika Vaish, Seema Shah, Sonali Agarwal, Pragya Singh, Nidhi Mishra, Sangeeta Singh, Rekha Verma, Seema Kushwaha, Savatri Joshi, Anjali Gautam, Pooja Mishra, Shanti, Ranjana Vyas and Pallavi Dixit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/iiit-a-honours-female-faculty-for-contribution-in-field-of-science/articleshow/80900495.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Varanasi||BHU’s School of Educatioin inaugurated||Times News Network Varanasi: The vice-chancellor of Banaras Hindu University Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar inaugurated the newly constructed building of the School of Education on Friday. On the occasion, he called upon those involved in teaching and training of teachers to prepare and groom them in a way that it benefits primary and secondary education. The School of Education, faculty of education has been constructed under the Pt Madan Mohan Malaviya National Mission on Teachers and Training. He said that the faculty of education is performing a noble task by training teachers. A country can only become developed if its foundation is strong, which is the primary and secondary education, he added. Hence, capacity building of teachers plays a vital role in strengthening this foundation, he said adding that a lot needs to be done to improve the state of primary and secondary education The VC further said that in the past three years many initiatives have been taken in order to take the university to the new heights. Improving the university’s global ranking to top 500 universities of the world is the target BHU has set in. The BHU got a go ahead to set up a School of Education in 2017 under the Pt Madan Mohan Malaviya National Mission on Teachers and Training. Under the scheme the Education Ministry (then HRD ministry) allocated a sum of Rs 545 lakh to set up the school. The new building comprises 13 rooms, two halls, one audio visual recording studio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhus-school-of-educatioin-inaugurated/articleshow/80902585.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||Behala water plaint in Talk to Mayor session||Kolkata: The civic body will send its team of engineers to different neighbourhoods in Behala following complaints from residents about water scarcity. Arati Roy from Basudebpur called the chairperson of KMC Board of Administrators (BoA) Firhad Hakim during an interactive programme called “Talk to Mayor” to complain about acute water shortage. The next call came from a senior citizen from Joka who alleged water supply has dipped so low that they were facing a crisis. Hakim asked the director-general of the KMC water supply department to send a team of engineers to these areas to find the faults. “There could be several reasons for water scarcity during winter, like leakages in old pipes, blockage in supply line or digging up of roads. We will check the pipelines on Monday,” an official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/behala-water-plaint-in-talk-to-mayor-session/articleshow/80901118.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Pune||Activists fume over nod to fell 200 trees||Pimpri Chinchwad: Activists in Pimpri Chinchwad expressed strong displeasure over the felling of over 200 trees on a five-acre plot in Bhosari MIDC following permission from the civic body. The MIDC had reportedly requested the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to plant trees on the plot in 1997. The plot was recently sold to a private party, and the landowner sought permission from PCMC to cut the trees. PCMC’s garden department granted permission for the felling of the trees on Monday and told the plot owner to replant 77 of the total 292 trees. The activists alleged that the department did not follow the necessary guidelines while allowing felling of the trees. Prashant Raul, an activist, said entire ecosystem that was created from 1997, was destroyed on Wednesday, when over 150 trees were cut. Atva press conference on Friday, the activists alleged the PCMC was not taking tree-felling and other environmental issues seriously despite communicating the same via 50 and odd letters in the last three years. Subhash Ingle, PCMC’s deputy commissioner, said the garden department complied with necessary rules and guidelines for the felling of trees. Shravan Hardikar, the outgoing civic chief, on Friday morning told TOI he had asked for an inquiry. After his transfer was confirmed in the evening, activists said the issue would remain unaddressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-fume-over-nod-to-fell-200-trees/articleshow/80902573.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Surat||Diamond exports on recovery path, post Covid||Surat: When the global economic downturn struck in the world in 2009, it took more than a year for the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre Surat to get back on track. Compared to that, Surat’s diamond industry regained its lost glitter within eight months of the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite suffering heavy losses for eight months following lockdown in the country as well as key international markets, diamonds seem to have got their sparkle back. Since November 2020—a month ahead of the Christmas season—the diamond exports from India witnessed an average monthly growth of 33% compared to the same months in the previous year. According to the figures provided by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), the export of polished diamonds in January increase by 12% to Rs 13,000 crore against Rs 11,700 crore during the same month previous year. Industry sources said that export of polished diamonds bounced back after the lockdown eased in many countries including the US and China—the two largest diamond export markets accounting for about 65% of the total export from India. The exports rose also because of US government ending the preferential trade treatment to Hong Kong and hiking the import duty to 7.5% from 3.3% on gems and jewellery in August 20. Vipul Shah, vice-chairman of GJEPC told TOI, “Hong Kong and China were the largest exporter of diamond-studded jewellery to the US. In 2019, $9.47 billion worth of diamond jewellery was exported to the US. After the US ended its preferential trade agreement with Hong Kong, India has consolidated its position for the direct export of polished diamonds and jewellery to the US.” Hitesh Patel, managing director of Dharmanandan Diamonds Private Limited said, “We had not expected the revival to be so fast, because we are witness to the 2009’s global economic downturn. To our surprise, orders started coming in from November, mainly from the US, China and Hong Kong. We have done better business in the last three months compared to the same time in the previous year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-exports-on-recovery-path-post-covid/articleshow/80900001.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Rajkot||Chovatiya resigns alleging ticket distribution irregularities||Rajkot: Former president of Rajkot district Congress committee, Dinesh Chovatiya, resigned from the primary membership of the party on Saturday. He alleged irregularities in ticket distribution in Rajkot district as the reason for his decision. Chovatiya had contested the 2017 assembly elections on Congress ticket from Rajkot south constituency. In a letter he has addressed to Amit Chavda, president of Gujarat Pradesh Congress, Chovatiya alleged that people “who have money power and near and are dear of leaders have got positions in the party.” “I got the representation of party workers that during the ticket distribution of Rajkot Municipal Corporation election tickets were sold for anything between Rs 3 and 5 lakh and these are the people who have not allowed the party to come into power in Gujarat for the past 25 years,” he wrote. Chovatiya, who has marked a copy to the leader of opposition, Paresh Dhanani and the in-charge of Gujarat, Rajiv Satav, also wrote that his earlier representation regarding these allegations fell on deaf ears at the state level. Talking to TOI, Chovatiya, a former trustee of Khodaldham and a current committee member of the trust, said, “I tendered my resignation to the party president. I was with the party for the last 20 years and had joined as NSUI member. I represented about tickets being sold by the leaders, but nobody heard me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/chovatiya-resigns-alleging-ticket-distribution-irregularities/articleshow/80900066.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Patna||Promote production of parboiled rice, says Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday expressed happiness over the record procurement of paddy in the state compared to the previous years, and asked all district magistrates (DMs) to hold meeting with rice millers and representatives of primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACS) to promote production of parboiled (usna) rice across the state. “A majority of people in Bihar prefer to eat parboiled rice. Hence, we should work for setting up more mills to increase the production of parboiled rice in the state,” Nitish told the officials of the cooperative department and all DMs while chairing a meeting to review the status of paddy procurement in the state. The meeting was held at ‘Nek Samvad’ hall at the CM residence here. The CM also asked the officials to make an assessment about the capacity of different godowns and storage in each district and work to enhance the storage capacity. He asked the officials to ensure that the paddy of all interested farmers is procured by the government-backed agencies. Earlier, cooperative department’s secretary Bandana Preyasi and the food and consumer protection department’s secretary Vinay Kumar gave detailed information about the status of paddy procurement in the state. Preyasi presented the district-wise data about the paddy procurement before the CM. All DMs were connected to the meeting through videoconferencing. The DMs of Purnia, Rohtas, Aurangabad, Buxar, Gaya, Bhojpur, Nalanda, Patna, Banka, East Champaran, West Champaran and Sitamarhi informed the CM about the status of paddy procurement in their respective districts. State’s food and consumer protection minister Leshi Singh, cooperative minister Subhash Singh, chief secretary Deepak Kumar and all senior officials of the CM secretariat were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/promote-production-of-parboiled-rice-says-nitish/articleshow/80900903.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Patna||Long-term plan for better management of Gaya temple in a month: DM||GAYA: A long-term plan to ensure effective management, better security measures and cleanliness in and around the Vishnupad Temple in Gaya will be prepared within a month. A security audit of the temple will also be conducted by police. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of the temple’s Lodging House Committee (LHC) on Friday. District magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh, who is also the chairman of the LHC, said all the development works would be done keeping in mind the interests of the Gayapal Panda Samaj. The DM directed circle officer Rajiv Ranjan to ensure documentation of the temple land within two days and SSP Aditya Kumar to get additional CCTV cameras installed and identify a parking zone for vehicles. At the meeting, Singh also asked Gaya Municipal Corporation commissioner Sawan Kumar to rope in cleanliness staff in shifts and ensure that the streets are cleaned regularly. Recently, a Gaya court had authorized the Bihar State Religious Trust Board to manage the affairs of the heritage temple. A seven-member committee headed by the DM was constituted for the temple on January 27. The Vishnupad Temple is considered to be the most important ‘vedi’ (structure or place where ‘pind’ is offered) apart from the Falgu and the Akshayavat (indestructible banyan tree) for ‘pindadaan’ rituals. The footprint of Lord Vishnu exists in its sanctum sanctorum. A large number of devotees from different parts of the country and abroad visit Gaya during the Pitrapaksh Mela to perform rituals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/long-term-plan-for-better-management-of-gaya-temple-in-a-month-dm/articleshow/80900959.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada’s wonder kid breaks British world record||VIJAYAWADA: Adding yet another accomplishment to her long list of achievements, Vijayawada’s wonder kid Munnangi Hasini has now set a British world record for being able to ascertain which day occurs on which date between the years 2001 to 4000. Not just that, she is also able to recall special incidents, if any, that took place on the day. At Saturday’s event, Munnangi Hasini was asked a number of random questions such as, ‘What day was it on January 22 of 2003’ from a panel of representatives who were adjudicating the record. Hasini accurately answered all questions within a matter of seconds and went on to set a British World Record. In fact, family members said her scope of calculations extend far beyond two decades and she can accurately ascertain dates between 1901 and 2100 as well. But this is not Hasini’s only achievement. The 10-year-old entered the Telugu Book of World Records for reciting the names of 60 successful women in history with the details of their accomplishments in 60 minutes on 2018 Women’s Day. Hasini also entered the International Record Book for memorising all the elements in the periodic table and their respective atomic values. When Tollywood actor Mahesh Babu during an interview threw an open challenge of recounting the names of all 350 movies acted by his father Krishna, Hasini took on the challenge and started off with Krishna’s debut movie Thene Manasulu and went on till his 346th film within five minutes. Speaking to STOI, Munnangi Uma Shankar, Hasini’s father said Hasini has had the skill since she was five. “From remembering multiplication tables till 99 to the names and details of the movies of popular actors, she can do a number of things. It started when Hasini’s mother started teaching her mathematics when she was five and realised that she had a great grasping ability,” Shankar told STOI. City police commissioner B Srinivasulu along with other senior police officials attended the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vijayawadas-wonder-kid-breaks-british-world-record/articleshow/80900481.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 14, 2021||Allahabad||Admin invites objections, claims on turtle sanctuary||PRAYAGRAJ: After the government notification was issued for setting up turtle wildlife sanctuary, a protected area for conservation of freshwater turtles, at Prayagraj, the district administration has invited objections from locals who would be affected by this shifting of sanctuary from Varanasi. A communique from the district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami said an area of 30 km on the banks of river Ganga at Kothari village in Meja block has been declared a turtle wildlife sanctuary. The area is of ecological and zoological importance and therefore, it is extremely important to preserve it. The sanctuary would lead to conservation, enhancement and development of wildlife and its environment. If anyone has a problem in regard to ownership or any other rights on the land, then the individual can submit a claim at the office of the DM with relevant documents within two months. Additional district magistrate (ADM) (administration) or his office can be contacted for more information in this regard. The forest department would be releasing some rare and prominent species of turtles in the sanctuary before Holi. Divisional forest officer, Y P Shukla said, “The area of turtle wildlife sanctuary will be transformed into a tourist place. We will release some species, including black pond turtle, Indian Tent turtle, Indian roofed turtle brought from Lucknow.” The sanctuary was earlier established in Varanasi and notified as the country's first freshwater turtle sanctuary under the Ganga Action Plan in 1989. The idea was combined with the plan to release carnivorous species of turtles for organic cleaning of the Ganga. However, as construction work started close to the ghats in Varanasi, the turtles began to gradually move towards Prayagraj. A waterways project was also proposed via the stretch. In addition to this, when the state government banned sand mining in the area to save the nesting turtles, the problem of sand accumulation and increased sedimentation created new challenges. The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) then conducted a feasibility study and found the Prayagraj-Mirzapur stretch of Ganga suitable for relocation of the sanctuary — a move which finally got the nod of state government and State Wildlife Board in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/admin-invites-objectionsclaims-on-turtle-sanctuary/articleshow/80900510.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Seven more sacked for Covid test fraud||PATNA: A day after suspending the Jamui civil surgeon and three other officials, the state government on Saturday initiated the process of termination of service of seven employees involved in the Covid-19 test data fraud in two blocks of Jamui district, Barhat and Sikandara. Showcase notices were served on four doctors in Araria district where dereliction in the process of entering data for Covid-19 tests was detected. The process of termination has been initiated against district programme manager Jamui, two-block health managers, two auxiliary nurse midwives and two laboratory technicians while showcase notice has been served to Araria Sadar hospital superintendent incharge, Forbesganj sub-divisional hospital deputy superintendent and medical officers incharge of primary health centre Araria and Forbesganj. Physical verification on: GovtAccording to, health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit, anomalies have been found in Covid-19 test at Barhat and Sikandara where zeroes were entered as mobile numbers. “But what happened in Barhat and Sikandara, no such thing was found at other places,” Amrit he told media persons at a press conference, adding in some other places wrong phone numbers were entered, but it was found that people were tested. “This happened as many people avoided giving their number, or gave wrong numbers and health workers involved in this process entered their mobile number as ten-digit was required to upload the data. Hence we have asked to do physical verification and by and large, we are getting people who were tested,” Amrit explained. He further said in Araria, 275 such cases have come where there are no mobile numbers and in 552 cases '1' was marked as mobile number, and Araria civil surgeon has been asked for an explanation. Similar discrepancies have been detected in Purnahiya in Sitamarhi. Appreciating doctors, health workers and officials of his department, Amrit said they have performed their duty in the pandemic and doctors even lost their lives. “Because of the fault of one or two, the entire team should not be blamed. Data fudging, if done for profit is wrong, but in case a health worker involved in testing had given a wrong number or his number, to upload the data, it will be called dereliction of duty.” OTP to be used for data entryThe state health department is planning to make a one-time password must for Covid-19 tests. The department has come up with this idea after anomalies were detected in the data entry process for Covid-19 test. The department’s principal secretary said many people either don’t give their number or give a fake number, but now they will have no choice as OTP will be made compulsory. The health department will also reduce the number of tests being done daily from Monday onwards and tests on demand will be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-more-sacked-for-covid-test-fraud/articleshow/80901030.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 14, 2021||Patna||Paddy procurement records jump of 10 lakh metric tonnes this year: Bihar govt||PATNA: The state cooperative department on Saturday said there has been a jump of 10 lakh metric tonnes in paddy procurement till Saturday this year compared to the entire procurement period last year. In a joint press conference, Bandana Preyashi, the cooperative department secretary and Vinay Kumar, the food and consumer protection department secretary, said almost 30 lakh tonnes of paddy is procured and stored till Saturday against the Centre’s target of 45 lakh metric tonnes. The press meet came a day after CM Nitish Kumar was by media persons about the hardships being faced by farmers in paddy procurement. “Altogether 20.01 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was procured between November 15, 2019, and April 30, 2020, against the Centre’s target of procuring 30 lakh metric tonne paddy,” Preyashi said, adding, the state would come close to the procurement target set by the Centre for this year. “This time, more than 30 lakh metric tonnes had already been procured by February 13 and eight more days are still left for completing the process. The deadline for ending the procurement process is February 21 this year. It had started in November last year,” she said, adding easing of the procurement process resulted in high procurement. Preyashi said the deadline of procurement was March 31, which was extended till April 30, due to Covid-19 pandemic followed by the lockdown. Preyashi said ‘Kisan Salahkars’ had been used extensively for surveying twice between November and December last year which resulted in large numbers of farmers taking part in the procurement process. “This time, procurement had already been done from 4.02 lakh farmers. Of them, 3.48 farmers have been paid more than Rs 4,800 crore through their bank accounts as per stipulated time. Last year, MSP provided to farmers was Rs 1815 per quintal for paddy which has increased to Rs 1868 this year,” she added. She said the easing of the process for farmers along with the increase in the upper limit of procurement to 250 quintals from 200 quintals for raiyyat-category farmers and 100 quintals from 75 quintals for non-raiyyat category farmers, raised the procurement levels. Preyashi also said that there is no distress selling below the minimum support price (MSP) of paddy in the open market this time yet due to easing of the procurement process. “Around 6,400 primary agricultural credit societies are involved in procurement this year in comparison to around 5100 PACS last year. Credit limit has been provided to these societies has been increased to 60% from older limit of 40%,” she said. The food and consumer protection department secretary Vinay Kumar said 6.7 lakh farmers had expressed their willingness to sell paddy to the government. “1.58 lakh farmers got added further in the list of those willing to sell paddy to government during the contact program taken up in which they were asked about details like the land they possessed and how much paddy they are willing to sell,” he said. Kumar said from now on the process of contacting, surveying and taking details of farmers would be completed much before initiating the procurement process. Kumar said this year they stopped purchasing rice from FCI and are supplying state’s rice in the public distribution system. “We have focused on quick procurement and payment within the stipulated time,” he added. Kumar said the procurement strategy has been changed to keep touts and the middlemen at bay and to avoid irregularities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/paddy-procurement-records-jump-of-10-lakh-metric-tonnes-this-year-govt/articleshow/80900935.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 14, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Cracks wide open in RJD as Tej Pratap Yadav slams Jagdanand Singh||PATNA: Former CM Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav on Saturday accused RJD state president Jagdanand Singh of weakening the party and also held him responsible for the ill health of his father. Talking to media persons at the party office here, the Hasanpur MLA said it was a matter of concern that even MLAs and former MLAs of the party had to seek an appointment with the state chief to meet him in the office for official work. “It’s a party of the poor. But, workers’ entry has been banned here. Is it a democratic party? People like Jagdanand Singh are weakening the party,” he said. The former health minister went on to say that even party MLAs were being denied due respect by the state president. “He is sitting in his chamber, but has not yet come out to receive me despite the fact that I am an MLA from Hasanpur,” he added. Tej said Jagdanand’s predecessor Ram Chandra Purbe used to receive him at the party office whenever he visited it in the past. “This state president of the party has no respect for legislators,” he said. Tej slammed Jagdanand of showing little interest in filling up the ‘azadi patra’ to pave the way for early release of Lalu from jail. Sources in the party said Tej’s outburst against Jagdanand is a fallout of the latter’s reluctance to take part in the campaign launched by the former for the release of hios father. Jagadanand later told reporters that it was an internal matter of the party and will be sorted out through dialogue. “Why Laluji is ill and what is his health condition is known to all,” he added. This is not the first time when Tej has caused embarrassment to senior leaders of the party. Both Purbe and Jagdanand had to face the ire of Lalu’s elder son despite being loyal to the RJD chief. However, former national vice-president of the party, late Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, had also raised objections over the manner in which Jagdanand was running the office. Raghuvansh had said the RJD office resembled a government office. Meanwhile, JD (U) spokesperson Nihora Prasad assailed Tej Pratap for his disrespect to senior leaders of the RJD, including Jagdanand Singh. “RJD netas with socialist background are being humiliated by Lalu’s sons,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cracks-wide-open-in-rjd-as-tej-pratap-slams-jagdanand/articleshow/80901284.cms||Ramashankar
February 14, 2021||Aurangabad||Four HIV+ couples to tie the knot today in Latur||AURANGABAD: This Valentine’s Day will mark the beginning of a new chapter in the lives of some HIV+ women and men in Latur. Four couples will be getting married at Sevalay, an NGO based at Hasegaon in Ausa taluka of Latur district, on Sunday. Eminent personalities from different walks of life will grace the occasion as patrons of these couples. Among those getting married is a woman from Bihar, who has been living in Latur. Her to-be husband is from Karnataka. Sevalay founder Ravi Bapatle said that the anti-retroviral therapy has increased the life longevity of AIDS patients. “The life-span of HIV+ people has also increased considerably due to the evolved treatment. Many of children, who were born with the infection, have gotten married in the past few years,” he said. Bapatle said the medical science has progressed to ensure that the children of such couples do not carry the infection, if all proper measures are followed. “There is a longing among many HIV+ people to get married. We do match-making for couples and arrange marriage of compatible couples,” he said. On inter-state couple getting married on Sunday, Bapatle said the woman was an orphan and reached Sevalay from her home-town in Bihar via Pune. “Her to-be husband is from Karnataka. She is currently working with us for the welfare of people living with HIV  and AIDS patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/four-hiv-couples-to-tie-the-knot-today-in-latur/articleshow/80903222.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Protests mount against Centre’s move||Visakhapatnam: Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao on Saturday said the government will not allow the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. The minister was addressing a gathering of women organised by Chaitanya Sravanthi at the GVMC Gandhi Statue. Former Union minister P Ashok Gajapathi Raju visited the venue of indefinite hunger strike of former TDP MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao and extended his support to the movement. The indefinite hunger strike reached its fourth day on Saturday. Meanwhile, students and youth affiliated with DYFI formed a human chain at the Steel Gate at Kurmannapalem in a show of support to agitating workers. The Vizag Steel Plant Parirakshana Committee has also decided to conduct a ‘maha dharna’ on February 16 at the Gandhi Statue and a public meeting at Lanka Grounds in Gajuwaka on February 18. — Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/protests-mount-against-centres-move/articleshow/80900452.cms||Siva G
February 14, 2021||Patna||Glacier burst: Kin of missing people anxious||PATNA/CHHAPRA: A week has passed, but the family members of 35-year-old Naresh Das, who had gone missing after the glacier burst in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on February 7, have not lost hope yet. Das is a resident of Basudeopur village under the Kalyanpur block in Samastipur district. A delegation of the CPI-ML (Liberation) led by Dharendra Jha met the family members of the landless worker at Basudeopur and later handed over a memorandum to the DM, seeking compensation of Rs 20 lakh to the family. Das has a 12-year-old son and a 10-year-old daughter. “The family has no farmland at the village. They will die of starvation if financial assistance is not given. The district administration should look into the matter,” Jha said. The tale of the close relatives of Ritesh Kumar (30), a resident of Kanta village under Gaighat block in Muzaffarpur district, is not different. “We have not received any information about Ritesh, who had gone missing in Chamoli,” Ritesh’s elder brother Ramesh Thakur said. The delay in rescue operation has caused strong resentment among the aggrieved family members of the missing workers from Saran district. Two people — Sonu Kumar Yadav (22) and Munna Singh alias Binod Singh (47) — are missing. Umesh Yadav, uncle of Sonu, said, “My brother Ram Das Rai, who had gone to Chamoli to search his son, has finally left for the village without any success.” On Friday, Manjhi MLA Dr Satyendra Yadav visited the house of Munna and assured his family of cooperation. Munna had been working in a power project in Chamoli. He has been missing since February 7. He has three daughters – Aarju (22), Kajal (19) and Manisha (16) – and a son, Lakschya (14). Munna’s daughters are still unmarried.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/glacier-burst-kin-of-missing-people-anxious/articleshow/80900949.cms||Ramashankar
February 14, 2021||Varanasi||Deoria village rejoices over Manya’s success||Gorakhpur: The school and village of Manya Singh, the daughter of an autorickshaw driver who is now VLCC Femina Miss India 2020 runner up, has lauded her achievement against all odds. The family now lives in Mumbai. Her father Om Prakash Singh is an auto-rickshaw driver and mother a fashion designer. People in her ancestral village, Vikrampur, distributed sweets and after receiving news of Manya’s achievement. Manya described her tough days on social media how she used to work and study. “We are very happy about Manya’s success against all difficulties. She completed class 10 from Lohia Inter College in Vikrampur. She was a diligent girl and very good in studies,” her school manager Anil Singh said on Saturday. “Manya was always good in studies. She was enthusiastic and used to take part in extracurricular activities. She was a very helpful and down to earth girl. It is really a happy moment for us that a girl of our college won the coveted title,” he added. He further said, “The entire college is celebrating and no doubt a positive energy is prevailing in the entire area and inspiring youth that success only needs hard work and anybody could be successful even in adverse conditions.” “Manya’s family left their ancestral house in 2009 and started living in Kushinagar’s Hata area near Vikrampur. Om Prakash went to Mumbai where he worked as an auto-rickshaw driver. The family faced challenges of financial constraint and in 2014 they shifted to Mumbai,” said Abhishek Singh, village head of Vikrampur. Her uncle Arvind Singh, also a resident of Vikrampur, congratulated her on her huge success while expressing happiness on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/deoria-village-rejoices-over-manyas-success/articleshow/80902574.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||Food festival an ode to daawat tradition of Avadh||Lucknow: With ‘baithak’ style seating arrangements and staff dressed in chikan attire as Avadhi mezbaans (hosts), visitors to the Avadhi Food Festival on Saturday enjoyed a variety of conventionally prepared delicacies as ghazals played in the background. Organised by UP State Tourism and Development Corporation at Hotel Gomti, the festival is an ode to the timeless ‘daawat’ tradition of Avadh. “These classic chicken and mutton dishes are not similar to those cooked in regular kitchens. The preparations for these require distinct skill. We haven’t learnt this art anywhere, but haven been trained in our families,” said Mohammed Imran, the head chef for the two-day event. Guests were shown the large utensils used for cooking and serving these dishes and how they add a unique flavour and aroma to them. In the three-course meal, assorted kebabs were served as appetizers, a range of handi dishes and biryanis for the main course and for dessert, matki kulfi and shahi tukda were popular among guests. “It’s an enjoyable experience; the look of Avadh that they have created is really beautiful,” said Manoj Rastogi of Indiranagar. “This festival is for 4 cities but Lucknow is rightfully its heart. I am happy we could bring together traditional chefs together for this,” said UPSTDC MD Shivpal Singh. He added that all hotels of UPSTDC had served as safe havens for the state’s Covid warriors. “While serving them, none of our staff got infected. The festival is also a celebration of that,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/food-festival-an-ode-to-daawat-tradition-of-avadh/articleshow/80902721.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 1,800 health workers get second shot||NEW DELHI: The administration of the second dose of Covid vaccine started from Saturday with 1,856 healthcare workers turning up to get the second dose. The workers were among those who had received the Covid shot on the first day of the vaccination drive. The turnout was lower than expected but not even a single of the 1,856 healthcare workers reported any adverse event. The first dose was given on January 16 to 4,319 healthcare workers across 11 districts. Meanwhile, a total of 11,912 individuals, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, were given the first dose across 161 vaccination centres on Saturday. The overall turnout was 52.7%. Dr Pragya Shukla, head of the department of clinical oncology at Delhi State Cancer Institute, who was the first recipient of the vaccine at the institute on January 16, turned out to be the first person at the institute to receive the second dose as well. “I was eagerly waiting for the second dose, which makes the vaccination against Covid complete. Like others, I did not report any adverse event and after two-three weeks, I will be safe against the coronavirus,” Shukla said. Dr Satya Ranjan Sahu, pulmonologist at PSRI Hospital, said he received his second dose on Saturday. “Everyone should get vaccinated whenever their turn comes. It is important to remember that antibodies form only 14 days after the second dose, so everyone should continue with social distancing norms and wear mask,” Sahu said. Many healthcare workers who received the first dose on the first day said they did not receive the message about getting the second dose on Saturday. An official said the second dose would be given to everyone in a staggered manner. The overall vaccination turnout dipped on Saturday with only 13,768 beneficiaries, including those who received the second dose, turning up to get the shot. The turnout percentage was 52.7% as compared to 57.7% a day before. Only six adverse events were reported. A health department official said that the vaccination turnout percentage dipped due to the spike in the total target. The number of centres in the capital was recently increased from 184 to 261. “Along with the increase in the number of vaccination centres, the total target also increases because each centre is expected to carry out 100 vaccination daily,” said the official. Another official said the overall turnout might have remained low also because of the weekend. The number of frontline workers vaccinated was more than double than the number of healthcare workers. A total of 8,382 frontline workers were given the shots as compared to 3,530 healthcare workers. Altogether 1,91,186 individuals have got themselves inoculated in Delhi so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1-8k-health-workers-get-second-shot/articleshow/80901294.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 14, 2021||Aurangabad||Three booked as Beed woman says she was sold, raped||AURANGABAD: A 24-year-old woman, working in Aurangabad and hailing from Majalgaon town of Beed district, has accused her friend and two of her accomplices, including another woman, from Parbhani of selling her to a family in Rajasthan, where she was allegedly raped multiple times by a man. Aurangabad police have booked the three under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and were in the process of transferring the case to Parbhani, as she was allegedly kidnapped from that town. The woman, employed with a private firm in Aurangabad, has alleged that the crime happened at a house at Gujjarwada in Ajmer district of Rajasthan from January 18 to February 5. Ironically, the rape suspect was a member of the family which had allegedly bought the woman. “The complainant needed a Rs 1-lakh loan as she had decided to start a mess for supplying meals in the MIDC Waluj industrial area of Aurangabad. Her woman friend, over the phone, promised to help her with getting a loan and told her to come to Parbhani. There, she convinced her to go to Gujjarwada to sign some documents,” senior inspector Madhukar Sawant of MIDC Waluj police told TOI. “The complainant went to Parbhani in the first week of January and met her friend. The other two accused, a woman and a man, both hailing from Risod town, promised her a loan. The complainant, along with her woman friend and the man, travelled to Dhasul village in Gujjarwada on January 20, where she was made to sign some bond papers on the pretext of giving her money. Later, the suspects left her with a family, saying that they wanted to have tea outside,” said the officer while citing the complaint. The complainant has stated that the family told her that they had bought her for marriage and the man, one of the family members, allegedly raped her. The suspects had confined her to the house and snatched the mobile phone. “The complainant, however, found a mobile phone in the house and informed her parents about her plight on February 5, following which her father lodged a complaint” said Sawant. A police team was sent to Rajasthan and the woman was brought back to Aurangabad on February 9. Sawant said he has got the “zero FIR” registered and processed it for being transferred to Parbhani police, as the woman was allegedly kidnapped from that town. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-booked-as-woman-says-she-was-sold-raped/articleshow/80903230.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 14, 2021||Pune||J&K women’s cricket team visits NDA||Pune: Fourteen players of the women’s cricket team from the Anantnag district of Jammu & Kashmir visited the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Khadakwasla on Friday. The team is visiting Pune and Mumbai till February 15 as a part of an initiative by the Pune-based ASEEM Foundation and the Indian Army, under ‘Operation Sadbhavana’, to promote sports and enhance interaction between people from remote areas and the rest of the country. As a part of their visit to Pune, the team spent a day at the NDA where they were provided an overview of various activities in the Army, Navy and Air Force training teams, as well of the joint training team. They also visited the famous ‘Cadets’ Mess’ of the academy. Rear Admiral Atul Anand, Deputy Commandant and chief instructor of the NDA, interacted with Rubia Syed (captain) and other members of the Anantnag XI team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jk-womens-cricket-team-visits-nda/articleshow/80902582.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||Court rejects plea to cancel actor Poonam Pandey’s bail||Panaji: A Margao court has rejected the plea of Canacona resident Samrat Bhagat to cancel the bail granted to Bollywood actor Poonam Pandey and her husband Sam Bombay for shooting ‘obscene’ video at Chapoli dam in Canacona. The court stated that the equipment for making the video was attached by the police, and even if the clip was deleted from Pandey’s social media account, police could trace the same through servers by following and adopting appropriate procedure as even deleted content can be recovered. Bhagat claimed that he was the complainant in the case, but the FIR was registered on a complaint by the executive engineer of irrigation department. The court stated that it found nothing wrong in the order which granted bail to Pandey. Conditions imposed on her not to interfere with the witnesses and to report for investigation are sufficient. No purpose would be served to keep her in police custody, the court stated. Bhagat had approached the court seeking cancellation of the bail granted to Pandey stating that the JMFC hurriedly released her on bail without proper verification of the camera and memory card by the police and also without granting the police enough opportunity to gather crucial evidence. The equipment used for recording the video was not attached at the time of the order, he maintained. He further submitted that the JMFC erred in concluding that all nudity was not obscene though the plain viewing of the video exposes the prima facie nature of obscenity and indecency of the video. Senior counsel representing Pandey submitted to the court that their arrest was illegal because though notice under Section 41A CrPC was given to them to report at the police station on November 6, she was taken into custody on November 4 from the hotel where she was staying. Once notice is issued, Pandey could be arrested only if she failed to report to the police station on the date and time given in the notice and therefore her arrest was illegal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-rejects-plea-to-cancel-actor-poonam-pandeys-bail/articleshow/80902658.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Delhi||New dates for ‘missing’ workers||New Delhi: Health workers who haven’t received the first dose of Covid vaccine despite being on the roll call will get one more chance to get the jab. According to senior health officials, such beneficiaries can get the vaccine at their registered centre till February 20.But if someone is left out even after that, arrangements have been made to vaccinate them from February 21 to February 25. “Those already registered on the Co-WIN app can visit any centre across the state and get inoculated between February 21 and 25,” said an official. He added such beneficiaries need not produce scheduling SMS at the time of vaccination.At present, there are a total of 265 sites for Covid vaccination across the national capital.Two types of vaccines — Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and Covishield, which has been developed by Oxford/Astrazeneca in collaboration with Serum Institute of India — are being given at these sites. All state-run hospitals and private hospitals are giving Covishield while Centre-run hospitals are administering Covaxin.Over 13,000 healthcare and frontline workers have been vaccinated till date. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-dates-for-missing-workers/articleshow/80901302.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Six special teams look for Punjab gangster, Rs 1 lakh reward for information||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police will give Rs 1 lakh for information leading to the arrest of Punjab-based gangster Lakhbir Singh alias Lakha Sidhana alias, one of the key accused in the January 26 Red Fort events. Police have also arrested three more suspects who assaulted police personnel that day. The cops said on Saturday that six special teams of Crime Branch and Special Cell have been formed to hunt down the gangster. The reward was declared last week. Sidhana is reportedly hiding with the protesters at Singhu border. A video had surfaced last week showing him at Tikri border, but sources said that was meant to mislead police. “He belongs to Sidhana village in Punjab’s Bathinda district,” disclosed an officer. “One of the most dreaded gangsters of Punjab at one time, Sidhana is an accused in more than two dozen cases, including poll booth capturing, attempt to murder, murder, loot and possession of illegal weapons.” Meanwhile, on Saturday, the Crime Branch took Deep Sidhu and Iqbal Singh, arrested earlier, to Red Fort to reconstruct what happened on Republic Day. They were also taken to other places, including Mandoli in Shahdara, since their mobile locations of the day had shown their presence there. Meanwhile, the three men arrested by police in connection with the violence that took place during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26, have been sent to Tihar jail in judicial custody after presentation in a court. They are Sukhmeet Singh (35), Gundeep Singh (33) and Harvinder Singh (32). Their arrests were for an attack on police personnel during the violent protests in north Delhi’s Burari. A group had been stopped at a barricade in Burari while on their way to Red Fort. The accused allegedly attacked the cops on the Burari flyover. At least 30, including paramilitary and external forces personnel, were injured in the attack. Police have arrested 11 people in the case. The overall count of arrests has crossed 150, sources said. Farmers had violated the agreement on the routes to be taken by their tractor rally and entered central Delhi forcibly on Republic Day. Over 530 policemen were injured in the riotous events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/6-spl-teams-look-for-punjab-gangster-rs-1l-reward-for-info/articleshow/80902595.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chennai||Gen Z is on a thrift spree||For a while now, Akshara Prasanna’s favourite item of clothing has been what she calls ‘mom pants’, a pair of loose-fitting denim palazzos thrifted to her by her cousin Kavya Sreekumar. The 13-year-old says she loves them because they "just have a nicer vibe about them". "The styling is different and I feel it’s something no one else has. I’d never find it in the places I’m taken to shop," says Akshara, who also loves the maroon sweater her cousin thrift-gifted her. Kavya, 23, a client servicing executive at Chennai-based Digitally Inspired Media, got into second-hand clothes shopping during the lockdown, when she was shuffling through Instagram and stumbled upon a vintage crocheted blazer at a throwaway price. "I had never bought anything second-hand before but I got talking to the owner of the Insta store and then bought it," says Kavya. And now, not only is everything she wears second-hand, but she has begun curating and selling thrifted clothes as well. "I just find it more trend-setting rather than trend following. For instance, if all thrift stores are selling tennis skirts then everyone wants one. Same with corset tops. My friends are now into thrifted clothes as well," she says. Gen Z loves the pre-loved for several reasons apparently — from the serendipitous nature of the find, to the sheer diversity in clothing, to the affordable pricing, and yes, the fact that it also tugs at their eco-consciousness. Google Trends shows thrifting spiked in searches all through the lockdown. The uptick began in April and has continued through to January 2021. Tamil Nadu especially seems to be leading the way in terms of the number of searches for thrifting. According to a report from fashion search engine Lyst, there was a 104% increase in online fashion searches for second-hand-related keywords like "vintage fashion" and "slow fashion" in the past year. This year’s Resale Report from one of the world’s largest online thrift stores, Thred Up, found that the pandemic accelerated the resale market. The Thred Up report predicts that globally, the second-hand apparel market, valued at $28 billion (around ₹2 trillion) in June, is forecast to hit $64 billion within five years. They predict that, within the decade, almost a fifth of a person’s closet space will be second-hand. "Reports show that over the last decade the number of clothes produced has increased but the number of times we wear them has decreased," says Dhawal Mane of the Bengaluru-based GreenStitched, a volunteer-led initiative that aims to inspire action on sustainable fashion through events like film festivals, talks and clothes swaps. "With swapping, thrifting, renting or mending what you have, no new resources are being consumed to make the garment. So you are in essence extending the life of a product." In terms of fashion, says Dhawal, thrifting sometimes brings classic designs back in vogue. "It’s exciting for a person who likes mixing and matching to wear different styles and silhouettes. You’ll find that with thrifting and swapping there are no two pieces of the same garment or the same size. Everything is unique," he says. Two years ago, Chennai-based Shruti Ashok tested waters with a thrift for a charity fundraiser, and encouraged by the response and the money she raised (Rs7 lakh), decided to open Relove Closet on Instagram in April last year to sell pre-owned clothes and accessories. Relove Closet still retains the social aspect to the venture, she says. "For the last couple of years I have been engaged in sustainable fashion. I re-wear, recycle, and buy second-hand," says Sruti, who is also founder of an upcycled leather accessories store. "Today, more people are open to it. We see a lot of repeat shoppers for both our affordable range as well as our luxury items." She adds that while a few clothes do come with some wear and tear, a quality check is always run before the item is put up for sale. Repairs are done, the product sanitised and sometimes even upcycled to make them as good as new. "Thrift stores offer uniqueness, convenience and affordability. The only downside is that most thrift stores do not allow refunds or returns," she says. While the zoomers love it, the idea hasn’t caught on with Gen Previous yet, says Kavya, but she believes that once they see the affordability and convenience of it, they’ll come on board. After all, while second-hand may be new to the Indian mindset, frugality is not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gen-z-is-on-a-thrift-spree/articleshow/80901299.cms||Kamini Mathai
February 14, 2021||Allahabad||Long, twisted locks of sadhus fascinate Magh Mela visitors||PRAYAGRAJ: The lives and ways of living of sadhus and seers are an enigma for people, and the several feet long dreadlocks dangling from their shoulders and their queer arrangements draw curious gazes and are a big attraction. The strange hairdos of matted hair and dreadlocks of sadhus camping at Akhil Bharatiya Shri Panch Terah Bhai Tyagi Akhara at Khak Chowk at the ongoing Magh Mela are fascinating visitors, including foreigners, who are keen to know the secrets of their unique hairstyles. Around 150 ash-smeared, semi-clad sadhus, busy in hatha yoga and various other religious and spiritual activities at Tapasvi Nagar face a barrage of questions from visitors and answer them without fuss. Sadhus say every second visitor wants to see their hair and asks them how they maintain it. Swami Gopal Das, camping at Akhil Bharatiya Shri Panch Terah Bhai Tyagi camp, has over eight-foot long dreadlocks. He says, “Majority of sadhus wear their hair in thick dreadlocks called jataa.” “Sadhus are known for their jataas which are an integral part of their spiritual pursuits and help them to connect with God,” he added. “We only use Multani Mitti (Fuller’s earth) to wash our hair. All sadhus wash their hair in the water of river Ganga once in 10 days or in a fortnight,” Swami Gopal Das said. “People are curious and think we make a lot of efforts but it’s not so, though it’s not easy. We become experts in maintaining our dreadlocks gradually and don’t use any soap or chemicals. The dreadlocks are our pride and help in our spiritual progress,” he added. Das said he has not cut his hair since childhood and now his jataas are two feet longer than his height. Another sadhu, Sewa Das said, “There are some sadhus who have jataas ranging from 10 to 35 feet. Maintaining them is an art and we know how to bind the hair. It took me over 20 years to get seven-foot dreadlocks.” Most sadhus arrange their jataas like a crown on their head, and often too big than their faces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/long-twisted-locks-of-sadhusfascinate-magh-mela-visitors/articleshow/80912795.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chennai||War of eaters: Can you stomach this?||Chennai: There were two things Sabari Kumar remembers being reprimanded for as a child — not studying enough, and not eating enough. In many ways, it is what he owes his gargantuan appetite to. Through his YouTube channel, Saapatu Raman, he and his father Porchezhiyan from Koongaiyur village in Salem, have earned 91,500 followers cashing in on an Instagram sub-culture that’s emerged one of the strangest in recent times — Mukbang. Every Friday, the duo starve until late afternoon, when they wipe out mountains of homemade mutton biriyani, parotta-korma or dozens of vadais with sambar — in record time.Mukbang (mook-bang in Korean, translating to ‘eating broadcast’), is a social media trend that caught on in South Korea to make up for the loneliness young professionals were experiencing eating by themselves in a culture where dining involved family gatherings. The pioneers of this fad live-streamed an eating show — of them noisily slurping down noodles and chewing heaps of barbequed meat.Sabari, a 27-year-old medical student who was introduced to the trend in Ukraine during college, decided to take it forward with south Indian recipes made from native rice varieties like samba and karuppu kavuni raised in their farm. "My father always ate a lot. He could finish 3.5kg of rice and ‘meen kuzhambu’ in 17 minutes and 2.5kg of mutton in 18 minutes. I share his love for food, but haven’t been able to beat him," he says.Mukbang videos are said to appeal to the viewer’s sensibilities in sensory, emotional and psychological ways. Watching an ordinary person gleefully consume copious amounts of food within a given time isn’t just entertaining, but possibly gives the viewer a virtual taste of the food they won’t get to eat, says counselling psychologist Saras Bhaskar. "Food has a certain social and cultural relevance to things like family and bonding. Mukbang possibly offers a feast to the eyes and feeds the fantasy of the viewer in a way that’s not practical for them to do," she says.Media student Prakash M stumbled upon Mukbang during the lockdown while looking for recipes to cook. Before he knew it, he was binge-watching them through dinner and past bedtime. "Watching tight shots of steak, creamy sauces and colourful food excesses, while hearing about their taste in detail, is oddly calming," he says.Twenty-year-old law student from Lucknow, Deepika Verma, rose to Mukbang stardom after she beat her sister in downing a KFC Meal Box in five minutes and 22 seconds, and also swallowed a tortilla chip loaded with Carolina Reaper, Trinidad Scorpion and Ghost Pepper — said to be the hottest peppers in the world.So, yes, it goes without saying that Mukbangers walk the tightrope with health, but, earning anywhere between `10,000 to a lakh through this viral trend, it’s probably going to be a while before they give their gut a break. "Over time, binge eating one kind of meat and junk food, can lead to gastric problems, ulcers, fluctuating blood sugar levels and heart problems," says city nutritionist Ananya S. "An attempt to strike a healthy balance could be made with smaller snacks, nuts and vegetables."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/war-of-eaters-can-you-stomach-this/articleshow/80901319.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Jeweller buys fake gold brick for Rs 20 lakh||AHMEDABAD: Three con artists from Assam sold a fake gold brick to a jeweller from Manek Chowk, cheating him out of Rs 20 lakh.Amar Panchal, a 38-year-old resident of Luhar Pol, told Khadia police that one of the accused -- who identified himself as Babul -- called up his friend, claiming he was looking for a buyer for a gold brick that he had found while renovating his house. Panchal said he contacted Babul on December 12 over the phone. Babul allegedly demanded Rs 20 lakh for the gold brick which he claimed weighed 20 kg. “On a video call, he showed me the brick and it looked genuine. Babul said the price of the brick was around Rs 45 lakh. However, since he did not have any rich person in his village in Lakimpur district of Assam to sell to, he had to call my friend for help,” Panchal states in his FIR. On Babul’s invitation, Panchal flew to Guwahati on January 2 from where he went to the village. Panchal met Babul and his brother, who was speech- and hearing-impaired. Babul narrated a story of how he got the gold brick and his brother shook his head in affirmation, states the FIR. Babul gave a small sample of gold to Panchal which he brought back to Ahmedabad and tested. It turned out to be real gold. Encouraged by this, Panchal went to Guwahati again on February 3. This time, he brought two cellphones worth Rs 12,000 as demanded by Babul. Babul gave him the gold brick and asked him to give the money to another person who was introduced as Raju Ali. Panchal gave Ali Rs 20 lakh in cash and the two cellphones. On receiving payment, the men told Panchal that they were in a hurry to go to their workplace and left. It was only when Panchal returned to the city and got the brick tested that he found out it was duplicate gold. He then approached the police and filed a complaint of cheating against the three unknown men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jeweller-buys-fake-gold-brick-for-rs-20l/articleshow/80902620.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi records no Covid death again; only 462 of 5,776 beds occupied||NEW DELHI: Delhi did not record any death due to Covid-19 on Saturday, the second time in the last one month. Earlier, on February 9, the capital recorded zero deaths in 24 hours after a gap of over nine months. Health minister Satyendar Jain said people should continue taking precautions while highlighting the reduction in cases and deaths due to the viral infection. According to the health bulletin shared by the government, the capital recorded 126 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total count of the infection to over 6.36 lakh. A total of 60,876 tests, including 38,921 RT-PCR and 21,955 rapid antigen ones, were conducted the previous day for detection of Covid-19. Data shows the total number of active cases has reduced to 1,041 of which 411 patients are under home isolation. The occupancy of Covid beds in Delhi has reduced to 8%. Of the 5,776 beds reserved for persons suffering from Covid across the city, data available on the Delhi Corona app shows, only 462 are occupied. Out of total 717 ICU beds with ventilator, only 79 were occupied on Saturday. The number of ICU beds without ventilator support that were occupied was 117 out of 1,268. “With decline in new cases, demand for beds has gone down. Our hospital has 514 beds for Covid-19 of which 550 are lying vacant,” a senior doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital said. Delhi government-run hospitals were recently allowed to start non-Covid services in view of the decline in fresh cases of Covid. Other hospitals like AIIMS, Safdarjung and Guru Tegh Bahadur have also increased the intake of non-Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-records-no-covid-death-again-only-462-of-5776-beds-occupied/articleshow/80901305.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Govt camps to register construction workers||New Delhi: Delhi government will run month-long district-level camps to reach out to construction workers who do not figure in government records and register them. All the districts will organise special camps for the purpose. During the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi government had announced financial help and given it to thousands, but many construction workers were left out because they were not registered.Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board will be organising registration camps for the welfare of workers in different districts from February 15 to March 15. The camps will be organised in North-West, North, South, East, North-East, South-West, West, Central and New Delhi districts, according to an order issued by the office of labour commissioner.Delhi government provides various schemes and benefits under the building and other constructions workers (regulation of employment and conditions of service) act. To avail these benefits, the workers must be registered with the welfare board. Currently, 52,000 live members exist in the system while 66,000 are registered but pending for verification.Delhi government had in October 2020 announced that it would register 10 lakh construction workers to enable them to get the benefits of various government welfare schemes. The registration work started through all its labour offices. Instructions were given to labour department officials to make sure not a single worker should be left unregistered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-camps-to-register-construction-workers/articleshow/80901310.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||Rescue operation continues for 7th day, drilling of auxillary tunnel ongoing to reach stranded personnel||Dehradun/Tapovan: On the seventh day of the rescue operation at the NTPC tunnel in Tapovan on Saturday, rescue personnel continued with the strategy of trying to access 34 persons, including workers and engineers of the NTPC hydropower project, by drilling their way to an underground silt flushing tunnel that runs parallel to the main one and is believed to be the passage that could lead to the men. After getting success in drilling a 75mm diameter hole on Friday, drilling of a 300 mm bore hole was continuing, according to rescue officials. The plan, they said, was to try and insert a camera into the silt flushing tunnel to check for signs of the stranded. Along with the drilling operation, the rescue teams led by NDRF and SDRF also continued removing the slush from the tunnel and till the time of filing of this report, had managed to clear the way up to 136 mtr inside the main head race tunnel (HRT) and were aiming to reach the 180 mtr point — where the stranded persons are suspected to be — in the next 10-12 hours, according to district authorities. "A special operation was carried out to divert water and slush flow from left bank to right bank of Dhauliganga on Saturday evening. Tunnel rescue work went on at the left bank. After the flash floods, the river water flow is mostly through the left side,” said Vivek Pandey, spokesperson, ITBP. During the rescue operation, an ambulance was also taken inside the tunnel. The officials said that the ambulance was stationed in case a team member faces any health issue as the oxygen levels are low inside the tunnel. The officials added that the process of drilling will be complete by late evening after which a camera will be sent inside. On Saturday, no bodies were recovered despite multiple teams carrying out combing operations at different places between Raini village and Srinagar in Pauri district. The total number of recovered bodies currently stands at 38. Two more bodies were identified, taking the total identified bodies to 13, while 25 are yet to be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rescue-operation-continues-for-7th-day-drilling-of-auxillary-tunnel-ongoing-to-reach-stranded-personnel/articleshow/80900649.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||Maha, TN excel; UP finishsecond in men’s team event||Lucknow: Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra emerged victorious in the men's and women's team events during the 25th All-India Postal Carrom Tournament, which concluded at KD Singh Babu Stadium on Saturday. While Assam and hosts Uttar Pradesh finished second and third in men's team events, Telangana and Tamil Nadu secured second and third rank in women’s category, respectively. At least 330 matches were played during the three-day event. DG, Prisons, Anand Kumar was the chief guest of the concluding ceremony while national parabadminton coach Gaurav Khanna was the guest of honour. Chief Postmaster general, UP circle, Kaushlendra Kumar Sinha presided over the programme. Winners: Women's (Singles): R Vineeta (Andhra); (Doubles): U Savita Devi & A Ramshree (Telangana); Men's (Singles): M Suman (Telangana); Doubles: KB Rajesh & JN Shyamsundar (Karnataka). BOX UP to host bodybuilding Federation Cup in April Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh will host the 10th Federation Cup 2021 in April this year. Senior men’s bodybuilding, 13th senior women’s bodybuilding & 8th women’s sports model physique and fitness physique national championship will be organised as part of the event on April 3-4 at Indira Gandhi Pratishthan, Lucknow. The event will be organised by UP Bodybuilders Federation. President of the Federation, Sajid Ahmed, said at least 300 athletes from various parts of the country will participate in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maha-tn-excel-up-finishsecond-in-mens-team-event/articleshow/80902743.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Trichy||Renovation work of shutters launched||Trichy/Madurai: The foundation stone for the renovation work of shutters at the Mayanur barrage that feeds Kattalai channel was laid by the chief minister via video conferencing on Saturday. The work has been allotted Rs 185 crore where the shutters will be repaired, and the retaining walls will be strengthened. The 250-long barrage was inaugurated in 2014 but some parts of the barrage was damaged in 2018. He also inaugurated modernization works on the 18 channel scheme in Theni district through video conferencing on Saturday. The state government had passed a government order for the works at an outlay of Rs 59.1 crore in Uthamapalayam block in Theni district on January 22. Every year 98 cusecs is discharged in this channel for 30 days from October 1. However, silt deposited in this channel has affected inflow to 44 tanks in the region. Once completed, 51 tanks in Bodinaickanur and Uthamapalayam blocks would benefit from the water discharged through the channel. Irrigation of 4,614 acres if land in these two blocks would be ensured. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/renovation-work-of-shutters-launched/articleshow/80903268.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Covid-19 test made must for vendors & delivery boys||NAGPUR: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to do Covid-19 test of hawkers, vegetable & milk vendors, delivery boys, staff of courier services and others who regularly come in contact with large number of people. Also, teams from civic body will inspect and seal marriage lawns, halls violating guidelines. Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari and municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B held a meeting in view of rise in Covid cases in the city recently. Radhakrishnan told TOI, “All ten zones have been directed to take mobile testing centres to all hawkers etc and compulsorily test them. Tests of all people residing in a flat scheme or housing society are mandatory if anyone of them is found positive. In case of violation, the area will be sealed,” he said. Civic chief also directed to trace and test 20 contacts against one positive patient. He asked the officials to give surprise checks at all lawns, halls, hotels etc citing large number of marriage ceremonies on February 16 in the city. Tiwari also directed the officials to test employees working at saloons, kirana shops, laundry etc where large number of people visit on daily basis. A day ago, Radhakrishnan had made mandatory to all shops and hotels to test all its employees once in a month. He said tests will be done free of cost at NMC’s 50 testing centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-test-made-must-for-vendors-delivery-boys/articleshow/80900651.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||Kakori in grief: Why didn’t Balaji save them, cry kin||LUCKNOW: Kaliyakheda and Budhaliya Kheda hamlets in Kakori were shrouded in grief after news trickled in on Saturday morning about death of six villagers in a car crash near Kannauj. Tragedy struck before they could reach Dausa in Rajasthan to offer prayers at the Mehandipur Balaji temple. All six died inside the wrecked vehicle after the big bang collision near Talgram village in Kannauj, hours after midnight. The deceased included Pramod Yadav, 35, Gyanendra Yadav, 35, Mohit Pal, 31, and Sonu Yadav, 31, who were realtors, Suraj, a Class 9 student and Satyendra, who had just passed his B.Pharma course. Pramod was on the driver’s seat, when he suddenly felt drowsy, lost control of the car and rammed a stationary truck. When rescuers extricated them from the mangled heap and rushed them to hospital, they were declared dead. Pramod, an ardent devotee of Lord Balalji would often visit the temple to offer puja and seek blessings, said Rajendra Yadav, a neighbour. All six from Kakori had long desired to visit the Dausa shrine, but the pandemic deferred their plans. A shocked villager said, “It’s untimely death. We seldom hear about deaths on pilgrimage as God shields his devotees. Why did they meet such a painful death?” Pramod’s wife, Khushboo, was inconsolable. “One is not wary when going on a religious trip. If only I had a premonition, I would have stopped them. My son’s naming ceremony was due on Basant Panchami” she said. Sonu’s wife, Sarita, said, her husband died without seeing the face of his daughter, who was born last week. Village elders, however, said, night travel involves risk. “Start your journey at dawn and camp at dusk is an old saying, which youth of this generation seldom follow,” said an elderly villager. “Gyanendra’s mother, Ram Janki, has been ill for months and he wanted to seek blessings from Lord Balaji for quick healing. Before leaving, he also promised she would never have to visit a doctor,” said Vivek Kumar, a relative. Gyanendra’s four-year-old son, Atarva, is yet to be told about his father’s death. “He still says daddy will bring bat and toffees,” said mother Reena. Suraj’s old father, Abhimanyu, can’t believe his son is no more. “Who will do my last rites? How can God be so cruel,” he said. The same group barring Suraj had recently travelled to Goa and returned on January 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kakori-hamlets-shrouded-in-grief-why-didnt-lord-balaji-protect-them-cry-kin/articleshow/80902751.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ragpicker dies in road accident in Sarkhej||Ahmedabad: A woman who earned her livelihood by picking rags in Sarkhej and Juhapura died when a speeding car hit her when she was walking on a footpath on Thursday afternoon, states an FIR filed on Friday.A man from Rakhial, Aamirkhan Pathan, 22, who works as street hawker on Sangam Cinema Road in Juhapura, said before M Division traffic police that the deceased, Lakshmi, aged around 35, was hit by a speeding car while she as picking rags on the footpath. The driver drove his car into the footpath and hit her causing her severe injuries. After that, he tried to run away ,but some autorickshaw drivers managed to catch him. After getting caught, the man offered to take the women to a hospital in his car, but as someone called up an ambulance, she was taken to a nearby hospital where she was declared brought dead. M Division traffic police registered a case of negligent driving causing death against an unknown man and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ragpicker-dies-in-road-accident-in-sarkhej/articleshow/80902634.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Pune||Pune: CoWIN app glitch delays second Covid vaccine dose in PMC limits||PUNE: Vaccination sites in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas could not administer the second Covid vaccine dose to healthcare workers on Saturday due to technical glitches in the CoWIN app. The PMC was supposed to start administering the second dose for those who had received their first on January 16. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation is set to start the process from next week. The glitch, however, did not impact Pune region's scheduled first-dose Covid vaccination drive on Saturday, which went on to register a 52% turnout. "Health officials from the PMC had asked us to start administering second doses from February 13. But the feature of 'second-dose allotment' didn't reflect on CoWIN app," said Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director of Bharati hospital, one of 25 vaccination sites in PMC areas. Oswal said they have been told the feature will get activated from Monday. Medical expert Raj Kodre, who is monitoring the vaccination drive at Noble Hospital in Hadapsar, also confirmed the glitch. App glitch delays follow-up shot in Pune civic limitsKodre said, “The second dose allotment feature has to be activated on CoWIN. Without that, we can't start the doses.” The PMC’s chief immunisation officer Amit Shah said, “The issue (with CoWIN) was discussed during a video conference with state health officials on Saturday. The second-dose allotment feature is going to be activated from Monday.” As for first-dose vaccinations, a total 3,266 beneficiaries — both healthcare and frontline workers — received their shots across the Pune Metropolitan Region on Saturday. Data provided by the administration put the overall response at 52%. Deputy director of health, Pune region, Sanjay Deshmukh said response had dipped a little on Saturday. But he expressed confidence that it would pick up again next week. “We will hold a a special training programme on Sunday to create session sites for second-dose beneficiaries,” Deshmukh said. Several sites, particularly in the rural parts, saw weak response (in the single digits) on Saturday. In fact, the Women’s Hospital in Baramati and the Velhe Rural Hospital, which were both expecting at least 100 beneficiaries to turn up, registered zero arrivals. District health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, attributed the low response to vaccine hesitancy among private practitioners. “We have scheduled a video conference on Sunday to encourage these practitioners. Despite being sent messages, many of them don’t turn up at session sites,” Pawar said. In the urban centres, the PMC registered a good 71% turnout, thanks to good response from healthcare workers. The PCMC areas registered a turnout of 46%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cowin-app-glitch-delays-2nd-covid-vax-dose-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/80902628.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||Randeep Hooda lauds UP’s initiatives for conservation of Gangetic dolphins||Lucknow: Wildlife conservator and actor Randeep Hooda met chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday and commended the tangible results of maintaining a healthy river ecosystem by conservation of Gangetic dolphin in UP. Hooda, also a UN ambassador for dolphins, had a detailed conversation with the chief minister on numerous awareness programmes that can be adopted to conserve wildlife in UP, which has the Ganga flowing through 27 districts. Talking about the improvement in and enumerating aquatic life in river Ganga, Yogi said, “Committed towards a clean and vibrant Ganga, we have taken innumerable efforts to safeguard wildlife. These efforts have resulted in sighting some endangered and prominent species of animals to show a remarkable improvement, and we will consistently maintain a healthy aquatic ecosystem.” Hooda expressed willingness to create awareness on conservation of dolphins. Cleaning of Ganga under ‘Namami Gange’ initiative has given a good impetus to conservation of Gangetic dolphins that were declared the national aquatic animal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/randeep-hooda-lauds-ups-initiatives-for-conservation-of-gangetic-dolphins/articleshow/80902831.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Top cop reviews border arrangements||New Delhi: Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava on Saturday reviewed the law and order situation and arrangements at various borders points of the capital in view of the agitation by farmers protesting the three agri laws, officials said. During the crime review meeting held with senior officers of the force, the police chief also took stock of action taken against criminals involved in burglary, and other cases related to Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), Excise Act and gambling, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/top-cop-reviews-border-arrangements/articleshow/80902660.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chennai||Railways plans residential tower on Chennai's Wall Tax road||CHENNAI: Railways seems to be betting big on real estate development in the city and is planning to rope in private developers to build apartments and commercial complexes on parcels of land totalling 7.4acres including a residential tower with shops on the ground floor on 1,116sqm land on Wall Tax road near MGR Central railway station. Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA), which is in charge of monetising railway land, has suggested that the lower floors be for shops while the rest of the floors be for residential apartments on Wall Tax Road. The reserve price of the site is kept at Rs 4.19crore for a lease period of 45 years.The authority has invited bids from developers to build residential-cum-commercial or commercial and residential complexes in other key areas such as Pulianthope and Ayanavaram Railway Colony. These two land parcels of 2.5 acres each are in Ayanavaram Railway Colony, along Konnur High Road and Duncan Road; two other land parcels are located at Wall Tax Road (0.27 acres) and at Pulianthope (2.09 Acres). RLDA is hopeful of earning money by developing railway land for commercial use because of the infrastructure growth in Chennai and also because most of the land is located in key areas close to public utilities. This is the second time RLDA is promoting commercial development of railway property in the city. In September last year, they called for bids for leasing out 3,500sqm land in East Tambaram after a pre-bid meet received good response from investors. The authority was also developing land parcels at Ethiraj Salai and Pulianthope for constructing residential apartments and also a multi-functional complex in Trichy. Ved Prakash Dudeja, vice-chairman, RLDA, said, "The real estate development at these sites will bolster prices, generate employment opportunities and boost the local economy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rlys-plans-residential-tower-on-wall-tax-rd/articleshow/80901381.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Kanpur||12 halls in city to have 1,500 coaching aspirants||Kanpur: ‘Mukhyamantri Abhyudaya Yojana’, the flagship project of the state government, will be inaugurated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath virtually in the state capital on February 15 at 10 am. Under the scheme, there is a provision and facilities of online and offline coaching classes for applicants who are willing to take coaching in civil services, JEE, NEET, CDS, NDA and other services & exams conducted by UPSC and UPPSC. The first workshop of this scheme was organised in the city at the Merchant Chamber auditorium, by UPAAM. It was presided over by Shri Venkateshwar Loo, director general (UPAAM) and attended by divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar and other officers. In the city, the divisional administration has identified 12 coaching halls (4 in CSJM University, 3 in CSA , 3 HBTU and 2 in private institutions) for catering needs of around 1,500 aspirants for this year. The online classes will be impacted to all the registered and selected applicants through online contents, Youtube and Facebook channels. Soon one Mobile App will be launched by the State Government to facilitate the easy access of study materials and effective communication with the participants. The online application facilities are open to all interested since February and as of now lakhs of youths have registered online for these coaching classes. To implement this scheme successfully, a state level committee under chairmanship of ACS social welfare is constituted & similarly at the divisional level, a committee under the chairmanship of commissioner is constituted. In the first phase online & offline coaching will be imparted at the divisional level selected coaching sites. Uttar Pradesh Academy of Administration & Management (UPAAM), Lucknow has been given the task of preparation of the syllabus and empanelment of teaching faculty. On Saturday, at the Merchant Chamber auditorium, nearly 200 participants from all fields like civil servants, education institutions, coaching centres participated in this workshop and gave their valuable suggestions. The workshop was graced by the presence of commissioner Kanpur ,Raj Shekhar, DIG/SSP Kanpur, DM Kanpur, DFO, SP South and other officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/12-halls-in-city-to-have-1500-coaching-aspirants/articleshow/80902625.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Trichy||Digi library set up at govt school to train alumnae for competitive exams||Trichy: A government school in Trichy district has started a digital library to train its alumnae for competitive examinations. Government model girls higher secondary school in Manachanallur has established the library at a cost of Rs 5 lakh which has 10 computers, a projector and multipurpose screen. Asked about the idea behind raising the digital library, S Anbusekaran, headmaster of the school said they could find only a handful of students who passed out of the school in a better position. Most of the students come from an underprivileged section of the society who could not take up higher studies either because of poverty or the conservative mindset of the family. Since a person’s identity is always associated with her or his career or profession, we decided to make the students take up government jobs by cracking the competitive examinations. This may encourage many others to take up various other jobs, he said.The school has also expanded its physical library with 14,000 books to a spacious hall which can now accommodate more than 30 students. “We are planning to create a database of books and e-content which will be useful for existing students. The school education department website has all the textbooks in the digital format. Viewing textbooks and video content on the big screen will make the learning interesting for the students,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/digi-library-set-up-at-govt-school-to-train-alumnae-for-competitive-exams/articleshow/80903286.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Samajwadi Party invokes nationalism in poll campaign jingle||LUCKNOW: After the catchy jingle “Kam bolta hai” for 2017 elections and the recent “22 mein bicycle”, the Samajwadi Party is set to kickstart its campaign for the 2022 UP assembly elections in 2022 with a new campaign song “Nayi Sa Paa hai” by invoking nationalism and nation building. The national president of Samajwadi Party, Akhilesh Yadav returned from Delhi on Saturday after attending Lok Sabha proceedings and approved the new campaign song for the party at a meeting with senior party leaders and office-bearers. Samajwadi Party aims to showcase collective leadership, involving both elders and youth and signaling a wave for change, as themes in the 2.16 minute new song “Nayi Sa Paa hai, nayi hawaa hai” (It is a new Samajwadi Party, there is a new wave for it). “Badon ka haath, yuva ka saath, ye nayi Sa Paa hai,” has been sung by regional singers this time and not by big names from Bollywood. Unlike past campaign songs, when focus was limited to the state and development projects in Akhilesh regime, this time the campaign song also pitches on nationalism and nation building, in an apparent bid to hijack the issues from the ruling BJP. The lyrics “Ab kahe vatan re, chal baandh kafan re, majdoor, kisan, yuva aur naari, chal desh ki khaatir ab aawaaz uthaa re, ek hum hai, chal sabko bataa re” (The nation is calling workers, labourers, farmers, women and youth to unite and raise voice and show that we are united), underline a national mission for the first time by the party. Akhilesh played the song at the meeting with all his seniors and office-bearers who unanimously praised it. “Just see the kind of social disharmony and hatred that is pervading the society now, is it not true that BJP has pushed the nation back by 75 years,” remarked Akhilesh while addressing the leaders. Ahead of 2014 elections, SP had released “Aao Milkar Desh Banayein” composed by music director duo Sajid and Wajid Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-invokes-nationalism-in-poll-campaign-jingle/articleshow/80902812.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 14, 2021||Madurai||CM launches seventh phase of Keeladi excavations||Madurai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday launched the seventh phase of excavations at Keeladi ancient site in Sivaganga district. Keeladi’s neighbouring villages Konthagai, Manalur and Agaram are also included in this phase of excavation.Director of excavation R Sivanantham, Sivaganga district collector P Madhusudhan Reddy, archaeological officials and research students were at the site when the chief minister launched work through video conferencing from Chennai.The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) conducted the first three phases of excavation -- 2014-2015, 2015-2016 and 2016-2017, respectively after the ancient archaeological mound spread over an area of 110 acres was discovered. As many as 7,818 ancient artefacts which were evidence of a civilisation that had existed in the region since the Sangam era were unearthed in these excavations.The Tamil Nadu state archaeology department, which conducted the fourth, fifth and sixth phases, is conducting the seventh phase as well with due consent from the Central Advisory Board for Archaeology (CABA).It was in the sixth phase in 2019-2020 that the neighbouring villages of Manalur, Konthagai and Agaram were also taken up for excavation as they are expected to be the main areas of the Keeladi civilization. The sixth phase resulted in the discovery of 2,672 artefacts, which included human and animal skeletons, burial urns, industrial furnaces, iron ore and brick constructions.Sources said that the recent findings evaluated scientifically have proved that people lived in Tamil Nadu 15 lakh years ago, and the findings in Keeladi have shown that the people who lived there since the 6th century BC, were literate. The seventh phase is expected to go on till the end of September this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-launches-seventh-phase-of-keeladi-excavations/articleshow/80903289.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||UP bus conductor’s daughter breaks national record, walks into Tokyo 2022||LUCKNOW/KANPUR: Ten years ago, this UP girl's resolve for victory on tracks was for winning a bag which was on stake. On Saturday, it culminated into a national record and a ticket to Tokyo for the 2022 Olympics and World Athletics Championship in Oregon. Priyanka Goswami, 25, shattered the national record in the 20-km walk at the 8th open national and 4th international race walking championship in Ranchi on Saturday with a timing of 1:28:45. She broke Bhawna Jat’s record of 1:29.54 set at the same event last year. This, however, was not a fluke. After joining the Railways in March 2018 through sports quota, Priyanka has won two silver medals at national level in 2017-2018. She also bagged gold in the all-India railway competition (2018) and has participated in World Walk Championship in Italy (Rome) and in Asian Walk Championship Japan. “I had made up my mind last year when I missed the event by a narrow margin of 36 seconds. It was then that I decided to make it to the international meet this year. Luckily, I got two qualifications (World Cup and Tokyo Olympic),” Priyanaka told TOI from Ranchi. Priyanka, who also received Rani Laxmi Bai award from UP government on January 24 this year, said she wished to have her picture clicked with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath during the felicitation function but could not make it as she was busy in a camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gritty-meerut-girl-gets-a-ticket-to-tokyo-olympics-with-national-record/articleshow/80902781.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Senate member appeals to govt against V-C car||Mumbai: Senate member Shashikant Zore from the Yuva Sena has complained to the higher and technical education department regarding the purchase of two costly cars. The vice-chancellor and pro-vice-chancellor had sought permission to buy new vehicles and said these had been budgeted for in the university accounts. They bought two Toyota SUVs, a Rs 38 lakh Fortuner and a Rs 26 lakh Innova Crysta, with the general fund of the university. A senate member said the vehicles were bought at a time when the university was staring at a Rs 68.8 crore deficit. Zore, in his letter to the ministry, said the V-C can spend on a vehicle only within the limit set by the state for a secretary, which was set close to Rs 12 lakh in a GR of 2017. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/senate-member-appeals-to-govt-against-v-c-car/articleshow/80903301.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Trichy||26 students qualify for JEE training from NIT students||Trichy: A total of 26 Class XI students from government schools in Trichy district qualified for joint entrance examination (JEE) Main training from students of National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy. The 12 girls and 14 boys were selected based on an examination conducted on January 24. Students of NIT Trichy who are part of the teaching club – IGNITTE will train the students to crack the exam to get admission into centrally funded technical institutions. The initiative is part of an MoU with Trichy district administration along with the district chief education office. Meeting the students in his office on Saturday, district collector S Sivarasu motivated the students to make use of the opportunity to get placed in reputed institutions. The training will also be useful for National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) as they will be taught Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics which is common for both the exams. Initially, classes will be conducted online considering the pandemic. Later, the students will be visiting NIT Trichy during weekends for residential training.District administration along with the district chief education office took responsibility for their food and transportation. Further, the collector promised all support and asked students to approach them in case of any need.One among the 26 students, V Megala asked for a smartphone to attend the online classes as her parents could not afford the gadget. She was promised a smartphone by the collector. Another student asked for counselling for her alcoholic father as it was affecting her preparation. The collector assured necessary steps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/26-students-qualify-for-jee-training-from-nit-students/articleshow/80903288.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Kanpur||Nine killed in two accidents on Agra-Lucknow expressway||KANPUR: Nine persons were killed while 12 injured in two separate road accidents on Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Kannauj and Etawah districts in the last 24 hours. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the loss of life. Reports said six persons were killed when a car crashed into a truck in Kannauj district on Friday night while three were killed and 12 injured in a pile-up of several vehicles due to dense fog on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Etawah district on Saturday morning. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed his deepest condolences over the accidents. “CM has expressed grief on the tragic death and injuries to people in road accidents in Kannauj and Etawah districts,” stated CM office. “He has expressed condolences to the bereaved families of the dead and prays for the peace of the departed souls and early recovery of those who have been injured in the accidents and are undergoing treatment,” the statement said adding, “CM also instructed the officers of the district administration and police to rush to the spot and launch best possible relief measures.” In the first incident, six members of a family including a child were killed when a car they were travelling in rammed into a truck ahead on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway near Taalgram area in Kannauj district on Friday night. The deceased were identified as Mohit Yadav (36), Pramod Yadav (35), Gyanendra Yadav (32), Sonu Yadav (31), Satyendra Yadav (18) and Suraj (15). All of them are from the Kakori area of Lucknow. According to superintendent of police Kannauj Prashant Verma, as per the preliminary findings, all the six members of the family from Kakori area of Lucknow left for Mehandipur Balaji temple in Rajasthan in a car late on Friday night. “As they crossed 165 km mile stone in Taalgram area of Kannauj, the driver of the vehicle failed to notice a truck ahead, and rammed it,” he said. The car got mangled completely and six members of the family were extracted by the police and UPEIDA patrolling team and rushed to Tirwa Medical College, where they were declared brought dead by the doctors. “The bodies of the deceased were shifted to the mortuary of the district hospital and the exact cause that led to tragic mishap is being investigated,” Verma said. The driver of the truck has managed to flee after abandoning the vehicle at the spot. The police said the family members of the deceased have been informed about the tragedy. The accident affected the movement of vehicles on the Agra -Lucknow Expressway for a while. The police cleared the vehicles that met with the accident and cleared the way later. In the other accident, three people were killed while 12 sustained serious injuries on Saturday morning in a pile-up of five vehicles due to dense fog on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Etawah district. Twelve people travelling in separate vehicles, who received serious injuries, have been admitted to various hospitals, including Uttar Pradesh University of Medical Sciences, Saifai, the police said. Police said they were informed in the early hours about an accident on the Expressway near channel no: 126 under the limits of Usrahar police station. The incident took place when a container on way to Lucknow from Agra side crashed into a bus in the main lane of E-way, they said. In order to save the crash, the driver of the bus applied the brakes. But due to fog, other vehicles including an SUV and a car piled up, they added. “The injured were taken to nearby hospitals including Uttar Pradesh University of Medical Sciences, Saifai,” police said and added, “the deceased were identified as Mukesha Devi (66) and Ajit (25), both natives of Bihar and Gyanu (26) of Kaushambi.” Circle Officer Bharthana Chandrapal Singh Yadav along with a police team besides UPEIDA personnel rushed to the spot and supervised the rescue operation. “All the vehicles were removed from the highway using cranes. Injured are being treated at Uttar Pradesh University of Medical Sciences, Saifai,” said CO further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/6-of-lucknow-family-3-others-killedin-two-accidents-on-agra-lko-e-way/articleshow/80902597.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Renovated Motera stadium ready for action||AHMEDABAD: Finally, the wait is over for the aficionados of cricket in the city, as the ticket booking for the third Test match between India and England at the Motera stadium will start from 11.00 am on Sunday. The fans have been waiting anxiously to see a live encounter at this newly-built picturesque stadium. The thrill and enthusiasm amongst the local fans to watch an international match at the world’s largest cricket stadium at Motera is immense. The authorities have decided to allow 50% spectators of the stadium’s capacity, during the matches at this venue. England will play two Test matches here, with a pink ball Day-Night encounter from February 24-28 and the fourth and final match from March 4-8. The game at Motera will be India’s second pink ball Test at home as they hosted one against Bangladesh at the Eden Garden in 2019. After the Test series, Motera will host all the five T20 internationals (March 12, 14, 16, 18 and 20). "We are honoured to be hosting this series after a hiatus and are excitedly looking forward to entertain gathering of cricket fans at the world’s largest cricket stadium at Motera, considering social distancing and safety norms. We hope normalcy returns soon and we get to see the stadium packed with fans cheering from all the stands for their teams,” said Dhanraj Nathwani, vice president of Gujarat Cricket Association (GCA) in a statement. “We at GCA thank Jay Shah, secretary of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) for allocating two Tests and five T20 international matches at this newly-built cricket stadium,” added Nathwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/renovated-motera-ready-for-action/articleshow/80902571.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Trichy||Farmers allege foul play by officials in paddy procurement||Trichy: Farmers in Kulithalai alleged foul play by civil supplies corporation officials that they colluded with traders to delay the paddy procurement process. Paddy is being procured from farmers through eight direct procurement centres that are functional in Karur district from mid-January. Farmers, however, allege that they are made to wait for more than a week and traders or middle men who get paddy from several farmers manage to get their paddy procured in priority with the help of officials at the paddy procurement centres. Direct procurement centres are meant to procure paddy directly from farmers to prevent exploitation by traders who may procure their produce at cheap rates.P Balakrishnan, 56, a farmer, has been waiting to get his 600 bags of paddy procured at the paddy procurement centre (PPC) in Panikampatti of Kulithalai in Karur district for the last one week. While token has been given to farmers so that they bring their produce in turns, Balakrishnan said that the token system is not being followed and traders are given priority. Farmers like him are made to wait for days together. A senior official from the Civil Supplies Corporation in Karur district said that an additional unit has been set up at the paddy procurement centre at Panikkampatti village to expedite the procurement process.Ruling out any irregularities in the procurement process, the official attributed the delay to multiple factors including the huge quantity of paddy being brought by the farmers. While 1,000 bags are the maximum limit for the daily procurement, it is carried beyond 1,500 bags to benefit the farmers. Blaming the farmers for the delay, an official from the Panikkampatti PPC said that many farmers have dumped their produce in front of the PPC without prior information. Saying that they have to follow the protocol in the procurement process and only after verifying the documents of farmers, procurement is being made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-allege-foul-play-by-officials-in-paddy-procurement/articleshow/80903290.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Girl found dead with burn injuries in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a suspected case of suicide by self-immolation, a 15-year-old girl was found dead with burn injuries in her bathroom of her residence at Venjarammood. Krishnapriya, a Class X student of Venjarammoodu Government High School, is the deceased. She is the daughter of Manimohanan and Minimol of Kottukunnam in Nellanad panchayat. Her both parents are not alive. According to police, Krishnapriya was found dead by her sister and relatives around 2.30pm. It is suspected that she immolated herself after dousing kerosene over her body. Police have sealed the scene for detailed scientific examination. They have also launched a probe to find out the reason that prompted her to take the extreme step. Krishnapriya’s father Manimohan died seven months ago and her mother Minimol died 12 years ago. She had been under the care of her elder sister Vaishnavi and husband Sajayan following the death of her father. Sajayan said he and Vaishnavi were at latter’s uncle’s house in the same neighborhood when Krishnapriya is suspected to have set herself on fire. The couple had left their nine-month-old baby with Krishnapriya before leaving the house. The body has been shifted to the mortuary of Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital. Covid 19 screen test and postmortem examination will be conducted on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/girl-found-dead-with-burn-injuries/articleshow/80900662.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Bhopal||DIY goodies are trending this V-day||Bhopal: With their favourite festival - Valentine’s Day -barely a day away, city lovers are busy upping their game. More than the expensive gifts bought off the shelf, focus this time is on personalised gestures, which tug at the heartstrings and deepen the mush factor. Little wonder then that Valentines are taking crash courses in baking and pottery making to carve creative Taj Mahals in clay and dough, especially during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. A celebration without lip-smacking delicacies is like a wedding without a bride. So, the focus in lovers’ season is obviously on the food factor. Chef Manisha Yadav, a professional baker, said, “There are many youngsters and young-at-heart who have been coming to me to learn some V-Day delicacies. Cakesicles, with frozen chocolate outside and flavoured filling of blueberry, strawberry or red velvet cake, are the haute favourites. Heart-shaped jelly cakes, with jelly flowers filled through injections, red heart-shaped pinata or smash cakes, with cute hidden surprises inside are also in demand by DIY bakers. Geometrical chocolate hearts and rose milk cake - a Kuwaiti dessert - have also kept the amateur Valentine chefs on their toes. I have taught all these in the last one week several times and now my students are busy giving final touches to their pieces de resistance.” As they celebrate the first Valentine’s Day post Lockdown, lovers are ready to walk an extra mile for their special someone. Suvarna Gupta, a Bhopal-based counsellor explained this phenomenon, thus: “During the pandemic, people have come closer. For most of them, personal touch has become even more important as materialistic things take a back seat. Now people want to nurture and strengthen their bonds to keep their special ones even closer to their hearts. That is why we find so many lovers making special things on V-Day this time. It is a creative way to nurture a relation.” The other thing that is attracting a lot of interest is pottery. “V-Day has turned many lovers into amateur potters,” said well-known ceramic artist Veena Singh and added, “In the last few days, there are many who have joined my classes just for V-Day pieces, including vases and curious that say sweet nothings without uttering a word. The favoured piece of many students this time has been a vase titled ‘Elixir of love’. Then there are ceramic puzzles, mugs and plates with personalised messages that rank close second.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/diy-goodies-are-trending-this-v-day/articleshow/80901403.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Address pathetic condition of detention centre: Delhi HC to AAP govt||NEW DELHI: Taking note of “pathetic conditions” at Lampur detention center, Delhi High Court has directed the AAP government to take “immediate steps” to improve the centre where foreigners are housed prior to deportation. The court said special focus must be paid to cleanliness, hygiene and medical facilities at the centre. A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and A J Bhambhani directed the Social Welfare Department of Delhi government to file a detailed status report on steps taken by them and listed the matter for hearing on February 18. The bench said the report must include photographs and videography of the centre as it exists currently as well as subsequent to the remedial steps taken by the department. The direction was issued by the court after studying a report submitted by a judge who inspected the detention centre on its orders to check prevailing conditions. According to the report filed by the judge the conditions remain deplorable at the centre. The court on November 9 last year had issued directions for inspection of the centre by a judicial officer while hearing a plea by an Indian woman, whose husband, alleged to be a Pakistani national, had been lodged at Lampur after completing his jail sentence. The court intervened after advocate Ajay Verma, representing the woman, told the court that conditions at the detention centre were pathetic for want of cleanliness/hygiene, lack of medical facilities, the detainees not being permitted to communicate with their family and lawyers and no legal aid was being provided to them. The petitioner - Ruma Bibi - has filed a habeas corpus petition seeking release of her husband Asif Hossain from the centre. The woman, in her plea, has said she along with her husband and two children used to live at Kolkata and in 2012, Hossain was arrested from the New Delhi Railway Station under the Official Secrets Act and the Foreigner''s Act. He was convicted and sentenced by the trial court for nine years and after completion of sentence, he was released from jail in April last year and sent to the deportation centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/address-pathetic-condition-of-detention-centre-hc-to-govt/articleshow/80902666.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Trichy||Beneficiaries wait as slum board yet to hand over high-rise flats||Trichy: Though the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) completed its first high-rise residential project in Trichy more than a year ago, the facility is yet to be handed over to the beneficiaries. The residential complex at Puthur’s Vannarapettai, which is furnished with amenities on a par with gated communities including lifts, 24-hour power backup and green space, remains unoccupied leaving the beneficiaries in the lurch.TNSCB projects in Trichy so far were non-high-rise buildings with the height of the complexes falling below 18.3 metres. Vannarapettai project with six blocks built at a cost of Rs 30 crore measures about 80 feet in height. With seven floors, there are 384 identical dwelling units in the complex each having a floor space of 400 square feet. While the work on the structure was completed in October 2019, TNSCB is yet to hand over the site to the beneficiaries identified by a committee comprising revenue and TNSCB officials. Underground drainage and drinking water connections were given by the Trichy Corporation recently. But, electricity connection is yet to be facilitated. The work on the project was launched in June 2017. As per the proposal, the residential complex must have been brought to use by January 2019. Even though a couple of years have passed since the deadline, the site still remains unoccupied as TNSCB cites Covid-19 pandemic for the delay. “We will expedite measures to get electricity connection. By the end of February, we are sure that the complex will be handed over to the beneficiaries,” a TNSCB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/beneficiaries-wait-as-slum-board-yet-to-hand-over-high-rise-flats/articleshow/80903292.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 14, 2021||Madurai||Not enough water to put out fire at cracker unit, says NGO||Virudhunagar: A fact finding study conducted by an NGO found several violations at Sri Mariammal Fireworks at Achankulam near Sattur in Virudhunagar district where a blast on Friday left 19 workers dead and more than 30 grievously injured. Representatives of Evidence, a Madurai-based NGO, who visited the place and interacted with victims who are undergoing treatment at hospitals, said that there was not enough water or other gear to extinguish a fire breakout.“The victims said they hardly had water to wash their limbs. It was insufficient to put out the flames. They were also not equipped with kits or gear to make an attempt to fight the flames,” says A Kathir, executive director of the NGO. The owner of the fireworks unit that sprawls on 18 acres had leased 43 working sheds on the premises to five-six people.The leasees had contractors who engaged workers in the sheds. Around 130 to 150 people were employed in the sheds where the accident took place, where the permitted capacity is 50 to 60 people. “The approach road to the unit was very bad and fire tenders reached the spot only 45 minutes after the blast. Local people started rescue operations before they reached,” he said. Kathir said the working sheds lack mandatory requisites such as aeration. Jaya, 50, who suffered 75% burns and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sattur, is among those who tried to flee after the blast but had fallen on debris due to the impact of the blast and then suffered burn injuries when the flames reached the place. “Those deceased and who are critical were injured in such a manner,” he said. The injured include teenagers from 14-years-old while those below 18 should not be employed in such hazardous conditions. The NGO urged the government to inspect firework units for compliance to safety norms, come out with a whitepaper and to cancel the license of erring units. A GO should be issued that the owners, leasees and contractors of the units where accidents take place will not be released on bail for a year. The government should increase financial assistance to the kin of the deceased to Rs 10 lakh, assistance to the severely injured to Rs 5 lakh and to those with minor injuries to Rs 2 lakh. The government should bear the treatment expenses for those in private hospitals and recover the amount from the owner, leasee and contractor of the unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/not-enough-water-to-put-out-fire-at-cracker-unit-says-ngo/articleshow/80903291.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Trial run of solar-powered boat on revamped route begins||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The solar-powered boat brought from Kochi has begun trial runs along the Kadinamkulam-Channankara stretch of the waterway on Friday and Saturday. The waterway, which has been revamped after three years of work, will be inaugurated by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday. Trial runs are being conducted till Kadinamkulam ahead of proposed inauguration. The boat has a capacity of 24 passengers along with two members of the crew. Kerala Waterways Infrastructure Limited (KWIL) began the mammoth task of revamping the algae infested, highly polluted, and abandoned waterway in 2018. Although the waterway is set for inauguration, some of the works are still being completed. The issue of encroachment is also a concern for the project team. With the project to ensure decentralised septage system for houses on the banks of Parvathy Puthanar making no headway, the entire work is likely to be undone as the water body continues to get polluted. The tenders are being finalised for the construction of bridge at Karikkakom. Once the work is awarded, the existing bridge will be demolished. Final works are underway to desilt the stretch near Vallakadavu. Two machines have been deployed at Puthenpalam and Perunelli for the final cleaning works. The Vallakadavu-Akkulam stretch has been widened to 16 metres with a depth of 1.5 metres to make it navigable. Till January, around 3,500cu.m of silt had to be removed from this stretch. The deepening work has been completed between Chackai rail bridge and the shopping mall. KWIL began the work in June 2018 and the first phase was completed by October 2018. The canal was cleaned till Panathura. However, when the bund was constructed at Perunelli, the flow was halted which led to accumulation of waste. The same stretch was cleaned again in 2019 which was completed by May 2019. In the same year, the officials did a trial run by operating a speed boat till Vallakadavu and periodic cleaning was carried out using silt pusher and weed harvesters. After the lockdown, the work had resumed in September 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/trial-run-of-solar-powered-boat-on-revamped-route-begins/articleshow/80900684.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Sattur blast toll mounts to 19, six booked, one held||VIRUDHUNAGAR: The death toll in Friday’s fireworks unit blast at Sattur has climbed to 19 with two more people undergoing treatment succumbing to injuries. A man admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai and a woman admitted to Sivakasi government hospital died on Saturday. Police said that out of the 19 dead, nine were men and eight women while the gender of two others was yet to be identified as the bodies were charred beyond recognition. Among the injured, 31 are being treated in different hospitals and two as outpatients, said Virudhunagar police superintendent P Perumal. Elayirampannai police have registered a case against six people including the proprietor of Sree Mariammal fireworks factory Santhanamari, his manager, foreman and a man who has taken the facility on lease. They were booked under IPC sections 304 (ii) - culpable homicide not amounting to murder, 308 - attempt to commit culpable homicide and under sections of Explosives Act. Police sources said that Ponnupandian, one of the three people who took the factory on lease, has been arrested while search is under way for the others. Postmortem was completed on 16 bodies while 17 of the victims have been identified as Sandhiya, Chinnathambi, Nesamani, Karpagavalli, Gopal, Ravichandran, Rengaraj, Selvi, her husband Packiaraj, Thangalakshmi, Kannan, Sankaranarayanan, Packiaraj, Karuppasamy, Usha, Thanalakshmi and another Thangalakshmi from Elayirampannai. Karpagavalli was seven months pregnant and had come for work only a few days ago. Meanwhile, the district witnessed a fire accident on Saturday morning near Sivakasi with one person suffering a minor injury when a stone from the explosion hit him. Police said the incident took place in Krishnasamy Fireworks industries at Kakkivadanpatti which was functioning with a licence from Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation. A few fire tenders from Sivakasi fire station rushed to the spot. B T Balamurugan, Sivakasi station fire officer, said it could have been caused by leftover chemicals used for making fireworks on Friday. The shed where the accident took place was completely damaged. Meanwhile, Virudhunagar MP Manickam Tagore urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Parliament to increase the ex gratia announced for the victims to Rs 5 lakh each and Rs 1 lakh for those injured. The PM had on Friday announced Rs 2 lakh for each victim and Rs 50,000 for the injured. The MP also appealed to form a central team to study the fireworks industry’s safety network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sattur-blast-toll-mounts-to-19-six-booked-one-held/articleshow/80903308.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||Dissatisfied with minister’s reply, Rajasthan Congress MLA walks out of assembly||JAIPUR: Senior Congress MLA Bharat Singh walked out of the House on Saturday after being dissatisfied with higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati’s reply to a question and the Speaker’s intervention in his favour. The MLA had asked how the land of Vardhaman Mahaveer Open University in Kota was given to a religious organisation to construct a hall to promote its activities. In his reply, Bhati said the Digambar Jain Bhagwan Mahaveer Sansthan had sent a proposal to the university in 2015 to construct a hall on its premises, the proposal of which was examined by a committee constituted by the institute. On the recommendations of the panel, the sansthan was allowed to construct a hall. The minister added that the hall was also being used by the university and the sansthan had given preference to the activities of the varsity in case of a clash of date. The MLA pointed out that the minister had said the university land could not be used for promotion of religious activities and agreed that the religious body had nothing to do with the varsity’s academic activities. He however said the university organised religious activities at least twice a year. Singh expressed surprise how could the university allow a religious body to construct a hall in the name of donations on its land. Bhati replied that the ownership of the property was with the university. At this, Speaker CP Joshi intervened and said the university had to raise resources for its activities. “You are claiming it as a promotion of religious activities, but they built the infrastructure and handed it over to the university,” he said. The MLA then said, “I am not a fool. The organisation constructed the building using MLA and MP funds, which could have been directly used by the university.” Joshi intervened again and did not allow further questions. The MLA then walked out of the House saying, “This is really very unfortunate.” Meanwhile, the BJP MLAs, too, stormed into the well of the House and staged a walkout when deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore raised the issue of quorum stating that there were too few Congress MLAs and ministers in the assembly. Following this, many Congress ministers and MLAs had to return to the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dissatisfied-with-mins-reply-raj-cong-mla-walks-out-of-assembly/articleshow/80902664.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Jump in colon cancer cases in Hyderabad leaves doctors worried||HYDERABAD: A spike in colon cancer cases in Hyderabad over the past couple of years has left oncologists worried. Not only are they seeing more cases, they are also seeing increased incidence among the young. While the largest tertiary care centre for cancer – the MNJ Institute of Oncology Regional Cancer Centre – has recorded double the number of colon cancer cases in 2020, other hospitals too are seeing increased numbers. Making matters worse is the fact that many patients ignore their condition and come to a doctor only in the advanced stage. This has led to experts recommending regular screening for the disease after the age of 35. At MNJ, the numbers have gone up from 101 cases in 2017 to 200 in 2020. At least two other institutes have recorded over 200 cases each during the year. “We saw three cases of 35-year-olds with colon cancer last month, indicating that the young are not being spared,” says Dr N Jayalatha, director of MNJ. “While the exact cause for the cancer is unknown, a combination of factors like excessively consuming spicy and outside food, consuming tinned food and beverages, excessive consumption of red meat, alcohol and the presence of pesticide residue in agriculture produce are responsible.” Heredity plays a part too. “While people above 35 should check for occult blood and, if possible, undergo colonoscopy every two years, those having colon cancer in the family should start tests at 30,” adds Dr Jayalatha. “This was not a common cancer a few years ago, but it has now moved into the 6th or 7th position among cancers,” says Dr G Sadashivudu, head of department of medical oncology, Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS). The institute has recorded nearly 200 cases each year from 2017. In 2020, NIMS saw only 75 cases, but doctors suspect many may have not turned up because of the pandemic. Besides unhealthy food habits, taking meals at the wrong time may play a role in people getting affected, explains Dr Krishna Mohan, medical oncologist at Basavatarkam Indo American Cancer Hospital. “Not taking food on time could lead to slower bowel movement and constipation, which in turn gives a chance to microorganisms in the large intestine to show their effect. More of animal fat in food, especially red meat – pork, beef and mutton – is a cause,” he says, adding that a large chunk of these patients are overweight. “Basic research at our centre has shown that as compared to a decade ago when these cancers were caused by infections, they are now driven by lifestyle. The incidence is slightly higher among females, especially in cities,” says Dr G V Rao, director and chief of surgical gastro, GI oncology and minimally invasive surgery at AIG Hospitals. “Genetic factors are certainly one of the non-modifiable risk factors in certain cancers including colon cancers. These genetic predisposed cancers tend to occur in the lower age group and within first degree relatives. Age is another non-modifiable risk factor. As a person ages, genetic defects become less amenable to correction and repair by the body and thus cause cancers,” says Geeta Nagasree, consultant surgical oncologist at Care Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jump-in-colon-cancer-cases-in-city-leaves-docs-worried/articleshow/80902669.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 14, 2021||Bhopal||Day 5: Only 32% turn up to get vaccination jab in MP, 50% in 8 districts||BHOPAL: Only 32% vaccination turnout was reported in Madhya Pradesh on the fifth day of the vaccination of frontline workers drive on Saturday. Third lowest turnout was reported from Bhopal where only 18% of the 12807 frontline workers who were scheduled for vaccination, turned up. Vaccination was done across 604 vaccination booths in the state. A total of 95581 frontline workers were called on Saturday for vaccination and only 31010 health workers were vaccinated which is only 32% of the total target. Overall, 3.13 lakh frontline workers are to be vaccinated in the state. In 8 districts of the state, vaccination turnout was more than 50%. In all other districts it was less than 50% and in 3 districts it was less than 20%. In Umaria lowest vaccination turnout of 8% was reported. Sources from the health department said that the vaccination of frontline workers was initially planned till February 13, but it has now been extended till February 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/day-5-only-32-turn-up-to-get-vac-jab-in-mp-gt50-in-8-dists/articleshow/80901436.cms||Amarjeet Singh
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||HC expresses displeasure over co-ops’ functioning||Mumbai: Bombay high court bench at Aurangabad recently expressed displeasure over functioning of co-operative societies in the state, saying, “Everybody knows the way in which persons controlling co-operative institutions can create a record of resolutions. Those persons have good contacts with politicians, and everybody knows how the co-operative department works.’’ The bench of Justices T V Nalawade and M J Sewlikar said, “Already, the co-operative movement has suffered a lot due to such conduct of persons controlling the institutions.’’ The bench said, “The single circumstance that the property of the institution is diverted to son of the man who controls the spinning mill was sufficient to draw some inferences and to read between the lines.” The HC directed the investigating officer to “give serious and deep thought’’ and take “concrete steps’’ with “courage’’ in a matter filed by Milind Patil, former political opponent of the man in control of a spinning mill seeking a probe into the leasing of over 100 acres of cooperative society land controlled by a politician to a private company related to his son. The HC also expressed hope that the state “also takes such things very seriously so that the poor of the state are protected’’. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-expresses-displeasure-over-co-ops-functioning/articleshow/80902673.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||20 cartridges, Rs 2 lakh stolen from BMW in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 50-year-old man from Bodakdev on Friday filed a complaint with Odhav police alleging that two motorcycle-borne stole a bag containing 20 cartridges for his licensed revolver and Rs 2 lakh cash on SP Ring Road in Odhav. Nirav Patel, a builder, stated in his FIR that two men stopped his BMW car on the ring road, telling Patel’s driver that oil was leaking from the car. When they stopped the car and began checking for a leak, the two men opened the car boot and stole the bag. Patel approached Odhav police and filed a complaint of theft and abetment against two men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/20-cartridges-rs-2l-stolen-from-bmw/articleshow/80902588.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chennai||Parties that grab land must be crushed: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Members of political parties who squat on private properties and demand money for election expenses must be crushed with an iron hand, the Madras high court has said. Justice N Anand Venkatesh made the observation while ordering police protection to the owner of a residential property which was allegedly illegally occupied by cadres of Viduthalai Siruthaigal Katchi (VCK). The issue pertains to a plea moved by S Dhanasekharen, a resident of Chennai seeking direction to the city police commissioner to provide adequate protection to him and his property located in Kundrathur. According to the petitioner, 14 people who claimed to be members of the VCK barged on to the land and began demanding money to vacate the premises. When questioned, th14 people issued threats and abused the workmen who were present at the site. They also made it very clear that nothing could be done against them and thathey would not vacate unless money was paid, the petitioner said. Allowing the plea, Justice Anand Venkatesh said, “Political parties are supposed to work for the welfare of the people and the name of the political party should not be used for land grabbing.” Unfortunately, when complaints are given to police, they are not in a position to react effectively fearing consequences. It is high time political bosses took control of their cadres and stopped them from resorting to such activities of land grabbing, failing which, it will have a direct impact on the reputation of the political party, the court said. The judge added that these activities are a direct challenge to democracy and the rule of law. No one is above law and it includes even political parties. The pictures produced by the petitioner showed that people claiming to belong to a particular political party, had put up a shamiana (tent) on the property and all of them were comfortably sitting in chairs and illegally occupying the property, the judge said. Noting that the court cannot turn a blind eye to such blatant illegal activities committed by certain persons affiliated to a political party, the judge directed the deputy commissioner of police, Avadi to immediately provide police protection to the petitioner and ensure that action is taken against the land grabbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/parties-that-grab-land-must-be-crushed-hc/articleshow/80901420.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Trichy||Manachanallur bypass road opened to public||Trichy: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday inaugurated the Manachanallur bypass road here through videoconferencing facility. The new road constructed by the state highways department at a cost of Rs 25.15 crore will decongest Manachanallur town besides facilitating quick connectivity between Trichy city and tourist destinations in Thuraiyur and Manachanallur taluks. The state highways department had in 2019 initiated a new bypass project between Thuraiyur and Trichy as the narrow Manachanallur road, connecting the district headquarters and passing through the core parts of the town, often resulted in traffic bottlenecks. The civil work for the 2.6km-long bypass road was commenced in May 2020 and the work was completed in December. Close to seven hectares of land was acquired for the road project which has 18 culverts and minor bridges between Attani and Manachanallur taluk office. The 13.5m-wide bypass road will benefit tourists to bypass the congested Manachanallur town to reach Puliyancholai stream and Thiruvellarai temple near Thuraiyur. Around a dozen signage boards mentioning the destinations and directions were installed by the state highways department. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/manachanallur-bypass-road-opened-to-public/articleshow/80903310.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||India||Ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi: We’ve a ramshackle judiciary||NEW DELHI: In an admission that the judicial system is cumbersome and often fails to deliver justice on time, former Chief Justice and Rajya Sabha MP Ranjan Gogoi said people regret their decision to approach the court and it is the rich and corporate world denizens who are better suited to take their chances in court. Appealing to members of the judiciary to take immediate steps for a roadmap to improve the situation, Justice Gogoi said the present system is not working for more than one reason and changes were needed in the way judges are selected and trained. He also said that delay in appointment of judges is also one of the problems. Responding to a question whether he would file a case against people who are targeting him and making allegations, Gogoi said, “If you have to go to court, you will only be washing dirty linen in court and you will not get a verdict. I have no hesitation to say so. Who goes to court. You regret it if you go to court. You go to court as a corporate to take a chance. If you succeed then crores of rupees would come...” “We want to have five trillion dollar economy but we have ramshackle judiciary... In 2020, when the functioning of every organisation was at lower ebb, including judiciary, there was addition of 60 lakhs cases at subordinate judiciary and around three lakhs cases added in various high courts and six to seven thousand in Supreme Court. Time has come when we should have a roadmap. This is something for the judiciary to work out which is not being done,” he said. He also expressed concern over the present time when people with “power and loud voice” try to target and malign others, including judges. The former CJI said that there are unfortunately some judges who are succumbing after being attacked. He said a robust judiciary is a must for attracting foreign investment in the country to sort out any commercial dispute in a timebound manner. “System has not worked. If you want a thriving economy, you must have a forum to decide commercial disputes. Nobody is going to invest unless you have you have a robust system. Where is the mechanism? Commercial Courts Act has brought within its purview every conceivable commercial dispute. But who is applying the law? The same judge who does other normal work. I do not think beginning has been made and I call judges to engage to make a roadmap,” he said. Responding to questions on ongoing farmer agitation and protest against CAA, Gogoi said that some political legal solutions have to be evolved and courts should also examine these issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-cji-ranjan-gogoi-weve-a-ramshackle-judiciary/articleshow/80903633.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||Child among six of family killed in jeep-truck collision in Ganganagar||JAIPUR: Four women and a child were among six killed when their jeep collided with a truck at Rajiyasar village in Sri Ganganagar around 9am on Saturday. Out of the seven persons injured in the mishap, two were rushed to a hospital in Hanumangarh after their condition deteriorated. All passengers, members of an extended family from Kishanpura village in Churu, were heading to Ramdeora temple in Jaisalmer to offer prayers. The impact was so intense that the front portion of the jeep went under the truck killing all those sitting in the front and middle seats. Locals, who first reached the spot, could not retrieve the bodies as they were badly trapped between the metals. Three of the injured remained stuck in the jeep till a crane called by police reached the spot. “The crane was called to separate the two vehicles and remove the bodies. They had to use gas cutters to extract the bodies which were stuck below the truck. The bodies were handed over to the families after post mortem,” SP Sri Ganganagar Rajan Dushyant said. The deceased were identified as Arju, Suman, Manju, Soniya, Anil and child Bhavishya. Police said prima facie the truck driver was drunk. “He was arrested and sent for medical examination to ascertain if he was drunk. It is certain that he was driving rashly and misjudged the vehicle coming from the opposite side,” police said. In a tweet, chief minister Ashok Gehlot condoled the incident and said he was saddened to learn about it. “My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families…may god give them strength in this difficult time. Prayers for the speedy recovery of those injured. #Rajasthan,” he tweeted.Ganganagar DM Mahavir Prasad Verma has announced Rs 1 lakh each for the kin of the deceased. Governor Kalraj Mishra also offered his condolences to the families of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/child-among-six-of-family-killed-in-jeep-truck-collision-in-ganganagar/articleshow/80902667.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Madurai||Plea to PM, CM to safeguard trade from fuel prices||Madurai: The Tamilnadu Foodgrains Merchants Association Limited has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami seeking their intervention for timely action to safeguard business and trade from the increasing petrol and diesel prices.In the representation, president of the association, S P Jeyapragasam stated that the price of both fuels have been on the rise on a daily basis over the last one month. This is at a time when business and trade activities are slowly returning to normalcy after the impact of Covid-19 pandemic, he said.The association pointed out that petrol and diesel are essential for generators in industries, two-wheelers and four-wheelers of the labourers and employees, transport vehicles used for employees, carrying agricultural produce, raw materials and finished goods to the market, diesel sets for agricultural purposes, public transport vehicles and smaller goods carriers, thereby affecting a cross section of the society.Increase in fuel prices has increased expenditure of individuals and commercial establishments at this stage of not having fully recovered from the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We request the PM and CM to intervene into this matter immediately and bring down fuel prices like how it was a month ago, else all businesses and trade will face severe hardships,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-pm-cm-to-safeguard-trade-from-fuel-prices/articleshow/80903315.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala minister unveils studio apartment project for working women||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Labour and excise minister T P Ramakrishnan launched the labour and skills department’s project to construct studio apartments for working women at Menamkulam here on Saturday. Inaugurating the project via video conferencing, the minister said the project would benefit women employed in the unorganized sector and those with minimal income. The apartments will be built in major centres across the state, he said. Bhavanam Foundation Kerala, which is implementing the project, has leased 0.733 acres within Kinfra International Apparel Park at Menamkulam, for implementing the project in Thiruvananthapuram. The scheme aims at providing safe accommodation of the highest quality to single and married working women on a rental basis. The proposed building will have ground plus six floors having 130 units. The ground floor includes the parking area, security cabin and other service rooms. A single apartment unit includes bed space, living space, kitchenette with essential devices, a toilet-cum-bathroom & wash and a balcony with an area of approximately 272.04sqft. The apartments will also have basic furnishings such as a cot, table, chair and cupboards. Common services like CCTV, lift, fire protection system, sewage treatment plan, incinerator etc are included in the project, according to details published on the website of Bhavanam Foundation Kerala. The project is one among the ongoing housing schemes of the labour and skills department. The project was pitched as a solution to address the issues faced by working women across Kerala while looking for suitable accommodation near places of work. The project aims to empower working women by providing housing facilities to aid their careers, the project note says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/minister-unveils-studio-apartment-project-for-working-women/articleshow/80900695.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Trichy||1 lakh set to get free house site patta||Madurai/Trichy: It was a day of inaugurations and stone-laying for chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday when he launched two police stations in Madurai, laid foundation stones for check dams in Tuticorin and inaugurated the seventh phase of Keeladi excavations through video conferencing. The CM also launched a scheme aimed at providing free house site patta to the poor and needy people residing on non-objectionable government poromboke land. About 1 lakh beneficiaries will get the patta under the special regularisation scheme. According to the revenue and disaster management department, longtime dwellers of non-objectionable government poromboke land parcels will be regularised while the needy and poor will get house site patta. About 55,000 occupants of government poromboke land were identified in the first phase of which nine were given the patta as a token gesture by the chief minister through Tamil Nilam portal. Subsequently, ministers will hand over patta to the beneficiaries identified across the districts in the coming days. By the month-end, 45,000 more needy and eligible people will get the free house site patta under the special regularisation scheme. The patta to be handed over will have the type of land classification changed. Similarly, the required name changes will also be made. Through the Tamil Nilam website, the people identified can download their e-house site patta document without visiting any revenue department offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1-lakh-set-to-get-free-house-site-patta/articleshow/80903316.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||Schools must follow SOPs, safety norms: Yogi||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday instructed basic education officials to ensure that all standard operating procedures (SOPs) and Covid-19 protocols are followed by schools after reopening. Reiterating that the state government was committed to providing quality education to children, Yogi directed the officials to prepare an action plan that enhances the foundational learning in kids. Presiding over a review meeting of the basic education activities, the CM told officials to gradually adapt to the changes made in the National Education Policy. He asked officials to include courses related to Indian tradition and culture and stories on life of eminent personalities in the curriculum. He said that making quality changes in basic education will improve the quality of secondary and higher education. Yogi asked senior officials to carry out regular inspections of basic education offices and added that they must ensure students get good books, uniforms, school bags, shoes and socks and that the process is transparent and time-bound. The CM instructed officials to shift students out of a dilapidated school which needs demolition. He directed officials to carry field visits to schools and inspect the buildings. If any building is in a shabby state, it should be demolished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/schools-must-follow-sops-safety-norms-yogi/articleshow/80889028.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||Cautious start to Chinese New Year||Kolkata: Members of the Chinese community, particularly the elderly in Tangra who had withdrawn into a shell following the outbreak of the pandemic, stepped out of their homes and gingerly made it to the Pei May Chinese High School ground on Saturday evening. Over the next few hours, fears of getting infected by the virus that had forced them into a prolonged lockdown dissipated as they exchanged New Year greetings. Saturday was the second day of the Chinese New Year and the Pei May school was the celebration square that had been carefully chosen to prevent crowding that is usually seen on the occasion on Tangra streets. This year, youths from the community have organized a weekend festival. Apart from 26 food stalls, the festival will include Lion dance by The Fitness Club, a projection mapping light and sound show by VJ Phillip Gordon. On Sunday, singer Francis Lepcha will add to the razzmatazz. The community had gone into a lockdown not long after last year’s celebrations when news of the Wuhan virus hit the headlines. Initially, the footfall at Chinese restaurants fell drastically. Following the unlock period, businesses limped back, but are yet to be normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cautious-start-to-chinese-new-year/articleshow/80901465.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||How a mother’s frantic phone calls saved over two dozen lives during Chamoli deluge||DEHRADUN: Vipul Kaireni, a 27-year-old heavy motor vehicle driver who worked at the NTPC hydropower project in Tapovan, was dismissive of his mother’s frantic calls on Sunday morning, begging him to move away from the barrage, at first. After he disconnected the call, Mangshri Devi called again, saying she had seen a swollen Dhauliganga headed his way. “Our village is situated at a height. My mother was working outside when the flash flood descended. Had it not been for her warning, I and around two dozen of my colleagues would be dead by now,” Kairani said, adding he rushed to warn his colleagues and they all took shelter on a dilapidated staircase. Kaireni, who had got married only two months ago, has been working at the barrage since he was seven years old. Around 9am on Sunday, he left his village, Dhaak in Tapovan, for the now sludge-filled project site. “On a regular day, we get paid Rs 600 but on a Sunday, we get double that amount. I had gone to work last Sunday to earn some extra money,” he said. At 10:35 am, his mother made a phone call, asking him to run. “At first, I only heard her shouting and didn’t take it seriously. I asked her to stop joking, saying mountains don’t just burst. She called me again and pleaded with me to move. My mother and wife Anita had seen the water rise 15m over its normal height and engulf everything in its wake. We all ran towards the staircase and it saved our lives,” Kaireni said. Sandeep Lal, who is also a resident of Dhaak village and was saved by Devi’s phone call, recounted the frantic couple of minutes. “I was inside, fixing a fault in an electricity line. When Vipul called, I ran, or rather flew outside. I owe my life to Vipul’s mother and have learnt never to ignore a parent’s warning,” said Lal, an electrician who worked at the site. Over 100 friends of Sandeep and Vipul are missing. “They all have been swept away. The staircase we used to reach to safety was filled with muck by the time they realized the flood was coming. They couldn’t use it. I searched for my friends all day in vain and could meet my mother only at 7pm,” he said. The Pradhan of Tapovan village Kishore Kaniyal lauded Devi’s presence of mind. “We are thankful to her for saving so many lives. We wish others also act with this urgency during emergencies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/how-a-mothers-frantic-phone-calls-saved-over-two-dozen-lives-during-chamoli-deluge/articleshow/80900693.cms||Shivani Azad
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Painting on walls: Touch of India refines Delhi’s look||NEW DELHI: Boundary walls of several public places, monuments, parks, etc, are getting an all-new look in the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) area. The civic agency is beautifying them with paintings, which not only add to the aesthetic appeal of the area but also spread the message of cleanliness and represent culture. The beautification work is under way near Surtal Stadium, Agrasen ki Baoli, Khan Market Metro Station, Gole Market, Chelmsford Road, Subramaniam Bharti Marg, Sujan Singh Park and Taj Mansingh Hotel. The paintings are theme-based and have been chosen based on locations. While Madhubani Paintings adorn Subramaniam Bharti Marg, dance forms have been depicted outside Surtal Stadium at Talkatora Garden. In JJ camps and market areas, such as Gole Market and Khan Market, paintings urge people to keep surroundings clean. “Unlike last year when only 20-25 locations were selected in one zone (out of two) in the NDMC area, work at 40 sites has already been completed this time. Work is still on at a few other places. It will continue till February end,” said an NDMC official. Artists with expertise in different forms of paintings have been called to implement this project and they have been explained the themes in detail. “In JJ camps, people are generally illiterate and hence, we have covered the public walls around these clusters to spread awareness on waste segregation, education, Covid-appropriate behaviour, water conservation, plantation, plastic menace and cleanliness. Near Agrasen ki Baoli where foreign tourists come in large numbers, we have painted popular monuments like Qutub Minar, Taj Mahal and Jantar Mantar on walls to depict the rich culture of India,” said the official further. “Similarly at Subramaniam Bharti Marg, which is close to Khan Market, we have painted the Madhubani art to make the place look more attractive. At Connaught Place (Block H, radial road of Block G), random drawings have been made besides those associated with Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.” Visitors can be seen taking selfies at CP and other places in the NDMC area with these walls in the backdrop. Officials said painting of walls not only gives a new lease of life to them, but also prevents visitors from using them for urinating in open. The civic agency has also earmarked the latitude and longitude of these paintings and submitted details with the ministry of housing and urban affairs so that teams doing inspections for cleanliness drive can visit them at convenience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/painting-on-walls-touch-of-india-refines-citys-look/articleshow/80902678.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 14, 2021||Trichy||‘Farm loan waiver will only benefit AIADMK cadres’||Trichy: Principal secretary of the DMK and Trichy West MLA K N Nehru on Saturday said that the farm loan waiver announcement from the state government will not influence the farmers. He claimed that a majority of the farm loans were facilitated only for AIADMK cadres, thus the waiver will benefit only the ruling party. “Around 90% of the farm loans were granted to AIADMK members, and the opposition was not given any. The announcement will not deter the support farmers are showing towards the DMK,” Nehru said. The DMK MLA was distributing Rs 1.5 lakh worth of welfare aid for people with disabilities from his constituency development fund. On the party’s state conference planned in Trichy, he said that party president M K Stalin will formally announce the date in the next two days. “We have prepared the ground to accommodate around 50,000 vehicles. The conference will be an open air gathering,” Nehru added. When asked whether was there a misunderstanding between the DMK and poll strategy consultant firm I-PAC, Nehru refuted the allegation. Stating that the DMK has bright prospects to form the next government in the state, Nehru said the party high command will finalise and decide on the parties in the alliance. “DMK has never rejected a party that has approached us to be a part of the alliance” he replied to a question on whether actor Kamal Haasan’s MNM may join hands with the DMK. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farm-loan-waiver-will-only-benefit-aiadmk-cadres/articleshow/80903318.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Bhopal||At 18%, Bhopal’s turnout to get vaccine jab lowest in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: On Satuyrday, 18% of the targeted vaccination of frontline workers was achieved in the state capital. It was below the day’s vaccination average for the Madhya Pradesh, which stood at 32%.Overall, 2288 people were vaccinated against Covid-19. As many as 60 vaccination sessions were conducted across the city. Additional director and state immunisation officer, public health and family welfare department, Dr Santosh Shukla inspected the Covid-19 immunisation centre at Jawaharlal Nehru Gas Relief Hospital on Saturday. Around 60% of the vaccination target for Bhopal has been achieved, according to health department estimates. When contacted, health officials did not respond to the exact number of vaccinations achieved. On Saturda, 12807 vaccination beneficiaries were called for vaccination. There are an estimated 88000 frontline workers in the state capital. A list of the beneficiaries has been provided to the health department by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, ministry of home affairs, department of revenue and Panchayati Raj department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/at-18-bhopals-turnout-to-get-vaccine-jab-lowest-in-mp/articleshow/80901475.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 14, 2021||Madurai||Sagaramala project: No survey on people ejected||Madurai: Minister of state (independent charge) for ports, shipping and waterways Mansukh Mandaviya has stated in the Parliament that no survey has been conducted about the displacement of people after completion of the Sagarmala project. The minister’s reply was to an unstarred question by Madurai MP Su Venkatesan.In a set of three questions, the MP had questioned the percentage of work completed under the Sagarmala project, survey on displacement of people on completion of the project and details of villages and people to be displaced from the Indian coast after its implementation.Responding to it, the minister stated that 504 projects under Sagarmala at an estimated infrastructure investment of Rs 3.55 lakh have been identified of which 159 have been completed. He added that answering details of the displacement does not arise since no such survey has been conducted.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sagaramala-project-no-survey-on-people-ejected/articleshow/80903319.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Madurai||Cop transferred over complaint of assault||Madurai: A sub-inspector attached to the Jaihindpuram police station was shifted to Armed Reserve on Friday following complaints that he had been involved in excesses while dealing with a nuisance case recently.Thirupathi from a scheduled caste community at Subramaniapuram was returning home in a car along with his friends on February 8. Thirupathi and his three friends were under the influence of alcohol. The driver of the vehicle was not drunk.When a police team stopped and questioned them, they were involved in an altercation. The four were taken to the Jaihindpuram police station for an inquiry. Later, a nuisance case was registered against them.Family members of Thirupathi claimed that sub-inspector Selvakumar allegedly beat them with a lathi and kicked them. Thirupathi suffered grievous injuries and vomited blood. His friends were forced to clean it. While they were let go the same night, Thirupathi was shifted to the Government Rajaji Hospital for treatment after suffering fracture of jaw bone in the attack. A petition was submitted to the Madurai city police commissioner in connection with the incident recently, seeking to register a case against the SI and four more policemen under sections of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act.Commissioner Prem Anand Sinha said an inquiry by an assistant commissioner of police level officer had been ordered. Further action would be decided based on the inquiry report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cop-transferred-over-complaint-of-assault/articleshow/80903317.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Slice of heritage gets an electric push: Victoria 2.0 set to return next month||MUMBAI: You will soon be able to ride on those quaint Victoria tongas, minus the clip-clop sound of horses’ hooves. The battery-operated carriages are set to roll out in parts of south Mumbai from next month. The state transport department has cleared a proposal to allow the electric carriages around Gateway of India where the traditional horse-drawn carriages careened for close to a century. Initially, 10 carriages, each of which can carry six persons, will run on routes near Gateway of India, Marine Drive and Nariman Point, said officials. The fare for a ride is still to be fixed. Licences to ride the e-carriages will be issued to those who had lost their livelihood after Bombay high court banned horse-driven Victorias in June 2015. The carriages were a familiar sight on the streets of south Mumbai since colonial times. Gradually, Victorias attained the status of being vintage and drew tourists. History has it that the horse-driven carriages were used for transport in the 19th century. Later, the carriages transformed from a mode of travel to a symbol of leisure and heritage. Transport minister Anil Parab told TOI, “We have given an in-principle approval to the electric Victoria plan. It will be rolled out soon…” A senior official from the transport department said that a government resolution will be issued next week. “Victorias were a part of the city’s heritage... It will be great to have them back. By giving licences to the old riders, we will also be able to rehabilitate them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/slice-of-heritage-gets-electric-push-victoria2-0-set-to-return-next-month/articleshow/80901482.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 14, 2021||Madurai||Madurai corpn told to monitor disposal of biomed, Covid waste||Madurai: Madurai Corporation has been told to closely monitor the disposal of biomedical and Covid-19 related medical waste as per guidelines issued by the government.Justice P Jothimani, chairperson, state-level monitoring committee of National Green Tribunal for Solid Waste Management in Tamil Nadu said this while taking part in the review meeting at Anna Maaligai on Saturday to check the status of solid waste management in the city. He also urged the corporation to speed up construction on the micro composting centres (MCC). While 41 MCCs were allotted for the corporation, 25 have been constructed so far. Bulk waste generators like hotels, restaurants and residential apartments should process the waste generated by them by themselves, and it is the duty of the corporation to ensure that they carry it out properly. Degradable and non-degradable waste should be segregated at source and collected separately. Sensitization should be created among residents on waste segregation using volunteers and students. Jothimani also inspected the corporation’s 24 hours complaint redressal system, GPS installed trucks used for drinking water supply and garbage collection and status of installation of rainwater harvesting system in residential houses and commercial establishments. He later planted saplings on the Anna Maaligai premises.Various officials from the corporation, including commissioner S Visakan, city engineer S Arasu and city health officer Dr P Kumaragurubaran took part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-told-to-monitor-disposal-of-biomed-covid-waste/articleshow/80903320.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Trichy||Sewage seepage in Melapudur subway keeps pedestrians away||Trichy: The continuous flow of sewage at Melapudur subway is forcing pedestrians to skip the arterial vicinity of Trichy city. Melapudur subway situated between the Trichy Junction and Palakkarai railway stations is accessed by thousands of people to reach the old city. The subway is maintained by the state highways department while the cleaning activities are overseen by the Trichy Corporation. For about a week now, sewage discharge was reported in the subway with wastewater from adjoining stormwater drain leaking well over the carriageway of the subway. While cars are managing to cross the area, two-wheeler riders have a tough time. “Wastewater is inundating the subway throughout the day. The inundation makes the road very slippery,” S Arun Kumar, a resident of Annai Nagar said.Most of the vehicle drivers notice the inundation only at the last moment, and apply sudden brakes causing accidents. “We have alerted the engineering department to carry out the needful repair measures to prevent the seepage,” a sanitation department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sewage-seepage-in-melapudur-subway-keeps-pedestrians-away/articleshow/80903322.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Yadadri, a grandeur of Kakatiya style||HYDERABAD: If Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala in Andhra Pradesh is one of the most sacred pilgrimage centres in the country and the world, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao wants to make Yadadri one of the top spiritual sites of India. Touted as “Telangana’s Tirumala,” Yadadri temple, formerly Yadagirigutta, is getting a new and bigger complex with all amenities for pilgrims. The 1,000-year-old Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple, which is getting a complete makeover on a 14-acre land on the hillock, is likely to be thrown open to pilgrims from June this year. Sources said the CM is set to visit the hill shrine in the third week of February and oversee the ongoing project, which is expected to cost around Rs 1,500 crore. Ever since the bifurcation, KCR has been keen to replicate Tirumala’s grandeur at Yadadri. Towards this end, he left no stone unturned to change the face of sleepy Yadagirigutta (renamed as Yadadri), 63 km from Hyderabad, and turn it into a ‘mini Tirumala’. If Tirumala is synonymous with Alipiri Mettu, Maha Dwaram, Ananda Nilayam, Garbhagriha and Pushkarni, KCR’s Yadadri will have all that and more. Tirumala, which is located at a height of 853 metres on Seshachalam Hills, was constructed in Dravidian architectural style in 15th century by Sri Krishnadevaraya. Yadadri is situated at 200 metres height on Yadagirigutta (hills) and KCR brought 500 sculptors from Telangana, AP and Tamil Nadu to chisel history, culture and famous personalities on all sides of the temple on the lines of kings of medieval India, besides inscriptions. Tirumala temple is dedicated to Lord Venkateswara, an incarnation of Vishnu, while Yadadri has Lord Narasimha Swamy (also called Yadadri Narsanna), also an incarnation of Lord Vishnu, as its main attraction. The Yadadri temple architecture — modelled on Kakatiya architectural style — was finalised by city-based architect Ananda Sai. “Over 42,000 tonnes of black granite stone (Krishna shila) from Gurijepalli in AP’s Prakasam district was used for construction of the temple. In those days, elephants and horses were used to transport the heavy stones. We deployed heavy cranes to transport the granite blocks on to the hillock,” vice-chairman and chief executive officer of Yadagirigutta Temple Development Authority (YTDA), G Kishan Rao, told STOI. KCR, who himself is closely monitoring the construction works, laid the foundation stone on May 30, 2015. “Yadadri temple will soon be known as one of the world’s famous Vaishnavite temples on the lines of Tirumala,” said Kishan Rao. The sanctum sanctorum will be opened for devotees after performing rituals as per Agama Sastra, said head priest Narasimha Charyulu. “Not a single modern-day leader has dared to build a temple of such magnitude and grandeur across south India as KCR has done,” he said. The CM is planning to perform a ‘Maha Sudarshana Yagam’ before the consecration of the temple. He is likely to invite the President, Prime Minister, chief ministers, governors, 3,000 ruthviks, Vedic scholars, pontiffs and seers for the ‘mother of all yagnams.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/yadadri-a-grandeur-of-kakatiya-style/articleshow/80902679.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 14, 2021||Madurai||Students pitch in to create Covid awareness through wall paintings||Madurai: Government middle school students from across Madurai district are being actively involved in promoting awareness about Covid-19 prevention by creating paintings on the compound walls of schools, as part of an initiative under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA). The paintings are to reinforce Covid-19 safety measures among students and public.“Students from Classes I to VIII from 228 government middle schools in Madurai are involved in making the paintings. It is organised as a competition. As schools remain shut, this initiative is keeping students engaged productively. The activity also helps remove fear of Covid-19,” additional district programme officer, SSA, Madurai, Thirugnanam N said. Led by Madurai district chief educational officer (CEO) R Swaminathan, the programme kicked-off on Friday at the government middle schools in Kallandhiri and Uthangudi. Five students, who were selected at the end of the competition made paintings with their name on the compound wall of the schools. Three students who made the best paintings were also given cash prizes of Rs 600, Rs 500 and Rs 400 respectively through the school management committees of the schools. “It is a creative activity for students as they await reopening. Students will have to learn about Covid-19 and come up with ideas to engage in discussion to help alleviate unnecessary fear before school begins. With the paintings on display on walls, it will reinforce safe practices for Covid-19 among students and public especially as now there is less practice and enforcement of norms like wearing masks and social distancing,” said the headmaster of a government school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-pitch-in-to-create-covid-awareness-through-wall-paintings/articleshow/80903323.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Madurai||77 receive second dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Madurai||Madurai: As many as 77 healthcare providers in Madurai who took the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on January 16, received their second dose on Saturday. Meanwhile, for the first time in the district, 1,000 beneficiaries got their first dose of the vaccine in a day on Saturday.On January 16, as many as 190 healthcare providers received the vaccine and are now eligible to get the second dose, which must be taken after a period of 28 days. Beneficiaries will be administered the second dose in a phased manner from this week onwards. “Those who got the first dose will be intimated via SMS that they can now take the second dose and will be informed of the schedule. Even if the beneficiary does not take the second dose, exactly 28 days after the first dose, they can still take it within a week,” said Dr K V Arjun Kumar, deputy director of health services, Madurai.Administration of the first dose has also picked up in the district with frontline workers being vaccinated from February 8. Till Saturday, a total of 11,663 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Madurai district, of which 10,379 were healthcare providers and 1,284 frontline workers - (1,119 police personnel, 106 local body officials, 19 revenue officials and 40 ITBP officials).On Saturday alone, as many as 557 frontline workers, including 553 police officials received the vaccine. At least 21 Covid-19 vaccination session sites, including various government and private hospitals, are now functional in Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/77-receive-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-madurai/articleshow/80903321.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Minister’s ‘janata darbar’ plan for Mumbai varsity students draws flak||MUMBAI: While the city civic corporation has not given a green signal to start colleges, the minister of higher and technical education, Uday Samant, has decided to hole a “darbar” on February 22 at Jamboree Maidan, Worli, where he will meet students, parents, teachers and non-teaching staff and address their grievances. The responsibility of setting up the venue, arranging the seating and meeting other expenses is on the two city varsities, Mumbai University and SNDT University. Members of the senate and management council said they failed to understand the reasoning behind this gathering; most asked what authority the minister had to solve problems faced by any of the stakeholders. Times ViewState public universities are governed by the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, and there are clear guidelines for their functioning. Universities are autonomous bodies and should be allowed their autonomy. Moreover, holding a janata darbar in a city where colleges have not yet reopened due to the pandemic is at odds with the overall state policy.“Just the manner in which universities of Kolhapur, Nagpur, Gadchiroli, Solapur and Nanded implemented the programme, both universities (of Mumbai) have to put together the event,” said a circular issued by the state’s higher and technical education department. For the last two weeks, Samant, who belongs to the Shiv Sena, has been on a statewide tour, visiting all the state public universities. University authorities have also been made in charge of organizing the lodging, boarding and travel-related issues of all those who will come from outside Mumbai. Management council member Vaibhav Narawde asked, “Why is the government interfering in the work of the university? The programme sheet states travellers need to contact the registrars of Mumbai and SNDT University for the cost of accommodation, transportation and arrangements. If this programme is to solve problems in the field of education, it will be taken up by responsible officers of the university who will follow procedures laid out under the University Act.” He added, “The government should not interfere. The university is autonomous.” The ABVP too condemned the move and questioned the minister’s decision to hold a gathering when colleges are not being allowed to open. “Also, why Worli? Because it is minister Aditya Thackeray’s constituency?” asked another senate member. He added, “Universities have a faculty grievance committee and students’ grievance panels. Why is the minister getting involved if he cannot take any decisions? State universities have their authority bodies, and the buck stops with the chancellor, not with the minister.” TOI tried to get in touch with Samant but he was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ministers-janata-darbar-plan-for-mum-varsity-students-draws-flak/articleshow/80903357.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Green shift: Two-wheeler riders opt for electric mode in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The first week of Delhi government’s Switch Delhi electric vehicle campaign focusing on electric two-wheelers has garnered enthusiastic support from the public as well as the industry. Many in Delhi have started switching to electric two-wheelers. The first week of the campaign focused on generating awareness on the benefits of EV two-wheelers along with the benefits offered under the Delhi EV policy for those who want to make the switch from internal combustion engine vehicles to electric. “Since the launch of Delhi EV policy in August 2020, 630 new EV two-wheelers have been registered and more are being registered every day. An analysis by RMI India reveals that subsidies provided on electric two-wheelers have made the upfront purchase price comparable to top selling petrol two-wheelers. But the real saving is in operating cost. By switching to an electric two-wheeler, an individual can have monthly savings of approximately Rs 1,850 and Rs 1,650 as compared to petrol scooter and petrol bike, respectively, or an annual saving of approximately Rs 22,000 and Rs 20,000 as compared to using a petrol scooter and a petrol bike, respectively,” transport minister Kailash Gahlot said, adding that it has huge environmental benefits too. “An average electric two-wheeler provides a lifetime savings of 1.98 tonnes of carbon emissions as compared to an average petrol two-wheelers. To put it simply, we need roughly 11 trees to sequester 1.98 tonnes of CO2. We can save our environment by making this switch and we owe this to our future generations,” Gahlot said. Those who have switched to electric vehicles are delighted. Dalbir Chand Kohli, a businessman and a third-time EV owner, said, “Seven years ago, I was the first one to purchase an EV in Delhi. After Delhi government’s EV policy, I purchased my third EV and got a subsidy of Rs 7,700 and waiver of road tax and registration fee. I would definitely suggest that everyone switches over to an EV as it causes less pollution, is noiseless and can be charged very easily at home. I’ve had a great experience driving an EV.” Sanjay Beri, a businessman, who recently purchased an EV, said, “I earlier had apprehensions but I’m quite impressed by its performance and the financial benefits it brings along.” A government employee Manvir Singh, who has switched to EV, said: “If others also decide to make this switch, we can all help Delhi’s air quality become better.” The campaign has been received exceedingly well by industry leaders as well. Owing to the CM’s leadership in promoting zero-emission vehicles, many EV two-wheeler companies have decided to aggressively launch new vehicle models in the city, Delhi government said in a statement. Switch Delhi is an eight-week mass awareness campaign aimed at encouraging each and every person in Delhi to switch from polluting vehicles to zero-emission electric vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/green-shift-2-wheeler-riders-opt-for-e-mode/articleshow/80902690.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||Man abducted off Bypass for ransom; exchange near mall in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Four men in a taxi chased a web designer on a bike at Park Circus Connector, cornered him near Mirania boating complex and then held him at gunpoint till his kin handed over the ransom amount of Rs 3 lakh near a Kasba mall. Police have so far arrested two persons while two others are on the run. Md Nadeem was returning to his Tiljala home around 4.55am on Friday from Salt Lake when a taxi tried to block his way just after he had turned into the connector from Parama Island. Though he tried to evade and accelerated, the cab soon caught up and dashed his bike. He was then forced into the taxi. The men snatched Rs 21,000. Around 5.15am, one of the abductors made first ransom call to Nadeem’s cousin demanding Rs 3 lakh. The latter sought an hour and 15 minutes to arrange the amount. Till the ransom exchanged hands, the taxi with Nadeem drove around Bypass, Chowbhaga, Ananadapur, Tiljala and Topsia. He was pushed out of it after the money was paid. The accused then fled towards Science City. It was the vehicle that was traced first and led to driver Sohail Ali alias Aman (30) and one of his aides Sk Ansar Ali alias Niyaz (35). “So far, Rs 27,000 has been recovered,” said DC (east) Gaurav Lal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-abducted-off-bypass-for-ransom-exchange-near-mall/articleshow/80901495.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 14, 2021||Bhopal||Immunisation round extended till February 19 in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: The health department’s initiative to vaccinate frontline workers (FLWs) has been extended till February 19. With Covid-19 cases at a low, enthusiasm among frontline workers, especially from urban development and Panchayati Raj department has been less. When contacted, health department officials did not provide FLW urban development department vaccination percentage update on Saturday. Sources however said that about 50% have been vaccinated. On Saturday, health officials also announced second dose to health workers from February 20. The vaccine against Covid-19 was administered to frontline workers in MP from February 8. It would continue till February 19. From February 20, health workers will be given the second vaccine shot. Health workers who could not be vaccinated till date, will be get the opportunity to get vaccinated in the mop-up round on February 20. As of 8am on Saturday, more than 5,26,095 people got the vaccine dose across MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/immunisation-round-extended-till-feb-19/articleshow/80901492.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana lags in schools equipped with ICT labs, reveals report||HYDERABAD: Telangana may boast of being among the top five states in terms of innovation but fares poorly when it comes to government schools with ICT labs in the India Innovation Index report, 2020 released last month. The number of schools having ICT labs is one of the key parameters for rankings in the India Innovation Index report which was released by the NITI Aayog. Under the human resource development section, ICT labs in government schools is a metric to rank states. As per the India Innovation Index report, Telangana was ranked fourth among major states on the innovation metric. However, compared to 10 states with similar gross domestic product, Telangana was an under performing state with only 14.05% government schools equipped with ICT labs. The percentage of schools with ICT labs in few major states such as Gujarat, Haryana, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan stands above 40%. Apathy of state government in providing funds and maintaining computer labs in government schools has been attributed to as the reason for the low score in this metric. “Under a five year central government scheme, ICT labs were set up in several government schools between 2008 and 2011 in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. Thereafter, ICT labs in many schools were either abandoned or were not maintained due to lack of funding from the state government,” said Chava Ravi, general secretary, Telangana State United Teachers Federation, attributing absence of a formal curriculum for computers as a subject to the apathy.  “The focus of many NGOs and corporate firms is always on the rural areas. I approached the Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association and told them that even in the urban areas like Hyderabad, we don’t have an ICT lab. Following this, they helped us set up one two years back,” said R Sharada, headmistress of Government Girls High School, Majeedia, Masab Tank. Multiple attempts to reach out to A Devasena, commissioner of school education, seeking comment on the matter went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-lags-in-schools-equipped-with-ict-labs-reveals-report/articleshow/80901490.cms||Preeti Biswas
February 14, 2021||Kozhikode||No deliberate attempt to hurt customs commissioner: Cops||Kozhikode: Preliminary investigation by police, into the complaint by commissioner of customs (preventive) Sumit Kumar that some persons tailed him in a car near Edavannappara in Malappuram and tried to block his way, found that there was no purposeful attempt by the two car passengers to ‘endanger the official’. Kondotty police, who took the two youngsters into custody on Saturday, let them off on bail after recording their arrest for rash driving. They were travelling in the i20 car mentioned in the complaint. Kumar, who is overseeing several high profile cases including the gold smuggling case, had in the complaint said that his vehicle was followed by a group during his trip from Kalpetta to Karipur airport on Thursday. The commissioner had alleged that the incident was an attempt to attack him. Perinthalmanna deputy SP Devassia K M, who also holds the charge of Malappuram, said that Omassery native Jaseem and his cousin Jasim Rahmath, who were travelling in the car, didn’t have criminal antecedents as per preliminary investigation. The car is owned by Jaseem’s father Abdul Khader who was a school headmaster and Jasim Rahmath had lost his left leg and right hand after falling off a train at Kayamkulam four years ago. “They did not give way for the vehicle of the commissioner as they didn’t hear the honking. The two had gone to Mukkam to buy bandages and were proceeding to their bakery and cafe at Vettupara. They didn’t notice Kumar’s vehicle as they were listening to songs inside the car,” said the police. The deputy SP said that police was taking Kumar’s complaint seriously as they had information of him receiving threats earlier. “We will conduct a detailed probe with the help of the cyber cell,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/no-deliberate-attempt-to-hurt-customs-commissioner-cops/articleshow/80901493.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Conduct probe by geologists into Futala water level drop: Nagpur NGO||NAGPUR: The Swachh Association, an NGO from city, has demanded investigation by geologists into the 2 feet drop in the water level of Futala lake. “The authorities concerned did not investigate the reason. It has to be something major and should be investigated by geologists and various authorities concerned with water bodies and groundwater as well,” said association’s secretary Sharad Paliwal. Earlier, Green Vigil Foundation, an NGO from the city, had observed sudden drop in water level of the lake. Paliwal suspects that the water might have rushed into the underground aquifers through fissures opened up by the vibrations and heavy load of machinery and construction going on the Telangkhedi lake promenade. “The underground aquifer would have developed a big void as large amount of water might have been drawn from wells and borewells nearby for curing work in the ongoing construction and for cement concrete roads,” he said. The association secretary explained that it is a general phenomenon when a borewell is created at the bottom of an established dugwell, the latter loses its water level. “Similar phenomenon might have been the cause for the sudden drop in the lake’s water table,” he said and added that authorities concerned and technically qualified bodies like GSI, GSDA and CGWB etc must look in to the matter. The command area from this lake reaches up to Sitabuldi affecting water levels of wells around Ravi Nager, Civil Lines, Giripeth, Dharampeth, Ramdaspeth, Sitabuldi and Dhantoli etc. The association wants a proper structural stability survey of the bund where construction is in progress before any further construction is done. “The lake is a reservoir of water coming from catchment areas during rain and does not have any groundwater source. If the doubt turns true and all the water from Telangkhedi lake disappears, how will the fountains work?” said the association and added that some hydrogeologists too fear this. “If this happens, funds generated from taxpayers’ money will go waste and the whole exercise will be futile,” it said. The association clarified that they are not against development or beautification of city but are concerned about the lake’s existence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/conduct-probe-by-geologists-into-futala-water-level-drop-ngo/articleshow/80900735.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Kochi||Phase-I of Puthur Zoo inaugurated||THRISSUR: First phase of the zoological park at Puthur was inaugurated by minister for forests K Raju on Saturday, partially-ending more than a three-decade wait for the project. Though it is primarily intended to house animals and birds from Thrissur Zoo, the new facility will be a full-fledged zoological park with animals being provided natural ambience, said chief whip K Rajan, who is the local MLA. Visitors and animals will be separated by constructing trenches. The advantage is that visitors can also view the animals in a natural environment. Animals and birds from Thrissur zoo will be shifted to the new park in phases, said project director K S Deepa. Ministers V S Sunilkumar, C Raveendranath and A C Moideen spoke on the occasion. Phase-I of the project, which costs Rs 36 crore, comprises four enclosures, a vet hospital, an administrative block, a kitchen and compound wall stretching 3km, said Rajan. Of the four enclosures, one is for Nilgiri langur, another for Lion-tailed macaque and the third for Gaur and the fourth will be an aviary for birds from Thrissur Zoo, said Deepa. Rajan said works on second and third phases, worth almost Rs 270 crore, have begun with KIIFB funds. When completed, the park, covering 136.85 hectare, will have 23 enclosures. The primary design of the zoo was given by John Coe, an expert from Australia. He said that the goal of the design is ‘to collaborate in the creation of enriching and sustainable environments for people, plants and animals’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/phase-i-of-puthur-zoo-inaugurated/articleshow/80901540.cms||T Ramavarman
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||SC junks Telangana claim on prime land, govt takes back plea||HYDERABAD: Telangana withdrew its petition after the Supreme Court brushed aside its claim over a five-acre prime land in Sangareddy district projecting it as a ‘Billa Dakhala’ (an unsurveyed land purchased by a petitioner and described as ‘Billa Dakhala’ property in revenue records) land. The apex court dismissed the pleas of Sangareddy additional collector, tahsildar and RDO after their counsel requested the court to allow them to withdraw the case and approach Telangana high court to file a review petition. A three-judge bench of the apex court comprising justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, expressed reluctance to act as a fifth-level appellate authority in according pattadar passbook to EJ David, who purchased the five-acre land in Kandi-Chimnapur area in 2013. The state government approached the Supreme Court, challenging the last month’s judgment of high court in the land case. Justice MS Ramachandra Rao found fault with the revenue officials for denying the pattadar passbook to David. “When the state is disputing a title, its officials cannot decide the title. It should be decided by a civil court after hearing the state and the individual,” the judge said. The judge imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 on the officials, directing them to pay the amount to the petitioner. The tahsildar, RDO and the additional collector had earlier refused to mutate the title in favour of David though his vendors had the title over the land. The land was part of 63 acres originally owned by Panduranga Rao Deshmukh and his family members whose names were reflected in the pahani of 1967-68. The vendors from whom David bought the land had a title along with pattadar passbooks. But when David sought the passbook, the revenue officials said that Panduranga Rao sold 63 acres to several persons and the five-acre plot was part of that land. They also argued that Panduranga Rao had no title. The judge went through the revenue records and found that Rao had a proper title. Justice Ramachandra Rao directed the revenue officials to forthwith issue an e-pattadar passbook to David. When the revenue officials failed to obey the HC order, the judge convicted the additional collector and two revenue officials and sentenced them to spend two months in jail. Upon a contempt appeal filed by the officials, the sentence was, however, stayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-junks-t-claim-on-prime-land-govt-takes-back-plea/articleshow/80902692.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: New Town takes green step towards power||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) on Friday started putting waste inputs into its first bio-methane plant in New Town. The plant will convert five tonnes of organic waste every day generated in the township to gas and then to electricity from March that will be used to fire up streetlights. The plant that has been set up on 1.5 acres, close to the canal near Balaka Abason, will recycle and process five tonnes out of the nearly 50 tonnes of daily waste that is produced in New Town. “The plant has started taking in organic waste input. There are six chambers to store the waste for some days before it could start producing gas, which is expected from mid-March,” said an official, adding that the plant will prevent an estimated 1,500 tonne of carbon dioxide emission into the atmosphere when it starts running at full capacity. The wet waste digested in the bio gas plant will convert the residual slurry into about 450kg of ready-to-use organic fertilizer every day. This would be used for horticulture and landscaping. The plant is expected to generate 600 to 650cubic metre of bio-gas per day with the potential to replace about 250 to 290kg LPG per day, officials said. Officials said that this project is being taken as a pilot project and further such bio gas plants will be set up across New Town in a decentralized manner depending on how the pilot project runs. The planning wing of Hidco has already started the process to identify such locations in the outskirts of New Town away from the residential pockets. NKDA has already introduced waste segregation at source in New Town and has set up a ‘Zero waste shop’ where people can deposit their waste including used and old clothes, cellphones and other goods that will be churned out to innovative products which people can buy. Officials said that the daily generated waste was no longer being dumped at Mollar Bheri as per orders of the National Green Tribunal. “The daily generated waste is now being sent to Dhapa where KMC as well as Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and Nabadiganta authorities are also disposing off the waste generated in their jurisdiction area,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-takes-green-step-towards-power/articleshow/80901524.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||B’desh war veteran handed victory flame||Hyderabad: A 1971 war veteran Lt Col Nagulapalli Narsing Rao (Retd), a recipient of the Vir Chakra, was honoured at Patel’s Green Front, Yapral, Secunderabad, on Saturday. The felicitation was organised in connection with 2021 being celebrated as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ to commemorate the Indian armed forces victory over Pakistan army in December 1971. The victory had led to the creation of a new nation – Bangladesh. It also resulted in the largest military surrender after World War II. Narsing Rao, an alumnus of AFMC, Pune, was commissioned in the Army Medical Corps in January 1970. The officer was posted as regimental medical officer, 8th Grenadiers during the 1971 war operations, in the western sector. On the night of December 10/11, 1971, the battalion launched an attack and captured an enemy stronghold. It was a well-fortified position protected by an 800-yard-deep minefield and the assaulting troops suffered heavy casualties. “The officer, undeterred by the heavy enemy shelling, moved on the objective to provide medical aid to the wounded. He went from one casualty to another attending to their wounds and even during the enemy counter attack he continued with his task without any regard to his safety, till all the casualties had been attended to and their evacuation arranged. Throughout this action, the officer displayed gallantry, determination and devotion to duty of a high order for which he was awarded Vir Chakra,” the army said.  On Saturday, the Victory flame was handed over to Lt Col Narsing Rao (Retd), by Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan, commandant, Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering, and Major General RK Singh, general officer commanding, Telangana & Andhra Sub Area in the presence of other war veterans and officers. To make this occasion special, a painting competition was organized by APS Bolarum on the theme of ‘Celebrating 50 years of Indian Victory of 1971 war’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bdesh-war-veteran-handed-victory-flame/articleshow/80901514.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Green channel: Lungs travel 11 km in 15 mnts||Hyderabad: The Hyderabad Traffic Police on Saturday provided a green channel to an ambulance for transporting a live organ. The organ (lungs) was transported from Yashoda Hospital, Malakpet to KIMS Hospital, Secunderabad covering a distance of 11 kms in 15 minutes. “The medical team carrying the live organ left from Yashoda hospital at 5.47pm and reached KIMS hospital at 6.02pm,” the traffic police said. The traffic police facilitated a green channel for live organ transportation seven times this year. Recently, the Hyderabad Metro Rail also created a special green corridor between Nagole and Jubilee Hills to facilitate non-stop transport of a heart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/green-channel-lungs-travel-11-km-in-15-mnts/articleshow/80901494.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS scouts for young candidate to bag Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar grad seat||HYDERABAD: Though the Election Commission has announced schedule for two MLC graduate constituencies a couple of days ago, TRS is still scouting for a winning horse, especially in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates constituency.  K Chandrasekhar Rao has already announced Palla Rajeshwara Reddy, current MLC, as party candidate for Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda graduate constituency. Sources said TRS is now searching for a suitable candidate for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency. Congress has announced former minister G Chinna Reddy as its candidate, while BJP has decided to field incumbent MLC from the Graduates constituency, N Ramchander Rao. Though half a dozen leaders are trying for the MLC ticket for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar ticket, the pink party is considering giving a ticket to leaders from rural district like Mahbubnagar, where voter turnout is expected to be more during polling. TRS sources said the party is considering the name of TRS leader Varkatam Jagannath Reddy, hailing from Maktal. He is into social service and had taken up various development activities through his NGO. He was reportedly assured ticket by the party leadership. Also, magician Samala Venu is also keen on contesting from the pink party. Though the party initially considered former mayor Bonthu Rammohan for MLC candidate from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat, he is reportedly reluctant to contest. Former beverage corporation chairman Devi Prasad is also trying for the ticket. In the previous MLC polls, Devi Prasad, former employees’ union leader who worked in the Telangana movement, contested, but lost to BJP’s N Ramchander Rao. Telangana State Education and Welfare Infrastructure Development Corporation chairman Nagender Goud and senior advocate from city PL Srinivas have sought e party to give opportunity from Hyderabad-RR-Mahbubnagar constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-scouts-for-young-candidate-to-bag-hyd-rr-mnagar-grad-seat/articleshow/80901546.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||CU commerce centenary celebration starts with webinar||Kolkata: The centenary celebration of Calcutta University’s commerce department kicked off with a global webinar on Saturday. CU was founded on January 24, 1857. But its commerce department was set up 65 years later. Professor Ashish Kumar Sana, head of the department of commerce, told TOI: “Foreign trade was increasing and the British felt the need for commercial education. So in 1922, the Syndicate instituted an MCom degree and a separate commerce department was set up.” Asis Kumar Chattopadhyay, pro-VC, academic affairs, delivered the inaugural speech. Ram Prahlad Choudhary, general secretary, Commerce Alumni Association, said, “We are also celebrating the silver jubilee of the Association.” A two-day webinar — Resilience Strategy for Indian Economy: Role of Commerce and Accounting in New Normal — is being jointly organized by the department, Indian Accounting Association, Kolkata, and ICAI. The event is supported by the London Overseas Centre of Cost Accountants (LOCCA). Anirban Mukhopadhyay, chairman, LOCCA, and alumnus, said, “We must explore more collaborations between India and the UK.” Sanjoy Sen, head of research and eminence, extended enterprise risk management, risk advisory, Deloitte, and D P Nandy, senior director, studies and advanced studies, ICAI, were part of the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-commerce-centenary-celebration-starts-with-webinar/articleshow/80901555.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Develop J&K on lines of T, says MP Nama||Hyderabad: Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) floor leader in Lok Sabha Nama Nageswara Rao said Jammu and Kashmir should be developed on the lines of Telangana. He said many industrialists in food processing units were showing interest in setting up industries in Jammu and Kashmir. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi MP, while extending support to a bill to replace an ordinance to merge J&K cadre of civil services officers with Arunachal Pradesh, Goa and Mizoram cadre which was introduced in Lok Sabha on Saturday, said his party had supported abrogation of Article 370 earlier. But the TRS government had passed resolution against Citizen Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register for Citizens (NRC) in the state assembly. “Now Jammu and Kashmir is peaceful compared to previous years. Elections will be held any time soon. Development will also take place once elected government is there in the state,” Nageshwar said. Earlier participating in a discussion on Budget 2021-22, he urged the Centre to sanction six green field airports and national status for Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project. The Centre should set up and develop a tribal university at Mulugu with central funds, he said. “The Centre should set up Mega Power Loom Cluster in Sircilla at a cost of Rs 993 crore and fulfil the promises made in the AP Reorganization Act 2014,” he said. Nageshwara Rao also said since the Telangana state had been facing shortage of IAS and IPS officers, it should sanction more posts. Earlier participating in a discussion on Budget 2021-22, he urged the Centre to sanction six green field airports and national status for Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/develop-jk-on-lines-of-t-says-mp-nama/articleshow/80901525.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||Cricket could have saved engineer’s life but he chose call of duty||Tapovan: Abhishek Pant, a local youth from Tapovan who had been working as an engineer at the National Thermal Power Corporation hydropower project for past two years, went missing in the deluge due to an unlucky twist of fate. Being a cricket enthusiast, Pant was to play in a match in Dhaak village on the fateful Sunday morning. However, he received a call from the project site regarding a fault in a power line minutes before he was about to leave for the match. While his friends went for the match, Abhishek went to the project site and got caught in the flash floods. He has been missing since. Sanjay Pant, Abhishek’s younger brother, told TOI, “The family is in a state of shock. I have not moved from the rescue site since we got the news. The agencies involved in rescue operations need to expedite the whole process. They are the only hope of the hundreds of families which hope to see their loved ones once again.” “Abhishek was to get engaged in April this year. We were all busy making arrangements for the ceremony. The deluge has shattered everything. We fear for him and just hope for his return,” added Sanjay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cricket-could-have-saved-engineers-life-but-he-chose-call-of-duty/articleshow/80900752.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 14, 2021||World||2 killed, 2 injured in NYC subway stabbing attacks||NEW YORK: An unidentified man could be responsible for four separate stabbings that occurred within a few hours in the New York City subways, leaving two people dead, authorities said. The assaults happened between Friday morning and early Saturday, New York Police Department officials said during a news conference. Authorities believe all four victims were homeless. Police said they were searching for a man they suspect could be behind all of the attacks. They were reviewing subway security camera footage as part of the investigation. All four stabbings occurred along the A subway line. One of the victims was discovered dead on a train in Queens at about midnight on Friday with several stab wounds to his neck and torso. Two hours later, a 44-year-old woman was found stabbed to death in the subway in upper Manhattan. The two nonfatal attacks - one involving a 67-year-old man and the other involving a 43-year-old man _ also occurred in upper Manhattan. In response, NYPD officials said they would deploy an additional 500 officers into the subway system throughout the city as a safety measure. ``To the victims, to the victims' families, we are 100% committed to getting justice . to bring closure to the families of this terrible incident,'' NYPD Commissioner Dermot Shea said during the news conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/2-killed-2-injured-in-nyc-subway-stabbing-attacks/articleshow/80903636.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||Six hill districts records no new Covid cases||Dehradun: The tally of coronavirus cases shot up to 96,766 in Uttarakhand after 44 new infections surfaced from across the state on Saturday. Also, two coronavirus-related fatalities — a man and woman, both septuagenarian — pushed the toll of the virus to 1,680 in the state. Incidentally, the hill districts of Bageshwar, Chamoli, Champawat, Pauri, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi recorded no new Covid-19 infections on Saturday. Till Saturday, Uttarakhand had 637 active cases and the Covid-19 test results of 13,757 samples were awaited. So far, the maximum number of coronavirus-related deaths in the state have been recorded in Dehradun (957), followed by Naintial (235), Haridwar (157), and Udham Singh Nagar (117). Similarly, the highest number of infections have also been recorded in Dehradun (29,577), followed by Haridwar (14,088), Nainital (12,668), and Udham Singh Nagar (11,526). The maximum number of active cases, at present, are also in Dehradun (125), followed by Nainital (89), Udham Singh Nagar (59), and Dehradun (49). Meanwhile, 1.08 lakh identified beneficiaries have been vaccinated for Covid-19 in the state so far. The beneficiaries include — 76,914 healthcare workers and 31,860 other frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/six-hill-districts-records-no-new-covid-cases/articleshow/80900757.cms||Shivani Azad
February 14, 2021||Pune||Pune: Forest department’s crocodile search operation to continue till tomorrow||PUNE: The forest department and animal rescue volunteers will continue twith heir search operation for the crocodile in the Mutha riverbed till Monday. The police had received two calls on Friday regarding the crocodile sighting, following which the search for the reptile began. A team of 12 personnel of the forest rescue operation team started the search again on Saturday morning, but didn’t find any indication of the crocodile till 7pm. Deepak Pawar, the range forest officer, who is involved in the operation, said, “Our team has extended its search till the Sangam bridge area, covering over 5km distance, since Friday afternoon. But, the crocodile has not been spotted anywhere on the stretch. It can live under water for long hours and can come out for basking for a brief period. There is no sign of it, so far.” He said the department had placed trap cages and nets at several locations on the stretch. “As the river passes through the city limits, we don’t want to take any chances, so the operation will continue till Monday. We have decided to deploy at least five personnel at the site throughout the day, while a night patrolling team will also keep a watch,” Pawar added. Rahul Patil, the deputy conservator of forest, who is incharge of the operation, said, “Our endeavour is to take utmost precaution to prevent any untoward incident at the river site. There has been no sighting of the crocodile till Saturday evening.” The presence of the crocodile in the dam areas of the Pune range forest was the department’s main worry. “We can’t rule out the possibility, as a crocodile’s presence was reported in the waters of the Khadakwasla and Varasagon dams in the past,” Pawar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/forest-depts-crocodile-search-operation-to-continue-till-tomorrow/articleshow/80902715.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 14, 2021||Vadodara||Watering street was Banyan City’s maiden civic work||Vadodara: The city may today be boasting of a Smart City status, but few would know that baby steps towards bringing the city where it is today begun way back in 1830. And the first municipality came into being in the city only in 1892.The first public work that was taken up in the city was that of watering roads in the city. The roads were not surfaced in 1830 and it was decided to water the four important roads of the city. A cess was also imposed on shop owners for this. Several years later, it was decided to water other roads in the city too and the city got its first fire engine in 1862.While watering of roads could be called the first major regular civic work taken up in the city, it was only in 1869 that a five-member committee was formed and a Sudhrai Kamdar was appointed to handle the affairs in the city. Historians as well as the records of Baroda state reveal that it was the reign of Sayajirao Gaekwad III that ensured further decentralisation of powers to the Sudhrai or municipality.During Sayajirao’s rule, an act Sudhrai Nibandh was drafted. This led to election of one member each from 22 wards formed in the city and the appointment of eight ex-officio members to the civic body. The Sudhrai Kamdar was the ex-officio president of the civic body. In 1905, another act to govern the civic body was formed. This was based on the Bombay District Municipal Act. Some alterations were made in the act to ensure that it suited the local needs. The municipality now had36 members of which 24 were elected, six were government nominees and six others were ex-officio members.The city remained a municipality till 1966. On April 1, 1966it got the status of a municipal corporation. Nanalal Choksi became the first mayor of the city after being initially elected as the president of the municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/watering-street-was-banyan-citys-maiden-civic-work/articleshow/80899955.cms||Sachin Sharma
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||Newborn baby girl found near forest in Haridwar||Haridwar: A newborn baby girl was found by the locals of the BHEL residential area close to Haridwar range of Rajaji Tiger Reserve on Saturday morning. The baby girl was shifted to a women's hospital by the police. The new born child has been kept under observation for the next 48 hours. According to the hospital administration, the baby girl's condition is stable. Yogesh Dev, SHO Ranipur police station, told TOI, “A newborn baby girl was found by the locals in BHEL residential area. The placenta and other clothes were spotted near the baby girl. We shifted her to the hospital. The baby's condition is said to be out of danger. We are trying to identify the mother. Action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/newborn-baby-girl-found-near-forest-in-haridwar/articleshow/80900764.cms||MS Nawaz
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||SCB officials motivate youth to attend Army recruitment rally||Secunderabad: Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials visited several slums and encouraged unemployed youth for the ensuing army recruitment rally, which begins from March 5, at Telangana Sports School, Hakimpet. They are convening interactive sessions in slums. “Majority of the youth across districts are representing in army recruitment rally,” an SCB senior official and in-charge of pre-recruitment rally, Parusuram said. With the instructions received from SCB chief executive officer, B Ajith Reddy they have been organising pre-recruitment meetings in slums for the past two days. We have organised nearly 50 such pre-army recruitment meetings so far and interacted with over 1,500 youngsters, he said. “We have covered 81 slums so far”, said the SCB official. The recruitment rally will be conducted between March 5 and 24 for posts of soldier technical, soldier technical, nursing assistant veterinary, soldier clerk, technical storekeeper, soldier general duty and soldier tradesman. Candidates will have to apply online on the official website www.joinindianarmy.nic.in.Last date for applications is February 17. So far, officials have visited Bapuji Nagar, Sanjeevaiah Nagar, Sikh village, Tadbund, Ambedkar Nagar, Gangaiah basti, Centre battery, Ammuguda and Bollarum||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-officials-motivate-youth-to-attend-army-recruitment-rally/articleshow/80901575.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 14, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: ‘Oil producers, Covid to blame for fuel prices’||KOCHI: Union petroleum & natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Saturday blamed the Covid-19 pandemic and the failure of oil-producing countries to meet increased demand for the continuing hike in fuel prices. Replying to questions of mediapersons at a press conference, here, on the eve of the inauguration of the Propylene Derivative Petrochemical Project (PDPP) of BPCL, Pradhan said due to the pandemic there was a collapse in demand which resulted in a decline in production. “Now, demand has resumed and is at pre-Covid levels but a peculiar thing happened. Production is not supporting the demand side. Oil-producing countries like UAE, Saudi Arabia and Russia had six months ago promised to meet the supply gap by February but these countries are not looking at the interest of consuming countries. Due to problems with their own economies, they want a price hike,” he said, adding that crude oil prices are again showing a rising trend. Since the start of the pandemic, spending by governments — both central and state —, which have their own welfare and development commitments, has increased, Pradhan said. “There was a 34% hike in capital expenditure in this budget,” he said, adding it to the list of reasons for the continued high price of fuel. Dismissing criticism that lower international prices were not passed on to consumers, the minister said in the last 320 days, prices were hiked 60 times while it was reduced 20 times. There was price stability for 250 days. “So it is not correct to say that whenever we got an opportunity, we did not pass [the benefit] on to the consumer,” he said. The minister also sounded a note of optimism stating that oil-producing countries have announced future pricing mechanisms in which they have given some relief to Asian countries like India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/oil-producers-covid-to-blame-for-fuel-prices/articleshow/80901577.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Bumper onion crop to boost exports||The possibility of bumper onion production has brightened the export prospects of processed onions from the state. A record 70,000 tonnes of dehydrated onions are expected to be exported in 2021-22 from Mahuva in Bhavnagar district, which accounts for about 90% of India’s exports of dehydrated onions. With the Covid-19 pandemic hitting the demand for dehydrated onions globally, its exports from Mahuva had dwindled to 50,000 tonnes during the current fiscal. About 90% of onions dehydrated in India go to export markets as domestic consumption is negligible. With the area under onion crop doubling during this rabi season, Gujarat is poised for a bumper onion crop this year. According to the state agriculture data, the rabi onion acreage has jumped to 60,547 hectares against average onion sowing area of 38,827 hectares in the state. Of the total acreage, 40% area has seen the sowing of white onions, which are largely dehydrated and exported to overseas countries in the forms of flakes, powder, granules as well as chopped and minced onions. Stating that as many as 3 lakh bags (one bag weighs about 50kg) of new onion crop have arrived in Bhavnagar market yard as on February 4, Narendrasinh Gohil, a trader from the mandi, explained that given the heavy consignment arrivals of new crop, they are going to ask farmers to come for fresh auctions only after the present stock is cleared. "Looking at the likelihood of the bumper onion production this year, we expect to export dehydrated onions to the tune of 70,000 tonnes next fiscal," said Manoj Ram, president, All India Vegetables Dehydration Association. "Currently, there is no carry forward stock of white onions. Only 5,000 tonnes of dehydrated red and yellow onions are left, which will be fully consumed by April," he added. The processing season normally runs from January to June. However, the extended monsoon over the last couple of years has delayed the commencement of the processing season to February-March. Already 15 dehydration plants have begun operations, and the remaining set to start from March 1. This year, these plants are likely to operate for full six months due to the ample availability of onions. Mahuva is home to around 125 dehydration plants. "Higher production keeps onion prices low. Onion dehydration is feasible only when wholesale prices are low. The industry thumb rule is a price below Rs 10 per kg," added an industry player. At present, the onions used for dehydration cost Rs 200 to Rs 215 per 20kg. The prices are seen going down when arrivals further pick up. Last year, these dehydration plants could operate for only two months because of the non-availability of onions and high prices. "The demand for dehydrated onions from hotels and restaurants was very low last year on account of the lockdowns in several countries. The crop was also damaged, which pushed up our procurement cost. As a result, it became difficult for us to remain competitive in the export market," said Jagdish Koradiya, an onion processor. According to industry players, the prices of red and yellow onions were high. Consequently, white onions also went into domestic consumption. Hence, onions were not available at rates feasible for processing. The dehydrated onions are used in the spices and hospitality industry and exported to countries such as the USA, Australia, Germany, Japan, Netherlands, UK, Brazil, Poland, Austria, and Russia among others. China and Egypt are the major competitors of India in the world market. The export price of dehydrated onions last year was $ 2,200-2,400 per tonne, which is expected to hover around $ 1,800-2,000 per tonne this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bumper-onion-crop-to-boost-exports/articleshow/80902719.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 14, 2021||Delhi||New course at Hindu College||Delhi University’s Hindu College will soon start an online add-on course — developing soft skills through sports and culture in the Northeast. The classes will be held in the evening for two hours per week. The registration for the course will continue till February 25 for Rs 500. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-course-at-hindu-college/articleshow/80914085.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Vidarbha: May heat to be a bigger problem for ‘AC kids’||NAGPUR: The board exams scheduled for the scorching month of May is going to be a bigger problem for students coming from affluent families, who usually spend those days in either air-conditioned homes or by holidaying abroad. CBSE will also hold its board exams throughout the month of May, when temperatures in eastern Vidarbha soar past 47C. TOI on Saturday reported how students who walk, cycle or use public transport to reach exam centres will struggle in their commute during peak summer time. Many academics pointed out that even students from the higher economic strata will suffer as they are rarely, if ever, exposed to the blazing Nagpur heatwave. The principal of a CBSE school said, “If you look at the lifestyle of the affluent families, they barely spend their time outside air-conditioned rooms when it comes to the month of May. We are talking about a generation which was born between 2003 to 2005 and have gotten used to material comforts.” Another school principal said the worst thing for these kids will be to leave their AC homes and cars and walk right into a ‘blast furnace’. “Around noon, the sun will start beating down heavily. We all know that ceiling fans have zero effect in May and will actually blow hot air only. None of these kids has experience in appearing for exams over multiple days in the dead heat of May,” said the principal. Dr Rajiv Mohta, adolescent counsellor and MD (paediatrics), said the two biggest threats to students are dehydration and sunstroke. “In the scathing Nagpur sun, the biggest mistake will be moving out on an empty stomach. Apart from this, parents must not prepare their home made concoctions to replace the ORS (oral rehydration solutions) because the required proportions of all vital inputs can never be achieved at home. The best option is to get small ORS tetra-packs from a medical shop which the student can take once of twice during the exam,” said Dr Mohta. He added that students must cover their ears and head while walking from the main gate to the exam hall. Abhilasha Kashiv, a well-known nutritionist, said drinking fluids and a balanced diet are important. “Avoid fatty foods on exam day as it can induce sleepiness. Having the right amount of fruits and healthy home food before the exams is advisable. Always carry water or lemon juice. Keeping a sweet candy as an emergency resort to boost the sagging sugar levels is also a good idea,” said Kashiv, adding, proper sleep is also the key.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/may-heat-to-be-a-bigger-problem-for-ac-kids/articleshow/80900791.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Tech startup targets pre-Series A funds||In a major leap in its journey to make wealth management simpler, accessible, and yield good returns, Tarakki, an Ahmedabad-headquartered wealth-tech startup, is all set to raise pre-Series A funds of an undisclosed amount. Founder of the startup, Saumya Shah, said the company is in talks with foreign and Indian investors for the fund-raising and expansion.Tarakki is the brand name of the company, Plutonomic Savtech Private Limited, which is a comprehensive wealth management platform, making investing simple, hassle-free, and transparent without involving a long channel of agents."With the fresh round of funding, we are looking at launching new products to offer an extensive range of wealth management alternatives to our investors, which includes digital gold investment alternative," said Shah, an MBA from Fordham University in New York, USA, who founded the startup in 2018.It was only in November 2020 that Tarakki raised funds of an undisclosed sum through angel investors based in India as well as those in Boston, Chicago, Dallas, and New York in the US. "Going forward, we plan to expand to other locations besides strengthening our product portfolio," said Shah, who worked in the banking, financial services, and insurance (BFSI) sector in India and abroad for over a decade, before founding his company."Having worked in the BFSI sector, I saw investors had to go through multiple channels such as banks and agents, which eventually proved to be costly for them. That is why I launched this platform that comes with a transparent approach. Investors can avoid paying hefty brokerage on their investments, and instead avail of a subscription-based service," he further said.Incubated at a Bengaluru-based incubator, Afthonia Lab, Tarakki caters to tier-I, tier-II, and tier-III cities across India. Its key markets include Gujarat, Maharashtra, West Bengal, and Delhi-NCR, where it works with some 42 asset management companies with 3,500+ mutual fund products.In 2019, the startup joined hands with Nippon India Mutual Fund that enables investors to park their money in the fund, and provides instant liquidity through an option of withdrawing money.Tarakki currently gives fund recommendations or investment advice based on intense research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tech-startup-targets-pre-series-a-funds/articleshow/80902739.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Pakistani brides of desi brothers get visa after one year||JAISALMER: Two brothers of Baeeya village in Jaisalmer, who had married Pakistani girls a year ago and were unable to bring them home due to strained bilateral relations, will finally live together. The Indian embassy in Pakistan has issued visas to Chaggan Kanwar and Nirmal Kanwar and they are expected to reach India in a week. Reportedly, the Indian embassy has given the visa to India via Dubai, but their family members are trying to come on foot through Wagah border. After marriage, the brides did not get the visa and the baraat had to return without them. They had applied for visa but due to technical reasons their visas were dismissed thrice. Efforts were made to get them visas and even a memorandum was submitted to Union minister Kailash Choudhary, who wrote to the foreign ministry. He said that Nepal Singh (26) and Vikram Singh (24) got married to Chaggan and Nirmal at Shranoi town in Sindh province of Pakistan last January. As the brides did not get visa, the brothers had to return without them. Back home, the brothers are eagerly waiting for their wives. Vikram said his wife Nirmal, son Raju, her father Tane Raj Singh and mother along with Nepal's wife Chhagan, her father Ram Singh and mother Ugam Kanwar are coming to Jaisalmer in 8-10 days. In a similar case, the baraat of Mahendra Singh of Barmer went to Pakistan by Thar Express in 2019. Mahendra got married to daughter of Rann Singh Sodha at Shranoi town but till date he is waiting for his wife to arrive from Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pak-brides-of-desi-brothers-get-visa-after-1-yr/articleshow/80901613.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur re-certified as ODF++ after cleanliness inspection||JAIPUR: The Pink City has got fair chance to improve its ranking in the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan 2021, as corporation areas have been re-certified as Open Defecation Free++ (ODF++) after a recent third-party inspection taken up by the Quality Council of India (QCI). The inspection was carried out in the city on December 27 and January 3 and team randomly inspected, sewerage treatment plants (STPs), drains, public and community toilets infrastructure. An official said, “The previous year certification expired on December 27. Following this an inspection was conducted and both corporations, Jaipur Greater and Jaipur Heritage, secured ODF++ status.” An official claimed, the ODF++ rating will help the city in getting more points during the upcoming Swachh Survekshan – 2021, which will start in March. The competition carries 500 out of the total 6,000 points assigned for the ODF++ status. There are about 28 parameters on the basis of which ODF ++ assessment is made. There are a total seven STPs in Jaipur. During the survey, seven of the STPs were found running and properly treating sewage. Also, a total of 14 public toilets and urinals were inspected and 14 of these were categorised under the highest, the “aspirational” category, with seven categorised as “excellent”, one categorised as “very clean” and two categorised as “clean”. The status has given the officials to perform in the abhiyan, this year. Jaipur bagged the 28th position in the All India Swachhta Survekshan Ranking, 2020. An official informed, this year, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) has not revised the marking scheme for the overall assessment and it remains the same as 2020. Under Swachh Survekshan 2021, cities will be ranked out of the total of 6,000 marks like last time and each quarter holds 2,000 marks. However, the ministry has revised the data collection criteria and its weightage this time of the year – citizen’s voice (30% or 1,800 marks), service-level progress that includes sustainable sanitation, processing and disposal of waste and segregated waste collection (40% or 2,400 marks) and certification (30% or 1,800 marks). “Various campaigns will be initiated to involve public participation,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-re-certified-as-odf-after-cleanliness-inspection/articleshow/80901637.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt to focus on farmers, special fund on cards||BHOPAL: Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh, farmers and government employees would be the priority areas of the government in the state budget to be tabled in the assembly in a fortnight.  The budget session would start from February 22 and may continue till March 26. Government could give respite to farmers and employees, our sources said. The focus of government is also on atmanirbhar MP; a separate fund could be announced for it in the budget. It would also dwell on the employment opportunities created through Atmanirbhar MP. For farmers, the government could announce a fund to pay interest on zero per cent loan. Announcement can also be made on yearly salary increments and DA to employees and pensioners, earlier put on hold, to please those who are unhappy over the promotions being stalled. Officials said, the budget has almost been finalised. It would be placed before the cabinet with the suggestions made by the chief minister. A presentation has already been made before the CM and he has given few suggestions. The budget for the year 2021-2022 could be worth Rs 2.25 lakh crore. The proposed assembly session will be the longest after Covid-19 pandemic in the state. During the previous financial year, the state government had presented a budget of Rs 1.84 lakh crore and a supplementary budget of Rs 14,000 crore due to Covid-19 crisis. In September last year, the three-day MP assembly session was cut short to one day and assembly was adjourned sine die after passing the Finance Bill, 2020 and conducting some other important legislative works. The winter session of the state assembly was also cancelled after over 50 employees of assembly secretariat and capital project administration tested corona positive, along with a few MLAs. Budget session of the state assembly began on March 16 last year, but was adjourned till March 26 due to political turmoil as Kamal Nath-led Congress government fell on March 20 in the MP assembly and BJP returned to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-to-focus-on-farmers-special-fund-on-cards/articleshow/80901612.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Diesel at new high at transporters iss||Mumbai: Diesel rate in Mumbai was hiked on Saturday to an all-time high of Rs 85.70 a litre at the pumps. The All India Motor Transport Congress issued the government a 14-day ultimatum to cut taxes and excise on diesel or face shutdown in operations. Petrol price also rose for the fifth consecutive day to retail at seven paise short of the Rs95-mark on Saturday. It is Rs 5 less than Rs 100-mark. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/diesel-at-new-high-at-transporters-iss/articleshow/80903399.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||1 hurt, 3 missing in engine room fire on offshore vessel at Bombay High||MUMBAI: An electro-technical officer (ETO) who suffered second-degree burns was airlifted to the Juhu base and three crew were missing till late on Saturday, after a fire broke out in the engine room of offshore vessel (OSV) Greatship Rohini at Bombay High at 9.15am. The fire was doused around 4pm. Officials said Gurbeender Singh (37) was airlifted in a chopper and shifted to a hospital in Juhu. A rescue team embarked on the vessel after 5pm but was unable to enter the engine room due to low visibility because of heavy smoke and severe heat. The Coast Guard received a distress alert from the vessel that was 170km away from Mumbai’s shore. “On verification with the emergency contact of Great Ship India, which the vessel belongs to, it was revealed that the vessel was on fire and was being brought under control by the crew. Out of 18 on board, one reported burn injuries and was evacuated around 11am,” said spokesperson, Commandant R K Singh. The official said a Coast Guard ship in the area was diverted to render assistance. Aircraft monitored the situation. The operation was coordinated by Samarth. A pollution control vessel was also sent to augment efforts. A search is on the the fourth engineer, oiler and fitter. Director-general of shipping Amitabh Kumar told TOI, “The fire was doused after six hours. A Coast Guard team boarded the vessel to assist in the search. Electrical officer from Greatship Dipti embarked on Greatship Rohini to enhance ventilation of the engine room, for greater visibility, by powering up blowers, after electrical isolation. The electrical officer of Greatship Rohini was injured and evacuated.” MV Albatros-5 and OSV Greatship Dipti rendered assistance to keep the vessel away from an oil rig platform nearby. Kumar said firefighting teams struggled to gain access to the engine compartment due to excessive heat. A fixed firefighting system had been deployed. Greatship Anjali, Greatship Dipti, K D Malviya, Priya 27, Albatross 5, Greatship Dhriti along with other vessels and a helicopter carried out the operation. An emergency towing vessel (Water Lily) sailed to the spot to render assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-hurt-3-missing-in-engine-room-fire-on-offshore-vessel-at-bombay-high/articleshow/80901651.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Kids with special needs can apply for Class XI without clearing English||Pune: Children with special needs can now seek admission to Class XI under the allowed to keep term (ATKT) rule, without clearing the English subject in Class X from the 2021-22 academic year, stated a government resolution issued on Friday. Students will have to clear the Class X English subject after taking it as an “isolated subject” in FYJC. “Earlier this facility was only available to children with speech and hearing impairment. Now it is applicable for all students with any kind of disability,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director, education, Pune division. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kids-with-special-needs-can-apply-for-class-xi-without-clearing-english/articleshow/80900242.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||ED questions businessman||Mumbai: Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday questioned businessman Sachin Joshi, owner of JMJ (J M Joshi) Group that manufactures Goa Panmasala in a money-laundering case involving builder Omkar Group. ED on January 28 arrested Babulal Varma and Kamal Kishore Gupta, promoters of Omkar Group, in a Rs 22-crore slum-rehabilitation fraud case. The officials told Joshi to accompany them to the ED office at Ballard Estate around afternoon. Sources said ED was probing a financial transaction between Joshi and Omkar Group. The questioning was continuing at the time of going to press. Joshi dabbled in movies but shot to fame after he purchased Vijay Mallya’s bungalow for Rs 73 crore in a 2017 auction. Recently income-tax authorities had searched Joshi’s premises. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-questions-businessman/articleshow/80901668.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chennai||Nine farmers get loan waiver certificates in Tamil Nadu||Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday launched the crop loan waiver scheme to benefit 16.43 lakh farmers in the state. Palaniswami had made an announcement on the floor of the assembly recently that the outstanding crop loans of `12,110 crore availed by farmers in cooperative banks would be waived. "The CM launched the scheme at the Secretariat. As a token gesture, he gave away the certificates of loan waiver to nine farmers," said an official release. The cooperatives, food and consumer protection department issued an order on February 8, waiving loans of 16,43,347 farmers. The GO said all outstanding loans as on January 31, 2021, qualify for the scheme. The multi-crore waiver, touted as a game-changer for the AIADMK in the ensuing assembly polls, was announced two weeks after DMK president M K Stalin announced that if voted to power, his government would waive all crop loans. The representatives of Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association, the Coordination Committee of Tamil Nadu All Farmers’ Associations, Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Association, Coleroon, Lower Anicut Irrigation Farmers’ Association and Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Welfare Association thanked the CM. This comes against the backdrop of back-to-back disasters such as cyclones Nivar and Burevi and unseasonal rains in January wreaking havoc in the state. As per the government estimate, 2.96 lakh hectares suffered damage in cyclones, while the January rains damaged 6.81 lakh hectares, hitting the southern and coastal districts badly. "The government has been crediting assistance of `1,717 crore to 16.43 lakh farmers as damages. While the assistance will alleviate their sufferings, the government wants them to continue farming," Palaniswami said, justifying the loan waiver. A beneficiary, K Ranganathan of Pottaneri in Salem, who suffered huge loss as his horticultural crops dried up due to drought, was worried about repaying the loan of `76,392 for the past few months. "Farmers are so elated by the waiver. The CM has also launched a scheme to divert surplus water from Mettur dam to 100 dry tanks in Salem. We support him," he said, indicating the popularity of the AIADMK after the announcement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/9-farmers-get-loan-waiver-certificates/articleshow/80901663.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Salem||Nine farmers get loan waiver certificates in Tamil Nadu||Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday launched the crop loan waiver scheme to benefit 16.43 lakh farmers in the state. Palaniswami had made an announcement on the floor of the assembly recently that the outstanding crop loans of `12,110 crore availed by farmers in cooperative banks would be waived. "The CM launched the scheme at the Secretariat. As a token gesture, he gave away the certificates of loan waiver to nine farmers," said an official release. The cooperatives, food and consumer protection department issued an order on February 8, waiving loans of 16,43,347 farmers. The GO said all outstanding loans as on January 31, 2021, qualify for the scheme. The multi-crore waiver, touted as a game-changer for the AIADMK in the ensuing assembly polls, was announced two weeks after DMK president M K Stalin announced that if voted to power, his government would waive all crop loans. The representatives of Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association, the Coordination Committee of Tamil Nadu All Farmers’ Associations, Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Association, Coleroon, Lower Anicut Irrigation Farmers’ Association and Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Welfare Association thanked the CM. This comes against the backdrop of back-to-back disasters such as cyclones Nivar and Burevi and unseasonal rains in January wreaking havoc in the state. As per the government estimate, 2.96 lakh hectares suffered damage in cyclones, while the January rains damaged 6.81 lakh hectares, hitting the southern and coastal districts badly. "The government has been crediting assistance of `1,717 crore to 16.43 lakh farmers as damages. While the assistance will alleviate their sufferings, the government wants them to continue farming," Palaniswami said, justifying the loan waiver. A beneficiary, K Ranganathan of Pottaneri in Salem, who suffered huge loss as his horticultural crops dried up due to drought, was worried about repaying the loan of `76,392 for the past few months. "Farmers are so elated by the waiver. The CM has also launched a scheme to divert surplus water from Mettur dam to 100 dry tanks in Salem. We support him," he said, indicating the popularity of the AIADMK after the announcement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/9-farmers-get-loan-waiver-certificates/articleshow/80905860.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: BJP govt borrowed Rs 32,000 crore in 10 months, says Congress||BHOPAL: A week before budget session starts in the state assembly, Congress on Saturday alleged that the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government has taken a loan of more than Rs 32,600 crore in ten months.  In January third week, the state took a loan of Rs 1,000 crore, which was the 18th time it borrowed funds after it formed government on March 23, 2020, former minister Jitu Patwari said. “Last month, the government took a loan of Rs 1,000 crore for the 18th time in ten months. The debt liabilities of the state have crossed Rs 2,50,000 crore,” Patwari claimed. He said that the burden of loan is increasing on the common man who might have to pay more taxes. In the first six months of Chouhan’s fourth term, the BJP government took loans of an average of more than Rs 1,000 crore every month, Congress alleged. From April to September, the government took Rs 6,500 loans. After state government took a loan of Rs 2,000 crore in December last year at 6.76% interest per annum, the Union finance ministry permitted the state to borrow up to Rs 34,003 in the 2020-2021 fiscal year of which government has already taken more than Rs 32,600 till date. State Congress alleged that the Chouhan government could take more loans in this fiscal year since it is preparing to present another supplementary budget. “The government is taking loans and the funds are being spent to publicise that the chief minister is taking tough action on the mafia. The government claims that Chouhan will rid the state of the mafia that he protected for 15 years,” Patwari said. “A forest guard has been shot dead by the mafia in Dewas, another attempt has been made on the life of a police officer in Gwalior. Mandis have been closed down and 10,000 employees lost their jobs. And the government is spending borrowed money to claim all is well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-govt-borrowed-rs-32kcr-in-10-months-says-cong/articleshow/80901660.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Shimla||Second Dose: 68.3% healthcare workers inoculated||Shimla: In Himachal Pradesh 68.3% healthcare workers received second dose of Covid vaccine on Saturday as against the target of vaccinating 695 healthcare worker, total 475 were vaccinated in the state. The vaccination drive was carried out in government health facilities of seven districts of the state. So far total 63,169 healthcare workers have been vaccinated, while in all 72,681 persons have been vaccinated in the state till date. No case of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was reported during the vaccination drive on Saturday. All those administered doses of Covid-19 vaccine are under the supervision of health officials. In Chamba district 47 healthcare workers were vaccinated against the target of 50; in Hamirpur district 52 were vaccinated against the target of 64; in Kinnaur district 30 were vaccinated against the target of 51 and in Kullu district 39 were vaccinated against the target of 70 persons. In Lahaul-Spiti district 66 were vaccinated against the target of 79; in Mandi district 175 were vaccinated against the target of 311 and in Solan district 66 were vaccinated against the target of 63. Date | Target | Achievement | January 16 | 2499 | 1536 January 18 | 5061 | 3299 January 19 | 383 | 232 January 20 | 48 | 45 January 21 | 1129 | 696 January 22 | 5940 | 3819 January 23 | 5720 | 3935 January 27 | 649 | 510 January 28 | 6420 | 4794 January 29 | 5091 | 4070 January 30 | 5974 | 4816 February 1 | 7614 | 5700 February 2 | 7921 | 6136 February 3 | 5836 | 4356 February 4 | 6809 | 4434 February 5 | 4776 | 3195 February 6 | 5647 | 3018 February 8 | 6096 | 3458 February 9 | 6408 | 3240 February 10 | 8098 | 4825 February 11 | 9419 | 6090 February 12 | 12280 |6975 February 13 | 695 | 475||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/second-dose-68-3-healthcare-workers-inoculated/articleshow/80902744.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||Protest against agri laws: Hundreds of Terai farmers undertake ‘Shaheed Yatra’ to Ghazipur||Rudrapur: Intensifying their stir against the three contentious farm laws, hundreds of farmers from different parts of the Terai region of Uttarakhand moved towards the protest site at the Ghazipur-Delhi border on Saturday. The protest march was hailed as the “Shaheed Yatra” by the farmers. It was taken out in the memory of Navreet Singh, a Dibdiba-based farmer who died during the protest tractor rally on the occasion of Republic Day in New Delhi. Karm Singh Padda, state president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), on Saturday morning, gathered with scores of farmers in Bazpur’s grain market. "We demand a high level inquiry in Navreet's death case. The postmortem report was fudged by Uttar Pradesh officials. I saw his dead body and there was a tunnel formed from the backside of his head to the face which only a bullet could do,” Padda added. Similarly in Jaspur, several farmers associated with BKU at Gurudwara in Govindpur. Farmer leader Gurjeet Singh Dhillon said that the Central government in a fascist move, put nails on the highways leading to Delhi. "The nails were however taken off, but now we are taking soils to grow flowers on the same spots", he added. In Sitarganj, the farmers, before leaving for Ghazipur border, said that the BJP-led Central government is least concerned about farmers and the soldiers of the country. The farmers said that the movement against the farm laws is intensifying with each passing day and the central government will have to bow down eventually. Farmer Gurtej Pal Singh said that they are carrying ample ration to stay at ghazipur border for another two months. Groups of farmers from Khatima, Kashipur and Nanakmatta towns of district Udham Singh Nagar also marched towards Delhi as a part of the "Shaheed Yatra". Meanwhile, Jagtar Singh Bajwa, spokesperson of the Kisan Andolan Committee Ghazipur border, said that farmers from Terai have started reaching the movement site and the soil from several villages of Terai region will be used to plant flower saplings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/protest-against-agri-laws-hundreds-of-terai-farmers-undertake-shaheed-yatra-to-ghazipur/articleshow/80900801.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||Boy elopes with minor girl, locals protest in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: A youth eloped with a minor girl of minority community in Jaisalmer. Hundreds of people of minority community demonstrated and submitted a memorandum to the district collector on Saturday. They also gave ultimatum that if the girl is not recovered till Monday then they will intensify their agitation. Two teams have been sent in search of the girl. Police have so far have arrested five culprits who had helped the boy in eloping with the girl. A large number of people of minority community gathered at Hanuman Circle and proceeded to the collectorate. They submitted a memorandum in which they alleged that on February 2, a major youth of Meghwal community eloped with a minor girl of minority community. The couple was in Mt Abu on February 3 after which there was no information about them. They have also alleged that there is a gang involved and the minor has been gangraped. Earlier, a team was sent to Ahmedabad, but despite searching for three days there was no success. Woman police station SHO Ugamraj Soni said that the couple went by jeep to Barmer and from there they got into a bus going to Ahmedabad. After getting down at Deesa in Gujarat they went to Mt Abu. Police have arrested Hussain, Dinesh Khatri, Kamal Mali, Prem Mali and Ravi Valmiki for helping the couple. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/boy-elopes-with-minor-girl-locals-protest-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80900811.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||Rathore targets govt over law and order situation||Jaipur: Deputy opposition leader Rajendra Rathore on Saturday raised the issue of goons and gangs targeting MLAs and sought their protection during the zero hour.He said that recently several incidents of gangs and goons targeting elected representatives is a matter of serious concern. Youraj, a member of the notorious Tiger Gang demanded Rs 20 lakh through WhatsApp call from Mundawar MLA. The MLA informed the IG and FIR was registered. The accused was arrested from Neemrana.He added that the accused escaped from police custody about two-and-a-half months later. The accused again became active on social media and it was reported that some unidentified people were spotted doing recce of the MLA’s residence, which is a matter of concern.He said that some miscreants damaged the car of Alwar MLA. Similarly, some miscreates opened fire at a public meeting of Hindaun MLA. The MLA had a close shave as the bullets missed the target.An attack was unleashed on Kushalgarh MLA over a minor issue and his car was damaged while he was going to his constituency, said Rathore narrating a series of such incidents.He said that RLP convener and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal and Union minister were also targeted by the goons. In Behror, a BJP candidate in the assembly poll was attacked and his vehicle was damaged recently and a similar incident was reported in Taranagar.Rathore said that the government had to provide ‘Z-category’ security to Rajgarh MLA. If the goons muster courage to target MLAs, what would be the condition of the common people, he asked.Rathore asked the government to strengthen the intelligence apparatus and asked to handle the gangs and goons sternly and ensure security to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rathore-targets-govt-over-law-and-order-situation/articleshow/80901674.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||‘One bullet, one target’ training at Indo-US exercise||Jaipur: The Indo-US exercise Yudh Abhyas is currently following the training for ‘one bullet, one target’ to ensure that soldiers use ammunition effectively during military operations.This is the 16th edition of the exercise during which the personnel of both the armies are also training in night patrolling, navigation and endurance. “The contingents of both the armies are practicing on attaining excellence in ‘one bullet, one target’ to ensure that the designated quantity of ammunition is used when attempting to neutralise targets. This is essential during military operations when arms and ammunition cannot be wasted,” said an army official.The bilateral training exercise is being conducted at Foreign Training Node of Mahajan Field Firing Ranges, Rajasthan. This edition of the exercise will continue till February 21. The US Army contingent comprising of a Brigade Headquarters and a battalion group of 2nd Battalion the 3rd Infantry Regiment of 1-2 Stryker Brigade Combat Team comprising of 270 personnel landed at Suratgarh. The 14-day schedule is focused upon joint training on counter-insurgency environment under United Nations mandate. Indian Army’s dog squad is also part of the training exercise.A number of aerial platforms, including newly inducted indigenous Advance Light Helicopter WSI ‘RUDRA’, MI-17, Chinooks, Stryker vehicles of US Army and BMP-II Mechanised Infantry Combat Vehicles of Indian Army, will be utilised in the exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-bullet-one-target-training-at-indo-us-exercise/articleshow/80900807.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||KU students can appear for exams online, in person||Kurukshetra: In view of apprehensions over Covid-19, transportat and otehr issues expressed by its affiliated colleges and student organisations, Kurukshetra University’s (KU) administration has decided to offer students both online and offline modes while sitting for exams beginning on March 1. KU VC Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said students interest was priority for the university administration. “Students belonging to rural areas face internet issues and this decision has been taken in their interest also. Students can choose either the offline or the online mode of examination. All information relating to exam and date sheet will soon be uploaded on the KU website,” added VC Sachdeva. Earlier, KU administration had issued a notice of holding exams through offline mode only and student organisations and some colleges registered their grievances and, now, the online mode has been added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ku-students-can-appear-for-exams-online-in-person/articleshow/80902752.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu gets centralised toll-free helpline for grievances, 1100||The state government is just a call away. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday launched an integrated public grievance CM helpline management system by opening a call centre and assigning toll-free number ‘1100’ for people to call and air grievances. Palaniswami had announced the scheme on the floor of assembly in September last year. The plan is to implement the scheme at an outlay of `69.21 crore. "In the first phase, a 100-seat helpline desk has been set up at Sholinganallur. Public can air their grievances to the government between 7am and 10pm at the toll-free helpline number 1100," an official release said. People can also use web portal CMHelpline.tnega.org, e-mail cmhelpline@tn.gov.in, app CMHelpline Citizen, Twitter ID @CMHelplineTN, and through the Facebook account http://www.facebook.com/CM-Helpline-TN to register grievances. "Action will be taken on petitions received through all modes within a stipulated time," the release added. Aadhaar and PDS card numbers are requested while registering grievances. Skill development training will be extended to callers seeking jobs, and the petitioners will be informed of the status of their petition via SMS. The CM, chief secretary, secretaries and heads of all departments and respective district collectors will review action taken on petitions within a stipulated period. Currently, government departments have separate grievance redressal mechanisms such as centres and web portals. The district collectorates hold grievance redressal meetings every week and exclusive meetings are organised for farmers, fishermen and pensioners. "There is a need for a special setup to coordinate all the grievance redressal forums and monitor how they are addressed," the release said, justifying the launch of the integrated programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-gets-centralised-toll-free-helpline-for-grievances-1100/articleshow/80901679.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||Govt must waive farm loans: BJP||Jaipur: State BJP president Satish Poonia on Saturday asked the ruling government to waive of Rs 99,000 crore loan of 59 lakh farmers in Rajasthan.“Gandhi has no moral right to raise the issue of farmers until they fulfil the promise of farmers’ loan waiver which was made by him only,” said Poonia.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured the farmers time and again that farm laws are optional and they can sell their produce wherever they feel like. The land rights to remain with the farmers under contract farming. Congress can’t deny the facts of the farm laws for long,” said Poonia.He charged Gandhi of using foul language for Modi over Indo-China issue. He said, “Gandhi is unaware that Jawaharlal Nehru gave the slogan ‘Hindi-Chini Bhai Bhai (India-China brothers) and ended up losing our land. Modi has made the country stronger than ever before.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-must-waive-farm-loans-bjp/articleshow/80901672.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||2,209 get second dose in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s vaccination count on Saturday reached 2,00,672 and the state also started the second dosage and in total vaccinated 2,209 people. While 82 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths and 70 recoveries were reported. According to information 1,884 of first dosage were given to healthcare workers and frontline warriors. And, second dosage was given to 325 healthcare workers in Ambala, Karnal, Panipat, Kaithal and Kurukshetra districts. Meanwhile, on Covid front, the overall tally of the state has gone to 2,68,969 cases, 3,039 deaths, 2,65,085 recoveries and 845 active cases. Active cases include 31 serious patients who are on oxygen support and ventilator support in Covid-19 care centres across the state. Three deaths were reported from Rohtak while one death was reported from Hisar. Gurgaon repored maximum cases (22), where the tally has gone to 38,520 cases, 356 deaths and 374 active cases. Second highest of 15 new cases came from Yamunanagar followed by 10 cases in Panchkula. Nine districts — Sonipat, Rewari, Mahendergarh, Jhajjar, Palwal, Fatehabad , Jind, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri — which reported zero cases. Rest of the districts reported less than 19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2209-vaccinated-in-hry-reports-82-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/80902747.cms||Manvir Saini
February 14, 2021||Goa||Distillers hope for fruitful season as cashew zone auctions begin||Panaji: Owners of cashew feni distilleries in Goa, most of whom have exhausted their stocks of the potent brew ever since the lockdown put a damper on the cashew season last year, are desperately waiting for the new season to begin. The state excise department has commenced the auctioning of zones — a process that permits use of cashew apples for distillation by those interested. Two rounds of auction have been completed in each district so far. “So far, the flowering of cashew trees has been good, and we expect to start distilling from next month if all goes well,” said Gurudutta Bhakta, president of the Cashew Feni Distillers’ and Bottlers’ Association. “Most have exhausted their stocks so we are all pinning our hopes on this year’s season.” Cashew apples are available for a brief period between March and May, and go to waste if not used immediately. “The fruit has a short shelf life. The maximum juice is obtained on the first day of harvesting. If one waits for the next day, the juice extracted will be lesser and on the third day, it will be virtually futile because the quality and quantity of the juice diminishes,” said Tukaram Haldankar, director of Haldankar Liquor Industries, Valpoi. Though distillers expect the season to be satisfactory, Haldankar said they fear the fruit will get affected due to the frequent drop in temperature. “Low temperatures were fine when the trees were flowering, but not now when they are bearing fruit,” he said. While people in the Sattari taluka would traditionally set aside days to work in cashew orchards during the summers, Haldankar said many distillers now find it difficult to get them to work in cashew orchards because they prefer jobs at factories in nearby towns. The scene is no different in other talukas. Some traders and families involved in cashew distillation don’t mind leaving the cashew apples to rot due to the strenuous process involved in collecting and distilling them, another trader said. They prefer collecting only the nuts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/distillers-hope-for-fruitful-season-as-cashew-zone-auctions-begin/articleshow/80902816.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||Two die in accident at Calangute||Calangute: Two persons from Mapusa died after the two-wheeler they were riding collided head-on with a jeep at Porbawaddo, Calangute on Friday evening at around 5pm. Calangute police said the deceased — Rajaram Sawant, 69, and Dattatray Shinde, 66, both residents of Mapusa — were proceeding from Bhokovod junction towards Porbawaddo. Police arrested the jeep driver Vishal Salgaonkar, 21, a resident of Aldona, who was later released on bail. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-die-in-accident-at-calangute/articleshow/80902762.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Prayers for a ‘Covid-free India’ at the Ajmer Dargah||Mumbai: A delegation from Mahim and Haji Ali dargahs will pray for a Covid-free India and present chaddars on behalf of the city at the annual Urs or death anniversary of Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti at Ajmer. The members of the delegation who received the chaddars from Mumbai’s collector, police commissioner, BMC commissioner and family members of Dr B R Ambedkar will present them during the ongoing Urs at the Ajmer Dargah on February 18. “The delegation will pray at the sacred shrine of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti for banishment of Covid-19 pandemic from India. Our people have suffered a lot and it will be our fervent prayer that our beloved country comes out of this pandemic. Our prayers will also be for a peaceful and prosperous India,” said Mahim Dargah’s managing trustee and Haji Ali Dargah’s trustee Sohail Khandwani who will lead the delegation. Every year the collector, city police chief and civic chief send chaddars for the Urs at Ajmer. Though this is a death anniversary, the 13th century revered mystic’s Urs is celebrated with prayers, processions and Qawwali recitations. Kings and queens, heads of states and Bollywood stars have sought divine help at the doors of the Ajmer Dargah for centuries. Held as a benefactor of the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/prayers-for-a-covid-free-india-at-the-ajmer-dargah/articleshow/80902828.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||New farm laws will hit middle class and youth: Rahul Gandhi||JAIPUR/AJMER: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi continued his attack on the BJP-led Centre over the three farm laws while addressing farmers in Ajmer and Nagaur districts on the second day of his tour in the state on Saturday. Rahul said the middle class will have to spend more on grains, vegetables and fruits as the business of small traders and shopkeepers would be taken over by a few individuals if the three farm laws get implemented. The Congress leader’s stage at Roopangarh near Ajmer was prepared on tractor trolleys and the audiences too were seated in hundreds of tractors to listen to him. Rahul wore a Rajasthani turban and later drove a tractor for a distance in the form of a rally. Passing through Parbatsar, he concluded his two-day tour of the state after addressing another farmers’ rally at Makrana in Nagaur district in the evening. Appealing to the younger generation in Makrana, the Congress leader said the three farm laws would put the youth’s future in danger as 40% of the population that presently controls the business of agriculture would be left unemployed. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi talks of giving options in these laws, but the options he has offered translate to hunger, unemployment and suicide,” Rahul said. He added, “With these laws, Modi is clearing the path for 2-3 of his industrialist friends. It began with notebandi and GST.” Rahul alleged that farmers, labourers and small businessmen were being sidelined by the Modi government’s policies. “During the lockdown, labourers requested him for train or bus tickets to go home, but he did not yield to it and waived loans of Rs 1.5 lakh crore of the rich.” He added, “In last February, I said 10-15 times that Bharat Mata is going to suffer drastic losses due to coronavirus. Farmers, labourers and the poor are going to be badly hit but the ‘press wale’ (media) mocked me and called me anti-national.” Rahul said he kept silent in Parliament as a mark of respect to 200 farmers who died during the agitation against the farm laws, but not a single BJP MP stood for it. “The Speaker said I should give in writing. Now, I will give in writing to the Speaker that all members in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha should observe a two-minute silence (for deceased farmers),” he said. At Roopangarh, Rahul said 40% people of the country are stakeholders in the agriculture business. “It is the business of 40% people, which includes farmers, small and medium businessmen, traders and labourers. Narendra Modi wants to give this entire business to his two friends. This is the objective of the farm laws,” the Congress leader claimed without naming anyone. Rahul said it was his responsibility to tell the truth and it was for the people to listen or not to listen. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot too addressed the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-farm-laws-will-hit-middle-class-and-youth-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/80901681.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Udaipur||New farm laws will hit middle class and youth: Rahul Gandhi||JAIPUR/AJMER: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi continued his attack on the BJP-led Centre over the three farm laws while addressing farmers in Ajmer and Nagaur districts on the second day of his tour in the state on Saturday. Rahul said the middle class will have to spend more on grains, vegetables and fruits as the business of small traders and shopkeepers would be taken over by a few individuals if the three farm laws get implemented. The Congress leader’s stage at Roopangarh near Ajmer was prepared on tractor trolleys and the audiences too were seated in hundreds of tractors to listen to him. Rahul wore a Rajasthani turban and later drove a tractor for a distance in the form of a rally. Passing through Parbatsar, he concluded his two-day tour of the state after addressing another farmers’ rally at Makrana in Nagaur district in the evening. Appealing to the younger generation in Makrana, the Congress leader said the three farm laws would put the youth’s future in danger as 40% of the population that presently controls the business of agriculture would be left unemployed. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi talks of giving options in these laws, but the options he has offered translate to hunger, unemployment and suicide,” Rahul said. He added, “With these laws, Modi is clearing the path for 2-3 of his industrialist friends. It began with notebandi and GST.” Rahul alleged that farmers, labourers and small businessmen were being sidelined by the Modi government’s policies. “During the lockdown, labourers requested him for train or bus tickets to go home, but he did not yield to it and waived loans of Rs 1.5 lakh crore of the rich.” He added, “In last February, I said 10-15 times that Bharat Mata is going to suffer drastic losses due to coronavirus. Farmers, labourers and the poor are going to be badly hit but the ‘press wale’ (media) mocked me and called me anti-national.” Rahul said he kept silent in Parliament as a mark of respect to 200 farmers who died during the agitation against the farm laws, but not a single BJP MP stood for it. “The Speaker said I should give in writing. Now, I will give in writing to the Speaker that all members in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha should observe a two-minute silence (for deceased farmers),” he said. At Roopangarh, Rahul said 40% people of the country are stakeholders in the agriculture business. “It is the business of 40% people, which includes farmers, small and medium businessmen, traders and labourers. Narendra Modi wants to give this entire business to his two friends. This is the objective of the farm laws,” the Congress leader claimed without naming anyone. Rahul said it was his responsibility to tell the truth and it was for the people to listen or not to listen. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot too addressed the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/new-farm-laws-will-hit-middle-class-and-youth-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/80906206.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||‘Will launch massive protests if Kumbh SOPs aren’t retracted’||Haridwar: Unhappy with the Kumbh Mela SOPs (standard operating procedures) that mandate pilgrims to carry negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test reports, traders and hoteliers in Haridwar staged a protest on Saturday. The protesting businessmen demanded immediate cancellation of the SOPs saying that the order will impact the pilgrim-turnout considerably and thereby, hurt their business prospects. Sanjeev Nayar, president of the district traders’ unit, told TOI, “Elections rallies take place while keeping the Covid-19 regulations at bay. Recently, a bathing festival took place in Uttar Pradesh where pilgrims from across the country took part. But all the restrictions and guidelines are being imposed in the Haridwar Kumbh. The incumbent government has no will to organise the Kumbh Mela.” He added, “If the government doesn’t take back these SOPs by February 22, we will launch massive protests.” The protest held on Saturday received support from all local groups of traders and hoteliers. Ashutosh Sharma, president of the hotels’ association of Haridwar, said, “The SOPs are impractical. We were not consulted at all. The guidelines should be revoked at the earliest possible in the interest of locals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-launch-massive-protests-if-kumbh-sops-arent-retracted/articleshow/80900828.cms||MS Nawaz
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi moves HC citing threat to life||JODHPUR: Fearing police encounter during transit for hearing in court, gangster Lawrence Bishnoi has sought refuge from the high court. Currently lodged in Ajmer Central Jail, Bishnoi has moved high court seeking protection citing threat to his life. Allowing the petition, Justice PS Bhati has directed the public prosecutor to produce the report in the court listing the matter for hearing on February 24. Bishnoi, in a Criminal Miscellaneous petition, has stated that he was not being provided basic amenities and proper food in the jail to live a normal life and he was apprehending that he might be encountered by the police during transit from jail to the court any time. In his petition, Bishnoi has alleged that since his admission in the jail, he has been constantly subjected to cruelty by the prison authorities as well as unnecessary mental and physical harassment. “He has been recently beaten black and blue in a high security jail of Ajmer and had to take treatment in the jail’s hospital,” his counsel Naman Mohnot argued, alleging that a senior jail officer has personally threatened him stating that he has been on the hit list of the police department for encounter. Although, the public prosecutor Gaurav Singh refuted these allegations as baseless stating that the petitioner has no threat to his life whatsoever, yet Bishnoi’s counsel Mohnot argued that even a criminal has some rights as a human being in the constitution, which could not be violated. Hearing both sides, Justice Bhati directed to produce a report on the matter at the next hearing on February 24. It may be noted that Bishnoi is a gangster from Punjab and has currently been cooling his heels in Ajmer jail since he was booked and arrested by Jodhpur police following incidents of firing at the houses of some influential people of the city for extorting money from them. He also hit the headlines for throwing open challenges to kill Salman Khan apparently to win the favour of the Bishnoi community in Rajasthan. In spite of his being in jail, he is said to have carried out many criminal activities, building his own gang in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gangster-lawrence-bishnoi-moves-hc-citing-threat-to-life/articleshow/80900825.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Man held after labourer electrocuted at his house||Mumbai: A house-owner was arrested for negligence after a labourer he hired to repair his house at Mhada’s Sadguru Society in Malad (W) on Friday died of electrocution. Around 11am, Shivram Kale (40) came in contact with a live wire, Malvani police said. Kale was repairing the wall when he touched the live wire passing through, which he did not notice. “The accused was arrested under Indian Penal Code section 304 (A) (causing death by negligence). He was released on bail after produced in court on Saturday,” said senior inspector Shekar Bhalearo. Kale’s mother Yamunabai (65) alleged that he died as the person did not follow safety measures. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-held-after-labourer-electrocuted-at-his-house/articleshow/80901707.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||Cong men shout slogans for Pilot at Rahul rally||Ajmer: There were loud cheers and slogans for former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot when Congress leader Rahul Gandhi started his speech in the tractor rally at Roopangarh on Saturday. Local leaders and police rushed to stop slogans.Unlike in Pilibanga and Padampur a day earlier when Rahul and CM Ashok Gehlot reached the stage that time local leaders rushed to meet the former but Pilot came late in a different vehicle.That time it was announced that only Rahul, Gehlot and PCC president Govind Singh Dotasara would remain on the stage. After that Sachin Pilot, cabinet minister Raghu Sharma and others stepped down. Dotasara addressed the people and then invited Rahul to speak.When Rahul started speaking there was loud slogans, 'Sachin Pilot jindabad' and disturbed the speech. Local leaders rushed to stop the public from shouting slogans. At that time Pilot went back stage. Gehlot was noticing the shouting.Before that police also stop many youths who came wearing black jackets as they doubt that they were Pilot supporters and can possibly show black flag to Rahul.Tussle between Gehlot and Pilot groups was seen clearly as local leaders feared that Gehlot would trace it. Pilot is well known in Roopangarh region and in the Jat belt because he was active here since 2009 MP elections in Ajmer.Earlier in the day, Rahul went to the temple of local deity Tejaji at Sursura near Kishangarh and offered prayers. Rahul then proceeded for Roopangarh where the stage was prepared by joining two tractor trolleys on a raised platform created from mud. Water pots were kept near the stage to give look of rural background.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-men-shout-slogans-for-pilot-at-rahul-rally/articleshow/80901699.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Ajmer||New farm laws will hit middle class and youth: Rahul Gandhi||JAIPUR/AJMER: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi continued his attack on the BJP-led Centre over the three farm laws while addressing farmers in Ajmer and Nagaur districts on the second day of his tour in the state on Saturday. Rahul said the middle class will have to spend more on grains, vegetables and fruits as the business of small traders and shopkeepers would be taken over by a few individuals if the three farm laws get implemented. The Congress leader’s stage at Roopangarh near Ajmer was prepared on tractor trolleys and the audiences too were seated in hundreds of tractors to listen to him. Rahul wore a Rajasthani turban and later drove a tractor for a distance in the form of a rally. Passing through Parbatsar, he concluded his two-day tour of the state after addressing another farmers’ rally at Makrana in Nagaur district in the evening. Appealing to the younger generation in Makrana, the Congress leader said the three farm laws would put the youth’s future in danger as 40% of the population that presently controls the business of agriculture would be left unemployed. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi talks of giving options in these laws, but the options he has offered translate to hunger, unemployment and suicide,” Rahul said. He added, “With these laws, Modi is clearing the path for 2-3 of his industrialist friends. It began with notebandi and GST.” Rahul alleged that farmers, labourers and small businessmen were being sidelined by the Modi government’s policies. “During the lockdown, labourers requested him for train or bus tickets to go home, but he did not yield to it and waived loans of Rs 1.5 lakh crore of the rich.” He added, “In last February, I said 10-15 times that Bharat Mata is going to suffer drastic losses due to coronavirus. Farmers, labourers and the poor are going to be badly hit but the ‘press wale’ (media) mocked me and called me anti-national.” Rahul said he kept silent in Parliament as a mark of respect to 200 farmers who died during the agitation against the farm laws, but not a single BJP MP stood for it. “The Speaker said I should give in writing. Now, I will give in writing to the Speaker that all members in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha should observe a two-minute silence (for deceased farmers),” he said. At Roopangarh, Rahul said 40% people of the country are stakeholders in the agriculture business. “It is the business of 40% people, which includes farmers, small and medium businessmen, traders and labourers. Narendra Modi wants to give this entire business to his two friends. This is the objective of the farm laws,” the Congress leader claimed without naming anyone. Rahul said it was his responsibility to tell the truth and it was for the people to listen or not to listen. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot too addressed the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/new-farm-laws-will-hit-middle-class-and-youth-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/80906208.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||IMA protests against ‘mixopathy’ calling it unscientific||Jaipur: Doctors under Indian Medical Association protested against ‘mixopathy’ in the city on Saturday claiming that it is fundamentally not good for patients and calling it ‘unscientific’.The IMA’s office-bearers from different parts of the state gathered at Jaipur Medical Association (JMA) building at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) hospital and demanded from the Centre to withdraw its decision of allowing ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries.IMA (Rajasthan) president Dr M N Thareja and secretary Dr V K Jain claimed that mixopathy will hurt the country’s image worldwide. “Indian doctors have made their mark globally. If mixopathy will be encouraged in the country, the other countries will not call our medical professionals to their countries. The government is encouraging mixopathy and polypathy. In polypathy, doctors of different streams are made to sit in a hospital which is fine, but in mixopathy, a doctor will practice ayurveda, allopathy and even homoeopathy, which is not good. It will bring down country’s revenue as medical tourism will be badly affected due to mixopathy.”The doctors under IMA demanded from the Centre to immediately take action on their demand and withdraw orders on ‘mixopathy’.“The agenda was to show solidarity with doctors of the country against the gazette notification issued by the Centre for allowing ayurveda doctors to practice allopathy and surgery. The issue will expose innocent patients to surgical explications in hands of quacks and untrained ayurveda doctors. This mixing of streams of allopathy, ayurveda will produce untrained, poorly qualified doctors and science will take a backseat,” said Dr Tarun Patni president, Jaipur Medical Association.Claiming that ‘mixopathy’ is fundamentally not good for patients, doctors at the protest got their picture clicked with placard having message written on it, ‘say no to mixopathy and I am against mixopathy’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ima-protests-against-mixopathy-calling-it-unscientific/articleshow/80901709.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Vile Parle police nail thief, 2 bank officers vindicated||Mumbai: The two nationalized bank officers who had gone into depression after they were blamed for a Rs 20 lakh theft at the Vile Parle branch, and had taken an overdraft to pay for the stolen cash, applauded Vile Parle police for tracking down the culprit who stole the money from the bank’s chest on December 12, 2019. Police recovered Rs 9 lakh from Biren Vakhariya (33), a data entry operator, following his arrest on February 4. His role was established after retrieving deleted CCTV footage from a forensic laboratory in Netherlands. Vakhariya thought he would never get caught and used to visit the police station whenever called for an inquiry. The deleted footage showed Vakhariya, who is now in judicial custody, tampering with the chest at 5.37pm and stealing the money. Bank officers Sanjay Pawaskar and Nandu Joshi were made to pay the penalty for negligence that led to the theft. “Justice has prevailed,” a relieved Pawaskar told TOI on Saturday but declined further comment as the matter was sub judice. “The issue is not about detection but removing the stain from two innocent officers, who had put in decades of service, who had no role in the theft but were blamed. One of them took an overdraft to clear the sum,” said assistant commissioner of police Avinash Dharmadhikari. Deputy commissioner of police (zone VIII) Manjunath Singe said the bank registered a case in January after an internal probe concluded the two were innocent. UCO Bank manager Rajnikant Biswal filed the complaint on January 21. Singe said they told the bank to send the deleted disk to Netherlands. Singe supervised senior inspector Alka Mandve, sub-inspector Amit Bagul and detection staff who identified Vakhariya’s hand in the theft. “To avoid penalty from RBI and to save the bank’s reputation, the bank held the two responsible and they were told to pay Rs 10 lakh each,” said Bagul. Dharmadhikari said one officer had approached police five days after the theft and told the bank to lodge an FIR but it had refused to. Vakhariya worked with a private firm that used to take data entries from the bank related to RBI instructions. “Vakhariya knew about the cash chest operations and stole Rs2,000 bundles of Rs 20 lakh during his visit to the bank and deleted CCTV footage of that period. The bank delayed lodging a complaint. Had they filed the case, we could have recovered more than Rs 9 lakh,” said Mandve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vile-parle-police-nail-thief-2-bank-officers-vindicated/articleshow/80901811.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 14, 2021||Goa||CM: Facelift for all L-Day memorials||Panaji: It should be ensured that repair, restoration and beautification is carried out before December 19, 2021, at all memorials or monuments in the state connected to Goa’s liberation, however small in size,chief minister Pramod Sawant told panchayat officials during his address via video conferencing on Saturday. “We are celebrating the 60th year of Liberation and there may be a memorial or statue related to the freedom struggle and liberation within your gram panchayat,” said Sawant, stating that the representative of the Swayampurna Goem programme should be notified about such structures without fail. The CM said that the state government will develop such places by spending additional funds, other than those to be sanctioned to panchayats under the Swayampurna Goem scheme. “Inform us of such structures. We will renovate them in a different manner. You only need to ensure that such structures are brought to our notice. We will develop them into places of touristic or archeological interests. No structure related to Goa’s freedom struggle should lie in neglect, whether it is Hirve Guruji’s Samadhi or Deepaji Rane’s fort,” said Sawant. Sawant said this was one area which has somehow escaped the administration till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-facelift-for-all-l-day-memorials/articleshow/80902794.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 4 Covid deaths, 261 new positive cases||Chandigarh: Punjab registered four Covid-19 deaths and 261 new positive cases on Saturday. It has taken the total number of deaths from Covid-19 in the state to 5,694 till date, and the total number of positive cases to 1,76,064. Total 221 Covid patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Saturday. Nawanshahr district registered the highest number of 82 Covid-19 positive cases, followed by Ludhiana (30), Mohali (19), Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala (18 each), and Amritsar (17). There were a total 2,335 Covid-19 active cases on Saturday. A total of 1,989 frontline workers and 326 healthcare workers took Covid-19 vaccine jab on Saturday for the first time. Besides this, 57 healthcare workers were also vaccinated second dose on Saturday. Till date, a total number of 1,03,725 frontline as well as healthcare workers have received Covid-19 vaccine jab in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-4-covid-deaths-261-new-positive-cases/articleshow/80902787.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||Celebrity sailor Commander Abhilash Tomy delivers speech on adventure & risk-taking qualities at IMA||Dehradun: The Indian Military Academy (IMA) organised a talk by Commander Abhilash Tomy (retired) for its cadets on Saturday. In 2013, Commander Tomy, a Kirti Chakra and Nausena Medal recipient, became the first Indian to complete a solo, non-stop circumnavigation of the world under sail. He also competed in the 2018 Golden Globe Race. The officer has also authored two books. In his address to the cadets at the Khetarpal Auditorium of the Academy, Commander Tomy shared his experiences of the 151 solitary days of his sailing record. A statement issued by IMA, said,“The talk by Commander Tomy — first Indian circumnavigator of the Earth — was highly appreciated by all the cadets and he received a standing ovation from the academy.” On the occasion, Lt Gen Harinder Singh, Commandant, IMA, exhorted all Gentlemen Cadets to imbibe adventure and risk taking qualities in them to become military leaders and be better equipped to face the challenges that the nation faces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/celebrity-sailor-commander-abhilash-tomy-delivers-speech-on-adventure-risk-taking-qualities-at-ima/articleshow/80900831.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chennai||Helpline goes abuzz; replies were polite, say callers||Within a few hours of the integrated public grievance management system being announced, the toll free helpline 1100 had received a flurry of calls. Several citizens TOI spoke to said the helpline was busy and that they were able to connect after repeated attempts. The first eight times, my calls to 1100 got automatically disconnected after a brief ‘line is busy’ message, said V Murali, a resident of Madipakkam. "I wanted to file a civic complaint of waste being dumped on a private plot causing mosquito menace and a health risk for kids. The representative I spoke to was polite and promptly registered a complaint after asking questions about which zone and ward the area falls under, and other identification details such as my name, address and contact number," Murali said. V S Jayaraman, a resident of T Nagar, too had a few failed attempts before his call went through. He made a complaint about the sudden upward revision of property tax. "I’m waiting for a response and I am interested to know the efficacy of the helpline," Jayaraman said. Several others TOI spoke to said the representatives were polite and that their call lasted for at least five minutes. They were assured that their grievance registrations will be acknowledged with a text message and then will be followed up by the department concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/helpline-goes-abuzz-replies-were-polite-say-callers/articleshow/80901711.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Meerut||Meerut: Woman, 23, who runs tea shop assaulted by business rivals, later booked by cops too||MEERUT: A 23-year-old woman who runs a tea shop in Meerut's Delhi Gate area was brutally assaulted on Friday night by members of a family that runs confectionery shop in the vicinity. She is currently under observation at the district hospital in Meerut with a serious head injury. After the local right-wing groups have come out in support of the rival family, the local police first lodged an FIR of attempt to rape and assault against the victim and her friend. However, another FIR of similar charges was lodged after the cops faced flak on social media. A few right-wing groups held a protest at the Delhi Gate police station on Friday night – hours after the woman was assaulted by her rivals – alleging that “illicit activity was being carried out at the Muslim woman’s tea shop and demanded action against her”. The victim’s mother told TOI, “When her business started picking up, they (rivals) began harassing her. She was young when her father died and she has been taking care of the family since then.” “According to the victim, 3-4 people barged into the tea shop and began assaulting her. Her rivals claimed the woman and her friend misbehaved with a youth in the area. They also alleged that miscreants throng her tea shop and some illicit activity is carried out from her shop,” Arvind Chaurasia, circle officer (Kotwali), said. “Earlier on Friday, the rivals had approached me with a complaint against the woman and I had assured them of action after the probe. I had advised them not to take matters into their own hands,” the CO said. “We have begun investigation in both cases. We are trying to access CCTV footage and gather other evidence to ascertain facts in the cases,” CO Chaurasia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-23-who-runs-tea-shop-assaulted-by-biz-rivals-later-booked-by-cops-too/articleshow/80900830.cms||Piyush Rai
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||Safe motherhood assurance initiative to prevent maternal deaths to be launched in state||JAIPUR: Aiming to reduce the maternal mortality ratio (MMR) further in the state, the health department will implement Surakshit Matritva Aashwasan (SUMAN), also known as safe motherhood assurance, for zero preventable maternal and newborn deaths.Over the past few years, the MMR in the state has gone down significantly. The Sample Registration System (SRS) report by Registrar General of India (RGI) for the last three years shows that maternal mortality ratio (MMR) of the state has reduced from 199 per 100,000 live births in SRS 2014-16 to 186 in SRS 2015-17 and to 164 per 100,000 live births in SRS 2016-18.“SUMAN is an initiative that brings all the services, which are currently being provided to pregnant woman, will come under one umbrella from ante-natal registration upto delivery to strengthen the services to prevent maternal deaths,” said Dr Laxman Singh Ola, director (family welfare). He said SUMAN will be implemented in phase-wise manner across the state. It will also strengthen system for grievance redressal and greater accountability and transparency. It is a Centre’s initiative that will ensure fully responsive and accountable health system that will not only result in a positive birthing experience, but also help end preventable maternal and newborn deaths.The project is aimed at preventing maternal deaths that occur due to delay in timely provision of comprehensive obstetric care, which could have been prevented. Under SUMAN, the health department is aiming to provide better quality of public healthcare facilities, regular caesarean section audits, adherence to SOPs in the labour room through structured interventions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/safe-motherhood-assurance-initiative-to-prevent-maternal-deaths-to-be-launched-in-state/articleshow/80901713.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||At 70%, Rajasthan tops nation in Covid vaccination rate||JAIPUR: The figures of Covid vaccination drive in CoWin app (till Friday) shows Rajasthan was leading in the country with the highest inoculation percentage, the health department has claimed. According to the figures, Rajasthan led the chart with 70% of the registered beneficiaries getting vaccinated. “More than 5.8 lakh people in the state got vaccinated till Friday, according to the CoWin App, which is 70% of the registered people for vaccination,”said Dr Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). The figures showed that more than 2.56 lakh registered people have not been vaccinated as they did not turn up at the vaccination sites. The report showed in Madhya Pradesh, the achievement oftarget is 63%, the second highest in the country, followed by Bihar (62%), Odisha (61%), Kerala (59%), Uttarakhand (58%), Himachal Pradesh (58%), Gujarat(58%), Tripura (56%) and Uttar Pradesh is at the 10th place with 52% achievement of the target. In UP, more than 8.6 lakh people got vaccinated and 8.1 lakh did not get the jab, which is why, the achievement of target remained at 52%. After successful launch of the vaccination drive in the state, the health department officials will vaccinate employees of agriculture department and government teachers under panchayati raj department. “On Monday, we will take up 6,000 employees of agriculture department and 3,000 of social justice department while 1.59 lakh teachers of elementary schools will be vaccinated on February 17. Second dose for healthcare workers has been postponed and we will start it on February 20,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization). Rajasthan is among the top eight states which accounted for 60% of the total beneficiaries vaccinated in India. These eight states have vaccinated more than 4,00,000 beneficiaries each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-leads-chart-with-highest-percentage-of-covid-vaccination/articleshow/80901722.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Meerut||SI, two constables suspended for custodial torture in Bijnor||Bijnor: A sub-inspector, Ashok Kumar, and two police constables, DK Sharma and Vishal Tomar, posted in Bijnor’s Mandawar police station were suspended for allegedly torturing and thrashing 24-year-old Arpit Kumar in custody on February 10. He was detained for questioning in connection with a case of a girl from his village, Nangla Maheshwari, eloping with a neighbour. The youth sustained a fracture in the knee and is being treated at Bijnor district hospital. Dharamveer Singh, Bijnor superintendent of police, has ordered the circle officer concerned to probe the matter. Talking with TOI, the victim's father, Rishipal Singh said, “A girl from my village had eloped with a neighbour. My son, Arpit, works in Haridwar and resides in a rented house there. The couple stayed at his house on February 5. Bijnor came to Haridwar in search of the couple. Not finding them there, they picked up my son and thrashed him badly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/si-two-constables-suspended-for-custodial-torture-in-bijnor/articleshow/80900834.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||2 lakh power users to pay MSEDCL Rs 242cr||Mumbai: More than 2 lakh residential consumers in Mumbai metropolitan region have failed to pay their electricity bills from April 2020 till January 2021 to the tune of Rs 242 crore, shows data that MSEDCL shared with the media on Saturday. Across the state, there are over 41 lakh residential users who did not pay bills. “The state-run power company has issued an ultimatum to 41 lakh residential consumers in the state to pay pending bills for 10 months or face disconnection. If you look at all categories of consumers — including residential, commercial and industrial — in all, 80 lakh consumers owe MSEDCL around Rs 48,500 crore as arrears,” the data shows. In Mumbai metropolitan region, that covers Mulund-Bhandup, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Panvel, there was an intensive drive in which more than 23,000 consumers faced power disconnections lately. It was during the past 12 days and including Saturday that around 47,000 consumers in Mumbai region paid after getting notices and MSEDCL was able to recover Rs 62 crore. “We have intensified visits to consumer homes and issued notices and also urged them to pay bills, else face power disconnected,” said an official. “Disconnection notices helped recover a part of the dues.” According to the statistics, shops and offices in Mumbai region owe MSEDCL over Rs 76 crore, of which it was able to recover Rs 26 crore in the past two weeks. The power utility still has to recover Rs 9 crore from various industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-lakh-power-users-to-pay-msedcl-rs-242cr/articleshow/80903427.cms||Somit Sen
February 14, 2021||Chennai||M K Stalin promises separate district of Vridhachalam||President of the DMK, M K Stalin, on Saturday accused the AIADMK government of indulging in corrupt practices in finalising tenders to procure life-saving medicines and other essentials for the treatment and cure of Covid-19 during the pandemic. Speaking in the third phase of his election campaign titled, ‘Ungal thoguthiyil Stalin’ (Stalin in your constituency) at Vridhachalam in Cuddalore district on Saturday, Stalin regretted that the government led by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami ignored his plea to provide `5,000 each to poor families that had lost livelihood during the nation-wide lockdown citing paucity of funds, but utilized government funds liberally to award contracts during the pandemic. "Corruption is rampant in everything, right from procurement of life-saving medicines, bleaching powder and even in providing food and essentials to hospital patients," he charged. He promised to carve Vridhachalam out of Cuddalore district and declare it as a separate district after a girl made a plea in this regard. He also assured to upgrade the government hospital at Vridhachalam if the party is voted to power. Replying to Palaniswami’s charge that the DMK has not contributed anything to the state, he said, "When the DMK was a part of the Union government, Tamil Nadu received 11% of the total Union budget allocation in the country. We got classical language status for Tamil, established a central university at Tiruvarur, launched Sethu Samudram project, Chennai metro rail and Hokenakkal drinking water projects, and established textile parks in Karur, Erode and Salem among several other schemes. What did Palaniswami manage to get from the Centre during his tenure? AIIMS project is yet to take off. The state has not received any compensation so far for damage caused by cyclones. The state has got permission for 11 medical colleges, but institutions will take two or three years to commence admissions," he said. He said the AIADMK government’s practice of floating combined tenders, denying the local bodies of their rights to float tenders, would be scrapped if the DMK was voted to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-promises-separate-district-of-vridhachalam/articleshow/80901740.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 14, 2021||Goa||Submit reports by Feb 28, get instant nod for housing, toilet blocks: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday urged all village panchayats to cooperate so that the reports under the ‘Swayampurna Goem’ programme can be submitted to the state government by February 28. He said that based on the reports funds will be sanctioned without delay by the directorate of panchayat to provide houses, toilets, water supply and electricity to native Goans in villages who are still living without the facilities. “Around 156 of 191 panchayats have already submitted their reports. But there is some feedback that some panchs and sarpanchs are not cooperating, but this number is small. I urge them to help the ‘SwayampurnaMitra’ of the panchayat to submit the report within the deadline. In the case of some talukas like Sanguem, lowest reports have been received so far,” said Sawant, adding that panchayat can get projects of up to Rs 60 lakh sanctioned from the Rs 300 crore received from the Centre for Goa’s 60th Liberation Day. He said that those who have already applied for toilet blocks will receive the same by March 31. The chief minister said that already 18,000 toilet blocks have received approval. “Though we have declared Goa open defecation free, there are still areas to be covered. There are areas in Sanguem, Quepem, Sattari, where locals still use water from streams. There are still native Goans who do not have houses of their own and live in rented premises,” said Sawant. He said that the earlier 16-point agenda of Swayampurna Goem programme has been modified into a 10-point agenda and panchayats are to achieve 100% coverage of basics like electricity, water, housing, toilet blocks, besides registration cards for farmers and fishermen. Sawant said it should be ensured that all citizens take benefit of the life insurance scheme announced earlier by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The CM also said that all instruments required by the disabled in villages will be provided including modified toilets for their use. Sawant said that a new panchayat ghar will soon come up at Patto, Panaji, which will help in implementation of the programme. He said that panchayats will also get funds for public projects including for repair and renovation of their panchayat buildings. “Before providing details of those who need facilities like housing, toilets etc, I, however, urge the panchs and sarpanchs to carry out at least two independent verifications. The scheme is not to provide an additional toilet to those who already have a toilet. Don’t go just by what you are told orally, verify the information on ground. Those who really need the facilities should get them,” said Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/submit-reports-by-feb-28-get-instant-nod-for-housing-toilet-blocks-cm/articleshow/80902819.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||At 1,286, Vidarbha region sees highest new Covid cases this year so far||NAGPUR: The fresh surge in Covid-19 continued in Vidarbha as more than 1,000 cases were recorded for the fourth consecutive day. There were 1,286 new cases, 790 recoveries and nine deaths in all from 11 districts of Vidarbha on Saturday. The surge pulled down the recovery rate under 95% again, and number of patients under-treatment has crossed the 7,500-mark. The highest 486 new cases were reported in Nagpur. Amravati (376), Akola (128), Yavatmal (119) and Buldhana (91) continued to record high number of cases, but Wardha (33), Chandrapur (24), Bhandara (10), Washim (10), Gondia (8), and Gadchiroli (1) reported a decline. Vidarbha’s caseload on Saturday reached 2.83 lakh. On the other hand, 790 patients recovered in a day with Nagpur contributing 266, Amravati (286), Yavatmal (66), Buldhana (57), Wardha (45), Akola (28), Bhandara (13), Chandrapur (11), Washim (8), Gondia (6), and Gadchiroli (4). Now, 2,68,767 patients have recovered in the region. Nagpur district reported five deaths, with two of them in Nagpur city while two deceased were patients from other districts/states and one from Nagpur rural. Wardha, Amravati, Yavatmal, Buldhana reported a death each. This took the toll to 7,095. With number of deaths remaining low from the last five days, the region’s case fatality rate fell under 2.5% for the first time in the last five months to reach 2.49%. Wardha: An 84-year-old man from Pulgaon died on Saturday, taking the district’s toll to 319. Out of the 618 reports received on Saturday, 33 came positive, taking the caseload to 10,662. Recoveries increased by 45 to reach 9,890. There are 453 active cases. New cases came from Wardha (21), Hinganghat (11) and Samudrapur (1). Amravati: Even as the district reported 300+ cases on the fourth consecutive day, the administration on Saturday said all services would continue as usual but emphasis would be on avoiding crowding. The district reported 376 new cases and the number of active cases crossed the 1,000-mark after over two months to reach 1,083. The caseload reached 24,895. Recoveries touched 23,380 with addition of 286 on Saturday, for a recovery rate of 93.9%. The death of a 65-year-old male from Chandur Bazar took the toll to 432. Yavatmal: The district’s toll mounted to 441 after death of a 50-year-old man from the city. In the last 24 hours, the district administration received 507 reports, out of which 119 came positive. Currently there are 551 active positive patients undergoing treatment in various Covid-19 care centres across the district. Of 15123 positive patients treated so far in the district, 14134 including 66 of Saturday have recovered and got discharged from the hospitals. Chandrapur: With 24 new cases and 11 patients getting discharge, the district’s caseload and recoveries increased to 23,215 and 22,726, respectively. There was no death on Saturday, keeping the toll untouched at 393. Now, 96 patients are under treatment. Akola: Out of the 615 reports received in the last 24 hours, 128 came positive, taking the caseload to 12,282. With 28 patients getting discharge in a day, 11,092 patients have recovered till date. No death was reported, keeping the toll in Akola at 342. Now, 848 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district received 478 reports, out of which 91 came positive. With this the caseload mounted to 14,705. recovered in a day. A 63-year-old man from Motala village died during treatment on Saturday, taking the toll to 176. Recoveries reached 14,069 after discharge to 57 more patients. Now, 460 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 10 new cases, eight recoveries and no death on Saturday. Covid count reached 7,285, including 7,025 recoveries and 156 deaths, leaving 104 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: Only one new case was reported while four patients recovered on Saturday. The district now has only 17 patients under treatment. Gondia: The district saw eight new cases and six recoveries on Saturday. The caseload is 14,289, including 14,021 recoveries and 183 deaths. There are 85 patients under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported 10 new cases, 13 recoveries and no death on Saturday. With this, Bhandara has 13,355 cases, 12,979 recoveries and 100 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-1286-region-sees-highest-new-cases-this-year-so-far/articleshow/80900835.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cupid’s arrows struck some doctors in Covid wards||AHMEDABAD: Dr Mehul Pargi, a resident doctor in the dermatology department at BJ Medical College in Ahmedabad, was among the hundreds of doctors pressed into service in early 2020 when Covid struck the state. “On the very first day of my Covid duty, charts of patients were handed over to me by Dr Sneha Patel, a resident in the gynaecology department,” said Dr Pargi. “We knew each other formally, being in the same friends’ group. But we were never ‘friends.’ In the days that followed, we started chatting and she would also bring me home-cooked food.” Dr Pargi went on to say: “We shared our dreams and fears, and I got so fond of her that I proposed to her on her birthday in July. She said yes!” Beneath the PPE kits in Covid wards across the state were humans whose hearts needed to vent their apprehensions, frustrations, and the occasional elation on saving a patient’s life. Thus, while healthcare workers in green, blue, and white battled the virus, love blossomed among some doctors who spent hours together at wards and isolation facilities and got a measure of their colleagues like never before. Dr Pargi and Dr Patel will get engaged this summer with their families’ blessings. Dr Bhargav Dave, a community medicine resident doctor, and Dr Urvi Patel, a resident in anaesthesia department, got engaged a month ago. “My duty was at the medical education department in Gandhinagar as a member of the core team. Urvi was constantly busy with Covid patients,” said Dr Dave, now an assistant professor at a medical college. “In early July, she tested positive; I tested positive in September.” Dr Dave went on to say: “We felt an emotional attachment. The pandemic, which brought us closer to humanity, also taught us the importance of someone special.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cupids-arrows-struck-some-docs-in-covid-wards/articleshow/80902856.cms||Parth Shastri
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Ambulance staff foil bid to rob accident victim||Coimbatore: A 108 ambulance driver and technician on Saturday foiled an attempt by two miscreants to rob a road accident victim of Rs 1.2 lakh.Ravichandran, 54, a native of Madurai, was hit by a motorcycle on the 100 Feet Road. Ambulance pilot Suresh and technician Gopalakrishnan, who reached the spot, found two people trying to take money from Ravichandran’s handbag. When the duo confronted them, the men told them that they were relatives of the injured person. However, when the ambulance staff told them to accompany the injured person to the hospital, they fled the spot.Suresh and Gopalakrishnan handed over the bag that contained Rs 1,20,547 to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) after admitting Ravichandran there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ambulance-staff-foil-bid-to-rob-accident-victim/articleshow/80901737.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Jaipur||Smart city progress: Lahoty pulled up for mention of monkeys, dogs||Jaipur: Taking a dig at the state government on its progress on transforming Jaipur into a smart city, Sanganer MLA and ex-mayor of Jaipur Ashok Lahoty said, “One could see monkeys, pigs, dogs and potholes around the smart city.” The chairperson intervened and asked him to sit down saying he hasn’t come prepared with his speech. During the discussion on governor’s address in the assembly, Lahoty said, “If you look down, there are potholes; if you look up, there are monkeys; if you look in front, there are pigs; and if you look behind, there are dogs. This is the state of Jaipur smart city, the capital (of Rajasthan).” To this, chairperson Rajendra Pareek intervened and requested him to sit down. “Please sit down. You have not come prepared (to the assembly). This has got nothing to do with dogs and cats.” Lahoty further attacked the government saying, “It is shameful that there is no electricity in 29,824 government schools in state. Of these, 700 schools come under education minister’s (Govind Singh Dotasra’s) area.” He further said that of the 66 lakh educated unemployed persons in the state, only 1.60 lakh are getting unemployment allowance and 2 lakh are waiting to get the registration done. “Electricity bill has gone up to Rs 29 per unit. There is 68% increase in crime against women and 31% increase in the number of criminal activities. How can it call itself a sensitive government?” he asked. Box - MLA’s remark on PM Modi’s wife fuels uproarJaipur: Khajuwala MLA Govind Ram Meghwal’s reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s wife during his address in the state assembly on Saturday fuelled an uproar, with deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore objecting to his remark. The chairperson expunged Meghwal’s remark from the record, which attacked Modi “for being unaware of the fact if she was getting pension.” This led to Rathore making an objectionable remark which was also expunged by the chairperson. During the speech, Rathore again objected to Meghwal’s remark when he said, “The central government was a puppet in the hands of the Ambanis and the Adanis”. The chairperson also warned BJP MLA Abhinesh Maharshi for his “behaviour in the house as he screamed while registering his protest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/smart-city-progress-lahoty-pulled-up-for-mention-of-monkeys-dogs/articleshow/80901731.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||HC expresses displeasure over co-ops’ functioning||Mumbai: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court recently expressed displeasure over functioning of cooperative societies in the state and said, “Everybody knows the way in which persons controlling co-operative institutions can create a record of resolutions. Those persons have good contacts with politicians and everybody knows how the co-operative department works.’’ The bench of Justices T V Nalawade and M J Sewlikar said, “Already, the co-operative movement has suffered a lot due to such conduct of the persons controlling the institutions.’’ The HC directed the investigating officer to give serious and deep thought and take concrete steps with “courage in a matter filed by politician Milind Patil against his former political opponent controlling a spinning mill. Patil has sought a probe into the leasing of over 100 acres of cooperative society land controlled by a political member to a private company related by his son. Last March, HC recorded the petitioner’s submission that the person in control of spinning mill, founder chairman of the spinning mill was ex-minister of Maharashtra, Ambrish Patel. The bench said, “The single circumstance that the property of the institution is diverted to the son of the man who controls the spinning mill was sufficient to draw inferences and to read between the lines.” The HC also expressed hope that the state “also takes such things very seriously so that the poor of the state are protected’’. It said if cooperative department officers ignore mismanagement and their reports are accepted, “people will lose faith in police and the judicial system’’. “By using such modus operandi most factories in the state are sold, and that property has gone again to persons controlling factories in the past, even as founder, and that has caused loss to shareholders and poor farmers,’’ said HC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-expresses-displeasure-over-co-ops-functioning/articleshow/80901743.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Meerut||Kairana ex-MP Tabassum Hasan, MLA son booked under Gangster Act||MEERUT: Former Kairana MP Tabassum Hasan (50) and her son Nahid Hasan (32), the Samajwadi Party MLA from Kairana, have been booked along with 38 others under relevant sections of the Gangster Act by local police in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli. In the FIR registered at Kairana police station in the district, the MLA has been named as the “gang leader”. The FIR by Kairana SHO Premveer Rana claims the “terror of the gang is prevalent in the region and people don't come forward with complaints due to fear”. When contacted, Tabassum Hasan said, “This [FIR] is completely manipulative. They have been at it for more than a year now. They are doing whatever they want to do. Anyone raising concerns of the common man or speaking against the government policies is being targeted. We will take a legal recourse to fight it.” In the 2018 bypoll, Tabassum Hasan of Rashtriya Lok Dal became the first Muslim candidate from Uttar Pradesh to enter the Lok Sabha since 2014. She defeated her nearest rival Mriganka Singh of BJP. In the 2009 Lok Sabha polls, she, then with BSP, had defeated Mriganka's father and senior BJP leader Hukum Singh. However, she lost the 2019 polls to BJP’s Pradeep Choudhary. Her husband Munawwar Hasan, a three-term member of Parliament and two-term MLA, was elected to the Lok Sabha in 2004 but died in an accident in 2008. In January 2020, Hasan’s son Nahid, who is a two-term Kairana MLA, was arrested and sent to jail after a local court rejected his bail plea in connection with a cheating case. He was later granted bail. For the Hasans, trouble started on September 9, 2019, after Nahid’s public spat with the then Kairana SDM Amit Pal Sharma when the officer stopped his SUV and asked for its papers. During the subsequent probe, it turned out that the vehicle was not registered at all. Nahid was then booked for allegedly misbehaving and driving an SUV without valid papers. Later, district administration and police in Shamli, under which Kairana town falls, decided to dust off 11 old cases filed against the MLA and expedited probe in all of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/kairana-ex-mp-tabassum-hasan-mla-son-booked-under-gangster-act/articleshow/80900841.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Stench from check dam makes life miserable||Coimbatore: It has been more than a year since residents of Siva Nagar and Press Colony in Periyanaickenpalayam stepped into the leafy 2.5-acre neighbourhood park.The overpowering stench emanating from Erumai Pallam check dam that flows along the park’s eastern wall is keeping them away from the park. “The stench is strongest between 6pm and 7am, maybe because some companies release effluents in to the dam during that time, causing problems like cough,” president of the Press Colony Siva Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association P Duraisamy said. “Leave alone walking in the park, it has affected our lifestyle in terms of forcing us to keep windows closed at night and not allowing us to sit outside house to enjoy fresh air,” secretary Mohana Rangan said.Sewage from residential areas drains into the dam and gets stagnated there, the residents said. “Sewage from other drains, septic tank waste and effluents from companies also end up in the dam,” Rangan said. “In the morning, a smelly white foam rises from the dam and falls inside the park.”The public works department had constructed the dam decades ago, but it is not being used by farmers in Periyanaickenpalayam, residents said. “We wrote to authorities including the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, public works department, 4 Veerapandi town panchayat, and even met the Coimbatore collector,” association treasurer Ravichandran said.“TNPCB ordered that it has to be cleaned. Our panchayat wrote to them saying they have cleaned it. But the problem persists,” said Duraisamy.Authorities should either close the check dam or divert sewage elsewhere or clean it, said Ravichandran. “PWD says panchayat is responsible for cleaning, but no one seems to be pushing them to do their job.”A team from the kudimaramathu scheme inspected the spot and is planning to set up a sewage treatment plant near the dam, said panchayat executive officer Nagaraj. “We pour phenyl into the dam every time it stinks extensively. We can’t do more than that because sewage from all areas flows into it. Residents want us to demolish the dam, which we can’t do because the PWD built it. Once when we tried demolish it, PWD officials threatened to arrest us. As many as 50 farmers also turned up, claiming they depend on the dam for farming,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stench-from-check-dam-makes-life-miserable/articleshow/80901738.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||State info commission to commence after guv administers oath||Panaji: The State Information Commission (SIC) is expected to start functioning again as soon as the new chief information commissioner and state information commissioner are administered their oaths by the governor. Former speaker of the legislative assembly Vishwas Satarkar who won on a BJP ticket and journalist Sanjay Dhavalikar have accepted their appointments as chief information commissioner and state information commissioner respectively. Satarkar won by 1,662 votes on a BJP ticket from Priol in 2002 and served as speaker of the assembly from June 2002 to February 2005. The file for the swearing-in is being forwarded to the Raj Bhavan and awaiting a nod from the governor who is expected to give a date when he will be in Goa to administer the oath or nominate/authorise the chief secretary to administer it. “The commissioners can start working immediately after taking the oath,” a government official said. Compared to the last term, the commission will have only two commissioners instead of three and the term will be for three years instead of five. As per a recent amendment to the Right To Information (RTI) Act, the posts have been downgraded to the rank of principal secretary with a fixed salary of Rs 2.25 lakh per month for both the chief and state information commissioner. The commission decides on appeals regarding unanswered RTI applications and complaints against non-release of information by public offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-info-commission-to-commence-after-guv-administers-oath/articleshow/80902826.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||CII seeks nod for use of very low sulphur fuel in industries||PANAJI: With the government directing industries to discontinue the use of furnace oil and petcoke, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has requested the department of environment to permit the use of very low sulphur furnace oil (VLSFO). CII–Goa state council met with environment minister Nilesh Cabral and submitted a memorandum asking for VLSFO to be included in the list of approved fuels. The state government issued a notification on December 30 last year stating that from July 1, furnace oil and petcoke will be discontinued as fuels. Many industrial units in Goa use furnace oil as fuel to generate captive power of 1MW to 6MW in order to ensure uninterrupted power supply. These firms include Mandovi Pellets, Zuari Agro Chemicals Ltd, Binani Fibre Glass and MRF. With furnace oil and petcoke being discontinued, these industrial units will have to introduce new power machinery or turn to other fuels such as natural gas. CII pointed out that natural gas is not an economically viable option for furnace oil-based engines above 1MW capacity and that the time required to change the boilers, engines and other equipment would be close to two years. “As a premier industry body in the country and responsible towards charting the industry’s growth, CII is for pollution abatement and environmental conservation, and hence endorses the discontinuation of furnace oil and petcoke and expects the industry to comply through discontinuation of use of heavy fuel oils. But, we are also concerned about the industry requirements and feasibility to do so, and hence suggest the most effective solution of switching to an alternate fuel namely very low sulphur furnace oil,” said CII-Goa vice-chairman Atul Jadhav. The sulphur content in VLSFO is 0.5% by weight as against 1% and 1.5% in the case of low-sulphur heavy stock and light diesel oil respectively. The directorate of shipping has already issued directions to use VLSFO for marine use. The oil marketing companies have shown willingness to supply VLSFO, but on the condition that the Goa government permits the use of the fuel. CII has made a similar appeal to the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) and the department of environment to consider VLSFO as an alternative to the existing fuels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cii-seeks-nod-for-use-of-very-low-sulphur-fuel-in-industries/articleshow/80902830.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Meerut||Gang manufacturing high security number plates busted||Meerut: Meerut police arrested three persons allegedly involved in the manufacturing and selling of fake high security number plates. In a surprise raid conducted on Friday night, cops recovered 400 finished plates and more than 300 'empty' ones on which number was yet to be written from a location in the city's Mohanpuri area. Abdul Rehman Siddiqui, station in-charge of Civil Lines police station said, "We have arrested manufacturing unit owner Tanuj Agarwal, his associate Shriram and a seller named Sandeep Kumar who was picked up from Gurdwara Road and possessed at least 18 fake plates. Police are on the look out for fourth associate Mohd Wasim. We have also seized machines and equipment, including hydraulic press, fake holograms, dye, etc. used to make these fake number plates." During questioning the arrested accused have revealed that machinery, plates and equipment were brought from Delhi and were being sold to various shop owners that claimed to provide the high security number plate to prospective buyers who had no idea that the plate was fake. The gang would sell the plate to 'retailers' at the cost of Rs 300 who would charge Rs 600 from customers. Notably, there is a delay in procurement of legal number plates from Regional Transport Office owing to heavy rush due to which the gang found an opportunity to rake in some easy profit. SP (City) AN Singh said, "The number plate looked identical except for the fact that there was no barcode and customers would hardly notice that. After talking to a few customers it has come to light that these people used to promise customers to provide them legal plates but in the end, the users would get the fake ones. Investigation is ongoing."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/gang-manufacturing-high-security-number-plates-busted/articleshow/80900845.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||25 days on, cops grope in dark in burglary case||Coimbatore: The city police are struggling to crack the 100-sovereign gold theft case reported from Tatabad on January 16. Burglars had decamped with the gold ornaments from the house of C Karthik on Dr Rajendra Prasad Road. Karthik, a businessman, had locked the house and left for Bengaluru with his family when the burglary was reported.Two special teams have been working round-the-clock for the last 25 days to nab the burglars. Though they collected hundreds of CCTV footage, the cops have not been able to find evidence.According to police sources, the family members gave contradictory statements, making it difficult to nab the culprits. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/25-days-on-cops-grope-in-dark-in-burglary-case/articleshow/80901742.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Residents flay reopening of Kalhatty Ghat Road in Ooty||Udhagamandalam: Reopening of the accident-prone Kalhatty Ghat Road to tourists has attracted the wrath of residents.The road was reopened on February 8 after it was closed for tourists in 2017. With 36 hairpin bends, the road witnessed two accidents on the very first day of reopening. On the second day, a van from Maharashtra met with an accident at one of the hairpin bends, leaving 14 passengers with minor injuries.In October 2018, a major accident took place at the 35th bend, which killed five tourists and injured two people. The incident came to light only after three days as the vehicle had fallen inside a thick bush. Police had no clue how the vehicle entered the restricted road.For the last three years, vehicles other than Nilgiris registration are not permitted on the road. However, uphill navigation from Masinagudi to Ooty is allowed. Local residents feel that the restrictions on tourist vehicles on the stretch should continue.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-flay-reopening-of-kalhatty-ghat-road-in-ooty/articleshow/80901744.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Leopard found dead in mysterious circumstances in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Mystery shrouds death of a leopard at Kachimet-Fukeshwar, 15km from Hudkeshwar. The leopard was found dead on Saturday morning on a barren land under the North Umred forest range under Nagpur division. ACF Narendra Chandewar ruled out poaching as all the body parts of the animal were found to be intact. “There are also no injury marks. The carcass was first noticed at 8am by forest guard VD Shende and a van majoor on a private forest land during a routine patrolling round. The leopard was cremated as per the NTCA SOP,” said Chandewar. It is possible that the animal must have been electrocuted and the carcass dumped elsewhere to destroy evidence. There is spurt in leopard deaths in the state due to road hits, electrocution and poisoning. Last year, 173 leopards had died in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopard-found-dead-in-mysterious-circumstances/articleshow/80900857.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Flyers from Sharjah to Nagpur will have to pay for quarantine in private hotels||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has arranged for 50 beds as an alternative at the only VNIT hostel it is left with to quarantine international flyers arriving in Sharjah flight early Sunday morning. Additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane said as per the state and central government SOPs, passengers have to be in paid quarantine. At the time of going to press, the NMC did not know the number of passengers who would land in Nagpur. The flyers would be provided a list of 13 hotels (total 240 beds) to chose for the paid quarantine and ferried in five NMC buses. “Institutional quarantine at VNIT will be offered only under exceptional circumstances,” said Nipane. The VNIT centre had been in operation for other international flyers who arrived via different Indian cities after the UK-strain scare since December. The VNIT administration has taken back all but one of its hostels from the NMC which had initially been running a quarantine centre and later a Covid Care Centre (CCC) on the campus. During April to July, all the hostels could host over 600 Covid suspects. The only hostel left with NMC has a capacity of 110 beds of which 50 are being provided for international passengers. As reported by TOI on Saturday, the flyers would have to bear the expenses of hotel charges ranging between Rs2000 to Rs4000 per day as well as RTPCR testing. Those put up at the VNIT centre would get a free RTPCR on the fifth day of arrival. The flights are scheduled to land at Nagpur from Sharjah on Feb 14, 21, and 28. Officials said in case more than 110 flyers chose to stay in government quarantine centre, they will be acquiring one block of Pachpaoli police quarters where a CCC is operational. Officials feel the flyers would be suspects and must be kept in a separate premises away from confirmed positive cases staying at a CCC. One option they say is restarting the centre at MLA Hostel which is vacant right now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flyers-from-sharjah-will-have-to-pay-for-quarantine-in-pvt-hotels/articleshow/80900844.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 14, 2021||Meerut||Dense fog causes another pile up on Eastern Peripheral Expressway||Meerut: The accident-prone stretch of Eastern Peripheral Expressway in UP's Baghpat witnessed yet another pile up owing to dense fog on Saturday morning. At least 12 people were reported to be injured. This is the second major accident in the past one week in which a dozen vehicles were involved. Saturday's pile up took place near Singoli Taga village. The injured were sent to a hospital in Ghaziabad. Harbeer Singh, a traveller from Punjab, said, "I was travelling to Moradabad with my family and there was thick fog. Visibility was almost zero. And the impact was heavy. One after another several vehicles took a hit." The latest accident comes four days after a pile up occurred on the same route where 40 vehicles were involved. It occurred in the early hours of Monday in Khekra region of Baghpat when a canter hit a truck and it led to several vehicles hitting each other. At least 20 passengers were injured in that accident. Baghpat ASP Manish Mishra said, "All the injured were immediately transferred to a hospital in Ghaziabad. The main reason was dense fog." Notably, the Baghpat stretch of the expressway is accident prone. At least a dozen vehicles piled up on Eastern Peripheral Expressway near Singoli village of Baghpat on December 22 last year. On November 10, 28 passengers were injured when a speeding bus overturned. In September, too, a dreadful accident had occurred at almost the same spot when a 35-year-old man was charred to death after his car rammed into a petrol tanker and burst into flames. Meanwhile, in a separate incident in Noorpur region of Bijnor, a speeding bus struck an electric pole leaving at least 12 people with minor injuries, early on Saturday. Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh said the bus was on its way to Chandpur when its driver lost control over the vehicle. "The bus driver is said to be critical and has been admitted to district hospital," the SP added. ReplyForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dense-fog-causes-another-pile-up-on-eastern-peripheral-expressway/articleshow/80900864.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 14, 2021||Goa||BJP trying to lure voters in municipal areas by offering large grants: Cong||Panaji: Congress on Saturday accused the BJP-led state government of trying to entice voters in municipal areas by offering grants and making fake promises ahead of civic body elections. The party’s general secretary, Amarnath Panjikar, said that instead, chief minister Pramod Sawant should provide relief to the marginalised sector and traditional occupations which suffered because of the pandemic. The party was reacting to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s claim that panchayats and municipal bodies would get grants to the tune of Rs 50 lakh and Rs 1 crore respectively for completing the Swayampurna Goem programme. “The bankrupt chief minister, who has no guts to release a white paper on the financial condition of the state, is now luring voters of municipal areas with ‘jumla’ promises,” Panajikar said. The party said that if the state has funds, it should not hesitate to provide financial support to the marginalised sector and traditional businesses. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat had urged the state government to roll out a Rs 100-crore financial package to help traditional businesses which have suffered due to the lockdown. “Unfortunately, the insensitive BJP government completely ignored our suggestion for its selfish pro-capitalist agenda,” Panjikar said. “During zilla panchayat elections, Sawant promised jobs. Now he is boasting of a Rs 300-crore package announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Let the chief minister first come out with proof that the money has reached the state treasury,” Panjikar said. The party also said that the Centre has pushed Goa into a financial emergency, while also destroying Goa’s identity. “We demand that the chief minister should stop giving false promises and hoodwinking people,” Panjikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-trying-to-lure-voters-in-municipal-areas-by-offering-large-grants-cong/articleshow/80902841.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||DMK leadership alone can decide on DMDK as ally: Raja||DMK deputy general secretary and MP A Raja on Saturday said only the DMK leadership can decide on inducting the DMDK into the alliance. He was responding to a query from a reporter as to whether the DMDK would be accepted by the DMK as an ally.DMDK leader Premalatha had recently called upon both the AIADMK and DMK to start alliance talks without delay. Though the reference to the DMK was an inadvertent slip of the tongue as her party is very much in the AIADMK alliance, it raised lots of speculation as to whether the DMDK leadership is toeing with the idea of deserting the camp. The DMDK leadership is not happy with the treatment it has received at the hands of the AIADMK, especially the delay in holding alliance talks.Raja, speaking at a book launch function, said the DMK would win 200 seats in the assembly elections and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies would be ousted from Tamil Nadu. He said the Union government was attempting to implement ‘one nation, one language’ formula. “The DMK is the only party that can challenge the ideology of BJP and it is the only party opposing the BJP,” he said.“The Union government ignored Tamil Nadu in the budget. However, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and the state government welcomed the budget,” the DMK leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-leadership-alone-can-decide-on-dmdk-as-ally-raja/articleshow/80901747.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Schools open for classes 6-8 next week in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Schools across the state will resume in-person classes for students from class 6 to class 8 from February 8. The education department announced this decision on Saturday. Attendance will not be compulsory for students, though, and online classes will continue. Classes across schools of all boards will resume with strict adherence to Centre's Covid-19 norms and guidelines issued by the state government, education secretary Vinod Rao said. He added that instructions have been given to all district education officers as well as primary education officers to ensure that schools comply with the Standard Operating Procedures. He clarified that attendance in this offline education will be voluntary and the educational institution will have to get the prescribed consent form from parents of students. He added that the present system of online classes will continue for students who do not join the offline classes. The government resolution clarified that the student or teacher or other staff infected with Covid-19 must not join school. Schools in containment zones, if any, shall remain shut. Maintaining social distancing, wearing mask as well following the SOP will remain mandatory for both students as well the teachers, according to the resolution. Classes 10 to 12 in schools and final-year classes in under-graduate and post-graduate courses in colleges and universities began from January 11. This was followed by reopening of classes 9 and 11 on February 1, and first-year college classes from February 8. About 40% students from classes 9 to 12 joined offline education in the early stages. This has risen to 70 to 72 per cent, claimed the state education department. Parents are enthusiastically cooperating in the interest of their children’s education, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-open-for-classes-6-8-next-week/articleshow/80902883.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Egg shortage likely in Mumbai as most poultry farms hit in Navapur||An egg shortage may be felt in Mumbai and Pune in few days with avian influenza affecting 21 of 29 layer poultry farms at Navapur in Nandurbar, prompting the authorities to plan culling of poultry birds in 25 farms, taking the number of birds culled to over six lakh. In layer poultry farming, egg-laying poultry birds are raised for commercial egg production. “Of the 29 layer poultry farms in Navapur, two don’t have birds and are closed. Two, with around four lakh poultry birds, are unaffected. Of the remaining 25 layer poultry farms, 21 were affected with avian influenza, while eight cases from four remaining units were sent for tests recently. But even if some are negative, birds in the remaining four farms will be culled to break the chain of infection. Around 50,000 remaining birds are expected to be culled by Sunday,” Maharashtra’s animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI on Saturday. “This shortage of eggs is not only due to culling of lakhs of birds but also because many farmers sold off their birds in the wake of the flu,” a poultry expert said. Neha Madaan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/egg-shortage-likely-in-mumbai-as-most-poultry-farms-hit-in-navapur/articleshow/80901761.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Covid-induced V-Day curbs hit cut flower export from Hosur||Krishnagiri: Restricted Valentine’s Day celebrations across the world due to the Covid situation have left cut flower exporters in Hosur heartbroken as they received only 20% of orders this year compared to the previous years. Cut roses are grown in around 1,500 acres in Hosur, Denkanikottai and neighbouring areas. Many varieties such as Red Giant, Red Horizon, Red Corvette, Happy Hour, Passion Royal Class, Red Palace, Bohemia and others were usually exported to Europe, Japan, southeast Asia, Australia, Middle East and Russia.“A rose plant takes 150 days to start flowering. After plucking the flower, it will take 50 days for the next one to flower in the same stem,” said Balaguru Prasath, the director of the Krishnagiri district horticulture department. “Growers spend Rs 4 a plant per day and the plant will give flowers for at least five years,” he added. “Many countries, including Singapore, Malaysia, Australia, Japan and England, had imported about 60-75 lakh cut roses each during the Valentine’s Day season the previous years. This year, it was reduced to around 15 lakh in several of these countries due to the Covid restrictions,” Prasath said. K Suresh Kumar, a cut rose exporter, said he planted 35,000 plants in an acre anticipating orders for Valentine’s Day this year. “But the pandemic has completely hit the exports,” he said. Besides, the exporters lamented that high transportation cost due to raised freight charge by airlines also hit the orders this years. Due to this, the flower growers are forced to sell cut roses in local markets for a reduced price. “While we receive Rs 70 per flower from buyers abroad, it is Rs 12 from a local buyer,” a cut flower exporter said. The exporters urged the state government to waive loans that they borrowed to set up green houses in their farms. “Like agriculture loans, we request the chief minister to waive loans brought for erecting green houses,” an exporter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-induced-v-day-curbs-hit-cut-flower-export-from-hosur/articleshow/80901745.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chennai||Waiver sets tone for AIADMK’s poll-time harvest||S Rajakani lost all hope when the unseasonal rain in January damaged maize, pulses and oilseeds in his six-acre field in G Usilampatti in Andipatti taluk of Theni district. The family of four was haunted by outstanding crop loan of `90,200 in Ramalingapuram primary agricultural cooperative credit society (PACCS), besides the `1 lakh it owed a private lender. On Monday, Rajakani was jubilant to be among the nine beneficiaries at the Secretariat to get their certificates of loan waiver from chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. His loan, along with interest of `1,059, was waived. "It is a day to rejoice. My family and I have been ecstatic since the loan waiver announcement was made. Since the AIADMK government has done this help, why shouldn’t we vote for it?" he asked gleefully. The government has waived `435 crore loans of 28,015 farmers in Madurai and 15,213 farmers in Theni districts. Overcoming challenges posed by the vagaries of monsoon remains tough for farmers and looking out for help remains the only option. A Thilagavathi, a beneficiary from Villianallur in Parangipet union of Cuddalore district, lost the entire matured paddy crop raised in her four acres. "We availed a loan of `1.28 lakh from Puduchatram PACCS. The government is generous in waiving the loan," the mother of five said. A Ganesh, her son who accompanied her to the Secretariat, said the family would vote for two leaves, as was the practice of his father and grandfather. P Dhanalakshmi of Alampatti in Namakkal said, "We are thankful to the CM. Since he has done good for us, we will vote for his party". The onion crop raised by the widow in two acres was damaged by heavy rain in January. With the government waiving off her `50,393 loan availed three months ago, the family is eager to get a new loan for the next crop season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/waiver-sets-tone-for-aiadmks-poll-time-harvest/articleshow/80901749.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Following norms, staggering, students cooperation keep schools free of Covid-19 in Nagpur schools||NAGPUR: The district hasn’t officially recorded a case of a student testing positive even after over a month of schools reopening Std 9 to 12 classes in December-January followed by Std 5 to 8 from February 8. The success of Nagpur schools keeping students free of infection is a result of certain tough measures being religiously followed during school hours. These include continuous close monitoring, restrictions on crowding during breaks, compulsory use of masks and sanitizers, distancing and staggering batches in case of increase in attendance. TOI spoke to stakeholders from public and private schools regarding the system being followed to keep Covid away. All of them appreciated the efforts of students and parents in following the norms. Principal of BKVV Chaya Chaturvedi said that two teachers are present in the class. “The non-academic teacher keeps a watch to avoid close contacts among students during the intervals and class hours. The kids are dropped by parents and teachers escort them to the classes right from the gate. They are allowed to talk with each other but not move or stand in groups,” she said. Chaturvedi added that with every passing day the attendance is improving but fewer students at the moment have contributed in keeping all of them safe. “Some are still learning through online classes relayed during school hours,” she said. School Headmasters Charitable Association president Zafar Ahmed Khan said given the kind of cooperation staff, students and parents are extending, it is now certain that schools can’t be spreaders. “We are following all norms without any lapse. Mainly we have been able to pull it through without taking any monetary help from the government or local bodies. The attendance is increasing gradually. So far of the reasons low attendance was a major reason in fighting Covid. Now will have to stagger when more number of students starting coming,” he said. Attendance in the district has shot up gradually with around 2 lakh students of Std V to VIII coming to school and 1.70 lakh of Class 9 to 12. This is around 50% of the total number of students enrolled in the districts. Ahmed said they are worried that other relaxations may expose students to the infection. “There is risk of them getting infected at home or outside. We are keeping are fingers crossed and pray that our schools remained safe,” he said. Another reason was that all teachers were tested and those testing positive in the beginning were quarantined. Zilla Parishand education officer Chintaman Wanjari too said that they have not allowed to students to gather in groups beside making all norms must in schools. NMC education officer Priti Misrikotkar attributed the success to teachers and students. “Staggering students in batches is helping us a lot,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/following-norms-staggering-students-cooperation-keep-schools-free-of-covid/articleshow/80900872.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||2 months on, city man in custody in Sharjah||Hyderabad: A 38-year-old man from the city, who was arrested by the authorities in Sharjah in December last, continues to be in police custody there. Family members, who reside at Kotla Alijah in Moghalpura, said they spoke to Mohammed Subhan, who told them that he was not given any specific reasons for his arrest. The family reckons Subhan’s predicament to an issue with his previous employer and urged the authorities to look into the matter. Mother Noor Jahan wrote to external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Consulate General of India in Dubai and Indian embassy in Abu Dhabi to probe the reasons behind her son’s arrest and help him to return to the country. Subhan was to take up a job in a shopping mall when he was picked up by cops on arrival at Sharjah airport on December 24, 2020. Noor Jahan said he called them from the airport and told them about his plight. Subhan had worked in UAE earlier and came to India in February 2020. He could not go back immediately because of restrictions and prolonged lockdown. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-months-on-city-man-in-custody-in-sharjah/articleshow/80901778.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||GFP hits out at CM for doublespeak on Swayampurna Goem||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant’s televised remark that Goa will never be completely self-reliant betrays the BJP government’s efforts towards Swayampurna Goem and proves that the programme is nothing but an election stunt, said Goa Forward Party (GFP) here on Saturday. GFP said it would keep a close watch on the Swayampurna Goem programme as it feels that the initiative is a scam in the making. GFP was reacting to Sawant’s remarks at a public function in Sindhudurg. In his speech, Sawant said that no matter how much Goa tries to become self-reliant in dairy farming, agriculture and horticulture, it is not possible. “Swayampurna Goa is nothing but a grand illusion perpetrated on Goemkars like every other BJP election stunt. Pramod Sawant’s happy remark that Goa will never be Swayampurna not only betrays his own party slogan but also invites others to take advantage of it,” GFP president Vijai Sardesai said as he described Sawant’s statements as strange. GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat questioned why the chief minister declared that Rs 100 crore would be utilised on Swayampurna Goem if he did not believe that Goa can be self-reliant. Sawant also drew Sardesai’s ire for claiming that completion of the Mopa international airport would provide immense benefit to Sindhudurg’s tourism sector. “It seems that the idea behind seizing farm lands from Goan farmers and mass displacement of poor Goemkars for Mopa international airport is to develop tourism in Sindhudurg. Sawant seems excited about better prospects for those in Maharashtra than in Goa. Truly Sawantwadi,” Sardesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-hits-out-at-cm-for-doublespeak-on-swayampurna-goem/articleshow/80902843.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Cancel classes on Saturdays, schoolteachers request govt||Coimbatore: Students seem to have given a cold shoulder to the government’s decision to conduct classes six days a week to compensate for the lost time and prepare them better for the public examination.Pointing out that the number of students attending the classes on Saturday was significantly lower than that of other working days, schoolteachers have now requested the government to cancel the classes on Saturdays.T Arulanantham, state auditor, Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary Schools Graduate Teachers’ Association, said only 60%-70% students was attending the classes on Saturdays, compared to 90% on weekdays. “It has been the trend for the past one month and it looks like working six days a week is stressing out the students.”He said not providing mid-day meal on Saturdays could also be a reason for the high rate of absenteeism.Pointing out that they had already completed the entire syllabus even before the reopening of schools in January and that the government had reduced the syllabus by 40%, a private school teacher said they have been brushing up the portions for the students. “It is difficult to repeat the portion that is taught on Saturday for the absentees on other working days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cancel-classes-on-saturdays-schoolteachers-request-govt/articleshow/80901750.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Help micro units, bizmen tell banks||Coimbatore: A day after Canara Bank distributed loans to micro units that have only current account with the bank, industrialists on Saturday urged other banks to provide loans as several micro units are in desperate need of assistance.Canara Bank had distributed Rs 5 lakh each to three micro units and Rs 50,000 each to four units, without any collateral, under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana.. But other banks are hesitant to provide loans to micro units even after the recommendation of the district collector and district industries centre (DIC), said J James, district president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises. “We assume it is because the units, especially those who do job works for bigger companies, could not show large turnover. But the government has given banks assurance on our behalf and they can collect their money back by claiming insurance if the units fail to repay,” he said. During the pandemic situation, the central government had announced that 20% additional loan with 6.5 to 7% interest will be provided to the industries, the official said. “Subsequently, we submitted 410 applications seeking loans. But we don’t know the status of 80% of the applications. We received no response even after several representations. Loans were given only to those units that had already obtained loan from that bank.”Without financial support from banks, the units are obtaining loan from private moneylenders who charges about Rs 3 to Rs 10 for every Rs 100 loan, James said. “Whatever we earn is used to pay the interest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/help-micro-units-bizmen-tell-banks/articleshow/80901748.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Students raise awareness on social issues||Coimbatore: Walls of the government middle schools in the district would in a week sport painting that would sensitize the public on a myriad of topics such as safety of girl children, importance of education, personal hygiene and Covid-19 preventive measures. And the students are racing against time to finish the task at hand on time. G Latha, state project director, Samagra Shiksha, said they used to conduct various activities to sensitize the students and public on a range of topics under the media and community mobilization programme. “As the schools haven’t reopened this year because of the pandemic situation, we decided to conduct a wall painting competition for the middle school students to bring out their talents, beautify the government school walls and educate the public.”She said they had conducted an online painting contest and selected five best paintings per school to be painted on their walls. Students, she said, had started painting the walls on Friday by sticking to Covid-19 precautionary measures. “We have provided them all the required materials and a week’s time to complete the paintings.” Another source said all the 235 middle schools in the district were allotted a fund of Rs 2,400 each to purchase the materials. “Paintings could be on either side of the walls and the best three paintings would be awarded a cash prize of Rs 600, Rs 500 and Rs 400, respectively.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/students-raise-awareness-on-social-issues/articleshow/80901768.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Shimon Peres, the man who was Israeli PM twice and later prez||Shimon Peres twice served as Israeli prime minister and later ninth president. He died aged 93 in 2016. The chowk between V B Gandhi Marg and Saibaba Marg currently has no name. It would have been the first junction in the city to be named after a foreign leader. Knesset Eliyahoo Synagogue is at V B Gandhi Marg. Established in 1884, it is Mumbai’s second oldest Sephardic synagogue. Earlier, a huge Baghdadi Jewish community lived in the area. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shimon-peres-the-man-who-was-israeli-pm-twice-and-later-prez/articleshow/80902927.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Student’s claim of kidnap, rape false||HYDERABAD: A 19-year-old student’s alleged claim of kidnap and gang-rape at Ghatkesar turned out to be a concocted story to stay away from her family. In a rare gesture, Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat on Saturday apologised to all suspects, who were questioned for three days, as they had to face the ordeal and humiliation. Rachakonda police, who had registered a gang-rape case based on the statement of the 19-year-old undergraduate in Ghatkesar, have found during investigation that “it is a false complaint made by the teenager”. Police said they were yet to take a decision on filing any case against the teenager for giving a false complaint and sending over a hundred police personnel on a wild goose chase. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, Rachakonda police chief Mahesh Bhagwat said the girl allegedly created the abduction-cum-gang-rape drama as she wanted to stay away from her family. On February 10 late in the evening, the girl called her mother claiming she was abducted by an auto driver. After police were informed about the abduction by her family, the girl was found with a leg injury and torn clothes. During the investigation, it was found she had suffered injury after she fell down accidentally while running after police vans with blaring sirens came in search of her. She herself tore her dress to project that she was sexually abused. After she was shifted to a private hospital, the teenager gave a preliminary statement, but police found several inconsistencies in her replies. Assuming that the inconsistent replies could be due to the trauma, police shifted their focus on nabbing the accused. “When police interacted with her and showed some photographs, she identified an auto driver as one of the suspects. Believing her version, we nabbed him. However, when we verified the facts, the suspect was not at the said locations on Wednesday as claimed by the girl. Actually, he was in a movie theatre and later went to consume liquor with his friend. The same was corroborated by CCTV footage,’’ the CP said. Similarly, when police verified 100 CCTVs from Rampally Crossroads to Annojiguda service road, where she was traced by police, she was actually found at different locations either boarding or disembarking an auto rickshaw, taking a long walk for nearly four kilometres. “Nowhere, we found anyone abducting her. It became clear that she was lying. On Friday night, we questioned her again by showing the different footage, it was then that she confessed that she cooked up the kidnap and rape story,’’ police said. When investigators questioned why she tried to fix an innocent auto driver, the teenager said that in the past he had yelled at her after a dispute over auto fare. Rachakonda police said they have to close the existing case and inform the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-claim-of-kidnap-rape-false/articleshow/80901756.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||Goa police bust inter-state job racket, rescue Afghan man||VASCO: Goa police helped bust a multi-state job racket, wherein youth looking to migrate abroad for jobs were being lured to Goa and then kidnapped for ransom. The accused were caught based on a complaint filed in the case of a 28-year-old Afghan, who was lured to Goa and held captive in Porvorim. Haryana resident Sushil Singh alias Rishab was the mastermind behind the crimes. His gang included 13 persons in all, including two Goa residents and one minor. Police said once the victims were kidnapped, they were used to extort up to Rs 35 lakh each from the youths’ family and friends. Afghan national Shapoor Zarifi, who resides in India as a refugee, came down to Goa from Delhi on February 7, after he was promised employment in Toronto, Canada, by the accused. Once he landed at a hotel in Vasco, he was taken to a bungalow in Porvorim and held captive there. South Goa superintendent of police Pankaj Kumar Singh said that a team comprising personnel from Vasco, crime branch, ATS and Pernem police station, in a joint operation, rescued Zarifi from Porvorim. During the operation, one more captive from Punjab was found. Sushil Singh, through his agents, lured job-seekers with an offer of employment and visa for Canada, said the SP. Zarifi had come down to India seven years ago and was dealing in real estate in Delhi. The victim was kept under strict supervision of the goons, who would beat him up and force him to send audio messages through WhatsApp to his fiancee in Delhi, who is also an Afghan national. He was asked to speak in English and inform his family that he has reached Canada. A fake boarding pass, tickets and IP location of Canada were created by the gang to be sent to his youth’s family and fiancee, as a confirmation that Zarifi had indeed reached his destination. After getting an initial payment of Rs two lakh from Zarifi, his fiancee was asked for a payment of $20,000 or Rs 14.5 lakh. She was told it was for the agent. She suspected something was amiss when his messages came in English, as they always conversed in their native Farsi. Zarifi too managed to tell her in Farsi that he was kidnapped. His fiancee along with few other Afghan refugees came down to Goa and lodged a complaint with Vasco police on Thursday. Accordingly, the team, headed by Singh, traced the location. Police arrested 12 persons and one minor and rescued the two captives. The second captive from Punjab came down to Goa on February 6 and had promised to pay Rs 35 lakh. The accused include Pernem residents Alex D’Souza, 29, and Robinson D’Souza, 23. Ashish Tripathi from UP and Rajat Kalyan, Saahil Kalyan, Pradeep Kumar, Sanju Singh, Vijay, Anil Kumar, Anurag Kumar, Vishal Goswami from Haryana are the other accused, including a 16-year-old minor. The minor accused was lodged at a protective home due to his age. Police recovered fake boarding passes and passport, laptop and printer used to create the fake passport and boarding passes and mobile phones. Two cars which were used during the kidnapping and second one used by the main accused were also seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-bust-inter-state-job-racket-rescue-afghan-man/articleshow/80902864.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||Been put under surveillance, claims TMC MP Mahua Moitra||NEW DELHI: Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra has taken strong exception to what she called being put “under surveillance” when she found security personnel outside her residence. She claimed she has not been informed of any security threat and has not lodged any complaint with the police. Moitra wrote to Delhi Police on Saturday, saying she has not asked for protection. The Lok Sabha MP said, “I wonder whether we are living in Gestapo camps…” while speaking to TOI. She took to Twitter saying: “3 BSF men w/ assault rifles outside my home. Say they are from Barakhamba Road police station for my ‘protection’. Still outside my home. Request Honb’le HM @Amit Shah Ji & @HMOIndia to remove immediately.” In her letter to Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava, she said the SHO of Barakhamba Road police station had come to meet her on February 12 and shortly “thereafter, around three BSF personnel armed with assault rifles had been deputed outside her house.” “The conduct of these armed officers indicate that they are making notes of movements to and from my residence,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/been-put-under-surveillance-claims-tmc-mp-mahua-moitra/articleshow/80903640.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||HC fines excise officer for impounding jaggery lorry||Hyderabad: Justice Challa Kodanda Ram of the high court has found fault with deputy commissioner of prohibition and excise wing, Mahbubnagar, Syed Yasin Qureshi for detaining a lorry in an unlawful manner and not releasing it on time even after an order from the court. The judged imposed a fine of Rs 1000 on the officer with a direction that he pay it from his pocket. The judge was dealing with a contempt case filed by J Ramesh, whose lorry carrying jaggery was seized on the ground that he was transporting it for the manufacture of illicit liquor. Taking note of the fact that there was no prohibition or control order per se prohibiting the transportation of jaggery, a common edible item, and the seizure was only on the suspicion that it would be used in the manufacture of illicit liquor, the court had earlier ordered the release of the lorry pending inquiry, and after obtaining an undertaking from the lorry owner that he should not alienate or create third party rights on the vehicle or alter the physical features of the vehicle until the inquiry ends. The officials, however, dodged the issue for nearly five months and this irked the judge. The judge refused to believe the claims of the excise officials that the lorry owner did not give the undertaking as was directed by the high court. The judge cited the representation the petitioner made to the officials asking them to implement the high court order. This shows that he was ready to give the undertaking but the officials did not entertain his representation, Justice Kodanda Ram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-fines-excise-officer-for-impounding-jaggery-lorry/articleshow/80901785.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Goa||Mormugao civic council's workers call off strike after minister finally intervenes||VASCO: The workers of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) on Saturday called off their strike, after six days, following the talks initiated with them by Mormugao MLA and urban development minister Milind Naik. Naik assured the workers that all their demands would be fulfilled. The workers were striking, among other issues, over delay in their dues by the municipality. Interestingly, Naik’s negotiations with the workers - the first such move by him in six days - comes close on the heels of outburst against the minister by his party colleague and Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida. Almeida had heavily criticized Naik for not visiting the striking workers. The MMC labour strike had resulted in uncollected garbage piling up in the municipal area. About 200 staffers of MMC had been on strike halting all work of the municipality. Naik on Saturday held a meet with Directorate of Municipal Administration, administrator and chief officer of MMC, the workers’ union leaders and others. Naik assured that the workers’ salaries will be paid on time henceforth. He promised to pay their salaries by Thursday, theirallowances within the next three months and their arrears and others money within a year’s time. “This issue would not have blown up if they had to directly come to us, but they started their strike without intimation,” Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mormugao-civic-councils-workers-call-off-strike-after-minister-finally-intervenes/articleshow/80902906.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Bird flu epicentres now 52 in state as against 5 in 2006||The number of avian influenza epicentres in Maharashtra has risen to 52 in 22 districts, far higher than the 2006 outbreak. Animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI on Saturday, “The 2006 outbreak involved an H5N1 strain of bird flu and had occurred at five epicentres (one in Nandurbar and four in Jalgaon). The current outbreak is at 52 epicentres in 22 districts, and involves H5N1 and H5N8 strains of the bird flu virus.” Singh said epicentres were bound to be high as the infection spreads through migratory birds. “The gravity and spread of avian influenza this time is more than 2006 but the economic impact on poultry trade is not like 2006. There is no reason to panic as infection is not recurring where affected poultry birds have been culled,” he said. Singh said in 2006, egg and broiler prices hit rock bottom. “This time, egg prices are almost at the same level as before the outbreak, while broiler is 10-20% down. After tackling bird flu in 2006, the state has more experience in tackling the spread. The campaign started by state authorities on informing consumers that properly cooked chicken and egg consumption is safe, helped blunt the economic impact, which could have come about by falling sales,” he said. Maharashtra Poultry Farmers’ and Breeders’ Association sources said though consumption of eggs and chicken had dropped by 25-30% when the outbreak started, it was returning to normal and farm gate egg prices had increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bird-flu-epicentres-now-52-in-state-as-against-5-in-2006/articleshow/80901798.cms||Neha Madaan
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||No court relief for minor girl who eloped with boy||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has refused to grant any protection to a lovelorn runway couple, where the girl was minor, observing that the boy whom the girl had allegedly eloped with, cannot be the “next friend”. The court was of the view that only the parents, brother, uncle being the natural guardian of a minor girl can be her “next friend” for the purpose of her protection. “After hearing counsel for the petitioners, this court finds that the petitioner No.2 (boy) allegedly became acquaintance of the girl only six months back and their alleged relations developed recently. However, in support of the pleadings contained in the petition, the affidavit of petitioner No.2 alone has been filed, who is representing the petitioner No.1 (minor girl) as her next friend. Considering the nature of the relief and the fact that the petition is directed against the parents of the minor girl as well as her brother and uncle, who are natural guardian and close relatives respectively, therefore, the stand of petitioner No.2 (boy) as next friend of petitioner No.1 (girl) is not worth acceptance,” the HC has observed. Justice Manoj Bajaj has passed these orders while dismissing a petition filed by a couple from Punjab seeking protection to their life and liberty. The girl was minor and the boy was major. They had alleged that the family and relatives of the girl are against their relationship. It was submitted in the petition by the counsel for the boy that for the last six months, the boy and the girl were in contact with each other after they fell in love. They decided to marry each other on attaining the age of majority. As per the pleadings, when the relationship of the petitioners came to the knowledge of the girl’s family, they turned against their alliance, therefore, the petitioners ran away from their respective houses on January 8, and are now living together. They were apprehensive that the girl’s family members would cause harm to them, so they submitted a representation to SSP Ferozepur for protection of their life but no action had been taken. After hearing the petition, the HC dismissed the petition observing, “There is no averment in the petition that the interest of the petitioner No.2 (boy) is not adverse to the interest of petitioner No.1 (minor girl) particularly, when unsubstantiated allegations have been levelled against parents etc. A perusal of the representation further reveals that it is vague and lacks all relevant and necessary particulars, therefore, the apprehension expressed is misconceived.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-court-relief-for-minor-girl-who-eloped-with-boy/articleshow/80902880.cms||Ajay Sura
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Login issue: Students to get another chance||AHMEDABAD: As many as 500 students at Gujarat University (GU) could not participate in the college examinations that started on Saturday. The students said that they could not login to their computers, mobile phones and other devices for the online exams. The university officials said this time they have tightened the security measures to prevent cheating or other online malpractices during exams. Face recognition technology and various browser security tools were introduced for this. “These students need not lose heart. They will be given another chance to participate in the crucial college exams,” said Himanshu Pandya, the vice-chancellor of the university. The students belonged to various faculties including BA, BCom and BSc, among others. He said that the students who followed the procedures properly were able to successfully take the exams. Pandya assured that if students will again face such issues, they will be given another chance as well. As many as 40,000 students participated in the exams that were held for third and fifth semester undergraduate students. Ishita Barot, third semester BCom student, H L College of Commerce, said, “After a lot of efforts, I managed to log in but after four minutes I got a message on my computer screen that my exams have ended,” said Barot. She could however take the exams on Saturday evening after successfully logging in. The issue was mainly faced by third-semester students in the hour-long exam that was held on Saturday morning. Many students complained that there were issues with the server. As many as 40,000 students participated in the online exams on Saturday. The varsity carried mock online tests twice this month after some students complained that they did not receive the user ID and password details for the online exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/login-issue-students-to-get-another-chance/articleshow/80902884.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Road safety committee head visits Children’s Traffic Park||Coimbatore: The head of road safety committee, Justice Abhay Manohar Sapre, formed judge of the Supreme Court, inspected the Children’s Traffic Park in the city on Saturday. The park, which was set up and maintained by the city police, is aimed to sensitize the public, especially children, about road safety rules.Sapre was accompanied by Coimbatore collector K Rajamani, deputy commissioner (traffic) Mutharasu and other senior officials. He later held a discussion with the officials.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/road-safety-committee-head-visits-childrens-traffic-park/articleshow/80901783.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||25,650 PG seats allotted in first phase of counselling||Hyderabad: Of the 38,059 postgraduate seats in Telangana, 25,649 were allocated in the first phase of counselling concluded on February 12. The total number of seats available under convener quota is 38,059. About 40,182 candidates exercised web options of which 25,649 were allotted seats in the first phase of counselling. A total of 12,410 seats are left vacant for which the director of admissions, Osmania University is set to conduct second phase of counselling. “Students have to pay the prescribed fee of the course/college through online and self-report on or before February 17, 2021,” said Prof N Kishan, convenor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25650-pg-seats-allotted-in-first-phase-of-counselling/articleshow/80901806.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||Goa: New cases below 50 for third day||PANAJI: For yet another day, Goa’s daily count of Covid-19 cases fell below the 50-mark. On Saturday, 41 fresh cases, 51 recoveries and one death were reported. The number of active cases dropped to 583 and the death tally increased to 779. A 51-year-old woman from Dona Paula died two days after she was admitted to the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital. The woman had hypertension and had also suffered a stroke. Meanwhile, the case positivity rate jumped to 2.9% from 2.5 % on Friday. The recovery rate was at 97%. Since March 2020, Goa has reported 54,193 cases and 52,831 people have recovered. During the day, 54 people were home isolated and 28 patients were admitted to hospital. Case tallies of three centres in North Goa – Mayem, Aldona and Casarvarnem – has been less than five while in South Goa, Navelim and Marcaim centres had less than five cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-cases-below-50-for-third-day/articleshow/80902907.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Agra||3 black laws a death warrant for farmers, says Jayant Chaudhary||AGRA: Terming the three farm laws as "death warrant for farmers", Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice-president Jayant Chaudhary while addressing a 'kisan mahapanchayat' in Akola block of Agra district on Saturday said that the government is adamant not to withdraw the black laws and this is an “attempt to silence the voice of farmers”. Despite police hurdles, more than 10,000 farmers from different parts of Agra district took part in the 'kisan mahapanchayat' - backed by RLD. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders were also present. “The agitation may have started from Punjab and Haryana, but now it is a nationwide movement. There is a countrywide outrage against the three farm laws. Over 200 farmers laid down their lives for the movement, so far. The government should understand this and withdraw the three laws immediately,” he said. Accusing the Centre of supporting the big corporates, Jayant added that farmers will not go by the Prime Minister’s words on minimum support price (MSP). “Farmers want a legal framework for the MSP and withdrawal of laws. We will not settle for anything less." On Yogi government lodging cases against him and his supporters, he said that "we are not afraid of such repressive measures". “The more such steps they take, the more united we will be. Legal action and lathicharge on farmers will only make them stronger,” he added. On Thursday, Jayant along with over 6,000 others were booked in Aligarh for "violating prohibitory orders and not following Covid-19 protocol during a public rally". Countering it, Jayant asked, “Prohibitory orders and Covid protocol do not apply to the BJP when they hold public gatherings?" The RLD has been holding a series of public meetings across western Uttar Pradesh in support of the farmers' protests. Jayant is slated to hold a public meeting in Bharatpur on Sunday, in Hathras on February 15 and for the next three days in parts of Mathura district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-black-laws-a-death-warrant-for-farmers-says-jayant-chaudhary/articleshow/80900882.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 14, 2021||Surat||‘Thief’ arrested 31 years later denies his crime||SURAT: A 51-year-old construction labourer never imagined that the long arm of law would catch up with him a good three decades later for a ‘theft’ that he now denies having committed even then. Be that as it may, even cops were stunned to find the man they had been hunting for so long waiting to be nabbed just a couple of kilometres away from the place of crime! But Sardarsinh alias Satish Hussain Vasava, who was arrested from Majura Gate area by Athwalines police recently based on specific information, said he was on the run since March 22, 1990, more out of fear of reprisal than for any crime. He was 20 years of age when he was accused by his employer of stealing Rs 29,440 in cash. Today, the youngest of Vasava’s three children is 20 years old! Vasava, who was later released on bail denied committing the crime and told the police that he got married while on the run and while his two sons work as labourers, his daughter is studying nursing. According to case details, owner of textile firm in Vadi Faliya where Vasava worked then as a peon, Arvind Shah, had asked him to deposit the amount in the bank. However, the money got stolen from him in a bus and fearing that he would be held responsible for the theft, Vasava, who was barely a year into the job, ran away instead of informing his employer. Incidentally, cops could trace Vasava purely through human intelligence. As part of its drive to catch offenders wanted in old cases, police started visiting their native places and reached Vasava’s wife at his native village in Narmada district who informed cops that he lives in the city now and works as a casual construction labourer. “We were helped by a person known to Vasava as he has changed over years and arrested him,” said a police officer in Athwalines police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/thief-arrested-31-years-later-denies-his-crime/articleshow/80900017.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||PD Act invoked against rowdysheeter||Hyderabad: Kalapathar police invoked PD Act against a rowdysheeter Mohammed Wajid. Police said that he in the past was involved in trespass and criminal intimidation. He was arrested in October, 2020 on the charge of Arms Act and others. Since then he has been in Chanchalguda jail. Police have now decided to invoke PD Act against him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pd-act-invoked-against-rowdysheeter/articleshow/80901813.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Rally held in Amravati for 50% waiver in power bills||AMRAVATI: Activists of Yuva Swabhiman Party of MLA Ravi Rana and MP Navneet Rana on Saturday organized ‘Aakrosh march’ to the residence of district guardian minister Yashomati Thakur to demand 50% waiver in electricity bills during the lockdown period. Hundreds of activists took part in the rally which started from the statue of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar at Irwin Square. The activists were stopped near the gate of Thakur's residence, where they shouted slogans and burned copies of the bills. They alleged that MSEDCL charged excessive electricity bills for the lockdown period and the common people are unable to pay. They urged the guardian minister to take up their demand with the chief minister, deputy CM and state energy minister, and raise it in the cabinet meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rally-held-in-amt-for-50-waiver-in-power-bills/articleshow/80900890.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Bareilly||25 injured as bus on way to Delhi from Shahjahanpur overturns in dense fog||BAREILLY: At least 25 passengers were injured after the sleeper bus they were travelling in from Shahjahanpur to Delhi overturned and fell into a roadside pit in CB Ganj area of Bareilly district on Friday night due to dense fog. There were a total of 70 passengers on board the bus that overturned around 12.15 am. Most of the passengers escaped unhurt and were sent to Delhi by another bus while the injured were admitted to the district hospital, said police. CB Ganj SHO Dharmendra Kumar said, “Our patrolling teams rushed to the spot and rescued the passengers. The bus driver lost control over the vehicle due to dense fog and it overturned. The driver also sustained injuries. Fortunately, no one is critical.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/25-injured-as-bus-on-way-to-delhi-from-shahjahanpur-overturns-in-dense-fog/articleshow/80900886.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 14, 2021||Shimla||Young candidates caught the fancy of voters during panchayati raj polls||Shimla: In Himachal Pradesh panchayati raj elections, voters have shown their confidence in the young candidates and results had thrown many surprises as large number of youngsters and first time candidates had won the elections of pradhans, up-pradhans, block development council member, Zila Parishad member and ward panch. Elections were held in more than 3,000 panchayats and among those got elected includes persons in their early 20s. While many youngsters have become panchayat pradhans, 21-year-old Muskan from Bilaspur district has became the youngest president of Bilaspur Zilla Parishad. In the 21 to 30 years age group, 31,126 candidates had filed nominations of which 9,061 candidates have won constituting 34.7% of total elected representatives. In the age group of 31 to 40 years, 34,799 candidates had filed nominations of which 9,785 have won which constitutes 37.4% of the elected representatives. In the 41 to 50 years age group, total 19,666 candidates had filed their nominations of which 4,974 have won and this constitutes 19% of the elected representatives, in the 51 to 60 years age group, 9,212 candidates had filed their nominations of which 1,936 have won which constitutes 7.4% of the elected representatives. In the above 60 age bracket, 1,975 candidates had filed their nominations of which 373 have won and this constitutes 1.4% of the elected representatives. Interestingly, in the panchayati raj elections, majority of candidates who contested the polls were women though they failed to beat the male candidates in winning the elections. In the state, 54,999 female candidates contested the elections, constituting 56.8% of total candidates while 41,777 male candidates (43.2%) contested the elections. Following the declaration of results 12,309 females won the election constituting 47.1% of total winning candidates while on other hand, 13,820 male candidates (52.9% ) also won that constituted of total winning candidates. Of the total 26,129 winning candidates, 21,368 (81.8%) are above poverty lines but only 255 (1%) pay the income tax while 2,608 (10%) winning candidates are from below poverty lines category. As far as educational qualifications of winning candidates are concerned, 12,087 (46.3%) are matriculate, 6,569 (25.1%) are below matric, 2,022 (7.7%) are graduates, 866 (3.3%) are post graduates while 502 (1.9%) are illiterate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/young-candidates-caught-the-fancy-of-voters-during-panchayati-raj-polls/articleshow/80902908.cms||Anand Bodh
February 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Plans afoot to make AP global chilli hub||VISAKHAPATNAM: The horticulture department has entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with ITC for a public-private-partnership (PPP) to export quality, pesticide-free chillies. The partnership aims at making Andhra Pradesh a global hub for chilli sourcing and utilise strengths of both parties to develop an institutional framework for chilli production and delivering the latest technologies to the farming community. The project was started on a pilot basis in Kurnool in an area of 500 acres which was scaled up to 10,000 acres in 2019 and 25,000 acres in 2020. The initiative is planned for four key chilli producing districts — Guntur, Kurnool, Prakasam, and Krishna — with an objective of reaching 1,00,000 acres of cultivation in five years and make AP a global hub for chilli sourcing. Horticulture commissioner Chiranjiv Choudhary said that AP is the largest producer of chilli in the country with three lakh farmers dependent on the crop. Choudhary pointed out that there is still immense opportunity to improve quality through appropriate pre and post-harvest interventions. “This requires a structure and holistic agri extension support to align crop production with market requirements,” Choudhary said. The horticulture commissioner explained that the focus of the partnership is to disseminate good agriculture practices and customised crop advisories to improve chilli crop competitiveness in terms of productivity, quality, sustainability, reduced cost of cultivation and better market linkages to ensure increased farmer income on a sustainable basis. Teja and Guntur Sannam varieties grown in Guntur, Prakasam and few other districts make Andhra Pradesh the leader in chilli production in the country. Horticulture officials said the “Chilli Farm Value Chain Development” programme is a classic example of a scalable PPP model which has established a market linked production system ensuring sustainable increase in farm incomes. For 2020-21, the project is helping 10,064 farmers from 77 villages, cultivating chilli in over 25,000 acres and following a horti-cluster-based approach, where an ecosystem of 35 technical partners has been formed under the e-Choupal IAEP umbrella. In the 2021 chilli season, over 48,000 tonnes of production is expected from the project for which market linkage is being worked out to facilitate higher price for produce. A plan to develop a brand for the chilli produced in the project area is also in the pipeline so that it can be placed separately in the market to maintain its identity and realise better prices. “At every key stage of crop growing, we have been trained in our village by scientists, horticulture department officials and ITC experts. Through the helpline number, I get information right on what kind of seed to use and immediate recommendations on pests and disease control. This is helping me and my fellow farmers to improve crop quality and farm gate purchase,” said Parmeshwara Reddy, a farmer from Solasa in Guntur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/plans-afoot-to-make-ap-global-chilli-hub/articleshow/80900724.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 14, 2021||Vijayawada||SEC orders case, media gag on civil supplies min||Vijayawada: Taking serious note of the allegations made by civil supplies minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao, the state election commission (SEC) passed orders directing Krishna district SP to file a case against the minister. The SEC, in its order, stated that the case should be registered under provisions of clauses 1 and 4 under the General Conduct of Model Code of Conduct and under sections 504, 505 (1C) and 506 of IPC and other relevant sections. The YSRC has condemned the orders issued by SEC and plans to challenge it in the high court. On Friday, Kodali Nani during a press conference had made a few remarks about the SEC which the commission took exception to and asked the minister for an explanation. Advocates representing the minister had submitted an explanation and stated that the SEC has misinterpreted the comments. Stating that it was not satisfied with the explanation, the SEC passed orders late on Friday night directing the minister to refrain from addressing the media till the completion of the panchayat elections on February 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-orders-case-media-gag-on-civil-supplies-min/articleshow/80900763.cms||Venu Lanka
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||60% healthcare workers take first dose within govt-set deadline||NAGPUR: Around 60% registered healthcare workers (HCW) of 11 districts of Vidarbha have taken the first dose of Covid vaccine within the deadline set by the state government. Due to delay or hesitancy of around 40% HCW, all districts will have to run first, second dose of HCW and first dose of frontline workers simultaneously from Monday. Around 1.80 lakh HCWs had registered for vaccination in the region. The state government had rolled out the vaccine on January 16 and set a February 14 deadline for the first dose to all HCWs. The deadline was fixed as beneficiaries are supposed to get second dose after 28 days from the first dose. Accordingly, the second dose for HCWs is likely to begin from February 15. As per state government’s data, 1,07,174 (59.54%) of around 1.80 lakh registered HCW turned up for the inoculation in the region between January 16 and February 13. In Nagpur district, 45,413 HCWs had done registration for the vaccine. 23,642 HCW have taken the jab for achievement of 52.06%. Around 40% HCW did not turn up despite multiple scheduling. They had cited various reasons for not taking the jab. The government had started vaccination of frontline workers (FLW) from February 5. As on Saturday, 33,837 FLWs have taken the jab in the remaining. Thus, 1,41,011 HCW and FLW have turned up for the inoculation as on Saturday. Deputy directors of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal (Nagpur division) and Dr Rajkumar Chavan (Amravati) told TOI, “First dose of registered HCW who did not turn up will continue. Government has made more provisions for them. Now, they can visit any vaccination centre and get the jab. They don’t need to be scheduled for vaccination. All these provisions have been made so that all get vaccinated.” Dr Jaiswal and Dr Chavan added that the second dose for HCWs will kick-off on February 15. On Saturday, the government sent a third lot of vaccines for the region for FLWs. 2,24,360 doses of Covishield (1,86,900) and Covaxin (37,460) were distributed. For the first time, Covaxin doses have been allotted to five districts — Wardha, Gadchiroli, Bhandara, Buldhana and Washim. Each district has received 7,100 doses. These doses will be utilized for HCW and FLW taking jab at district general hospitals. Amravati has received 1,960 doses of Covaxin. Earlier, GMCH, Nagpur and district general hospital, Amravati, were given Covaxin in the region. The government had supplied 1.88 lakh doses to the region on January 13 and 14 for HCW. 1.84 lakh doses were of Covishield and 4,000 doses of Covaxin for GMCH, Nagpur and district general hospital. On January 28, the government had delivered 1,63,400 more doses to the region for HCW. 1.57 lakh doses were of Covishield and 6,400 doses of Covaxin for GMCH, Nagpur and district general hospital. Total number of doses increased to 5,75,760 in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/60-healthcare-workers-take-first-dose-within-govt-set-deadline/articleshow/80900893.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 14, 2021||Vijayawada||AP not in position to pay 50% of railway project costs||AMARAVATI: The government has expressed its inability to take 50% burden of cost for the ongoing railway projects in the state and requested the Centre to complete railway projects with its own funds. While the government had agreed to share project costs in the past, it communicated to the Centre that the financial crisis induced by the bifurcation is the prime reason behind its inability to take the burden. Chief secretary Dr Adityanath Das brought the difficulties of the government to the notice of Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba. Das however promised that the state would undertake 50% share in the land acquisition cost for railway projects commissioned in the state. He said that they would expedite land acquisition for the ongoing Kadapa-Bengaluru railway project. To this, Gauba said that railway infrastructure projects would be a boon to under-developed regions and Centre is taking up all railway projects only with 50% share of respective state governments. Dr Das said that it was fact that the state had agreed to take the load in the past but was not in a position to spare funds due to its poor finances. Dr Das urged the cabinet secretary to convince the Railways Board to complete the project with its own funds. Sources said that around 2,000 acres of land is required for the railway project of which the government has completed preliminary process to acquire around 400 acres. It is yet to clear the compensation for nearly 1,400 acres while awaiting clearances from the Union ministry of forests and environment for acquisition of around 125 acres of land. Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had enquired with the chief secretary during a video-conference as to why the land acquisition for the proposed Kadapa-Bangalore railway project was not completed as per schedule. The prime minister had asked the chief secretary to take measures to speed up land acquisition as the delay of the project work would escalate costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-not-in-position-to-pay-50-of-rly-project-costs/articleshow/80900668.cms||Samdani MN
February 14, 2021||Bareilly||Aligarh depot UPSRTC bus crashes into truck, 14 injured||Bareilly: At least 14 people were injured after an Aligarh depot UPSRTC bus head-on collided with a truck on Anoopshahar road under Rajpura police station in Sambhal on Saturday morning. According to police sources, the accident took place around 8 am on Saturday when the Bijnor-bound speeding bus collided head-on with the truck that was on its way to Atrauli from Sambhal district, injuring 14 people. Police identified the injured as Virendra Pal Singh, Vineet Pratap Singh, Umesh Yadav, Aman, Parveen, Bala Devi — all bus passengers — bus driver Surendra and conductor Umashamkar, and truck driver Ateeq Ahmed. The injured were admitted to a private hospital. Though no casualty was reported, said Rajpura police, the collision led to traffic jam. Police soon cleared the road and restored the traffic. Prima facie the accident took place as the bus driver lost control over the speeding vehicle, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/aligarh-depot-upsrtc-bus-crashes-into-truck-14-injured/articleshow/80900888.cms||Maria Khan
February 14, 2021||Goa||Mormugao municipal workers call off strike after minister finally intervenes||Vasco: Workers of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) on Saturday called off their strike, after six days, following talks initiated with them by Mormugao MLA and urban development minister Milind Naik. Naik assured the workers that all their demands would be fulfilled. The workers were striking, among other issues, over delay in disbursing their dues by the municipality. Interestingly, Naik’s negotiations with the workers - the first such move by him in six days - comes close on the heels of outbursts against the minister by his party colleague and Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida. Almeida had heavily criticised Naik for not visiting the striking workers. The MMC labour strike had resulted in uncollected garbage piling up in the municipal area. About 200 staffers of MMC had been on strike halting all work of the municipality. Naik on Saturday held a meet with directorate of municipal administration, administrator and chief officer of MMC, the workers’ union leaders and others. Naik assured that the workers’ salaries will be paid on time henceforth. He promised to pay their salaries by Thursday, their allowances within the next three months and their arrears and others money within a year’s time. “This issue would not have blown up if they had to directly come to us, but they started their strike without intimation,” Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mormugao-municipal-workers-call-off-strike-after-minister-finally-intervenes/articleshow/80902909.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two held after cops intercept tempo, find Rs 3.5 crore ganja||MUMBAI: City police’s anti-narcotics cell (ANC) has arrested two men and seized 1,800kg ganja worth Rs 3.5 crore from a tempo near Vikhroli on the Eastern Express Highway. Police had laid a trap and intercepted the tempo at 5pm on Friday. The accused had smuggled the drug into the city from Odisha. The alleged main buyer and supplier, Sandeep Satpute, a resident of Louis Wadi in Thane, is wanted in the case, said the police. The racket, they said, involved smuggling five tonne of ganja into the state every month, around 3.5 tonne of which would be distributed in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane and Palghar alone. Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police (crime), said they acted on certain information. “It was more of a physical and technical investigation and chasing for information. Our team intercepted a tempo which contained coconuts. When examined carefully, we found 1,800 kg of ganja hidden in a cavity made under the surface of the tempo,” said Bharambe. Police arrested Akash Yadav (35), the tempo driver, and his alleged accomplice, Dineshkumar Saroj alias Sonu (40). Yadav, originally from Pratapgarh in UP, is a resident of Surat, Gujarat. Sonu is from Louis Wadi, Thane. The duo has been booked under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. “There are three criminal cases against Yadav in Gujarat,” said DCP Dutta Nalawade, ANC. “We are now looking for the main operator, Satpute, who would receive the drugs in Maharashtra and supply them. He owned a godown in Bhiwandi for this purpose. The gang would hire a tempo and a driver would take it out of the city. Later, another driver would take it to a district on Andhra Pradesh border. The driver would be asked to stay in a hotel. Another driver would take the tempo to Odisha where he would collect the ganja, cover it with coconuts and bring it to the hotel. The driver at the hotel would be asked to take the tempo to Maharashtra,” said Bharambe. When the driver reached Mumbai, he would be replaced by another who would take the tempo to Bhiwandi. One Laxmi Pradhan from Odhisha allegedly sold drugs to Satpute. Yadav would get Rs 25,000 per trip and Sonu, employed by Pradhan, got Rs 35,000 per month. The ganja would be bought for Rs 8,000 per kg from Pradhan and sold in Maharashtra for Rs 18,000-20,000, said cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-held-after-cops-intercept-tempo-find-rs-3-5-crore-ganja/articleshow/80900469.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 14, 2021||Rajkot||Liquor parcels seized from courier firm in Gujarat's Junagadh||RAJKOT: With increasing surveillance owing to prevalence of code of conduct, entrepreneurial bootleggers in Gujarat are constantly innovating newer tricks to conceal their booty from the law. In what appears to be a hilarious example of thinking ‘within the box’, smugglers in Junagadh went outrageously simple to fox the cops, but the law literally kept itself one step ahead in the race. Cops in this case busted a racket that transported liquor in simple courier service parcels! Cops on alert against use of liquor in the approaching local body elections, raided the office of ‘Shree Nandan Couriers’, a fast-growing national-level courier service having network in 22 states and over 750 branches. Acting on a tip-off, crime branch cops swooped down on its office in Samvad complex on Saturday and unearthed parcels in white colour containing over 100 liquor bottles worth Rs 62,300. These parcels had been couriered from Bahadurgadh of Haryana in the name of one Jagdish. However, the mobile number mentioned was traced to Jagjitsinh Rathod a resident of Junagadh, son of a retired cop. When the cops asked the courier staff to call up the ‘recipient’ to collect his parcels, ‘Jagdish’ was clearly clueless about it all and denied ordering anything. Digging further into the case, cops found that these parcels were actually ordered by listed bootleggers Firoz Baloch and Vahid Kureshi, who ‘planted’ the name to throw cops off the trail. Police inspector of Junagadh crime branch, H I Bhati told TOI: “The person whose number was mentioned on the courier did not get any sort of message on his mobile number unlike normal courier orders. We believe that the courier firm and the bootleggers have an understanding.” The parcels reached Rajkot in big parcel truck and were transported to Junagadh in a smaller truck, he added. While the actual recipients of the parcels are absconding, cops have also put the courier firm in their radar while a team will also go to Haryana for further investigation into the liquor racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/liquor-parcels-seized-from-courier-firm-in-junagadh/articleshow/80900084.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 14, 2021||Vijayawada||47k security personnel deployed in phase-II of panchayat polls: DGP||Vijayawada: Director general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang said that over 47,000 security personnel were deployed for the second phase of gram panchayat elections on Saturday. The DGP pointed out that voting percentage was higher in the second phase compared to the first and that less violations had been recorded this time compared to the previous panchayat elections in 2013. Sawang said that around 57 APSP platoons, 20 CRPF battalions and over 41,000 civil police were involved in the security apparatus across the state. He mentioned that police personnel helped senior citizens and those with disabilities exercise their vote by carrying them to the polling booths. “We are hoping to make the remaining phases much smoother to ensure higher polling percentage. The current increase in voting percentage is due to the elaborate arrangements made by the government machineries,” Sawang said. Police said that identifying 4,181 sensitive polling stations and tightening security arrangements in these regions made a significant impact in curtailing political violence. However, cops pointed that they did see an increase in code of conduct violations due to the enforcement drive against illegal liquor smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/47k-security-personnel-deployed-in-phase-ii-of-panchayat-polls-dgp/articleshow/80900768.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Mumbai: Two held after cops intercept tempo, find Rs 3.5 crore ganja||MUMBAI: City police’s anti-narcotics cell (ANC) has arrested two men and seized 1,800kg ganja worth Rs 3.5 crore from a tempo near Vikhroli on the Eastern Express Highway. Police had laid a trap and intercepted the tempo at 5pm on Friday. The accused had smuggled the drug into the city from Odisha. The alleged main buyer and supplier, Sandeep Satpute, a resident of Louis Wadi in Thane, is wanted in the case, said the police. The racket, they said, involved smuggling five tonne of ganja into the state every month, around 3.5 tonne of which would be distributed in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane and Palghar alone. Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police (crime), said they acted on certain information. “It was more of a physical and technical investigation and chasing for information. Our team intercepted a tempo which contained coconuts. When examined carefully, we found 1,800 kg of ganja hidden in a cavity made under the surface of the tempo,” said Bharambe. Police arrested Akash Yadav (35), the tempo driver, and his alleged accomplice, Dineshkumar Saroj alias Sonu (40). Yadav, originally from Pratapgarh in UP, is a resident of Surat, Gujarat. Sonu is from Louis Wadi, Thane. The duo has been booked under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. “There are three criminal cases against Yadav in Gujarat,” said DCP Dutta Nalawade, ANC. “We are now looking for the main operator, Satpute, who would receive the drugs in Maharashtra and supply them. He owned a godown in Bhiwandi for this purpose. The gang would hire a tempo and a driver would take it out of the city. Later, another driver would take it to a district on Andhra Pradesh border. The driver would be asked to stay in a hotel. Another driver would take the tempo to Odisha where he would collect the ganja, cover it with coconuts and bring it to the hotel. The driver at the hotel would be asked to take the tempo to Maharashtra,” said Bharambe. When the driver reached Mumbai, he would be replaced by another who would take the tempo to Bhiwandi. One Laxmi Pradhan from Odhisha allegedly sold drugs to Satpute. Yadav would get Rs 25,000 per trip and Sonu, employed by Pradhan, got Rs 35,000 per month. The ganja would be bought for Rs 8,000 per kg from Pradhan and sold in Maharashtra for Rs 18,000-20,000, said cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/2-held-after-cops-intercept-tempo-find-rs-3-5-crore-ganja/articleshow/80904391.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Rising costs, falling catch deflate Maharashtra trawl boom||MUMBAI: Sunil Foka is one of the few fishermen in Versova to take his boat out in recent weeks. As in much of the state, the 300-odd trawlers in this prosperous village on the city’s northwestern shore have been grounded by high diesel prices and an export backlog. But Foka gave up his trawl nets a couple of years ago for the more traditional gill-net. The earnings are not as high as in export-oriented trawl. But neither are the costs of fuel and labour. As for the catch of needlefish (tol) he just landed, he’ll sell that in local markets. “One can manage,” Foka said. Maharashtra’s trawlers have had a bad couple of years. The pandemic hit export demand last year and cyclones hit the catch in 2019. But their problems predate the current crisis. For several years now, rising input costs and depleting fish stocks due to overfishing have left the once booming sector with shrinking margins. The number of trawlers in the state has reduced from 5,613 in 2012 to 4,290 today— still many more than the optimum number for sustainable fishing. While some boats may be under repairs, fewer new boats may be being built due to rising costs and the end of a government loan scheme in 2012, said observers. New wood boats now cost upwards of Rs 50-60 lakh—double than a decade ago—and fibreglass boats even more. Some fishermen, like Foka, have moved back to dol- or gill-nets, or expanded to allied businesses. “It’s become harder to cover the costs, especially for smaller fishermen,” said Ramdas Sandhe, chairman of Maharashtra Rajya Macchimar Sahakari Sangh Ltd. Trawling rose to dominance from the 1970s when central government schemes helped traditional dol- and gill-net fishermen convert to mechanised boats and, a few decades later, to upgrade to high-power engines. Trawls scoop fish that dwell close to the seabed—a destructive practice known as bottom trawling —including large quantities of shrimp. The trawl boom transformed villages such as Versova, which was within easy reach of urban and export markets, and grew state fish production from the 1980s to the 2000s. But with too many boats chasing too few fish off the northwest coast—including heavily subsidised fleets from Gujarat—returns began to diminish. Some upgraded to high-speed engines to chase schools of mackerel (bangda). Still, year-on-year growth in the state catch has been declining since 2000, according to an analysis by fisheries economist M Krishnan and others. They found that state fishing incomes were buoyed largely by rising export prices. The price of crustaceans such as shrimp and lobster, for instance, rose 400% between 1997 and 2016. “Fishing beyond the sustainable threshold may give you a high current income, but it eats away your future,” said Krishnan. Even in well-off Versova, some are feeling the pressure. Boats that used to get good catch near Mumbai now have to go as far as Gujarat or Ratnagiri, increasing days on sea. Wages and diesel prices have risen while state fuel subsidies have been stuck for three years. Some fishermen in Alibaug have returned to dol-nets but Versova’s Rajendra Hire doesn’t see that as an easy option, especially since the ONGC platform near Mumbai restricts their fishing grounds. Pollution has also affected the area’s near-shore fish nurseries, he notes. Dol-nets also catch fish that need to be dried in the sun—there’s little space for that any more in a now built-up neighbourhood. Instead, Hire opened a shop to sell fishing nets more than a year ago. “It helps supplement my income,” the trawl-owner said. Historically, the government has subsidised fish quantity, not quality, said marine fisheries expert Divya Karnad. New central government policies are now focusing on cold-chain systems to improve post-harvest fish quality. But they are also incentivising construction of deep-sea fishing vessels to compete on the international high seas. “Everyone is recognising that trawlers have gone as far as they can go,” said Karnad. (This report was supported by the Earth Journalism Network.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rising-costs-falling-catch-deflate-maha-trawl-boom/articleshow/80900196.cms||Vaishnavi Chandrashekhar
February 14, 2021||Vijayawada||200 MCC violations across AP's Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district police have cracked down on illegal distribution of liquor, clothes and cash during the second phase of gram panchayat polls in the district on Saturday. Special enforcement bureau (SEB) additional SP Vakul Jindal said that a total of 60 check-posts have been installed across the district to curb anti-social activities during the polls. The check-posts have been strategically placed across the Gudivada revenue division and also at the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana state border to curtail liquor and other model code of conduct (MCC) violations in areas where the second phase elections are taking place. In this regard, police have filed over 200 model code of conduct violation cases against some of the candidates and their supporters. Krishna district superintendent (SP) M Ravindranath Babu, who has been doing inspection rounds, said that 6,700 sarees meant for distribution among voters were seized from a person in Kalidindi. The SP informed that a close relative of TDP candidate Kollati Nagamani, Thurmani Nageswara Rao has been arrested in the case when he was transporting the sarees to Peddalanka village. Apart from this, cops also seized 635 liquor bottles of various brands at Vissannapeta area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/200-mcc-violations-across-krishna-district/articleshow/80900736.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||FYJC admission ends after 5 lists, 2 special rounds||MUMBAI: Five merit lists and two special rounds later, first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions in the state wrapped up on Saturday—with a few months to go for the academic year to end. Across Mumbai Metropolitan Region, over 2.2 lakh students confirmed their place while close to 1 lakh seats are still vacant. In the special first-come-first-served round hosted by the education department, 4,521 students claimed the seats and confirmed admissions. In spite of the multiple rounds of admissions, 36,902 applicants were still without a seat. Education officials, though, said most of these students might have opted for another course and dropped out of the process. “We have added a button that allows students to withdraw their application. However, not many have used the option. It is hence difficult to find out which students are still looking for an FYJC seat,” said an education department official. If students are still interested, they would be accommodated on a case-to-case basis in vacant seats. “We are also considering extending the FCFS (first come, first served) round for a couple of days or the admissions will be done through an offline process at the college level. Students can reach out to the education department for further instructions,” said an official. This year, the FYJC admission process was delayed due to the pandemic and following Supreme Court’s interim order with respect to the Maratha quota. Almost three months after the court’s order in September, the education department decided to continue admissions with the 12% quota for SEBC this year. The delay saw the academic year start in January as opposed to September in other years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fyjc-admission-ends-after-5-lists-2-spl-rounds/articleshow/80900228.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 14, 2021||Vadodara||MSU answersheet scandal: Guilty students get admission||VADODARA: M S University seems to be going liberal with students who were found guilty in stealing the answer sheets from the Faculty of Arts’ central assessment cell in 2019. Sources said that the students who were suspended after a probe committee held them guilty have not only taken re-admission in arts faculty but their answer sheets which are under dispute are also being evaluated. This is being done even before their punishment period gets over. In a major loss of face, the answer books scandal had surfaced in May 2019 when it came to light that students in nexus with peons used to pilfer the answer books from the central assessment cell and later replace them back in the bundles. Such was the nexus and laxity on the part of the university administration that the students not only got ample time to write answers in the answer books but some of them had even copied full stops and commas from textbooks and from answer books of meritorious students. A probe committee had held a total of 13 students guilty in the scandal along with two peons while two students had masterminded the entire scandal. The students used to inform the peons about the exam seat numbers and the subject code through SMS, call or a message on WhatsApp. The peons used to remove the answer sheets when an examiner would ask for the bundle. After handing over the answer sheets to the two students near the central canteen in the boys’ hostel campus, they used to delete the messages or call details from their phones. When asked about letting go the guilty students, MSU’s officiating registrar K M Chudasama said that as per the punishment, the guilty students cannot further their studies at MSU. “There is no question of being liberal with them or giving them clean chit. The decision was that after a period of two years, they will be allowed to complete the remaining part of their degrees. But they cannot get admission for further studies,” he said. Going by that, the two years punishment period ends in May 2021 but a couple of students have already taken re-admission. “The re-admission has happened in academic year 2020-21, which means they have been admitted well before the two years punishment period ends,” said a source close to the development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-answersheet-scandal-guilty-students-get-admission/articleshow/80899964.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||Another late Ishan show as Goa hold Chennaiyin||FC Goa are entertaining the neutrals with their habit of securing late equalisers. It has happened so many times that you know almost instinctively it will happen again. But with three rounds left to be played in the Indian Super League (ISL), they are still unsure of a place in the playoffs. Once again, and with more minutes under his belt, it was left for super sub Ishan Pandita to rescue Goa as they managed a 2-2 draw against Chennaiyin FC with a 90th-minute goal at the GMC Athletic Stadium, Bambolim, on Saturday. The goal took Goa to the third spot with 24 points from 17 matches, the same as Hyderabad FC. Chennaiyin’s faint hopes have now evaporated as they find themselves eighth with 18 points and just two games to be played. It were Chennaiyin, though, who started well, pressing Goa high in their own zone. They forced two mistakes in the first three minutes but couldn’t score from open play, just like the nearly 400 minutes prior to this encounter. However, against Goa, every opponent gets a chance, sometimes gifts. It duly arrived in the 13th minute as four players inside the danger zone failed to take the ball off Jakub Sylvestr’s feet. The Slovakian striker grabbed the chance with his left foot to score only his second goal in 17 appearances. Goa need a setback to wake up and they did. It was Igor Angulo at it again, this time scoring from the spot. It was the Spanish striker who had won the penalty after his header from inside the box was handled by his marker, Eli Sabia. His first penalty in the 19th minute was disallowed as Goa players moved into the box before he could strike. He kept his poise to get the better of Chennaiyin goalkeeper Vishal Kaith for the second time. Goa had control on the proceedings with Glan Martins giving a wonderful account of himself. With Edu Bedia and Alberto Noguera pulling the strings, an opportunity would always be round the corner. You could also say the same with Goa’s shaky defence. With Adil Khan being stretchered out due to an injury, Mohammed Ali took his place. Soon enough, in the 60th minute to be precise, he was involved in a mix-up with keeper Dheeraj Singh, allowing Lallianzuala Chhangte to score with an open goal in front of him. As it usually happens, Goa coach Juan Ferrando reacted with a substitution. This time, he introduced Pandita with 30 minutes left on the clock. Would he do it again? He did go close with his left footer from outside the box, but with time ticking away, did his reputation no harm in the final minute of regulation time. Credit should also go to Alberto Noguera. The Spaniard threaded an inch-perfect through ball that left Chennaiyin defence bamboozled and Pandita timed his run well to finish superbly with his left foot. This was his fourth goal in the league. Among Indians this season, only Sunil Chhetri has more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/another-late-ishan-show-as-goa-hold-chennaiyin/articleshow/80901965.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 14, 2021||Bareilly||Suspected prime accused in anti-CAA & NRC protest violence arrested in Rampur, high alert sounded in district||Bareilly: The suspected prime accused in the anti-CAA & NRC protest violence in Rampur district on December 21, 2019, Farhat Jamali — a sajjada nashin at Hafiz Saahab Dargah — was arrested by Rampur police on Saturday morning. Confirming the arrest, Rampur additional superintendent of police (ASP) Sansar Singh said, “Jamali, the suspected prime accused in the violence during the anti-CAA & NRC protests, was arrested here on Saturday morning after he was presented before the court. Police had served notices to several prominent ulemas, including Shahar Imam Mufti Mehboob Ali and Farhat Jamali, among others, who were among the organisers of the protests, to record their statements, but none of them had turned up.” “After the violence, cases were registered at Rampur kotwali and Ganj police station under IPC sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 153 (wrongly giving provocation with intent to cause riot—if rioting be committed—if not committed), 156 (liability of agent of owner or occupier for whose benefit riot is committed), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and other relevant sections based on which Jamali was arrested on Saturday," said the ASP. Following Jamali's arrest, Rampur was put on high alert as a precautionary measure, said police. “Heavy police force has been deployed outside Hafiz Sahab Dargah and other key locations to maintain law and order if any untoward incident takes place,” said the ASP. Police said around 150 people associated with the CAA protests in Rampur were arrested, so far, and effort was on to arrest rest of the accused. In December 2019, 27-year-old Faiz Khan had died and several other civilians and dozens of police personnel had sustained injuries after the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act turned violent in Rampur. The protesters had reportedly turned violent near Hathikhana Crossing and vandalised police vehicles, set ablaze several two-wheelers and damaged public property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/suspected-prime-accused-in-anti-caa-nrc-protest-violence-arrested-in-rampur-high-alert-sounded-in-district/articleshow/80900897.cms||Maria Khan
February 14, 2021||Goa||Scrap VAT on fuel, says Goa Forward||Panaji: Goa Forward Party working president Kiran Kandolkar on Saturday called for the state government to immediately remove VAT on fuel to reduce the financial burden of the common man. Kandolkar said that chief minister Pramod Sawant must take example of his predecessor Manohar Parrikar who had the courage to bring VAT on fuel to zero and who stopped fuel prices from breaching the Rs 60-mark in his tenure between 2012-2014. “The government should have the basic decency to help all Goemkars in their day today activities and should not burden them with an increase in fuel prices,” Kandolkar said. “The CM must respect the public and their hardships and immediately bring VAT on petrol and diesel to zero.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/scrap-vat-on-fuel-says-goa-forward/articleshow/80902910.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||All safeguards in place, says Carnival panel head as parade moves to Margao||Margao: The state’s commercial capital, Margao, will play host to the Carnival float parade on Sunday. The theme for this year’s parade is Covid-19 vaccination awareness coupled with the state’s 60th year of Liberation. The float parade will commence from near the district court, Margao, at 4pm and end near Borkar’s Super Stores, Fatorda, by 10pm. Chief officer of the Margao Municipal Council, Agnelo Fernandes, is the chairman of the Margao Carnival committee. Fernandes told reporters that all the necessary safeguards have been put in place to ensure safety of members of the general public visiting the Carnival parade. “The event will be held by following all Covid-related SOPs issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA),” Fernandes said, adding that hand sanitisers will be provided at various locations along the route. Facilities have also been set up for check-up and isolation of suspected Covid patients, it was informed. The South Goa collector has, under provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, notified closure of the road from the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) ground to the Fatorda junction near Nehru stadium for all vehicular traffic from 1pm on Sunday till the conclusion of the event. Forty CCTV cameras and five watch towers have been set up along the route of the Carnival float parade. Various entertainment activities will be performed at the venue from 2 pm onwards. A street animation show, including shows by professional stilt walkers and air dancers, will be held before the float parade takes off. A live band will also be in attendance to entertain the crowd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-safeguards-in-place-says-carnival-panel-head-as-parade-moves-to-margao/articleshow/80902918.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Shimla||Glaciers in Lahaul-Spiti melting fast, some forming big lakes: Experts||Manali: The glaciers in Lahaul-Spiti district are melting rapidly and some of them are feeding huge lakes which can prove disastrous in the future, say experts. Lahaul-Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh, which is home to over a hundred major glaciers, has been centre of study for the scientists. Not just snouts of many glaciers are receding; the thickness of ice is also decreasing at a rapid pace. Water from some of the melting glaciers is directly meeting with rivers and nullahs, others are forming lakes. While some lakes are too small to cause threat, some are getting bigger every year. Scientist with TCS Research and Innovation Ankur Pandit conducted a study on 65 glaciers in Chandra basin of Lahaul-Spiti. His study was focused on calculation of ice thickness and identifying the potential sites for future lakes formation. “I compared my study with German satellite data (DLR). The ice thickness is decreasing and melting glaciers are feeding the glacial lakes. Some small lakes pose no threat but some lakes will continue to increase in size in the future. A total of 350 potential future glacial lakes were identified in the study,” he said. One of Pandit’s studies on a glacier above Sissu village revealed that the receding glacier had formed a lake, known as Ghepan lake, which was increasing in size regularly. “Such lakes are threat to habitation downstream. Our environment is changing and glaciers are melting. The natural disasters, similar to one in Uttarakhand, can be common in the future,” he added. Assistant professor with a Rajasthan’s Udaipur-based university Vivek Sharma, who conducted study on the 65 glaciers in Chandra basin, along with Pandit in 2018 while in IIT Mumbai, said he used ground penetrating radar (GPR) to study the thickness of the glaciers. “The mass balance of glaciers was found to be negative. This means they are melting fast. When compared with data from 1993, the surface area of some glacial lakes has increased drastically,” he said. Sharma said the government could use their research papers to make future strategies. “Himachal government can hire geographic information system (GIS) and remote sensing engineers for its various programmes. The receding glaciers should be taken seriously,” he added. The potential risk from glaciers and glacial lakes to the people of Lahaul-Spiti district and settlements downstream is a matter of debate these days. After a scientist recently said that glaciers in Lahaul are not as dangerous as in Uttarakhand, the residents have waged war against him on social media. Jawaharlal Nehru University professor Milap Chand Sharma, who has worked on glacial chronologies of Chandra-Bhaga and Beas basins in Himachal Pradesh, joined one of such debates online. He wrote, “These glaciers in subtropics may grow, retreat and collapse. The ones situated in Lahaul-Spiti are equally potential to cause disaster. One of my students is working on Sissu and Samudri Tapu lakes in Lahaul-Spiti for glacial lake outburst flood (GLOF) studies. Sissu lake is getting really dangerous and there is need to keep an eye on it for any eventuality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/glaciers-in-lahaul-spiti-melting-fast-some-forming-big-lakes-experts/articleshow/80902914.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Monkeys fling eight-day-old to death in moat, twin rescued||THANJAVUR: In a shocking incident of monkey attack, an eight-day-old infant lost its life after being flung into a moat behind her house, while its twin sister was saved from a simian by residents in Thanjavur on Saturday. The monkeys had entered into the house located at Mela Alangam (West Rampart) near the Thanjavur Palace, which is surrounded by a moat, by removing the tiles from the roof of the house. R Buvaneswari, 26, mother of the babies, had gone to a loo located outside the house when the monkeys trooped in and ran way with the babies resting on a mat on the floor of the house. According to police, Raja, 29, a house painter, and Buvaneswari have a five-year-old girl child. The couple was blessed with twin girls on February 6. Raja had gone to work on Saturday and Buvaneswari and her three children were at home. Around 1.30pm, she had went to the restroom when she heard the screech of monkeys. As she rushed back home, Buvaneswari was shocked to find the twins missing. As she scrambled for help, she heard her baby crying and rushed out of the house. A monkey sitting on the roof of her house was holding one of her babies. People started chasing the monkey and rescued the child abandoned by the animal on the roof of the house. In the meantime, people and police searching for the missing second baby spotted the infant floating on water on the moat. “Once we got the information about the incident, we rushed to the spot and searched for the second baby. We finally located the infant on the moat,” inspector S Chandramohan of Thanjavur West police told TOI. According to the residents, around four to five monkeys have been roaming around the area for some time. “We have sent the body to the Government Medical College Hospital for postmortem. Further inquiries are on,” Chandramohan said. When contacted, Thanjavur forest ranger G Jothikumar said that a team of their staff had gone to the spot and were trying to cage the monkeys.However, district forest officer M Ilayaraja described the incident as “rarest of rare”. “It is very difficult for the animal to remove the tiles to enter and come out through the same hole. Moreover, as per the doctor's statement, the infant which is under observation in hospital as well as the baby which died had no marks of being grabbed by the animal on their bodies. Since they are infants, when animals like monkeys lift them, their joints may get dislocated. There is no bruise or scratch or dislocation of joints. However, we cannot come to any conclusion,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/8-day-old-dies-in-tn-after-monkeys-fling-her-into-moat/articleshow/80901886.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 14, 2021||Thane||Thane: 19-year-old boy booked for ‘raping’ friend on train||THANE: A 19-year-old boy was booked for allegedly raping his female friend on the Gorakhpur Express at Thane railway station on Wednesday. Thane GRP said they knew each other, were studying together in a Mumbai college, and had planned marriage. “The duo got into the train and the girl had nearly Rs 2 lakh with her. As the train reached Thane station around 7am, the boy came outside after allegedly raping the girl in the toilet. As the ticket-checker asked for her ticket, she alighted but the boy told her to go ahead and he would follow, but he left by the train,” said a police officer. The girl's parents were called and a rape case was registered with Kurar police but was subsequently transferred to Thane GRP for a further probe. Police said she had been sent for a medical examination. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/boy-booked-for-raping-friend-on-exp/articleshow/80901890.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
February 14, 2021||Shimla||New plan to manage Shimla’s burgeoning traffic woes||SHIMLA: Shimla Police have come up with a new strategy to handle the hill station’s burgeoning traffic — ‘SITRAM’, or what is an abbreviation of (Shimla City Traffic Regulation and Management Plan). The goal of SITRAM is to maintain smooth flow of traffic, prevent accidents, help motorists in distress, ensure law and order, and achieve the target of zero tolerance with firmness but politeness to gain the confidence and support of the community with smart, effective and efficient traffic management for a smart city, according to Shimla SP Mohit Chawla. He said SITRAM incorporated planning, designing, adopting and implementing integrated, holistic, comprehensive, futuristic traffic management and regulation strategies and systems in ensuring smooth flow of traffic in Shimla city. He said to regulate traffic in the night hours, a night response team had already been constituted that will perform night patrolling duty from 11pm to 6am. He said this team will keep a watch on persons and vehicles roaming unnecessarily during late hours. He said the city had been divided into eight sectors for better management. He said Shimla Police had prepared new traffic regulation plan under which area of 50 metres towards Dhalli and whole area towards Sanjauli Chowk from Dhalli Tunnel could be declared as no parking zone. He said in Sector 1, buses for will depart from and terminate near Auckland Bridge, while 16 vehicles of patients (two hours parking only) and six taxis at parking site near Indira Gandhi Medical College nallah will be permitted. He said there would be a no-parking zone between on Circular Road till Sanjaulli Dhalli bypass bifurcation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/new-plan-to-manage-shimlas-burgeoning-traffic-woes/articleshow/80902923.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||Dip in mercury brings relief, but not for long||Panaji: While it may appear that a mild winter is setting in as the temperature starts to drop by the time dusk falls, the trend may not last long. The first week of February saw the mercury hover around 20C, a welcome respite from the previous month that went down as the warmest January in 30 years. Presently, however, the temperature has dipped from the normal range of 20C, with a minimum of 19C being recorded over the past few days. The chill is more intense in the hinterlands. But February’s second fortnight — before summer sets in March — is likely to begin on a warmer note. The northerly winds, which bring in cold air, are expected to continue till February 17. “By then, there is a possibility of a weak system forming over the east central Arabian sea, resulting in rise in minimum temperature,” Rahul M, scientist at IMD, Panaji, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dip-in-mercury-brings-relief-but-not-for-long/articleshow/80902929.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Bareilly||Minor girl thrown off terrace after failed rape bid in Uttar Pradesh||PILIBHIT: Police are looking for two youths who allegedly abducted a 16-year-old girl, dragged her to the terrace of a neighbourhood house and pushed her off when her father appeared at the scene, foiling an attempt to rape her. The girl has suffered several fractures and internal injuries, said her father while lodging a complaint with police in Pilibhit’s Jahanabad area. Harish Vardhan Singh, SHO, said the accused, identified as Arvind and Mahendra, were booked under IPC section 354 (applying force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 504 (intentional insult) and 323 (causing hurt), besides provisions of the SC/ST Act and the POCSO Act. In his complaint, the minor’s father alleged that he found his daughter missing from her room. On searching, he discovered the mobile phone of the key accused, a 21-year-old youth who resides in the neighbourhood. He went to the youth’s house to enquire about the whereabouts of his daughter. He claimed he was just in time to prevent them from sexually assaulting his daughter. Caught, the duo allegedly abused him, making casteist remarks against him. They then threw his daughter off the roof. When she regained consciousness, she narrated her ordeal, saying the duo had tried to outrage her modesty, the man told police. The accused who are on the run would soon be nabbed, SHO Singh said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-dalit-girl-thrown-off-terrace-after-failed-rape-bid-in-pilibhit-two-youths-booked/articleshow/80900916.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Swarnim Vijay Torch’ accorded warm welcome at Hussainiwala||Ferozepur: The ‘Swarnim Vijay Torch’ arrived at Hussainiwala War Memorial here on Saturday, carried by war veteran Colonel S S Cheema retd under the aegis of Vajra Corps -The Defenders of Punjab. It was a moment of immense pride for the audience to witness the Victory Flame being brought to Hussainiwala, which is the place where the nation martyrs Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru’s memorial is situated. General Officer Commanding, Golden Arrow Division, Major General Sandeep Singh paid homage to the martyrs in a wreath laying ceremony. This location also has the illustrious history of witnessing epic battles fought by the gallant soldiers of the nation during the Indo-Pak Wars fought in 1965 and 1971. The ceremony commenced with the Guard of Honour being presented to the martyrs and handing over of the holy soil of Hussainiwala to the flame escorting Army team. Colonel Cheema, veteran of Indo-Pak war of 1965 & 1971, addressed the gathering and shared his war experience with the audience. The function culminated with a cultural show by children from the local schools. Local residents attended the function in large numbers, which was indicative of the patriotic spirit and the love and support for the Indian Armed Forces.  The Swarnim Vijay Torch will further continue its journey towards the famous battlefields of Mehdipur and Asal Uttar in Vajra Corps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/swarnim-vijay-torch-accorded-warm-welcome-at-hussainiwala/articleshow/80902935.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Shimla||Work on to ensure year-round road link to Zanskar valley||Manali: While Indian and Chinese troops have started disengagement at Pangong lake in Ladakh, the border roads infrastructure in non-disputed areas of Ladakh and on Manali-Leh and Srinagar-Leh axis is being developed at rapid speed even in the winter season. While Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is set to open Manali-Leh highway in a record time before mid-May, work on Zojila tunnel and other projects are continuing on war footing. In an effort to strengthen the border roads infrastructure, the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (NHIDCL), which is working on multiple highway tunnels and roads on Manali-Ladakh and Srinagar-Ladakh axis, is setting up many site offices and project monitoring units which shall be working even in winter season when generally development works are not possible in the region. NHIDCL will prepare detailed project report of Shinku-la tunnel and many other tunnels on Manali-Leh highway, including Taglang-la tunnel. The Z-Morh and Zojila tunnels on Srinagar-Leh axis are also being made by NHIDCL, a Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways undertaking company. The Kargil-Padum (Zanskar) road has also been entrusted to NHIDCL. NHIDCL managing director K K Pathak and other officials are reviewing the progress of various works in Ladakh. He conducted an aerial survey of Kargil-Padum road which will now be maintained by this corporation. As work on 13.5km-long highway tunnel below 16,600ft high Shinku-la on Darcha-Padum road, which will provide year-round connectivity to Ladakh’s Zanskar valley from rest of the country, is expected to start this year, NHIDCL will keep the Kargil-Zanksar highway open even in winter season for the first time. This road will keep Zanskar connected with rest parts of Ladakh. Pathak and other officials held a meeting with advisor to Lt Governor of Ladakh Umang Narula to review the various infrastructure works in Ladakh. They discussed on various issues regarding speeding up the ongoing infrastructure works. Pathak also met the Lt Governor of UT of Ladakh and appraised him about progress of Zojila tunnel and other projects. He also visited the site offices at Padum and Upshi which are functional even in freezing winter season. NHIDCL deputy general manager Anil Kumar told the TOI that KK Pathak has reviewed the progress of the ongoing development works and also visited the site offices. “He conducted aerial survey of Kargil-Padum road which has now been entrusted to our corporation. We shall keep this road open even in winter season. A large number of project monitoring units (PMUs) and site offices will be established to monitor the works. Work to prepare DPR of Shinkula tunnel had stopped due to snowfall. The work will resume very soon. More tunnels are in pipeline on Manali-Leh axis,” he said. With help of its site offices located in remote locations, NHIDCL will be working even in winter season to give boost to border roads infrastructure which is being developed at a rapid speed. The corporation has set up its site offices in remote locations that are functioning in winter season. KK Pathak praised its staff located at Padum for working in extreme cold conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/work-on-to-ensure-year-round-road-link-to-zanskar-valley/articleshow/80902928.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||2 fake FB profiles of IPS officer blocked||Mumbai: A cyber criminal created a fake Facebook profile of senior IPS officer Vinoy Choubey and allegedly sent friend requests to his friends. The fraudster sought financial help and provided a account number of an e-commerce payment system. As soon as Choubey learned about it, he informed the city cyber police. Investigators blocked two fake Facebooks and the payment account. Choubey, a 1995 batch officer, is Anti-Corruption Bureau additional director-general of police in the state. Choubey tweeted on Friday night that someone had created a fake FB account with his name and photograph and was sending friend requests with ulterior motives. “Please don’t accept any such friend request. The authorities have been informed and they are taking appropriate action,” he tweeted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-fake-fb-profiles-of-ips-officer-blocked/articleshow/80901932.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||Chorao ferry point to get Rs 54 lakh facelift||Bicholim: Beautification works of the Chorao-Madel ferry point have been launched at a cost of Rs 54 lakh. The ferry point to the island is a spot of touristic importance as it is the link to the Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary, Goa’s only avian sanctuary.  The river navigation department has handed over the beautification project to the PWD. Earlier, repair work of this ferry point had been undertaken by PWD at the cost of Rs 64 lakh. After laying the foundation stone for the beautification work recently, Mayem MLA Prvin Zantye said after the beautification of this ferry point, tourists visiting the Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary will be in for an improved experience. “The beautification works will include a leisure center for senior citizens and others. There will be a facility for citizens to go for walks within this place,” he said. The Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary is a habitat for a variety of aquatic and terrestrial life. Its biodiversity includes crocodile habitats, khazan lands, and mangroves. Driven by the exposure provided by social media, Goa is increasingly becoming a ‘must-do’ destination for serious birdwatchers from India and even Europe - the period from January to February being the peak for this activity in the state. With a combination of over 470 resident and migratory birds, Goa offers a high concentration of diversity of bird species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chorao-ferry-point-to-get-rs-54-lakh-facelift/articleshow/80902967.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Chowk named after ex-PM of Israel; SP, Congress object||MUMBAI: Despite opposition from some corporators, BMC has named a junction at Kala Ghoda after former Israeli prime minister and Nobel Peace prize laureate Shimon Peres. This is the first time a prominent junction in Mumbai has been named after a foreign dignitary. Samajwadi Party and Congress have opposed it. BMC recently put up the signboard but SP and Congress had opposed the proposal when it was discussed in 2018, saying that though Peres had been a friend of India, he did not have any specific connection with Mumbai or Maharashtra. A BMC official said BJP had backed the plan to name the chowk between V B Gandhi Marg and Saibaba Marg after Peres, who twice served as prime minister and later ninth president, and died aged 93 in 2016. Officials said the chowk was named without fanfare few months back during Covid-19 and lockdown restrictions. BMC rules state that only a local corporator can formally suggest a name for a street or junction but in this case, local corporator Sujata Sanap (Shiv Sena) did not submit any application. “A proposal was moved by then municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi, using his special powers,” Sanap said. SP MLA and corporator Rais Shaikh has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, urging him to direct BMC to remove the street sign. “This has been done in violation of norms. It was discussed at a civic group leaders’ meeting in 2018 but was not approved. It was then discussed by the ward committee and was opposed there too. Despite this BMC named the chowk after Shimon Peres, which is illegal,” Shaikh said. “Peres has no contribution to Mumbai, Maharashtra or even India. Naming the chowk after him is not correct. We will protest. I urge you to get this street sign removed and scrap the naming,” Shaikh said. The chowk currently has no name. It would have been the first junction in the city to be named after a foreign leader. Knesset Eliyahoo Synagogue is at V B Gandhi Marg. Established in 1884, it is Mumbai’s second oldest Sephardic synagogue. Earlier, a huge Baghdadi Jewish community lived in the area. “BJP corporator Makarand Narwekar had submitted a proposal but it was rejected,” the official said. “Later, the then civic chief submitted a proposal and it came up for discussion before group leaders in BMC,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chowk-named-after-ex-pm-of-israel-sp-congress-object/articleshow/80901960.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 14, 2021||Goa||Goa: Most Indian tourists shun hotels, prefer houses, flats close to sea||PANAJI: Even as thousands of tourists have thronged Goa for Carnival and the Valentine’s Day weekend, a changing trend in their choice of accommodation has hotel owners scratching their heads. More and more Indian tourists, whether here for a short or long stay, want to live in rented flats or houses rather than hotels. They prefer houses in villages, located at a walking distance from the beach or close to shore, especially those from where they can catch a glimpse of the sea. The preferred village seems to be Arambol in North Goa. A lot of queries about the availability of such properties on Facebook reflect the changing trend. An industry insider said that this obvious shift in tourists choosing flats or houses became more obvious after the lockdown, when Goa saw Indians in hordes not just from the neighbouring states, but also northern states. “Tourists drove to Goa with their families, house-helps and cooks, and preferred rented houses. Obviously they would not stay in a hotel,” said Atish Fernandes, director, First Class Holidays. Those who offer their properties to tourists are largely unregistered. Tourism director Menino D’Souza said that after the rules framed following an amendment to the Registration of Tourist Trade Act more than a year ago are notified, they would crack down on these illegal entitites. “The file pertaining to the draft rules is with the law department for vetting,” he said. The travel and tourism association of Goa (TTAG) is not happy about the delays. It has been petitioning the government for the past few years seeking action against the illegal operators. “Obviously a new trend has set in,” said Nilesh Shah, its president. “Due to the pandemic, tourists have started avoiding hotels and choose to stay in villas or flats.” “Also, they must have found staying in a flat more economical than in a hotel,” he said, adding, “comparatively, room tariffs charged by operators of flats or villas would be less, as unregistered entities don’t pay any levies or taxes to the government. Also, for utility connections, they don’t pay commercial charges.” He said the government must act on unregistered entities as unfair competition is hurting the hotel industry. Another insider said that for large families or groups of friends, staying in flats or houses would obviously be more economical than a hotel stay. Those choosing to stay in Arambol, he said, are more free-spirited, and probably want to explore the wilder side of the coastal village, which has drawn many owing to the presence of Russians rather than the rustic beauty of the coastal village. “Indian tourists in their 30s and 40s view Arambol as a happening place,” he added. “Small gigs, close-knit parties, dope as well as events such as meditation and yoga sessions are also on offer. I doubt their authenticity, but they do attract tourists. It’s a heady mix that draws domestic tourists to Arambol.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/most-indian-tourists-shun-hotelsprefer-houses-flats-close-to-sea/articleshow/80902961.cms||Bindiya Chari
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mandals prepare to celebrate Maghi Ganeshotsav on Monday||Mumbai: Preparations are afoot to celebrate the festival of Lord Ganesh’s birth or Maghi Ganeshotsav on Monday. Aside from mandals, which regularly install idols this time of year, some mainstream mandals which could not organise Bhadrapad Ganeshotsav 2020 amid Covid-19 lockdown are also planning short celebrations. “The number of households and mandals which will celebrate Maghi will rise this year as they seek to make up for cancellation of Ganeshotsav last August-September,” said Naresh Dahibawkar, chairman, Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti. As with previous festivals, like Christmas, state government guidelines arrived late, on February 9, by when mandals had made plans. Ganesh Jayanti or Maghi sees idols installed for one to 10 days, like regular Ganeshotsav. Since lockdown restrictions were imposed last year, Reshma Khatu’s idol-sculpting workshop has adapted to the new normal by crafting smaller moortis rather than the gigantic 15-25ft ones that are commonly commissioned. “The Dombivali Cha Icchapurti mandal, which installed a 22ft moorti last year, will host a midget 4ft idol this season in keeping with state Covid-19 guidelines,” she said. GSB mandal of Ram Mandir, Wadala, which had rescheduled last year's festivities to Maghi 2021, will keep a small idol for one day (February 15). Treasurer Ulhas Kamat said, “We will observe Covid-19 restrictions. No prasad will be distributed. Visarjan will be held on our premises only.” Mukund Kamat, chairman of the temple trust and secretary of its Ganeshotsav Samiti, said, “Our idol is merely 18 inches tall. The utsav will be low-key and in limited form, keeping in view the pandemic and statutory compliances. Pujas will be streamed online. We will perform the ‘pratishtha’ ritual followed by ‘ganahoma’ on behalf of devotees. Visarjan will be held after the evening puja. There will be no public darshan and we are not booking any pujas, havan or annadana seva. As per state government instructions, there will be no prasad distribution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mandals-prepare-to-celebrate-maghi-ganeshotsav-on-monday/articleshow/80901962.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
February 14, 2021||Salem||Six-year-old female elephant found dead in Krishnagiri||Krishnagiri: A female elephant aged around six years was found dead in the Jawalagiri forest range in Krishnagiri district on Saturday. According to a forest department source, who didn’t want to be named, the carcass was first spotted by the residents of a nearby village. “They immediately alerted us,” he said. A team of veterinary doctors, who were attached to the Hosur forest division, subsequently reached the spot along with other forest officials and carried out autopsy. “They removed vital organs, including spleen, for further analysis, said S Prabhu, district forest officer, Hosur division. As per the preliminary postmortem report, the officer said, the elephant had been suffering from colic pain. The animal died of natural causes, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/six-year-old-female-elephant-found-dead-in-krishnagiri/articleshow/80900974.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||MRC trains another 395 recruits||Udhagamandalam: A total of 395 recruits came out in flying colours from the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) at Wellington, near Coonoor, after a year-long basic and advanced military training on Saturday. In this connection, the MRC witnessed an attestation parade that was participated by all the recruits, who took their oath, at the Srinagesh Barrack. The parade was reviewed by Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, SC, SM, Commandant, MRC, Wellington. Speaking on the occasion, he said, “Continuous improvement in training methodology and mechanism, and innovative initiatives have revolutionized the way the centre is training its recruits by achieving the highest standards desired.” He also lauded the instructors. MRC officers attended the function by adhering to the Covid-19 safety protocols. Parents of the young soldiers, however, could not attend the parade, due to Covid restrictions. The new recruits would now join various battalions of the regiment as allocated to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mrc-trains-another-395-recruits/articleshow/80900958.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||‘Shankar’ kept in kraal, to be tamed before moving to elephant camp||Udhagamandalam: While the forest department has captured the rogue tusker, Shankar, that killed three people in Gudalur forest division on Friday evening after 10 days of struggle, it would take a few months to shift the animal to Theppakadu elephant camp in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris. However, the tusker was moved to a place near the elephant camp on Friday night itself, after it was captured from the Cherambadi forest range. According to Dhayananthan, forest range officer who is incharge of Theppakadu elephant camp, the tusker has been kept in a kraal in a temporary camp at Abhayaranyam in MTR. “As Shankar has been brought from the wild, it cannot directly be kept in the elephant camp, where other tamed elephants are being maintained. Hence, we have kept the tusker in the kraal at Abhayaranyam,” the officer told TOI. Initially, he said, the tusker had pushed the kraal and attempted to come out of that. “But the animal settled down gradually. While the elephant is showing mild signs of distress, it is not aggressive. We are feeding green fodder and water to the tusker and its health condition is good.” Dhayananthan said a captured elephant would normally be kept in the kraal for at least three months, when a forest watcher would train and tame the animal, and become friendlier to the animal. The Theppakadu elephant camp presently has 27 tamed elephants, including five kumkis. Once Shanker enters the camp, the number would touch 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shankar-kept-in-kraal-to-be-tamed-before-moving-to-elephant-camp/articleshow/80900981.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Erode||First 25,600 Covaxin doses arrive in dist storage unit||COIMBATORE: The first batch of Covaxin, 25,600 doses of it, arrived in the storage unit in the district on Saturday. While the district alone would get 13,700 doses of them, 4,900 would be sent to Erode, 4,600 to Tirupur and 2,400 to the Nilgiris. Covaxin, unlike Covishield, would only be administered in the district government hospitals. The Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) would get the doses on Monday. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, confirmed that the first doses of Covaxin have reached the regional storage unit. “In the district, it will initially be administered only in CMCH and beneficiaries have to sign a consent form.” The district had earlier received 83,100 doses of Covishield - 40,600 doses on January 15 and another 42,500 doses on January 23. “At least 21,030 people have taken the first dose so far and we have 62,070 doses left,” the officer said. On Saturday, 1,418 frontline workers turned up for the shot. “As per the state government’s calculation, another 16,000 beneficiaries have to take the first dose to reach 50% of our target, which we are trying to meet,” Dr Ramesh Kumar said. Any frontline or health worker, even the ones not registered on CoWIN app, could walk into any primary health centre with an Aadhar card or any other valid id card and get vaccinated until February 20. Meanwhile, 23 health workers, who had taken the first dose of Covishield on January 16, turned up at CMCH and the government hospital at Pollachi for the booster dose on Saturday. The low turnout of police and revenue officials to take the shot and the imminent expiry date of the vaccine are making officials nervous. “The Covishield vaccines will expire in April and Covaxin in May. It’s high time that we started vaccinating all government staff and preferably public too,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/first-25600-covaxin-doses-arrive-in-dist-storage-unit/articleshow/80905852.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||Herd impunity in Momo’s Kingdom as Covid norms thrown to wind||Panaji: Revellers threw caution to the winds and made a mockery of Covid-19 norms as they turned up in thousands to attend Carnival in Panjim, the first government-organised tourism festival in the state post-lockdown. Corporation of the City of Panaji’s (CCP) claims that pandemic norms would be followed too were laughable, as there was no social distancing and very, very few masks. “It’s too hot to wear the mask. I am confident that nothing will go wrong if we don’t wear it,” said Manju Thakur, a visitor from Jammu. She was at Carnival parade with her year-old toddler, who was also without a mask. This opinion was shared by another reveller, Shobha Sawant, a senior citizen who went to watch the float parade with her granddaughter. “We are already in such a crowd, and people are not scared,” said Shashi Bala of St Inez. “What’s the point of being scared ourselves?” Ironically, the opening float, led by King Momo, promoted the Covid vaccine while around it, people gathered in hundreds to capture an image of the festival monarch. Police personnel monitoring the event did precious little to impose social distancing or any kind of order. With the state being open to tourism, a sizeable number of “vloggers” or “influencers” also seen walking around, trying to capture images of the various tableaux, with some interacting with the dancers. Solo cosplayers that walked along the parade were also often stopped by parents of toddlers, insisting that they click a selfie with their little ones. In most instances, while the parents wore masks, the children did not. The parade floats this year hit closer to home than usual, with tableaux featuring coconut pluckers, fisherfolk, cane weavers, potters, and feni distillers, besides festivals like Sao João. Floats with social messages such as no smoking, road safety, environmentalism and breast cancer awareness also featured in the Carnival parade. “From Covid-themed floats to those on nature, there is good variety this year. I am very happy with the improvement in the quality of floats this year,” said Valencia D’Souza. In the wake of the Mollem issue, participants didn’t shy away from creating tableaux that highlight the need to protect the eco-system. In a spine-chilling display of the need to save the forests, one float featured a larger than life statue of a malnourished human breathing oxygen through a ventilator attached to a plant. Behind him, instead of dancers, walked a procession of mourners who had similarly strapped themselves to plant vases to breathe clean air from. Yet another drew attention towards black panthers, bringing attention to the dwindling numbers of the majestic creature. “There was an important message behind these particular floats. While development is essential, it need not be at the cost of forests and wildlife,” said Anjuna resident Jyotsna D’Souza. The event wound up earlier than usual this year with its fewer floats — the last of which left the starting point at 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/herd-impunity-in-momos-kingdom-as-covid-norms-thrown-to-wind/articleshow/80903022.cms||Nida Sayed
February 14, 2021||Coimbatore||First 25,600 Covaxin doses arrive in dist storage unit||COIMBATORE: The first batch of Covaxin, 25,600 doses of it, arrived in the storage unit in the district on Saturday. While the district alone would get 13,700 doses of them, 4,900 would be sent to Erode, 4,600 to Tirupur and 2,400 to the Nilgiris. Covaxin, unlike Covishield, would only be administered in the district government hospitals. The Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) would get the doses on Monday. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, confirmed that the first doses of Covaxin have reached the regional storage unit. “In the district, it will initially be administered only in CMCH and beneficiaries have to sign a consent form.” The district had earlier received 83,100 doses of Covishield - 40,600 doses on January 15 and another 42,500 doses on January 23. “At least 21,030 people have taken the first dose so far and we have 62,070 doses left,” the officer said. On Saturday, 1,418 frontline workers turned up for the shot. “As per the state government’s calculation, another 16,000 beneficiaries have to take the first dose to reach 50% of our target, which we are trying to meet,” Dr Ramesh Kumar said. Any frontline or health worker, even the ones not registered on CoWIN app, could walk into any primary health centre with an Aadhar card or any other valid id card and get vaccinated until February 20. Meanwhile, 23 health workers, who had taken the first dose of Covishield on January 16, turned up at CMCH and the government hospital at Pollachi for the booster dose on Saturday. The low turnout of police and revenue officials to take the shot and the imminent expiry date of the vaccine are making officials nervous. “The Covishield vaccines will expire in April and Covaxin in May. It’s high time that we started vaccinating all government staff and preferably public too,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/first-25600-covaxin-doses-arrive-in-dist-storage-unit/articleshow/80900992.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Agra||Thick fog blanket covers Agra region, visibility drops to zero||AGRA: A thick blanket of fog resulted in zero visibility in the Agra region on Saturday morning. With the Himalayan region getting a fresh bout of snow and cold wind intensifying — blowing at a speed of 8 kmph — the minimum temperature in Agra dropped by over 2 degrees Celsius in the past 48 hours. The sky, too, remained overcast for most of the day while little sunshine spread warmth in the afternoon. The maximum was recorded at 28.2 degrees Celsius, while the minimum dropped to 11.4 degrees over two notches below as compared to Thursday. Besides Agra, cold winds swept across Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri. Aligarh remained colder than Agra with maximum and minimum temperature being 21.8 and 10.2 degrees, respectively. In addition, dense fog also hit traffic movement on highways and major roads till afternoon, while around a dozen trains also get delayed. Tourists at the Taj Mahal were upset as they were unable to see the mausoleum due to dense fog. According to the metrological department, Agra region will continue to witness dense fog in the morning as well as in the evening for the next four days, while mild sunshine will take place in the afternoon. The maximum temperature is expected to decrease by 4 degrees Celsius and minimum by 2 degrees. On Saturday, the air quality (AQI) index in Agra was recorded at 210 or "poor" category, by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Particulate matter 2.5 (with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) remained a prominent pollutant in the Taj city. According to CPCB, AQI in poor category results in breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/thick-fog-blanket-covers-agra-region-visibility-drops-to-zero/articleshow/80900444.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Rs 3.15L fine on TRS leader for erecting flexis of new mayor||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) slapped Rs 3.15 lakh fine on a Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leader who erected unauthorised flexis congratulating the newly-elected mayor Gadwal Vijaya Laxmi. Three such violations were reported by netizens in Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills and Himayat Nagar Cross roads. At all three locations, TRS leader Atish Agarwal had erected unauthorised advertisements. While two advertisements at Banjara Hills and Jubilee Hills were erected 15 feet above ground level, banners and cut outs were erected on electricity poles on road dividers in Himayath Nagar Cross roads. The GHMC mayor took to social media to warn people indulging in such illegal activities. “Issued fines to my followers who set up flexis and hoardings in GHMC premises. This is to reiterate the fact that everyone is equal before law. We must adhere to the rules and regulations of the city. @KTRTRS @Director_EVDM @GHMCOnline @trspartyonline #Fines,” tweeted Gadwal Vijaya Laxmi. Her promptness was lauded by netizens as they sought receipt of payments by such violators. “Appreciate mayor garu for your job, the main work comes here. Do they pay all these fines? What’s the proof of payment ? Please provide such information also,” tweeted Jagadeeshwar. According to the Directorate of EV&DM, without the written authorization of the competent authority, use of lights or non-static lighting in advertisements, the scale of advertisements, the name board exceeding 15% of the façade of the building, the use of moving, revolving or variable message advertising devices is an offense committed under Sections 420, 421 of the GHMC Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-3-15l-fine-on-trs-leader-for-erecting-flexis-of-new-mayor/articleshow/80903001.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||‘Gate duty’ to stop kids from crowding||Kolkata: Photographs posted on social media of students taking off their masks and posing for selfies after stepping out of school on Friday have led to concerns among principals. Taking stock of the first day at school, several schools fear that unless students behaved responsibly, the virus might creep into the campus. Some schools have assigned special “gate duty” to teachers to ensure that children do not gather in groups outside the gates. Principals of several Anglo-Indian schools like Loreto Convent Entally, St Paul’s Mission, St Thomas Free School Street, Welland Gouldsmith and St Augustine, Kolkata, met on Friday to discuss and debate over whether they were on the track with measures taken. Many pointed out to the visuals that were doing the rounds. Many were tense about whether despite the best measures what would happen if kids fell sick. On Saturday, South Point School principal Rupa Sanyal Bhattacharjee moved up and down the entire lane outside the school and wherever she saw kids trying to gather, she advised them to leave. Modern High School for Girls is alarmed at the visuals that are going around and has decided to keep strict vigil at the gate from Monday when it reopens, said director Devi Kar. Most schools said that despite the gate vigil, unless children themselves take responsibility, it will be impossible for schools to remain open since the virus is not over yet. “Children should understand that they should be safe in their own interest. One irresponsible act will get the whole lot quarantined,” said Kaveri Dutt, spokesperson for Loreto schools. La Martiniere schools, Don Bosco Park Circus, the Loreto schools, Modern High School for Girls, St Paul’s Cathedral School, St Thomas Howrah and St Thomas Free School Street are some of the schools that are reopening on Monday. Some schools have decided to reopen after Saraswati Puja on TuesdaySt James School for example, is re-opening from February 18 for classes X and XII. Across the campus, La Martiniere for Boys campus has stickers on the floor, leading them to their stickered desks. At every vantage point, touchless hand-sanitising machines have been put up. Classes IX and XI will come in on Monday, followed by X and XII the next day, said principal John Rafi. Don Bosco Park Circus is re-sanitising and is checking all the installations that have been brought in over the weekend. The areas that will be used by kids on Monday will then be locked up so that there is no contamination. On Saturday, meetings were held at Loreto House and Loreto Convent Entally to fine-tune the drill that will be put into place from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gate-duty-to-stop-kids-from-crowding/articleshow/80901010.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 14, 2021||Meerut||BJP MLA booked for 'abetment of suicide' in UP||Meerut: Hours after a resident of Meerut Omkar Singh Tomar, 48, allegedly ended his life and reportedly named BJP MLA from Hastinapur constituency Dinesh Khatik as one of the persons responsible for the death, Khateek along with 13 others were booked under IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide) by Meerut police on behalf of the family on Saturday. According to the family of the deceased, Khatik had been allegedly putting pressure on Tomar to shell out Rs 15 lakh to settle a dowry case registered against Tomar's son. Khatik, however, refuted all charges and said, "I was asked to mediate on behalf of Tomar's family and I was doing that. I have no role in his suicide and will fully cooperate with police investigation." The deceased's elder son had married a woman from Khatauli, Muzaffarnagar, in 2020 but a year later a marital dispute arose and a case of dowry was registered in Khatauli police station against Tomar's family, police sources said. Being a local MLA, Khatik was reportedly mediating between the two families to arrive at a compromise, sources added. Divyesh Tomar, the deceased's son and complainant in the FIR, however, blamed Khatik and his followers for driving his father to take the extreme step. "My father was put under intense pressure by MLA Khatik and his men who had threatened us to shell out Rs 15 lakh and a car as compromise money and return all belongings of the woman's family. My father had shown inability to shell out so much cash, all of a sudden, but Khatik's men even came to our house and threatened us with a fake case of acid attack. Under tremendous pressure, my father eventually committed suicide on Saturday morning," Divyesh Tomar said. According to Meerut SSP Ajay Sahani, 14 individuals, including the MLA, have been booked and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bjp-mla-booked-for-abetment-of-suicide-in-up/articleshow/80900459.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Safety videos, small-batch plans to improve attendance||KOLKATA: Several principals are preparing for the tough challenge of convincing parents to send their children to school next week. Several parents have shown reluctance in sending their kids to school for on-campus classes. Many schools recorded poor attendance with barely 50% of the students turning up on Friday, when schools reopened for offline classes after almost a year. Some of the schools in the city like Modern High School for Girls, Calcutta Boys’ School, Calcutta Girls’ School, St James’ School and Loreto did not reopen on Friday. Most of the schools plan to reopen next week in a phased manner. “Most parents are reluctant to send their child to school. Most of them have written to us to continue with online classes. The reasons range from elderly family members at home who can get infected and the child is asthmatic to commuting in public transport. Resuming on-campus classes would be futile if parents do not send their children to school,” said a principal. Schools and colleges shut down in March last year due to the pandemic. After initial hiccups, almost all schools managed to put in place a mechanism for online classes. Now a section of parents is insisting that online classes to be continued till everybody is vaccinated for the novelcoronavirus. At South City International School, the authorities have undertaken several confidence-building measures. “We called our school captain and vice-captain to the school and showed them all the safety measures we have taken. We cleared all their doubts and the entire session was uploaded on the Facebook page. We have made videos of all the preparations and shared with the parents,” said John Andrew Bagul, principal of the school. Some schools that have decided against calling all the sections of classes IX to XII have sent a message to the parents that authorities were not rushing into it. “We are resuming in-person classes from Monday with students of only Class XII. Even they have been called to school in small groups,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls. Though the government has allowed schools to resume in-person lessons from classes IX to XII, most have decided to focus only on classes X and XII with emphasis on practicals and projects. “Our teachers have completed the syllabus online, so our focus now is on clearing doubts and on projects. So we have decided to call students of classes X and XII in small batches from next week. Students of IX and XI will be called from March, said Richard Gasper, principal of St Augustine’s School. Calcutta Boys’ School will reopen after Saraswati Puja. “We have been speaking to the parents. We have assured the parents that in-person classes will resume with small batches,” said Raja McGee, principal and secretary of Calcutta Boys’ School. Calcutta Girls’ will reopen from Monday in a phased manner. “Students will be divided in smaller groups for in-person classes,” said principal Basanti Biswas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/safety-videos-small-batch-plans-to-improve-attendance/articleshow/80901014.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Congress bribing voters with liquor, money, claims SAD||PATIALA: Shiromani Akali Dal has accused the incumbent Congress of distributing illegal liquor and money to the voters ahead of polling for the Ropar municipal council. SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema alleged that the Congress was misusing the government machinery by distributing liquor and money among voters with impunity. He said the videography was permitted by the Punjab and Haryana high court but the orders were not being implemented in letter and spirit by the electoral officials. SAD Ropar district president Gurinder Singh said, “We shared a video on social media and Facebook showing how illegal liquor was being distributed in ward number 14 of Ropar council from the house of a cop who is posted in Mohali. However, the police and district administration failed to take any action. The police did not allow us or the complainant to enter the house of cop otherwise truth would have come out.” Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary said, “The complaint was false and baseless as nothing was found from the house as we searched it thoroughly.” Ropar district electoral officer Sonali Giri said so far only six complaints were received regarding the violation of model code of conduct, of which three were sorted out while the remaining three were sent to the police for further proceedings and the reply was awaited. In Ropar municipal council has 42,677 voters in 21 wards, where 84 candidates are contesting. In Ropar district, voting will be held for on Sunday in Ropar, Nangal, Sri Anandpur Sahib and Morinda municipal councils and in Sri Chamkaur Sahib and Kiratpur Sahib nagar panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-bribing-voters-with-liquor-money-claims-sad/articleshow/80902132.cms||Bharat Khanna
February 14, 2021||Ludhiana||Punjab: Congress bribing voters with liquor, money, claims SAD||PATIALA: Shiromani Akali Dal has accused the incumbent Congress of distributing illegal liquor and money to the voters ahead of polling for the Ropar municipal council. SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema alleged that the Congress was misusing the government machinery by distributing liquor and money among voters with impunity. He said the videography was permitted by the Punjab and Haryana high court but the orders were not being implemented in letter and spirit by the electoral officials. SAD Ropar district president Gurinder Singh said, “We shared a video on social media and Facebook showing how illegal liquor was being distributed in ward number 14 of Ropar council from the house of a cop who is posted in Mohali. However, the police and district administration failed to take any action. The police did not allow us or the complainant to enter the house of cop otherwise truth would have come out.” Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary said, “The complaint was false and baseless as nothing was found from the house as we searched it thoroughly.” Ropar district electoral officer Sonali Giri said so far only six complaints were received regarding the violation of model code of conduct, of which three were sorted out while the remaining three were sent to the police for further proceedings and the reply was awaited. In Ropar municipal council has 42,677 voters in 21 wards, where 84 candidates are contesting. In Ropar district, voting will be held for on Sunday in Ropar, Nangal, Sri Anandpur Sahib and Morinda municipal councils and in Sri Chamkaur Sahib and Kiratpur Sahib nagar panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-bribing-voters-with-liquor-money-claims-sad/articleshow/80902132.cms||Bharat Khanna
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Extreme weather events rise, insurers try to bell Nat Cat||HYDERABAD: If there is one sector that has borne the impact of the rise in frequency of extreme weather events due to climate change, it is the insurance sector. While natural catastrophes (referred to as Nat Cat as it is commonly referred to in insurance parlance) cannot be predicted or reined in, reinsurance as well as insurance players feel that the adoption of parametric solutions by states, higher penetration of insurance as well as specialised underwriting practices can help the sector weather this recurring crisis. Parametric covers are insurance products where a pre-determined sum is released by the insurer in case of a natural calamity, depending on the specific conditions in the policy. During 2019-2020, national reinsurer General Insurance Corporation of India, which provides reinsurance to direct general insurance companies, reported a loss of Rs 360 crore as compared to a profit of Rs 2,224 crore in 2018-19. This was the third year in succession where the globe was faced with major natural catastrophes, pushing the company into an overall loss for the second time in its 48-year history. Aatur Thakkar, co-founder and director, Alliance Insurance Brokers, pointed out that if one looks at insurance companies’ reinsurance programmes, a chunk of the reinsurance premiums is paid for protecting the balance sheet from Nat Cat perils. “In 2020, we had Nisarga, Nivar, Buveri cyclones. There were floods in Kerala, Assam and Hyderabad. Now, we have Uttarakhand,” he said. He said companies are facing massive losses on crop insurance due to climate change, leading to reinsurers walking away from protecting agricultural capacities. TA Ramalingam, chief technical officer, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance, said many insurance players are batting for adoption of parametric solutions. “Climate change is here to stay and it is impacting insurance companies also in a big way…As an industry, we are trying to see if parametric solutions can be worked out.” Vineet Kumar, head of catastrophic perils-Asia, Swiss Re, said recently Swiss Re supported Nagaland in implementing protection against excessive rainfall through a parametric insurance solution. “Pay outs are allocated to the state in proportion to the amount of recorded rainfall (measured through satellites and rain gauges), which mirrors the anticipated levels of loss,” he said. Nagaland became the first state in India to opt for a parametric insurance solution.In this case, the parametric structure has been designed to cover the entire state of Nagaland through six district zones, with a stepped payout feature to ensure funds are allocated where losses occur and in proportion to the amount of recorded rainfall to mirror its impact, as per information available on the Swiss Re website. Thakkar said the other aspect that the reinsurance players can spend on is Cat (catastrophe) modelling, in which they study risks associated with floods or earthquakes where there is data available for over 100 years. But in the case of the Uttarakhand floods, he pointed out that it was a one-off event where modelling was difficult. So, for the short-term as well as long-term, reinsurance players will have to spend on the right kind of modelling so that they can structure their business in a manner that the risk can be spread and losses can be mitigated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/extreme-weather-events-rise-insurers-try-to-bell-nat-cat/articleshow/80903044.cms||Swati Rathor
February 14, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab all set for municipal bodies poll after violence marred campaigning||BATHINDA: All is set for the elections at eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats across the state on Sunday. The polling parties left for the polling booths. The polling will be held from 8am till 4pm. Going by a number of violent incidents in the run up to the elections during campaigning, including killing of two supporters of a candidate at Moga and an attack on the vehicle of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal at Jalalabad SDM office, elaborate security has been made to avoid or timely action in case of any untoward incident during polling. All the three opposition parties of SAD, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had been accusing the ruling Congress of misusing official machinery to forcibly win the elections. The leaders of these three parties separately met Punjab governor and the SEC to demand free and fair elections. The opposition parties accused the leadership of Congress of initially stopping the candidates of opposition parties from filing nomination papers. They accused that the ruling party used its influence in getting nomination papers of others to be rejected. SAD has boycotted the elections at Gidderbaha and all the 17 candidates of Congress have elected unopposed at Zira in Ferozepur. With less than a year left to state assembly elections, these civic body elections are being seen as prelude to the final goal. The ruling Congress has fielded over 2,000 candidates on its symbol, Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party and BJP too is contesting the elections but many of the BJP candidates are contesting as independent candidates for fearing backlash from farmers. The BJP had to pay heavy price for the farmer protest as most of its state level leaders and contesting candidates were stopped from campaigning at many places across the state. According to a letter written by additional director general of police intelligence to all the commissioners of police (CP) and senior superintendents of police (SSP) has asked to sensitise the force, take all necessary steps for the proper maintenance of law and order, security arrangements in and around polling stations and to ensure that there is no violence from polling to result declaration and make sure that election process is completed peacefully. The letter further reads as all AIGs/zonal intelligence are directed to keep strict vigil over the situation and communicate prompt information to the local administration as well as to the intelligence headquarters at Mohali. Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said, “Elaborate security arrangements have been made for smooth conduct of elections. No one will be allowed to take law into hands. Police personnel will keep vigil eye on the law and order situation.” SEC deputes 19,000 cops, 20,000 stafferSEC has deputed 19,000 police personnel and 20,510 government employees on Sunday. For 2,302 municipal wards, 9,222 candidates are in the fray. SEC has set up 4,102 polling stations, out of which 1,708 stations are sensitive and 161 hyper sensitive. The voting would be conducted through 7,000 electronic voting machines (EVMs). Every voter who entered the polling station before 4pm on Sunday will have the right to vote. Counting of the votes will start at 9am on February 17. The SEC has announced February 14 and February 17 as dry days. SEC spokesperson said all arrangements for the elections have been put in place by the administration. A total of 30 IAS and PCS officers have been deputed as observers to conduct free and fair elections. The commission has also appointed IG and DIG level officers as police observers. IPS officer Mukhwinder Singh Chinna has been deputed as observer for Mohali, Ropar and Fatehgarh Sahib district; IPS Surjit Singh for Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts; IPS Baljit Singh Rathore for Bathinda, Mansa and Faridkot districts; IPS Surinder Kumar Kalia for Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Nawanshahr districts; IPS Harbaz Singh for Ferozepur, Muktsar, Moga and Fazilka districts; IPS Gurinder Singh Dhillon for Patiala, Ludhiana, Barnala and Sangrur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pb-all-set-for-municipal-bodies-poll-after-violence-marred-campaigning/articleshow/80902123.cms||Neel Kamal
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||Over 5,700 perished in natural disasters in Uttarakhand in last 20 years||DEHRADUN: At least 5,731 people lost their lives while over 2,000 suffered injuries during natural disasters, mainly triggered by flash floods and landslides, in Uttarakhand since 2000, according to data collated by the state’s disaster management department. The data shows that flash floods and landslides caused by either heavy rainfall, cloudburst or glacial burst claimed the most number of lives in the state over the past two decades. As many as 4,218 fatalities were reported in 2013 during the Kedarnath tragedy – the year when maximum deaths were recorded. On an average, the state has lost 80 people to natural disasters every year – if the Kedarnath tragedy numbers are excluded. When contacted, Piyoosh Rautela, executive director of Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre, told TOI, “Uttarakhand is located on the southern slope of the Himalayan range. So, it is considered as one of the most disaster-prone states and vulnerable to natural hazards such as earthquakes, flash floods and landslides.” In the last decade, the state witnessed some of the worst such incidents – from the flash floods of 2010, in which more than 220 people lost their lives, to the Kedarnath tragedy in 2013, considered the worst natural disaster in the state’s history. Pithoragarh, Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts have been the most affected districts in terms of natural disaster cases, according to the State Emergency Operation Centre. “Excessive rainfall has been a major cause of natural disaster incidents in Uttarakhand – be it the 2010 flash floods, 2013 Kedarnath tragedy or the devastating landslide in Pithoragarh in 2016. However, last week’s flash floods in Chamoli is an exception as rainfall did not trigger the tragedy,” a senior official at the disaster management department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-5700-perished-in-natural-disasters-in-ukhand-in-last-20-years/articleshow/80900475.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Didn’t FASTag? Pay double highway toll from today||KOLKATA: If you are driving down to Santiniketan from Kolkata on or after February 15 with FASTag, you will zip past the toll plazas without stopping to pay manually.  A sum of Rs 166 (with 2.5% discount) will be automatically deducted from the account linked to FASTag against the actual toll of Rs 170 at the two toll plazas at Dankuni and Palshit. Without the FASTag, you will have to shell out Rs 340 for one-way travel and spend around 20 minutes at each toll plaza. And while travelling to Digha, the difference between payment with FASTag and without it — for a one-way trip — can be Rs 185 at the two toll payments at Jaldhulagarh and Sonapetya. The non-FASTag lane at 25 toll plazas on national highways across Bengal will cease to exist from the midnight on February 14. Thereafter, vehicles without FASTag will have to pay double the toll and wait in queue to pass through the toll plazas. “It will take longer to allow an untagged vehicle to move through the plaza, as we have to convert a FASTag lane into a hybrid lane. There will be a queue of such vehicles and manual process needs to be restored for allowing such vehicles. They will be charged double the toll,” said RP Singh, chief general manager (Kolkata region), NHAI. Originally slated to be rolled out from January 1, 2021, the deadline was extended till February 14 by the ministry of road transport and highway (MoRTH) on December 31, 2019. FASTag is an RFID tag that facilitates electronic payment of fees at toll plazas automatically. Apart from stopping pilferage of revenue and maintenance of transparency, FASTag will ensure seamless movement of vehicles, saving fuel and time. FASTag, which came into force in 2016, was introduced in Bengal across 25 NHAI toll plazas in 2018. Currently, 75% vehicles using national highways in Bengal make toll payment through FASTag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didnt-fastag-pay-double-highway-toll-from-today/articleshow/80901028.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 14, 2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: A mom’s frantic calls to son saved about 25 lives||DEHRADUN: A frantic call from his mother Roshni Devi, who had seen the cascading waters of the Dhauliganga tumble down into the valley on the fateful Sunday morning, saved Vipul Kaireni, a 27-year-old heavy motor vehicle driver who worked at the NTPC hydropower project in Tapovan. Uttarakhand rescue operation: Live updates“When I got my mother’s call on my mobile, I was working at the barrage. She was shouting frantically to run towards safety as the Dhauliganga was flooded. I did not take her seriously and disconnected the call. She called me again and pleaded to move away from the barrage. Since our house in the village is situated at a height, she said that she has seen the flooded river gushing downwards,” Kaireni said. Read AlsoNo threat from new lake: GeologistsDEHRADUN: Two days after it was reported that a 350-metre-long lake had formed near Rishiganga, where flash floods had occurred last Sunday, a two-member team of geologists from the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University that trekked to the lake’s site said the lake has gradually started He added that he then realised the seriousness of the situation and alerted over two dozen of his co-workers to move away from the barrage. “If it was not for my mother’s warning, none of us would have been alive today,” an emotional Kaireni said. Kaireni, who got married two months ago, has been working at the barrage since he was seven years old. At around 9am on Sunday, he left his village, Dhaak in Tapovan, for the now sludge-filled project site. “On a regular day, we get paid Rs 600, but earn double that amount on Sundays,” he said. Read AlsoUttarakhand disaster: Two bodies recovered from Tapovan tunnel; death toll at 40, 164 still missingCHAMOLI: Seven days after rescue operations started to reach out to over 30 people stranded inside the tunnel at the NTPC hydropower project site at Tapovan in Chamoli district, two bodies were recovered by a joint team of ITBP, SDRF, NDRF &amp; Army personnel in the intervening night of Saturday and At 10.35am, his mother made the phone call, which saved his life. “At first, I only heard her shouting and didn’t take it seriously. I asked her to stop worrying, saying mountains don’t just burst. She called me again and pleaded with me to move. My mother and wife Anita had seen the water rise 15m over its normal height and engulf everything in its wake. We all ran towards a staircase at the site and climbed it to save our lives,” Kaireni said. Sandeep Lal from Dhaak, who was also saved by Devi’s call, recounted the frantic couple of minutes. “I was inside, fixing a fault in an electricity line. When Vipul called, I ran, or rather flew outside. I owe my life to Vipul’s mother and have learnt never to ignore a parent’s warning,” said Lal, an electrician. There were around 100 others at the site who are missing, he added. “We fear they have been swept away. The staircase, which we used to reach to safety, was filled with muck by the time they realised the flood was coming. They couldn’t use it,” Kaireni said. Tapovan village pradhan Kishore Kaniyal lauded Devi’s presence of mind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-a-moms-frantic-calls-to-son-saved-about-25-lives/articleshow/80903647.cms||Shivani Azad
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Water users can link Aadhaar data with CAN||Hyderabad: Domestic consumers can visit nearby MeeSeva centres in their areas and link their Aadhaar card data with their consumer account number (CAN) to avail the 20 kl free water supply scheme. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has made this facility available to its consumers by liasioning with MeeSeva centres in the city and GHMC peripheral areas. On Saturday, HMWS&SB managing director M Dana Kishore convened a meeting with senior officials on Aadhaar linkage. “The consumers can visit the MeeSeva centres with any one of the monthly water bills, issued in the last six months,” he said. He advised the consumers to install functional water meters to get free water up to 20 kl every month. “If the water meters are defunct, rectify them to avoid monthly water bills,” he said. The Water Board had already started the process of Aadhaar linkage for slum dwellers at their doorsteps with the help of water meters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-users-can-link-aadhaar-data-with-can/articleshow/80903045.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Rajkot||Seven-year-old girl molested by uncle in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A seven-year-old girl was allegedly molested by the husband of her aunt (father’s sister) in Manharpur area on Jamnagar Road in Rajkot. The University police arrested the accused, who was caught red-handed by his wife, making indecent physical advances at the girl on February 11. The girl’s parents are divorced and she was living with her father and grandmother in the neighbouring house of the accused. Her father told police in the complaint that he was out of town when the incident happened. He came to know about the molestation from his sister after he returned. The girl’s aunt said she had gone to her brother’s house in his absence to check on her mother. Her husband and two children had also come along. After sometime, her husband took all three children to his house on some pretext. On reaching home, she saw her two kids playing outside, but on entering, she was shocked to see her husband allegedly molesting her brother’s daughter. She took him to task, but the accused went away asking her to keep mum. Later, she narrated everything to her brother. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-year-old-girl-molested-by-uncle/articleshow/80900092.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Amritsar||Pak senate junks bill on minorities safety||Amritsar: Pakistani senate panel rejected a bill that called for giving the minority communities protection against religious violence. Intelligence sources said Pakistan’s Hindus had demanded this bill after the desecration of the Karak temple. The Protection of the Rights of Religious Minorities Bill was presented by Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) senator Javed Abbasi, who has a good influence among the minorities of India’s neighbouring country and demands free access for them to their religious places. After the standing committee on religious affairs and interfaith harmony turned down the bill on February 3, Pakistan Peoples Party’s Hindu senator Krishna Kumari walked out of the meeting. A Hindu member of Pakistan’s National Assembly, who didn’t wish to give be named, said: “Senator Maulana Abdul Ghaffar Haideri of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl chaired the meeting where the committee “took a frivolous’ plea that the minorities enjoyed unprecedented freedom in Pakistan and the attacks on them were stray incidents”. In December 2020, a Muslim mob led reportedly by an Islamist cleric vandalised the smadh (tomb) of Sri Paramhans Maharaj and the Krishan Dwara temple in Karak district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan’s northwest frontier province. The demand for the minorities’ protection bill grew stronger after the incident. All-Pakistan Hindu Panchayat (APHP) general secretary Ravi Dawani said: “Hindu doctor Ashok Kumar of Bhan Syedabad town in Jamshoro district of Pakistan’s Sindh province was arrested on the false charges of poisoning a 20-year-old medical student, Sana. Dr Ashok denied any wrongdoing and arranged to send the CCTV footage of his clinic to the All-Pakistan Hindu Panchayat as evidence.” The bill can protect the minorities from similar false cases, the sources claim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pak-senate-junks-bill-on-minorities-safety/articleshow/80902151.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 14, 2021||Vadodara||ABVP leader ‘sorry’ for hitting dean||Vadodara: Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) leader who led the group that had allegedly assaulted vice-dean of M S University’s Faculty of Arts earlier this week tendered an apology on Saturday. It was on Monday last that the group of ABVP members had barged into the office of professor Hitesh Raviya, head of MSU’s English department and vice-dean of the faculty demanding that the faculty should cut short the syllabus of the forthcoming examination by 50%. The group had started addressing Raviya disrespectfully, calling him by his name during the ruckus in presence of university’s vigilance staff. Some members had even locked Raviya’s office from inside while others tried to push him. On Saturday, ABVP leader Darshan Gamechi remained present before the five-member committee that was appointed by the dean professor K Krishnan for fact-finding. “He has tendered an apology and has also apologised before professor Raviya. We are not suggesting any punitive action against him or others from his group to the university authorities as they have realised their mistake,” said Krishnan. Faculty officials said that they wanted to send out a strict message to such groups and outfits that they will not entertain such kind of behaviour from any group or student leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/abvp-leader-sorry-for-hitting-dean/articleshow/80899972.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||As govt eyes regulation, fate of Indian crypto owners hangs in balance||HYDERABAD: With the Centre taking note of the rising investor interest in cryptocurrency and likely to introduce the Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, the fate of nearly seven million cryptocurrency owners in India hangs in balance. The proposed Bill could halt the juggernaut of cryptocurrency, which had gained traction in 2020, in India, fear industry experts. This especially as Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur has already said the government will explore usage of Blockchain technology for ushering in a digital economy but reiterated government’s stance that it does not consider cryptocurrency as legal tender and will take measures to eliminate use of crypto-assets in financing illegitimate activities. Kunal Pande, partner, KPMG India, said many countries have allowed use of cryptocurrencies while setting up mechanisms to monitor them. “The proposed Bill is a step towards ushering in a regulatory framework. However, it would be important to understand how the model proposed in the Bill coexists with other models being used across the world in this highly interconnected digital global economy,” he added. He said variety of approaches have been taken by countries in realm of cryptocurrencies such as stablecoin, which are backed by assets and reduce volatility. “India can learn from these countries and consider allowing other models like asset-backed cryptocurrencies, decentralized cryptocurrencies with safeguards rather than banning it completely as it may lead to migration of Indian cryptocurrency users to such setups in other countries,” he added. Sumit Gupta, CEO and co-founder of one of the largest cryptocurrency exchanges in India, CoinDCX, said globally, cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin are considered a public cryptocurrency, owing to their public nature whereby participants can verify transactions in transparently. “Since the essence of cryptocurrency is to move towards a decentralized financial ecosystem, meaning no individual or organization can control it, banning them is practically impossible,” he said. He added RBI has indicated it may be exploring coming out with India’s own CBDC (Central Bank Digital Currency), like other countries, such as UK, Canada, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong which are already at an advanced level of development while they explore possibility of use cases such as cross border payment option. Rahul Pagidipati, CEO, ZebPay, said, “We think a ban is unlikely, but if it happens, we’ll do everything within the law to help our members manage their funds. Wealthy crypto owners probably will move their crypto to a foreign account or cold storage wallet. Regular folks may not be able to do.” He pointed out that they would actively pursue dialogue with the government to persuade them to replace any ban with positive regulation. Mukul Shrivastava, partner forensic & integrity services, EY India, said banning cryptocurrency may not be a good idea. It is important to look at aspects like robust KYC norms, traceability or taxation with regards to cryptocurrency to boost confidence of users. He said in India, where many vulnerable citizens fall for fraudulent emails or calls, perils of cryptocurrency are high and adequate safeguards are important. Watch Govt likely to introduce Bill to regulate cryptocurrency||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-govt-eyes-regulation-fate-of-indian-crypto-owners-hangs-in-balance/articleshow/80903057.cms||Swati Rathor
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to introduce bill to drop ‘Punjab’ from its laws||Chandigarh: The Haryana government would bring a bill in the upcoming budget session, beginning from March 5, to remove the tag of Punjab before its various statutes, Acts and enactments. The proposed bill would replace Punjab with Haryana before 163 laws that are applicable in the state at present. The decision to remove the name of Punjab before the state laws has been taken after receiving the recommendations of a committee constituted by the state last year. Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta also held a meeting with state chief secretary Vijai Vardhan and legal remembrancer (LR) Bimlesh Tanwar on Friday evening. State assembly secretary R K Nandal also attended the meeting. It was informed by the state officials that the committee constituted for the purpose has presented its report and the same has been approved by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. “Now the decks are clear for the presentation of the new bill in this regard. The parliamentary affairs department of the state would prepare the proposal,” said Gupta. The speaker had first taken the initiative in September last year to replace Punjab with Haryana in the laws. The LR had also explained to the speaker about the technical aspects of the proposed bill. Sources confirmed that in its report, the committee had recommended that there is no legal hitch in replacing the word. Chief secretary Vijai Vardhan has also made it clear that there is no administrative hurdle. As Haryana was part of Punjab before the re-organisation in 1966, it had retained most of the statutes and laws and made applicable to Haryana. There were 237 such laws having Punjab in their title. However, during the examination, the committee found that most of them have become obsolete and only 163 have been currently found applicable using the word Punjab. When Haryana came into existence after split from Punjab, it was resolved that the new state would be governed by the laws applicable in Punjab and the new state can make necessary amendments as per the requirements after two years. The state was being governed by these acts for the past around 54 years. Most of these laws are related to the revenue or police department. After the speaker raise the issue in September, a committee was also constituted in this regard for giving their recommendation to make necessary changes. The removal of the word Punjab from all these acts would be done in the pattern of what Gujarat government, led by then chief minister Narendra Modi, had done in 2011 while removing the word Bombay from all its laws. According to Gupta, for more than 50 years, Haryana has made its own identity in the country. He said by changing the word Punjab and inserting Haryana, the people of the state would have a sense of pride, which is required for the growth and progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-introduce-bill-to-drop-punjab-from-its-laws/articleshow/80902179.cms||Ajay Sura
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Second thought: Reconciliation at the family court||Out of over 25,000-odd applicants filing for divorce in the family court at Bandra every year, only a negligible fraction tend to withdraw their petitions, says divorce lawyer Vandana Shah, explaining why the two reconciliations she recently witnessed are significant. Shah is now trying to save a high-profile marriage that has been on the brink for five years. After a year the mother returned to India with her infant. “The couple are still suspicious of each other. But she came back to say ‘You know, our life is not so bad together’ and flew back after her divorce application was withdrawn on February 6,” says Shah. Another 37-year-old woman in Andheri who had walked out on her husband five years ago, told Shah that she wants to make peace now as her daughter is eight and her needs have increased. “Typically, such realisations occur after the couple approaches a counsellor. But these have arisen from contemplation,” says Deepali Tompe, marriage counsellor at Thane Family Court, about couples approaching her for peaceful reconciliation and amicable decoupling post lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/second-thought-reconciliation-at-the-family-court/articleshow/80903065.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand HC upholds state’s right to tax use of water for power generation||Nainital: In a major blow to the hydroelectricity projects functioning in the Himalayan state, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday dismissed 11 petitions – filed by the major hydel power projects functioning in the state -- and upheld the constitutional validity of the law that imposed an additional cost on the firms using the hill state’s water for generation of electricity. The verdict passed by the single-judge bench of Justice Lok Pal Singh comes in the backdrop of the flash floods in Chamoli that washed away two hydel projects and raised questions on their viability and impact on the sensitive regions of the Himalayas. The law in question – the Uttarakhand Water Tax on Electricity Generation Act 2012 – had imposed a tax ranging from two paise to 10 paise per cubic metre of water depending on the size of the hydel project. This tax was in addition to the 12% power that these projects supplied to the state government free of cost as royalty. Hydropower projects, ranging from THDC to Alaknanda Hydro Power Company, Bhilganga Hydro Power and many others, had challenged the law arguing that this was unconstitutional. It was also argued that the state had no power to levy the tax on electricity generation as it falls under the ambit of the Centre. Further the corporations argued that this law was not in operation when they signed the pact and that they were already supplying 12% electricity to the government. As a result, the provisions of the Act amount to double taxation, they argued in court. The bench, however, rejected all the arguments made by the counsels appearing for the firms and held that the law neither violates the Constitution nor is it mala fide in nature and that the legislature is competent to bring the law since it imposes tax on use of water, not generation of electricity. “A bare reading of the Act would reveal that the nature of impugned tax is not on ‘generation of electricity’ but on the ‘use of water’ or say ‘water drawn for generation of electricity’… If this tax was intended to be on generation of electricity then the legislature could not have exempted other kinds of generations of electricity like solar or wind generation,” read the court order. Justice Singh also noted that the Constitution gives taxing powers to the state as well and that “any attempt made to whittle down the powers of the State to tax, or subject it to assent, or approval of the Centre would not only be against the federal structure of our Constitution but would make the State appendages on the Centre”. The court added that Uttarakhand is a hill and cash-starved state with limited sources of revenue therefore the law is a way to give sustenance to the economy. The court has also vacated its May 2015 order which stayed the recovery of this tax and said that it finds no fault to the provisional assessment of the tax owed by the firms and the notices of the demand sent for using the water from state’s rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-upholds-states-right-to-tax-use-of-water-for-power-generation/articleshow/80900486.cms||Prashant Jha
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Two dead in separate accidents in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Two victims, including a woman, died in separate accidents within a span of a few hours on Saturday. In the first incident, 25-year-old Mahesh Sonkusre was declared dead at Mayo Hospital after he sustained serious injuries on Friday evening after ramming his bike into an electric pole near Mominpura. A case of accidental death was registered at Tehsil police station. In another incident, 27-year-old Ritiak Vedwal was killed while her friend Ashish Umre was seriously injured after an unknown truck hit their two-wheeler near Parsodi on Wardha Road. An offence was registered at Beltarodi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-dead-in-separate-accidents/articleshow/80901036.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Ggn MP no show as Khattar holds pre-budget meet||Chandigarh: Union minister and Gurgaon MP Rao Inderjit Singh failed to turn up to the dinner meeting of BJP Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs, chaired by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The meeting was part of the pre-budget exercise of CM Khattar as finance minister. It was held at the official residence of Union Jal Shakti Minister for state Ratan Lal Kataria. Besides Kataria, other MPs who attended the dinner included Union minister Krishan Pal Gujjar, Dharamvir Singh, Brijendera Singh, Arvind Sharma, Sanjay Bhatia, Sunita Duggal, Ramesh Kaushik, Nayab Singh Saini and Rajya Sabha MP LT Gen (retd) DP Vats, Dushyant Gautam and Ram Chander Jangra. Haryana BJP president Om Parkash Dhankar and co-inchage of Haryana Annapoorna Devi were also present. Officials in the CMO reasoned Rao Inderjit Singh had previous engagements which prevented him from attending the dinner meeting. “The CM is already in touch with him,’’ an official said. Interacting with media persons after dinner, CM Khattar reiterated that this was a routine exercise to meet stakeholders ahead of presentation of the budget, “Their valuable suggestions and expectations regarding development of their areas would be incorporated in the state budget,’’ said the chief minister. The discussions largely centred on requirements of MPs and the budget expectation for development works of their constituencies. “We shall certainly incorporate suggestions of all stakeholders and these meetings will continue,” he added. The CM is expected to take more meetings of entrepreneurs and social groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ggn-mp-no-show-as-khattar-holds-pre-budget-meet/articleshow/80902186.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Valentine Day gift: Nagpur police trace, return 111 lost phones to owners||NAGPUR: Jeeteshwari Sahu, aged 24, was in tears after cops handed her over the cell phone handset which had gone missing in January last year while travelling from college to home. Sahu was among the 111 persons whose missing phones, total worth more than Rs 32 lakh, were returned by the cyber police station in a first of its kind initiative, at Police Gymkhana on Saturday. Addl CP (crime) Sunil Phulari said it was “like a Valentine’s Day gift” for these people for whom the phones were special for various reasons. Phulari added the cyber police station used technical evidences and mapping to trace the missing mobile phones. “A system would be started for filing online complaints for missing items,” he said. “If the police stations do not help persons who have lost mobile phones then they can approach senior officers at the cyber cell,” said Phulari and added that they are now verifying whether offences can be registered. Phulari also stated city police chief Amitesh Kumar was serious about dealing with cyber related cases. Sahu, a postgraduate commerce student, had her important notes and files in the phone which her brother-in-law had gifted. Daughter of a menial worker, she didn’t tell her family about the lost phone for long. She had to purchase another handset with her savings. “I was overjoyed after getting a call from the police department yesterday. No one believed the phone could be found but I was optimistic,” she said. Kirti Ojha, 24, daughter of a priest residing at Mahal, said she had lost her cell phone in December 2019. All her contacts were stored in the phone. After few months, the pandemic struck and she lost her job too. “Without the contact details, I felt handicapped while searching for an alternative employment,” she said. Ojha later expressed her gratitude to Phulari, DCP Vivek Masal, senior inspector Ashok Bagul, naik police constable Suryakant Chambhare, constables Deepak Chavan and Krunal Hatwar. MahaMetro engineer Twinkle Belekar had the copy of his first joining letter in the mobile phone he lost. He thanked the cyber cell for recovering the phone. Pankaj Mishra, a mechanical engineer, said he was keen to see whether the pictures of family members, friends and other memories were still there. “My father (AN Mishra) had gifted me the expensive mobile phone and it hold emotional value for me,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/v-day-gift-police-trace-return-111-lost-phones-to-owners/articleshow/80901032.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 14, 2021||Goa||‘Even after jab, continue Covid protocols’||PANAJI: Even as the first set of healthcare workers received their second and final dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday, doctors reminded beneficiaries to continue wearing masks, maintaining hand hygiene and physically-distancing for the sake of others. The ones who received the second dose of the vaccine on Saturday were those who got their first dose on February 16, the day the vaccination drive was launched in India.  Among the no-shows for the second dose were those who had other commitments, those out of station, or those down with the flu. “Those with a fever cannot take the booster shot as their body is busy fighting that infection and may not respond to the vaccine,” a doctor said. “There can be a gap of four to eight weeks between the two doses, so beneficiaries can come back later at a later date.” The second set of healthcare workers will receive their booster dose on Saturday.  The full extent of the vaccine’s immunity is expected to set in 14 days after the second dose. Explaining why beneficiaries must continue to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour, a doctor said, “The vaccine beneficiary may not get sick, and may not get any complications from Covid, but can transmit Covid to someone who hasn’t been vaccinated. It must also be remembered that no vaccine is 100% effective”. “Only when a sizeable amount of the population gets vaccinated and when herd immunity sets in can we discard masks, but that is a long way off,” the doctor added. “At this point, those who have been vaccinated have to continue to take all precautions to keep other people safe.” The figures for those vaccinated were not released by the health department till late evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/even-after-jab-continue-covid-protocols/articleshow/80903061.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Pune||Finish Chandni Chowk flyover in a year: Gadkari to officials||Pune: Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday told National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Pune Municipal Corporation and other authorities concerned to complete the Chandni Chowk flyover project in the next one year.The project was originally slated for completion in January 2023. Gadkari reviewed the ongoing work in the Chandni Chowk on Saturday. He then held a meeting with officials from NHAI, PMC and the defence department. He instructed the officials to set a deadline for every stage of the work. Gadkari said he was pushing for early completion as he wanted to minimize the hardship faced by regular commuters. “The project’s completion date was originally August 2021 and has been extended to January 2023. But it is not appropriate to wait till the deadline because people will face hardship. I have told the authorities concerned, including the local police, to prepare a plan for faster execution, traffic management and diversions to see that it gets completed within a year,” he said.Gadkari said that the flyover construction would cost around Rs400 crore, while land acquisition would require around Rs500 crore. “I have been told that most of land has been acquired, so the work should proceed day and night,” the minister said.Meanwhile, Gadkari said the development of two palkhi roads (Bhakti Marg) has started and that the department was planning to complete the project in a year-and-a-half. “The cost of the project is Rs12,000 crore. The roads will have unique features considering devotees walk every year to Pandharpur,” he added. Gadkari said work on the 1.3km, six-lane flyover in Katraj will soon begin, while work on widening the Katraj to Navale bridge road has started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/finish-chandni-chowk-flyover-in-a-year-gadkari-to-officials/articleshow/80901041.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Registry scam: ACS recommends action against errant staff||Chandigarh: More than 100 officials of the revenue department, town and country planning department as well as the Urban development department have been indicted for alleged violation of various rules, especially Section 7 and 7A of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (HDR) Act. A recommendation-cum-finalised inquiry report prepared by additional chief secretary (ACS), revenue Sanjeev Kaushal has been forwarded to the chief minister office (CMO) and to deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who is also minister in-charge of the revenue department. Sources said those who face punitive action include circle revenue officers of the rank of district revenue officers (DROs), tehsildars, naib tehsidars, auditors, patwaris and operators of the revenue department, computer operators, junior engineers and sub-divisional officers of urban local bodies department, assistant town planners (ATPs) junior engineers of the Town and Country Planning Department. Most of the officials facing action are from the rev enue department. Besides recommending punitive action against those indicted by the secretariat on the basis of the report submitted by divisional commissioners, the ACS office has also strongly recommended extensive training of officials of all the three departments to ensure zero error in times to come. “Now, once the CMO and deputy CM office give the go-ahead, action will follow. The departments have been asked to prepare for extensive training of officials as well. We have given our recommendation,’’ said ACS (Revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal. It is alleged that 30,000 registries were found to have been done in violation of rules during the lockdown period. As a result, the revenue department barred registries in the state for a month and a half. Registration work has been started after launching of an integrated software involving the urban development department, Town and Country Planning department. It is alleged that the registries had been done in violation of sections 7 and 7 A of the HDR Act. Soon after this came to light, the government banned registration of sale deeds and relaunched it after one and a half months. Meanwhile, the government ordered divisional commissioners of Ambala, Karnal, Hisar, Gurgaon, Faridabad and Rohtak to submit their reports after examining registration of sale deeds of properties since March 2017. Divisional commissioners had submitted reports by January 8 and these were under examination at the office of the ACS, revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/registry-scam-acs-recommends-action-against-errant-staff/articleshow/80902213.cms||Manvir Saini
February 14, 2021||Pune||Bars & business hubs change complexion of Deccan area||Pune: Residents of bylanes connected to Prabhat Road, Bhandarkar Road and Deccan Gymkhana questioned the proposed widening of internal lanes citing that rampant permission to open bars, restaurants and commercial establishments along the main streets and the subsequent on-street parking were eroding their tranquil surroundings.“If facilitating traffic is the reason for widening our lane, then inform us about the measures initiated so far about forming ‘no parking zones’ or ‘one-ways’ in our area. What measures have the PMC (Pune Municipal Corporation) taken to develop multi-storeyed parking lots on main roads in the area?” says the official objection letter filed by 48 residents from Prabhat Road (Lane No. 3 and adjoining bylanes).Businessman Ajit Bhandarkar, one of the signatories of the letter, is the great great grandson of late R G Bhandarkar, the founder of Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute (BORI). The road linking Law College Road and Deccan Gymkhana has been named after the latter.“While no action is being taken about on-street parking by outsiders, the trees we have planted and nurtured will get axed if our lane is widened to nine metres,” Ajit Bhandarkar told TOI.In its official objection letter, Deccan Gymkhana Colony Panchayat (DGCP), an association of 250 residents, said, “Most of the bars, hotels, restaurants and commercial establishments operating in this area do not have adequate parking facilities. Tell us the measures being taken to make it mandatory for these establishments to provide parking to their visitors.”A senior civic activist from the area, who did not wish to be named, said, “There is a bar right in front of my bungalow and it has become a nuisance. Most of the residents here are senior citizens and are afraid of taking up the issue with the authorities. But can’t the PMC see that these establishments are illegally using their side margins and parking areas for serving liquor?”Many residents TOI spoke to recalled that Bhandarkar Road was a non-shopping and no-commercial road till late 90s. But it lost its charm after the PMC decided to throw it open for commercial activities.TOI had published a report “Key city road falls victim to civic apathy” in its June 3, 2007, edition highlighting how the civic body’s move facilitated opening of branches of several private banks along Bhandarkar Road and gave it the “Banking Street” nickname.The TOI report had quoted late P G Sardesai, former director of the state town planning department, who used to live on Bhandarkar road then. He had then said, “This road is an example of how the local administration can make a mockery of urban planning.”The residents of the Deccan Gymkhana and Prabhat Road areas feel that their quite lanes will meet a similar fate. Even if the widening happens “only on paper”, as being assured by political leaders, they fear it would facilitate construction of high-rises, elbowing out their bungalows and small apartments tucked in the narrow leafy lanes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bars-business-hubs-change-complexion-of-deccan-area/articleshow/80902255.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 14, 2021||Pune||Epicentres up to 52 in Maharashtra as against just five in 2006||PUNE: The number of avian influenza epicentres in Maharashtra has now risen to 52 in 22 districts, far higher than the 2006 outbreak. Maharashtra’s animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI on Saturday, “The 2006 outbreak involved H5N1 strain of bird flu and had occurred at five epicentres, one in Nandurbar and four in Jalgaon. The current outbreak has occurred at 52 epicentres in 22 districts and involves H5N1 and H5N8 strains of the bird flu virus.” Singh said the number of epicentres were bound to be high as the infection spreads through migratory birds. “But the economic impact on those involved in poultry trade is not like it was in 2006. There is also no reason to panic,” he said. Singh said during the 2006 bird flu, the egg and broiler prices had hit rock bottom. “This time, egg prices are almost at the same level as they were before the outbreak, while broiler prices are 10-20% down. After tackling bird flu in 2006, the state has attained more experience. The information and education campaign started by the state authorities post-bird flu on telling consumers that properly cooked chicken and egg consumption is safe has also helped blunt the economic impact,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/epicentres-up-to-52-in-state-as-against-just-5-in-2006/articleshow/80901073.cms||Neha Madaan
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Pushpa Ganediwala gets 1-year extension as additional judge||NAGPUR: Justice Pushpa Ganediwala, whose recent verdicts invited criticism, has only been given a 1-year extension as additional judge after the Supreme Court collegium refused to elevate her as a permanent judge of the Bombay high court. Her term had ended on Saturday. Senior administrative judge at Nagpur bench, Nitin Jamdar, administered the oath to her in the presence of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta who attended the ceremony online from Mumbai. The apex court’s collegium had recommended two years’ extension to Ganediwala after withdrawing its earlier suggestion to make her a permanent judge. However, the Union ministry for law and justice refused it citing her “controversial” judgments. According to lawyers, the collegium’s unprecedented step would have two grave consequences. First, it shall develop an unnecessary restrictive and negative mindset for judges throughout India, who would be apprehensive of taking bold decisions. Second, the HC would be deprived of a promising young judge, who if confirmed, has a long tenure to serve the public. A notification was issued on Friday by joint secretary to the government of India, Rajinder Kashyap. “In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of Article 224 of the Constitution, the President of India is pleased to appoint Pushpa Ganediwala to be an additional judge of the Bombay high court for a period of one year with effect from February 13, 2021,” it reads. Subsequently, President Ramnath Kovind and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari cleared her name for the extension. A group of lawyers, meanwhile, have already written to the President and the Chief Justice of India to reconsider their decision of withdrawing the SC collegium’s recommendation against Ganediwala’s elevation as the permanent judge. After starting her judicial innings as a district judge, Ganediwala, the 51-year-old from Paratwada in Amravati, was appointed as additional judge on February 8, 2019. Earlier, her name was in reckoning for HC’s additional judge in 2018, but wasn’t considered after a few judges made adverse remarks that led to the SC collegium deferring her appointment. It was during the tenure of former CJI Ranjan Gogoi that she was appointed to the coveted post. When talks for her elevation as a permanent judge were underway, two senior SC judges adversely opined against her. But the collegium forwarded her name to the union ministry on January 20. After a series of “controversial verdicts” were reported by the media, including TOI, the collegium withdrew their suggestion on January 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ganediwala-gets-1-yr-extension-as-addl-judge/articleshow/80901064.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 14, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra govt relaxes FYJC norms for kids with special needs||PUNE: Children with special needs can now seek admission in Standard XI, under the allowed to keep term (ATKT) rule, without clearing the English subject in Standard X from the 2021-22 academic year, a government resolution issued on Friday stated. However, the students will have to clear the Std X English subject after taking it as an “isolated subject” in First Year Junior College. “Earlier, this facility was only available to children with speech and hearing impairment till the 2020-21 academic year. But now, it is applicable for all students with any kind of disability,” explained Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune division. To bring students with hearing impairment into the mainstream of education, a GR was passed in 2015, approving their admission in Std XI via the ATKT concession, even if they hadn’t taken English as a subject in Std X. But, they had to pass it after taking it as an “isolated” subject in Std XI. However, for regular students and children with special needs, except children with hearing and speech impairment, it was a must to take English as a subject in their Std X board examination. A January 8, 2016 government resolution allowed students with speech and hearing impairment, learning impairment and multi-disabled and autistic students to choose one language and five elective subjects, instead of the two languages and four elective subjects norm for regular Std X students. “On Friday, a GR was issued that allowed the admission of all other students with special needs to avail the ATKT concession and take admission in Std XI, even if they had not taken English as a subject in Std X. However, they will have to pass the subject by taking it as a separate subject in Std XI,” Shendkar said. All students that haven’t got admission in Std XI, can participate in the first-come first-served round till 10am on February 16. For more updates visit official websit for FYJC admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-relaxes-fyjc-norms-for-kids-with-special-needs/articleshow/80901044.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 14, 2021||Nashik||45 CCTVs set up at Nashik civil hospital||Nashik: The Nashik civil hospital has set up 45 closed-circuit television cameras (CCTVs) covering all the 22 major wards and passages of the hospital to enable the senior medical officers of the hospital to monitor all the activities and treatments provided to the patients. The CCTV cover, in fact, came in handy on Saturday afternoon when a sleeping toddler was kidnapped from outside the labour room. The hospital administration and the police were able to spot an unidentified man walking away with the child. The footage is likely to help the police investigation. Ratna Raokhande, the civil surgeon of the civil hospital, said: “As of Friday, we have activated 36 cameras. The remaining cameras will also be activated soon. If the need arises, more CCTV cameras will be installed on the rear side of the hospital.” There are other 17 cameras that have already been installed in the extension building, which is currently the Covid ward. Raokhande said this would help the administration monitor all the activities and give necessary instructions to doctors, staff nurses etc. if needed. Nashik civil hospital is a 540-bed hospital, which is completely occupied for most time of the year. Approximately 700 patients visit the out-patient department (OPD) every day, so strict security measures have to be maintained. There have been incidents in the past, where patients have tried to commit suicide, patients’ relatives have either attacked the healthcare workers or ransacked the hospital. Patients and their relatives have also made allegations about the treatment provided in the hospital. Given this scenario, the CCTV cameras will be useful for the Nashik civil hospital administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/45-cctvs-set-up-at-nashik-civil-hospital/articleshow/80900501.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 14, 2021||Amritsar||Jan 26 violence: 16 still missing, morcha seeks high-level probe||Bathinda: Even as 16 protesters are still missing, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a conglomerate of farm unions, has sought a high-level judicial inquiry into the violence that took place during the tractor rally in Delhi on January 26 and the alleged false cases against farmers. The morcha’s legal committee has asked farmers and others who are getting notices from Delhi police to clarify their position on January 26 happenings, not to go to police directly but inform morcha’s legal panel, which will take up their cases with police and guide them. Morcha’s five-member committee head Prem Singh Bhangu said on Saturday that they have found out that 122 persons were arrested and sent to Tihar jail. Of these, eight have got bail and two others will be released on Monday on completion of documentation. Bail had been sought for five more persons. The legal committee had initially been informed that 38 people were untraceable, but out of these 22 were found in jail. However, 16 are still missing — 9 from Haryana, one from Rajasthan and 6 from Punjab. Accusing Delhi police of harassing farmers by keeping many in illegal confinement and sending notices to others, the morcha has demanded that a sitting high court judge oe retired judge of Supreme Court probe the happenings on Republic Day. The morcha is trying to trace farmers who are missing after January 26 and is providing legal assistance to those in judicial custody. The legal team had on Friday visited Tihar jail to find out the state of inmates and to provide financial assistance to arrested farmers. Bhangu said they have so far got details of only 22 of the 44 FIRs registered by Delhi police in various police stations. The arrest of 122 persons pertains to only 14 FIRs and no arrest has been made so far in 30 FIRs. He also pointed out that various sections including 307 (attempt to murder) have been registered against protesters which is enforced against criminals. Apart from this, sections 395 (dacoity), 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) have also been mentioned. Committee member Raminder Singh Patiala said they were filing cases as per age of arrested and as per less severe sections, and will apply for bail of those booked under Section 307 later. “We visited Tihar jail on Friday and met Ranjit Singh of Kajampur village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, whom a cop had pinned down with his boot on allegations of attacking a SHO, and Ranjit Singh of Tatariewala village in Moga. Both are in high spirits. We have deposited Rs 2,000 each for 113 detainees in Tihar jail for canteen bills; they will get the money on Monday.” He said 150 lawyers are supporting the morcha in giving legal aid. Bhangu said, "We met police commissioner for details, but police are keeping mum. Serious sections have been added to set back the struggle, but we are firm on getting them out of jail."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/jan-26-violence-16-still-missing-morcha-seeks-high-level-probe/articleshow/80902257.cms||Neel Kamal
February 14, 2021||Nashik||Taxi, auto drivers warn of chakka jam in Nashik||Nashik: Upset with the continuous rise in fuel prices, autorickshaw and taxi drivers in the city have warned of staging a ‘chakka jam’ if there is no drop in the prices soon. Fuel prices in Nashik continued to increase on the third consecutive day. While petrol price rose from Friday’s Rs 95.01 per litre to Rs 95.30 per litre on Saturday, diesel, which cost Rs 84.39 per litre on Friday, went up to 84.76 per litre on Saturday. Bhagwan Pathak, of Shramik Autorickshaw Taxi Tempo Truck Chalak Malak Sena, said, “The rising fuel prices have made survival difficult for autorickshaw and taxi drivers who have already experienced the worst phase of their lives during the Covid-19 lockdown. Just when things are limping back to normalcy, the rising fuel prices have made operating autorickshaws and taxis difficult. We have already presented a memorandum of demand to senior officials of the district administration to let our concerns be heard at the state and national levels.” If the autorickshaw drivers increase their fare by even Rs 5, passengers will be unwilling to travel by autorickshaws. There have been requests from autorickshaw and taxi drivers from across the district to take up a huge agitation to echo their concerns. “We are planning a chakka jam after the Shiv Jayanti celebrations. The chakka jam, when autorickshaws and taxis would stay off the road, will be the decision of the drivers and owners. The Shramik Sena would be backing this agitation,” said Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/taxi-auto-drivers-warn-of-chakka-jam-in-nashik/articleshow/80900506.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 14, 2021||Pune||Doubts arise over fire audit of colleges before reopening||Pune: The fire officer of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said no college had submitted the fire safety certificate despite making the audit of laboratories, hostels and electronic equipment at the institutes mandatory before reopening. The colleges need not approach the fire department to get the certificate. Institutes can approach any of the 500-odd licensed agencies in the state for the certificate as it is mandatory to submit it to the local self government body. Fire safety and other audits are essential as the institutions were shut for many months due to the lockdown. “Section 3 (3) Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2006, states that custodians of the building are responsible for the completion of the fire audit. The validity is for a year but the provision also tells them to get it done every six months. The B-form is like a certificate that says all systems are fine. This should be submitted every January and July to the department. One copy must be kept with the institute while the other needs to be given to the fire department. However, nobody follows this process,” said Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer at PMC.Ranpise further said, “We have not received any application from colleges. We had only got applications from PMC-run schools and hospitals as yet.”Mohan Khatal, joint director of higher education for Pune division, said that the department doesn’t have the data of how many colleges have completed the safety audit. “It is the responsibility of colleges to ensure the safety of students. Hence, it is important that they comply with all audits before reopening the colleges or hostels for students. If students or parents find any shortcomings in the precautions taken by the colleges, they can complain to Savitribai Phule Pune University or at our office,” said Khatal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doubts-arise-over-fire-audit-of-colleges-before-reopening/articleshow/80901071.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Failures score better than merit students in NU mobile exams||NAGPUR: Case-1: A poor girl studying in BSc scored first class in all her five semesters exams. In final exams conducted on mobile phones, she scored 74%. Her average came out to be 67% for all three years. Case-2: Her classmate, hailing from an upper middle class family, had many backlog subjects in all five semesters. In her sixth semester online exams she scored 78%. In exams for backlog subjects conducted by the colleges, she fared well due to multiple-choice questions (MCQ). The first girl, however, couldn’t secure admission to top colleges for MSc as her aggregate was 67% and she had to settle for a seat in a Kamptee college. The second girl managed to get admission in the Institute of Science as her aggregate came out to be 78% due to distinction score in backlog papers. Many meritorious students like the first girl suffered due to the ‘failed experiment’ of online mobile examinations conducted by all universities across Maharashtra, including Nagpur University (NU). The regular students like her cleared their papers in the first attempt in theory exams, which was a tough format. On the other hand, those who failed were made to appear in online exams on mobile from their home. If this wasn't enough, they were told to attempt any 25 questions out of 50 and there was no negative marking. Calling it a mockery of the examination system, academicians said the students were not really tested on their knowledge in respective subjects. “The government and NU are spoiling the future of thousands of students who may be happy at the moment due to their inflated scores, but wouldn’t stand on the national level when tested. They’re destroying the young generation by inculcating a false confidence in them,” former pro-vice chancellor GS Parasher said. He added, “99% results in any exams are unbelievable as hardly any results had gone above 50-60% all these years. The quality is the biggest sufferer in NU’s failed experiment. It’s precisely the reason why the nearly 100-year old university does not even figure in the top 150 in national rankings.”. Endorsing academicians, senior NU officials said many students who weren’t able to clear their examinations for the last eight to ten years have cleared subjects with flying colours in absence of any monitoring on mobile exams. “Though we initially introduced proctoring to prevent malpractices, it turned out to be a disaster as the system was clogged and papers were cancelled due to it. Hence, we took out proctoring without revealing it to the examinees. Subsequently, they had a free run and the results were evident,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/failures-score-better-than-merit-students-in-nu-mobile-exams/articleshow/80901098.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 14, 2021||Pune||Trio assault man waiting for cab on Navale bridge||Pune: A 28-year-old man was assaulted by three men with a sharp weapon while he was using his smartphone to book a cab on Navale bridge at Narhe around 5.30am on Friday. Senior inspector Krishna Indalkar of the Dattawadi police said Soubhayakumar Gauravchandra Sahoo Mohapatra from Odisha, currently residing in Navi Mumbai, was in Pune to meet a friend. “Mohapatra was waiting near a hotel on the bridge when three men got into a dispute with him over waiting at the spot,” Indalkar said. The trio then assaulted him and fled the spot, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-assault-man-waiting-for-cab-on-navale-bridge/articleshow/80901087.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||96 hydropower plants in different stages of development in U’khand; 75 already operational||Dehradun: Even as questions are being raised on hydroelectric plants (HEPs) in the wake of the recent flash floods in Chamoli, data accessed exclusively by TOI has revealed that there are 96 HEPs that are in differnt stages of development in Uttarakhand. This is in addition to the 75 HEPs that are already operational and are generating around 4000 MW of electricity. With the cumulative strength of 171 HEPs, the state plans to take its hydropower generation capacity to 16,375 MW in future. Sources told TOI that the projects under development are currently in different stages ranging from inspection, detailed project report (DPR) to the survey stage. Of the 75 projects already operational, 38 are being overseen by the Uttarakhand Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited (UJVNL) whereas 37 are under the Uttarakhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (UREDA). Of the 38 HEPs overseen by UJVNL, 17 are directly under the body while four projects are of PSUs like NTPC and THDC and 17 are independent power projects operated by private enterprises. UREDA’s projects are mainly micro and mini HEPs. Justifying the need to focus on hydropower, officials of UJVNL said that Uttarakhand’s rivers have the potential to generate 24471 MW of power. They added that plans are therefore ongoing to utilise this potential. The Supreme Court had after the 2013 tragedy stayed 24 HEPs which officials say would have otherwise contributed around 3900 MW. UJVNL officials also claimed that they are one of the first in the country to have done a Central Environment Impact Assessment (CEIA) of each river flowing in Uttarakhand and therefore all the hydel plants are safe and not causing any environmental loss. “A CEIA has been done of the tributaries of Alaknanda and Bhagirathi as well as other rivers and their tributaries. The projects have got a go-ahead only if they are environmentally sustainable and are being operated, following green norms,” said Sandeep Singhal, MD, UJVNL. However, environmentalists expressed apprehension at these claims. “The quality of Environment Impact Assessments (EIAs) doesn’t inspire much confidence. I have gone through around 10 EIAs and found that they had inadequate data, poor analysis, generalisations and sometimes even white lies. If the EIA consultant is being paid by the developers, there will always be an element of distrust regarding the assessment,” said environmentalist Ravi Chopra, who has headed SC-appointed panels on the impact of HEPs in the state as well as the environmental impact of the Char Dham all-weather road project. Meanwhile, UJVNL MD Singhal said that “even though Uttarakhand is a Himalayan state just like Himachal Pradesh and has equal potential of generating about 25000 MW hydropower, Himachal currently generates 10,000 MW hydropower and is working on other projects worth 9000 MW while in Uttarakhand, we are far behind and in fact have to purchase power worth Rs 1000 crore.” Geologist Navin Juyal, reacting to the comparison between Uttarakhand and Himachal’s hydropower potential, said, “Himachal has a vast expanse and wider catchment area unlike Uttarakhand. The length of Uttarakhand’s rivers are shorter than Himachal and also, the condition of Himachal’s higher reaches is worse than Uttarakhand in terms of geology due to these hydropower plants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/96-hydropower-plants-in-different-stages-of-development-in-ukhand-75-already-operational/articleshow/80900512.cms||Shivani Azad
February 14, 2021||Pune||Many lounges, restos clock highest reservations so far during pandemic||Pune: A number of lounges and restaurants in the city have witnessed the highest surge in table reservations this Valentine’s Day weekend, a first for some since businesses opened during the pandemic. Restaurant owners pointed out that deadline extension until 1am has helped the situation so has the fact that this is the first Valentine’s Day since Covid-19 struck the city last year. Praful Chandawarkar, director of Malaka Spice, told TOI, “December and January were good months for business but February was not as good so far. However, there is a sudden increase in reservations for V-Day weekend at our fine dining restaurant as it’s a big day for patrons. We are booked for Saturday and Sunday. The 1am closing deadline extension has aided the trend as those who want to celebrate V-Day post-midnight have also made reservations.” Sanika Kelkar, marketing manager at Effingut, said, “We are seeing a surge in pre-bookings with people reserving tables, more so before special occasions such as V-Day or even dry days. The reservations this weekend have been highest so far in comparison to past weekends.” A lounge representative in Koregaon Park said, “As compared to the pre-bookings we received on weekends in December 2020 and January 2021, we have seen a 50% increase in reservations for V-Day weekend. Most bookings are for a table-for-two. People are ensuring that they pre-book tables so as to get a place at the lounge on the day, because eateries are still operating at 50% seating capacity as per Covid-19 norms.” When the deadline was 11.30pm, the last order would be taken at 10.15-10.30pm. With the 1am deadline, the last order deadline at most places will go up to as late as 11.45pm or 12 midnight, said sources. This will help restaurants cater to more covers, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/many-lounges-restos-clock-highest-reservations-so-far-during-pandemic/articleshow/80902277.cms||Neha Madaan
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Need event that forces govt to accept demands: Charuni||Ambala: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana leader Gurnam Singh Charuni on Saturday said farmers’ agitation was in a pause at the moment as talks with the government had stopped. Charuni talked about proposing a call from the stage of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) — which comprises farm groups spearheading protests — that would pressure the central government to accept their demand of repealing the three contentious agri-marketing laws. Asked about the direction in which the farmers agitation was now moving, Charuni said, “Presently, the andolan is in a state of paused situation. No talks are taking place now. And a series of panchayats (public rallies) are ongoing in the andolan to show the government the public’s inclination against these laws. Some event have been called in-between, including those related to Sir Chhotu Ram and rail roko for four hours on February18. But there is no such program that would put pressure on the government.” To a query on resuming talks and pressuring the government, Charuni said, “Very soon, we will take a big action. A decision in this regard will be passed in the meeting of the SKM,” he said. Asked about the agenda of a recent meeting of SKM, Charuni said, “The agenda was to decide on future strategy. Our union has discussed that in the (upcoming) meeting of SKM, we should back the idea of holding such a programne that forces the government to accept our demands.” When asked what message the farm organisations wanted to give by giving a call like Rail Roko, as it affected economy, Charuni said, “The call is to show the involvement and protest of people in this agitation at the national level as the government is not listening to farmers.” Rajasthan recently, whether calls to free tolls in any other states soon, Charuni said, “There is no such call, but I think that Uttar Pradesh should too free its toll plazas as it is near Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/need-event-that-forces-govt-to-accept-demands-charuni/articleshow/80902269.cms||JK Singh
February 14, 2021||Nashik||Cancellation of annual feast brings in fewer devotees to Infant Jesus shrine||Nashik: The Infant Jesus shrine in Nashik Road, that is visited by thousands of devotees from across the state and the country on the second weekend of February every year to witness the annual feast, lacked the usual fanfare on Saturday. The annual feast was cancelled this year owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and the risk of infection. Nonetheless, the shrine was open and some devotees from in and around Nashik poured in to offer aprayers. Father Trevor Miranda, a chaplin of the shrine said, “The shrine had very few devotees this year. As a precautionary measure, arrangements were made to allow only 100 devotees at a time inside the shrine.”  The hundreds of stalls that dot the road outside the shrine on account of the annual feast were missing this year. Anil Shinde, senior inspector of Upnagar police station, said, “We had deployed normal bandobast around the shrine this year. Since the rush of devotees was less this year, there was no pressure on the police to manage the vehicular traffic on the Nashik-Pune road opposite the shrine.”Every year, on the days of the annual feast, the police have to divert heavy goods vehicle so that there is no traffic congestion on the road opposite the shrine.For the convenience of devotees, online masses were arranged on Saturday in English, Marathi, Konkani and Tamil. The online novenas were also underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cancellation-of-annual-feast-brings-in-fewer-devotees-to-infant-jesus-shrine/articleshow/80900519.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Second dose from tomorrow, private hospitals get OK to jab staff||MUMBAI: Not only will the state authorities start administering the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine from Monday, private hospitals in Mumbai will also be allowed to vaccinate their staff in the coming week. According to a notification issued by the public health department of the state government on Saturday, when 31,976 healthcare and frontline workers were administered the vaccine shots, those healthcare workers who have received their first dose of the vaccine and have completed a four-week period from that point of time can now take the second dose in accordance with the standard guidelines laid down by Union health ministry. On the first day of the vaccination on January 16, 18,582 healthcare workers – including 1926 from Mumbai – had been administered the vaccine across Maharashtra.A senior official of the state government said that administering the second dose will go on parallelly with the ongoing drive for healthcare and frontline workers. However, with the Union government hinting that the third phase of vaccination involving people over 50 years of age and with comorbidities may start in March, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is trying to speed up the ongoing vaccination drive by increasing more vaccination centres. On Sunday, a high-level team of the BMC will be visiting about 20 private hospitals to check and evaluate if they have adequate space in accordance with central specifications to carry out Covid-19 vaccination. “We may conduct a training programme on Monday or Tuesday for private hospital staffers before allowing them to start vaccinating their own staff,’’ said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Allowing private hospitals to vaccinate their own staff would also serve as a training module for the third phase, of vaccination where the BMC has estimated that 30 lakh people need to be vaccinated for Covid-19. Regarding the second shot of the Covid-19 vaccine, Kakani said that healthcare workers would be allowed to take the second shot in any of the municipal centres and this time they would not have to travel back to the centre where they had received the first shot. “There were only nine centres on the first day and we now have as many as 23 Covid-19 vaccination centres,” Kakani said. On Saturday, the government carried out vaccination across the state, with 31,976 getting a shot. At 18,686, more frontline workers than healthcare workers took the shot on Saturday across the state. The number of healthcare workers who were administered the Covid-19 vaccine shot was 13,290. A total of 6.83 lakh healthcare and frontline workers across the state have been administered the first shot of the vaccine so far. In Mumbai, 65% of the targeted 10,000 beneficiaries received a shot of the vaccine on Saturday. In Mumbai too the number of frontline workers receiving the vaccine shot outnumbered the number of healthcare workers. Of the total 6,482 beneficiaries who were vaccinated, 3,864 were frontline workers while 2,618 were healthcare workers. The municipal corporation has vaccinated 1.14 lakh beneficiaries for Covid-19 so far, with 48% of the beneficiaries being male.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/second-dose-from-tomorrow-pvt-hosps-get-ok-to-jab-staff/articleshow/80903472.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 14, 2021||Pune||Pune: NCW seeks cops’ report on woman’s death||PUNE: The National Commission for Women on Saturday told the state police to submit a detailed report on the death of a 22-year-old woman, who fell from the first-floor balcony of a society building in Mohammadwadi on February 8. NCW in a statement said, “NCW has been tagged on Twitter, where in it has been requested to take cognisance of the alleged suicide of a girl in Pune.” The arts graduate shifted to Pune on January 30 from Parli in Beed district for a spoken English course. She died of severe head and spinal cord injuries. NCW’s statement read, “Chairperson Rekha Sharma has written to the DGP seeking appropriate action. NCW has also sought a detailed action taken report at the earliest.” A copy of the letter has been sent to the additional commissioner of police (eastern region), Pune. DCP (Zone V) Namrata Patil said they had received no official communication. CM Thackeray said a detailed probe will be carried out and the truth will come out. Senior inspector Deepak Lagad from the Wanowrie police said, “The girl’s family has not levelled allegations against any person.” (With inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncw-seeks-cops-report-on-womans-death/articleshow/80901074.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nashik||Man ends his life in Satpur area by shooting himself||Nashik: A 28-year-old man from Satpur allegedly ended his life by shooting himself with a country-made firearm in the Dhruv Nagar area sometime on Friday night. The deceased man has been identified as Rohit Rajendra Nagare. The Satpur police have registered a case of accidental death.Police said Rohit had left his house at around midnight on Friday. Nagare’s body was spotted by a passer-by at around 8 am. When the police rushed to the incident spot, they found his two-wheeler and a firearm lying beside him. Assistant commissioner of police Ashok Nakhate said, “He fired a shot on the left side of his chest, which led to his death. When we checked the diary found in his pocket, Nagare had written a small message to his brother and his mother, apologising to them for the extreme step he was taking. He also mentioned that no one should be held responsible for his actions.” Rohit is survived by his mother and elder brother. His father passed away a long time ago. His elder brother was into the business of pest control, while Rohit had recently put up a snacks shop. The ACP said they would be investigating if the message in the diary was written by Nagare and also what drove him to end his life and where did he procure the firearm from.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-ends-his-life-in-satpur-area-by-shooting-himself/articleshow/80900530.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||NU declares admission schedule for additional PG seats||NAGPUR: After granting 20% more postgraduate seats to the affiliated colleges due to overwhelming response, Nagpur University (NU) has declared a schedule for filling up those seats related to MSc, MCom, MCom (Prof) and MSW courses. It will conduct a special admission round for about 1,375 seats, though the move was opposed by the private colleges, who used to charge a premium from the students while offering admissions there, as per NU officials. As per the schedule declared by the competent authority for NU’s centralized online postgraduate admissions, the filling of online application forms on NU website had commenced on Saturday and would continue till Tuesday 5pm. The provisional merit list of eligible candidates would be out on February 17 while submission of grievances would continue till 5pm the next day. The final merit list would be declared on the website — https://www.rtmnu.university at 5pm. The online option form submission for the first round would begin from February 20 and continue till the next day, while display of seat allotment would be announced on February 22 at 3pm. The students need to report to respective colleges and confirm their admission between February 23-25. The second round by counselling would be conducted on March 1 from 10am at Gram Geeta Bhavan, NU campus for vacant seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-declares-admission-schedule-for-addl-pg-seats/articleshow/80901109.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||CRPF hosts blood donation camp in Nagpur to pay homage to Pulwama martyrs||Nagpur: The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) organized a blood donation camp on Sunday to pay homage to the 40 CRPF Jawans martyred in the February 14, 2019 Pulwama attack, at the city’s Lata Mangeshkar Hospital in Hingna Road. Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari inaugurated the camp by lighting the lamp in front of a huge hoarding with the photographs of the jawans martyred in the Pulwama attack. Deputy inspector general of police Prashant Jambhulkar, commandant Subhash Chander, Lata Mangeshkar Hospital dean Dr Kajal Mitra, senior CRPF officers, Jawans and family members were present on the occasion. Tiwari said, “Though we cannot compensate for the loss of the jawans martyred, this blood donation camp would be a small tribute to them.” Chander added that CRPF organized around 100 such camps across the country. Mitra provided all the necessary support to CRPF for the camp. Jambhulkar said it was planned that 40 CRPF jawans would donated their blood during the camp, but the number rose substantially in respect for the martyred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crpf-hosts-blood-donation-camp-in-nagpur-to-pay-homage-to-pulwama-martyrs/articleshow/80911476.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
February 14, 2021||Pune||Egg shortage looms as avian flu hits most Navapur farms||PUNE: Egg shortage may be felt in cities like Pune and Mumbai in the coming days with avian influenza affecting 21 of the total 29 layer poultry farms at Navapur in Nandurbar, prompting the authorities to plan culling of all poultry birds in 25 farms, taking the number of total birds culled here to over 6 lakh. “Of the 29 layer poultry farms in Navapur, two don’t have any birds and are closed. Two others, with about 4 lakh poultry birds, are unaffected. Of the remaining 25 layer poultry farms, 21 were earlier affected with avian influenza while eight cases from the four remaining units were sent for bird flu tests recently. However, even if some of them are negative, birds in the remaining four farms will be culled to break the chain of infection. About 50,000 remaining birds are expected to be culled by Sunday,” Maharashtra’s animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI on Saturday. Egg and poultry businesses in Maharashtra said farm gate prices of eggs had already risen and shortage might be experienced in pockets like Pune and Mumbai in the coming days. Prasanna Pedgaonkar, the general manager at Venkateshwara Hatcheries, said, “Navapur has a strategic location and used to cater to parts of Gujarat, Nashik, Dhule and Mumbai. All these areas, which earlier used to depend on Navapur, are now depending on other areas for their egg supplies. This mismatch is likely to put more pressure on certain egg producing areas, thus, hitting egg supplies. Production of eggs has already been on the lower side since Covid-19 struck last year.” Pedgaonkar said the industry expected a sharp rise in eggs and broiler prices during the next few days as a result. Maharashtra Poultry Farmers and Breeders Association president Vasanth Kumar C Shetty said, “Due to the bird flu scare, consumption of eggs and chicken had dropped. However, it is now coming back to normal and all India farm gate egg prices, including Maharashtra, have shot up from the earlier Rs 3.50 per egg to Rs 4.65 per egg now. When prices fell to Rs 3.50 per egg, many farmers sold off their birds thinking that the situation may not improve, which has further impacted state’s egg production.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/egg-shortage-looms-as-avian-flu-hits-most-navapur-farms/articleshow/80901111.cms||Neha Madaan
February 14, 2021||Pune||Treks get traction on Valentine’s Day||Pune: With everyone more focused on their physical and mental health due to the pandemic, treks have become a popular plan among couples to celebrate Valentine’s Day this year. “We live in a city that is surrounded by trekking sites. With things going back to pre-pandemic ways this year, my fiance and I are also going to make the most of it by going for a trek to Korigad Fort near Lonavala,” said Rahul Chaurasiya, an IT professional. Entrepreneur Amardeep Singh said, “My girlfriend and I would often go on treks but we haven’t since the lockdown last year.” “This Valentine’s Day weekend, however, we have both taken leave from work to go for a trek to Torna fort and come back refreshed,” he added. — Anjali Jhangiani||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/treks-get-traction-on-valentines-day/articleshow/80902288.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Pune||Pune: 13 vehicles vandalised after MCOCA invoked against seven||PUNE: The Wanowrie police on Saturday arrested six men for vandalising 13 vehicles at Sathenagar in Mohammadwadi. Those arrested identify as Shubham Tiwari (19), Aniket Waydande (22), Omkar Waghmare (20), Swapnil Hiwale (24), Magdum Shaikh (27) and Aslam Shaikh (23), all residents of Sasnengar, Kalepadal and Uruli Devachi. Additional commissioner of police Namdeo Chavan (eastern region) on Friday accorded sanction to prosecute gang leader Girish Hiwale (19) and six others, including two women, under MCOCA after a probe in a firing case on car driver Nagesh Misal revealed that they were members of an organised crime syndicate. Misal was shot at on January 19 this year at Mohammadwadi. Deputy commissioner of police (zone V) Namrata Patil told TOI, “After the news spread that MCOCA had been invoked against Hiwale, his brother Swapnil and his friends vandalised the vehicles with sharp weapons in a fit of anger. We have detained Swapnil and his accomplice for questioning. Police are on the lookout for other suspects on the run.” Senior inspector Deepak Lagad from the Wanowrie police said, “The vandalisers damaged 13 vehicles, including two three and four-wheelers parked on the road, creating a reign of terror among residents.” Vishnu Wadkar, sub-inspector, Mohammadwadi police chowkey, said, “The vandalisers had chosen the same place where car driver Nagesh Misal was attacked and shot at for causing damage to vehicles. An FIR relating to rioting and damaging of vehicles was registered.” On February 4, unidentified men vandalised eight vehicles with sharp weapons at Sasane vasti in Mohammadwadi. The crime branch later arrested four men responsible for the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/13-vehicles-vandalised-after-mcoca-invoked-against-7/articleshow/80902302.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 14, 2021||Pune||Youth found murdered in jowar field||Pune: The Chinchwad police are searching for three men who fatally assaulted an unidentified youth, aged around 20 years, and threw his body in a jowar field at Walhekarwadi in Chinchwad on the night intervening Thursday and Friday. A case of murder was registered against the three unidentified motorcycle-borne men on Friday afternoon. The incident came to light on Friday afternoon when the field owner visited the farm to check on the jowar. Police said unidentified men assaulted the victim with sharp weapons, causing deep injuries to his head, face and chest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-found-murdered-in-jowar-field/articleshow/80902316.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Green nod for Nayara’s Gujarat expansion||AHMEDABAD: Russian oil producer Rosneft-backed Nayara Energy Limited’s plans for expansion at the existing refinery complex and for setting up a new petrochemical complex in Vadinar in Devbhoomi Dwarka district have finally got environmental clearances, top government sources said. Nayara Energy (erstwhile Essar Oil) is now set to commence project work in 2021-22. Investment to the tune of Rs 1.5 lakh crore is expected to be made for the new expansions, said sources. A source from the state industries and mines department said: “The construction should be completed in two years after which the company will go into production.” The company already has land and does not need to acquire fresh parcels for the upcoming project. At the 2019 Vibrant Gujarat Summit, the company had unveiled its plans to invest $850 million for expansion that was mainly for the new petrochemical business. Nayara Energy had earlier faced issues in getting the environmental nod for expansion after some villagers alleged that proper process was not followed in conducting public hearings. The latest plans, for which all necessary clearances have been obtained, include building a petrochemical complex with manufacturing capability of 10.75 million metric tonnes per annum. This complex will be in proximity to the existing refinery. Nayara Energy’s expansion plan also involves ramping up its refinery capability up to 46 MMTPA from the existing 20 MMTPA. The expansion will finally mark Nayara Energy’s foray into the petrochemical business. A Rosneft-led consortium acquired Essar Oil which was later renamed Nayara Energy in August 2017. Nayara Energy plans to manufacture polypropylene (PP) and polyethylene (PE) at the new petrochemical complex. According to the company’s proposal, the demand for PP and PE has grown at 1.5 times of GDP growth in India and is expected to grow at minimum 10% per year in future. The manufacturing facility will produce specialty chemicals, ethylene cracker, aromatics, polyester intermediates, and polymer units, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/green-nod-for-nayaras-guj-expansion/articleshow/80902306.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 14, 2021||Nashik||Man caught on camera abducting child from outside labour room||Nashik: An unidentified man has been booked for abduction after the CCTV cameras inside the Nashik civil hospital captured the footage of him walking out with a sleeping one-and-half-year-old on Saturday afternoon.The Sarkarwada police have registered the case based on the complaint of the girl’s mother Sangita Gaud.The incident took place around 1.10 pm when Sangita, a resident of Ambad, had gone to the hospital with her pregnant sister Manisha to get the latter’s health check-up done.Additional civil surgeon Kishor Shrivas said Sangita had her one-and-half-year-old daughter Pragati with her. As she had to go inside the labour room where Manisha was being checked, she put her sleeping daughter on the bench outside the labour room and asked a person sitting nearby to keep an eye on the child. When she came out a few minutes later, she could not find Pragati. The woman raised an alarm after which the hospital administration checked the CCTV footage — which showed a man, who appeared to be about 40-45 years old, taking away the girl who was fast sleep on his shoulder.The Sarkarwada police were immediately informed. After taking the CCTV footage, the police sent teams to different places to find the kidnapper. — Santosh Sonawane||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-caught-on-camera-abducting-child-from-outside-labour-room/articleshow/80900542.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 14, 2021||Pune||Jewellery shop salesman held on theft charge||Pune: The rural police on Friday night arrested a salesman of a jewellery store in Wagholi for allegedly stealing ornaments collectively valued at over Rs 1.49 crore between February 2 and 9. The suspect, Pravin Rambhau Maid (33) from Shikrapur, was produced before a magisterial court on Saturday and remanded in police custody till February 22. Jeweller Tushar Ashtekar (36) from Sadashiv Peth in his FIR lodged under section 408 (criminal breach of trust by employee) of the Indian Penal Code with the Lonikand police on February 9 said Maid used to man the counter. He allegedly stole jewellery. Police said the incident came to light after the ornaments were found missing from the counter. The FIR came to be registered after Maid failed to return the ornaments to the jewellery store. Sub-inspector R G Dubhate from the Lonikand police in its remand plea filed before the magisterial court said Maid’s custodial interrogation was essential for recovering the ornaments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jewellery-shop-salesman-held-on-theft-charge/articleshow/80902321.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Two snatchers who targeted people in S Delhi held||New Delhi: A snatcher was forced to return the mobile phone of a student after he kept on calling him and pleading him to give back his phone. Not only this, the accused also struck a deal with him and asked him to pay Rs 3,500 in order to return his phone. This came to fore on Friday after Delhi Police nabbed two snatchers. The duo used to target bystanders in different areas of south Delhi and later sold the mobiles to their aide who ran a mobile repair shop in Ashram. The aide has also been arrested. At least 16 cases of robbery and snatching have been solved with their arrest. Nine stolen or snatched mobile phones, a gold chain and a stolen motorcycle have been recovered from the trio. The two snatchers were identified as Christ, a class 9 dropout, who lives in Sunlight Colony and his friend Sahil who was previously involved in a house theft of Rs 30 lakh reported from Sunlight Colony in 2018. The main accused, Christ, took to crime when he was in school. The duo had snatched the mobile phone of a woman in south Delhi’s Defence Colony last Monday. “After the incident was reported, CCTV footage of the area were checked and two boys in a blue-colour bike were found involved in it. The same boys were involved in a number of phone snatchings from the Lodhi Road area and surrounding localities. Their route was traced and they were arrested from near Jahanpanah park,” said Atul Thakur, DCP, South. During interrogation, Christ told the cops that he had recently snatched the mobile phone of a student from Sarai Jullena Chowk. He claimed before he could switch it off, the student started calling him. He then answered the call and struck a deal with him for Rs 3,500 in order to return the mobile. Christ called him to a location near Apollo Hospital and handed over the phone back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-snatchers-who-targeted-people-in-s-delhi-held/articleshow/80902421.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Some say cut non-agri tax, some want it abolished||Mumbai: Residents of a section of housing societies want the government to reduce the non-agricultural tax and make it more reasonable. Salil Rameshchandra, president, Federation of Grantees of Government Land, said the government charges 0.01% of the Ready Reckoner (RR) rate as lease rent to charitable organisations and the same percentage must be made applicable for residential lands. The suburban collector’s office has begun issuing bills for recovery of non-agricultural tax since 2006. Activist and advocate Godfrey Pimenta said the tax was illegal as in 1957 the government under the Maharashtra Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948 had reserved most villages in Mumbai suburbs for non-agriculture and industrial development. The BJP has termed it a “jaziya tax” and demanded it be scrapped.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/some-say-cut-non-agri-tax-some-want-it-abolished/articleshow/80901584.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||46% of Ahmedabad’s roads are prone to road accidents||AHMEDABAD: Don’t be surprised, nearly 46% of the total 2,600km city road length is prone to road crash. This observation was made in a recent study by the city traffic department and Cept University. There are 64 locations in Ahmedabad which are responsible for more road fatalities in the city. Times ViewA 2019 accident survey revealed that nearly 46% of Ahmedabad roads are unsafe. This calls for stricter licencing norms. It’s high time that the RTO and the traffic department formulate a road accident recording system for integrating safety into road carriage way design and construction and also plan awareness activities in schools and collegesA December 2019 road accident study conducted on behalf of Ahmedabad traffic police by JP Research, had studied 1,375 accidents within municipal and nearby peripheral areas of the city. Of these, 44% of accidents had at least one minor injury, 31% accidents had serious injuries and in 25% at least one occupant lost life. It was observed that the highest accidents during the year took place on Wednesdays which is 16% of the total. Also close to 19% of the accidents took place during peak hours between 9am and 12pm and then again between 9pm and 11pm during peak evening hours. The study also pointed towards crucial road infrastructure needed to be installed at accident-prone areas. “Traffic calming devices should be used to slow vehicles to desired speeds. These can be installed just before an approach to an intersection. This will also reduce the reaction time while encountering critical situations as this feature grabs the attention of the road user,” claims the research paper. The study also suggested proper road marking and signage to direct and guide road users. “These signages are useful for drivers helping them to quickly decide what to do and where to go, all while negotiating traffic. If proper road signage and markings are missing, the driving environment becomes even more dangerous,” claims the research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/46-of-citys-roads-are-prone-to-road-accidents/articleshow/80903189.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Firm loses Rs 32 lakh to WhatsApp hackers||AHMEDABAD: A company that manufactures industrial valves lost Rs 32.5 lakh to unknown cyber cheats, who hacked the WhatsApp account of the company director’s friend and tricked him into transferring the money to several accounts between December 11 and December 14, 2020. A 33-year-old assistant account manager with Y Cube Engineered Solutions, on Saturday filed a complaint with the cybercrime police. According to it, company director Rajkumar Jaiswal received a WhatsApp communication, purportedly from a friend of his in the US, Vijay Puri, giving him a new WhatsApp number. From this new number, the person pretending to be Puri told Jaiswal, that his brother in Delhi had met with an accident and needed an urgent operation. Claiming it would take him time to send funds from the US, he asked Jaiswal to send Rs 5 lakh to a particular account. When he promised to return the amount soon, Jaiswal provided him the company's HDFC Bank account details. Jaiswal directed the manager to make the transfer, which was done via IMPS. In a while, Jaiswal got a WhatsApp message from the person, showing him a deposit slip for Rs 10 lakh into the company's account. On asking him about the extra amount, the person told Jaiswal that more money was needed, and requested him to transfer the remainder to another relative. The person then provided details of another account and the transfer was also done. Over the course of four days, by providing several account details and fake deposit slips, the person got Jaiswal to order transfers amounting to Rs 35 lakh, of which the final transfer of Rs 2.5 lakh failed. When Jaiswal got a call from the real Vijay Puri, who told him that he had not sent any of these messages on WhatsApp, Jaiswal realized he had been cheated. The company submitted an application at the cybercrime police station, which was converted to an FIR by police on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/firm-loses-rs-32l-to-whatsapp-hackers/articleshow/80902331.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Ludhiana||Join probe: Notices to protesters for R-Day happenings||Patiala: Some protesters in Punjab have been served notices by Delhi Police crime branch to join investigation into the violence during ‘Tractor Parade’ on Republic Day in the national capital. The notices have sought presence to carry out investigation. But, farm activists have not joined the probe “fearing arrests” and declared the move a “pressure tactic” to derail the agitation. The notice has been served for investigation in a case registered at Nangloi police station in Delhi (FIR No 44/21 dated January 26) for rioting, unlawful assembly, assault or criminal force to deter public servant, attempt to murder an dacoity and under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, the Epidemic Disease Act and the Disaster Management Act. 0 One of the notices served to a farmer read: “Crime Branch Sec-8, R K Puram, New Delhi, is conducting an investigation in a case related to the violence. In this connection, your presence in the aforesaid case is necessary for the purpose of investigation into the offence reported to have been committed in the above-cited case. Hence you are hereby directed to appear before the undersigned to give such information relating to the said alleged offence, as you may possess.” “We got first aid treatment from a hospital in Mangolpuri, after being injured with tear gas shells. We had taken out the march on the designated route but due to confusion, a large number of protesters had moved on another path where police had barricaded the road and used force against them. Police might have taken our addresses from the hospital. We have decided not to join investigation until our union leaders ask us to do so,” said a farmer from Patiala, who did not wish to give his name. Advocate H S Dharni, who is pursuing legal battle for some affected farmers, said, “Two farmers each from Patiala and Bathinda have approached me for help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/join-probe-notices-to-protesters-for-r-day-happenings/articleshow/80902332.cms||Bharat Khanna
February 14, 2021||Nashik||Rising Covid count makes Bhujbal issue warning of ‘strict measures’||Nashik: Concerned with the marginal rise in Covid-19 cases both in the urban and rural areas of Nashik district, the district administration has warned of taking strict measures if the situation seems to spiral out of control. Talking to the reporters after chairing the Covid-19 review meeting at district collectorate on Saturday, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said, “The Covid-19 graph shows that the positive cases, which were on the decline for sometime, have again gone up. We are closely monitoring the situation. An increase in cases could take us back to a difficult situation from which we have all emerged in the recent past. The administration would be forced to take some unpleasant decision.” Reminding citizens that the threat of Covid-19 was still looming large, Bhujbal said, “When there was lockdown, all the people — including vendors and businessmen — demanded that the shops and establishments, including temples, be opened. Now that almost all the establishments have been opened, people are not taking the Covid health advisory seriously. This could deteriorate the situation.” The minister further said the number of cases did not rise overnight but increased gradually. “The current situation could go out of hand if people do not follow basic safety measures like wearing masks in plublic places and maintaining distanc,” he said. Nashik city had reported 214 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday compared to 148 cases on Thursday, 102 on Wednesday, 96 cases on February 8 and 70 cases on February 6. In the rural areas too, the cases reported ranged from 29 on February 9, 76 on February 10 to 64 on February 12. Currently, there are 1,275 active cases in the district, of which 644 are in Nashik city, 451 in the rural areas, 164 in Malegaon town and 16 were patients from outside the district taking treatment here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rising-covid-count-makes-bhujbal-issue-warning-of-strict-measures/articleshow/80900546.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 14, 2021||Pune||Pawar unveils Holkar statue amid tight security in Jejuri||Pune: NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday unveiled the statue of Ahilyabai Holkar at Jejuri amid tight security.The Pune rural police had deployed a large number of personnel at the site to avoid any untoward incident, a day after a case was registered against MLA Gopichand Padalkar for attempting to unveil the statue. Additional superintendent of police, Pune rural, Milind Mohite, said, “Padalkar and his supporters reached the site and tried to unveil the statue. Policemen at the spot asked them to leave but they pushed back the police personnel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pawar-unveils-holkar-statue-amid-tight-security-in-jejuri/articleshow/80901155.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Ludhiana||Retired principal gets Excellence Award 2021||Ludhiana: Jaspreet Mohan Singh, who after retiring as principal had turned an artist, has been facilitated with Excellence Award 2021 in the field of education by India Records, which is registered with the ministry of corporate affairs. Each year nominations are taken from fields of art, sports, medical, science, social work, education,journalism, NGOs and films. Registrations and nominations were all done online keeping in view the Covid pandemic situation. Jaspreet Mohan Singh is a passionate educationist and artist. As an educationist, he has earned a good name in the field of education by receiving National Award from the NCERT, Bhopal. As an artist too he stands second to none. His paintings were signed by then President Dr APJ Abdul Kalam in September 2003. He has a quite a bucketful of awards, around 52 national and international online painting competitions award. To top that, he received excellence and top awards also and that too in the pandemic year. On being asked about his feelings, he said, “I want to thank Swapni Chaudhry, chief coordinator, India Records, for considering me for this coveted award. As an artist one has to learn to see more than what meets the eye. You can learn to be more creative. Of course, it’s a good exercise to draw, paint or visually express what you actually see. This is the discipline of art, just like exercising. You have to practice it to get strong at it.” He said, “When one picks up one’s pencil, brush or whatever their desired media is, one should look at something and study it. We should notice all details, shapes, colours, lighting and replicate it. It’s always good as an artist to get in the habit of drawing and painting what your eye sees. However, if you go deeper into what you perceive, feel or intuitively know, your art will take on a deeper meaning.” He added that, “You know when you are in a mood to delve deep into a new creation, time stands still and you are at peace. First, it feels like a rush and then you are centered. It’s so therapeutic and you totally enjoy it. When we are in this zone, that’s when your internal vision kicks into high gear. This is when you can do your best work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/retired-principal-gets-excellence-award-2021/articleshow/80901119.cms||Mehak Jain
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||500 health workers give second vaccine dose a miss||Hyderabad: With the second round of vaccination for healthcare workers beginning in the state on Saturday, a total of 4,307 beneficiaries were vaccinated. These included 3,196 healthcare workers who took the second dose of the vaccine and 1,111 frontline workers who took the first dose on Saturday. Among the healthcare workers who took the second dose were superintendents and senior doctors from various hospitals. Nearly 500 healthcare workers who were scheduled to take the second dose gave the jab a miss, although they will be allotted another date to take the second dose. In total, 85% of healthcare workers targeted for vaccination were administered the second dose. Both the vaccines currently being given in the state, including Covishield and Covaxin, given in two doses. These vaccines are effective only when both the doses are given. So far, a total of 2,78,936 beneficiaries from both the categories of healthcare workers and front line workers have been given the first dose. They together account for nearly 50% of the target set for vaccination. No cases of either serious or minor side effects known as adverse events following immunization (AEFI) were reported on Saturday. Meanwhile, a total of 27,259 Covid-19 samples were tested, taking the total count of samples tested so far in the state since the onset of the pandemic to 82.7 lakh now. Telangana has now reached the 2.22 lakh sample testing per million population.  Except Nirmal, Narayanpet, Suryapet and Mahabubnagar, all remaining districts in the state recorded new Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/500-health-workers-give-second-vaccine-dose-a-miss/articleshow/80903114.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nashik||Booster dose for vax from Monday||Nashik: The booster dose of the Covid vaccine that is being administered to health care workers (HCWs) will be administered at all the vaccination sites across Nashik division from Monday. The vaccine programme in the division began on January 16 and, accordingly, the booster dose phase was expected to begin on February 13. “The booster dose of the vaccines has to be given at least 28 days after the first shot and can be given anytime within the next 30 day period. Accordingly, the booster dose will start from Monday. The list will be generated through the CoWin application and the dose will be administered to the registered beneficiaries,” deputy director of health Dr PB Gandal said. Moreover, vaccination sites have been increased across Nashik division to facilitate faster administration of the doses. “As the booster dose of the vaccine that provides immunity against the disease will begin from Monday, the exercise will not have any ill-effects on the regular vaccination program, especially in the backdrop that a higher number of vaccination sites have been opened up across the division,” said the officer. The division has received 99,000 doses of Covishield which will be administered on priority to the persons who have already been vaccinated since January 16. Nashik district has received 32,700 doses while Ahmednagar has received 26,000 doses, Jalgaon has received 22,600 doses, Nandurbar has received 9,200 doses and Dule district has received 8,500 doses. The division has also received 32,400 doses of Covaxin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/booster-dose-for-vax-from-monday/articleshow/80900548.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Join probe: Notices to protesters for R-Day happenings||Patiala: Some protesters in Punjab have been served notices by Delhi Police crime branch to join investigation into the violence during ‘Tractor Parade’ on Republic Day in the national capital. The notices have sought presence to carry out investigation. But, farm activists have not joined the probe “fearing arrests” and declared the move a “pressure tactic” to derail the agitation. The notice has been served for investigation in a case registered at Nangloi police station in Delhi (FIR No 44/21 dated January 26) for rioting, unlawful assembly, assault or criminal force to deter public servant, attempt to murder an dacoity and under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, the Epidemic Disease Act and the Disaster Management Act. 0 One of the notices served to a farmer read: “Crime Branch Sec-8, R K Puram, New Delhi, is conducting an investigation in a case related to the violence. In this connection, your presence in the aforesaid case is necessary for the purpose of investigation into the offence reported to have been committed in the above-cited case. Hence you are hereby directed to appear before the undersigned to give such information relating to the said alleged offence, as you may possess.” “We got first aid treatment from a hospital in Mangolpuri, after being injured with tear gas shells. We had taken out the march on the designated route but due to confusion, a large number of protesters had moved on another path where police had barricaded the road and used force against them. Police might have taken our addresses from the hospital. We have decided not to join investigation until our union leaders ask us to do so,” said a farmer from Patiala, who did not wish to give his name. Advocate H S Dharni, who is pursuing legal battle for some affected farmers, said, “Two farmers each from Patiala and Bathinda have approached me for help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/join-probe-notices-to-protesters-for-r-day-happenings/articleshow/80902332.cms||Bharat Khanna
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||No cause for alarm yet: Geologists on new lake formed near Rishiganga||DEHRADUN: Two days after it was reported that a 350 metre long lake -- thrice the size of a football field -- had formed near Rishiganga – where flash floods had occurred last Sunday -- a two-member team of geologists from the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University that trekked to the lake’s site said that the lake has gradually started draining.  Naresh Rana, one of the geologists who had made a video pointing out the formation of the new lake which had prompted officials to take note of the phenomenon, told TOI, “The good part is that with the lake gradually draining out, the chances of another flash flood are getting reduced.” A 17-member team comprising of personnel of the disaster response force also set up camp at the site of the lake formation on Saturday. Speaking to TOI on the issue, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who received a briefing regarding the matter from state disaster response officials, said, “Initially, we had thought of finding a way to discharge the water of the lake, but now it is flowing out naturally. The lake now has a 25-metre wide opening and the water is coming out. It may take some time for the lake to clear as it also depends on weather conditions. We are alert on the issue and as of now, there is no need to panic.” Meanwhile, a team of scientists from DRDO and Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) who returned on Friday from the disaster-hit Chamoli area will be submitting their preliminary report regarding their findings on the lake. Sharing further information, director of WIHG, Kalachand Sain said, “ A huge chunk of glacier fell in the Raunthi river near Rishiganga and it brought a massive wave of water, mud and rocks downstream. The heavy boulders of rock created a dam close to Rishiganga river, which led to the formation of the lake. Our team visited the spot and has brought back the ice mass for a sample study.” On being asked about the threat from the lake, he said there was none at the moment but its monitoring should be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-cause-for-alarm-yet-geologists-on-new-lake-formed-near-rishiganga/articleshow/80900585.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 14, 2021||Amritsar||For Pb’s 2nd mahapanchayat, farmer-worker unity at centre||Bathinda: Farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) and Punjab Khet Majdoor Union (PKMU) will be holding a second mahapanchayat in Punjab against the three contentious agri-marketing laws by organising a farmer-labour unity rally in Barnala on February 21. Sanyukta Kisan Morcha leaders too will participate in the mahapanchyat. The first such mahapanchayat was held at Jagraon in Ludhiana district on February 11. While mahapanchayats are mostly organised in neighbouring Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh states, they are now being organised in Punjab too. Ekta Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri and PKMU general secretary Lachman Sewewala said the rally would be big in two aspects. “On one side, it will be a milestone to enhance the unity between struggling farmer unions; on the other hand, it will expand the magnitude of this struggle and will realise the unity between farmers and labourers, ensturing participation of organised agricultural labourers in big way. Apart from their demand to repeal farm laws, farm organisations will deal with the impact of these laws on landless farmers and agricultural labourers. This rally will expose the oppressive and treacherous moves used by the government to fail this struggle,” they said. The rally will counter the move of sections labelling the protest as pro-Khalistan, they said. The promulgation to secure non-religious and non-politcal characters of this struggle will be mounted. Jhanda Singh Jethuke, senior vice-president BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said they had fixed a target of reaching out to every home of 1,500 villages in Punjab. For this, 5 lakh leaflets, 50,000 pamphlets of 25 pages each, and a large number of posters and demand charters have been printed, said Jethuke. He added they were training 5,000 activists by holding extended meetings in 16 districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/for-pbs-2nd-mahapanchayat-farmer-worker-unity-at-centre/articleshow/80902361.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Valentine’s Day celebrations move on to virtual platform||KOCHI: This year, Valentine’s Day is set to take on a different tone with pandemic restrictions in place but still it doesn’t mean all the fun has been cancelled. From love-letter writing, speech and poetry contests to online gatherings, students and youngsters are taking the celebrations to the digital platform. While colleges, which witness grand celebrations on Valentine’s Day remain partially shut, college unions and student political parties are looking at Covid-safe alternatives. One of the highlights in the city on Valentine’s Day was the celebration rally of the students of Ernakulam Law College to the adjacent girls-only St Teresa’s College. The march often ended with the students barging into the college to confess their crushes and gifting roses to their loved ones. “The march has been cancelled as it is Sunday and there are pandemic restrictions. But we have planned various online activities. We have set up an online platform called Radiogram. Students can dedicate songs to their loved ones. They can book a slot and pass a message with fewer than 50 words expressing their feelings. They will be shared across social media groups. Those who want to write love-letters and love-themed pieces can also share their creative talent on the platform,” said Hadi Hassan, magazine editor, Ernakulam Law College. “St Teresa’s College usually conducts various programmes within the campus to celebrate the day colourfully. This year nothing of that sort is likely to happen as the colleges remain shut,” said Varsha Venugopal, vice-chairperson, STC union. Progressive Techies (PT), a techie community in Ernakulam, is conducting an online love-letter writing contest. “They can write in English or Malayalam and express their creativity and make them unique. The deadline is 20 February. The winners will be rewarded with a special dinner at Swargam Backwater Restaurant,” said Aneesh Panthalani, president, PT. The fact that the IT companies are following the work-from-home culture has come as a dampener leaving lesser opportunities for gatherings and fun activities. They said though techies are now accustomed to online celebrations due to the lockdown, most companies are not organizing anything special for Valentine’s Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/valentines-day-celebrations-move-on-to-virtual-platform/articleshow/80900554.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
February 14, 2021||Nashik||Literary fest to be held on cricket ground||Nashik: The Akhil Bhartiya Sahitya Sammelan, which was earlier proposed to be held at the ground of College of Pharmacy, Gokhale Education Society, will now be held at the neighbouring cricket ground in the campus, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said. “The number of people planning to attend the 94th edition of the Marathi Sahitya Sammelan at Nashik is on increasing by the day. The registrations are increasing, indicating towards the popularity of the event. We have, therefore, requested the GE Society to let us allow to hold the Sammelan at cricket ground which is quite bigger,” Bhujbal said after chairing the meeting with stakeholders. The meeting was held at the district collectorate. Various government agencies have assured to contribute to the event. Besides, the guardian minister has appealed to the people to contribute in kind for the event. This is the third time the literary festival is being held in Nashik and the second time after a gap of 16 years. It was earlier held at KTHM College in 2005. The meet was first held in Nashik in the year 1942.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/literary-fest-to-be-held-on-cricket-ground/articleshow/80900556.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Bareilly||Two caught with tiger skin, nails at Indo-Nepal border in Kheri district||Bareilly: Officials of SSB 3rd battalion and the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve in a joint operation have seized a tiger’s skin and other body parts from the possession of two local youths, who were trying to enter Nepal through Belaparsuva border outpost in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Saturday night. Forest department officials said they were interrogating the accused and trying to gather information about other people associated with them in tiger poaching. The accused were identified as Somdev Pasi (23) and Vinod Pasi (22), both hailing from Takiya Purva village adjacent to buffer forests of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve. Officials said they seized a tiger skin of 187-cm length, ten front nails and eight back nails from the possession of the accused. The tiger skin was intact, which suggested that the accused might have killed the tiger either by poisoning or snaring, said officials. Notably, a tiger was killed by snaring last year while another tiger got injured after it managed to escape from a snare two months ago, they said. Deputy director DTR (core) Manoj Sonkar told TOI, “We will identify the tiger by matching the stripes with our database using Mstripes software. We are interrogating the accused and trying to get information about the area where the tiger was poached and other people involved in the crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-caught-with-tiger-skin-nails-at-indo-nepal-border-in-kheri-district/articleshow/80901161.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 14, 2021||Nashik||Covid tests conducted by govt, pvt labs to be analysed||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said the positivity rate of Covid-19 in private laboratories conducting RT-PCR tests was much higher compared to the positivity rate in government laboratories undertaking similar tests. He has called for an analysis of the Covid tests being conducted by both the facilities. “It is a matter of concern that the samples tested in private laboratories are showing a positivity rate of 28% while those being tested in government laboratories have registered a positivity rate ranging from 3 to 9%. We will have to analyse the reports to see if the private laboratories are fudging the numbers or the government facilities are not conducting the tests properly,” Bhujbal said. Bhujbal chaired a meeting at the district collectorate on Saturday that was attended by collector Suraj Mandhare, commissioner of police Deepak Pandey, commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Kailas Jadhav, CEO of zilla parishad Leena Bansod, superintendent of Nashik rural police Sachin Patil among others. Speaking about the tests, Mandhare said the positivity rate at the peak of the Covid-19 infection was 25% —a stark contrast from the positivity rate of 28% registered from private laboratories currently given that fewer confirmed cases are being reported now. The collector said all the laboratories would have to inform the administration about the details of citizens whose swab tests are carried and also share the test results whenever they come. Of the samples which return positive, the administration would carry out retesting in select numbers of cases. “Corrective measures on registration of cases will be decided only after we arrive at a logical conclusion after carefully studying the results of the retests,” said Mandhare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-tests-conducted-by-govt-pvt-labs-to-be-analysed/articleshow/80900552.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Reopen high court or face protest: Lawyers||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat High Court Advocates Association on Saturday threatened to stage a protest on the court premises on February 19 if their demand to reopen courtrooms is ignored. The courtrooms had been closed on March 23, 2020 following Covid-triggered lockdown. Requesting the chief justice to reopen courtrooms for physical functioning immediately and without any delay, the association said that if the request is not accepted this time, GHAA has resolved to stage a protest at the entry gate No – 2 of HC’s Sola campus. GHAA has mentioned in its letter to the CJ that the city is hosting 5-7 cricket matches later this month at Motera stadium, which has a capacity to host more than 1 lakh spectators. It also cited the decision to hold civic elections in which nearly 4 crore citizens will participate. It argued that the decision must have been endorsed by various authorities after considering the present Covid-19 situation. When all activities are permitted, the courtrooms should also be reopened. This request has come after the HC permitted lower courts in four cities to resume physical functioning from March 1. The bar associations of four cities had threatened to storm courtrooms if permission was not granted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/reopen-high-court-or-face-protest-lawyers/articleshow/80902342.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Shaikpet tahsildar tranferred||Hyderabad: Moving swiftly, the government on Saturday transferred Shaikpet tahsildar Srinivas Reddy and asked him to report to the chief commissioner of land administration (CCLA) immediately. The tahsildar had a tiff with new mayor Gadwal Vijaya Laxmi a few weeks ago and both have filed complaints against each other. Senior officials said that it was a routine transfer on administrative grounds and has got nothing to do with the complaint filed by Laxmi against the tahsildar. Srinivas Reddy had lodged a complaint with police that Vijaya Laxmi abused him when he told her that he had no time to attend to her work. Later, Laxmi also lodged a complaint with police against the tahsildar saying that he had insulted her and acted rudely. Telangana Revenue Services Employees’ Association (TRSEA) resented the decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shaikpet-tahsildar-tranferred/articleshow/80903124.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nashik||75% waiver of penatly on tax dues: AMC||Aurangabad: More than a month after initiating a rigorous drive to collect property tax dues from the citizens, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Saturday announced an amnesty scheme, which will allow the defaulters to avail 75% discount in delayed payment charges among other penalties for one-time settlement of dues. Aparna Thete, head of the AMC’s task force for tax recovery, said the amnesty scheme will be in place till March-end. “It is a golden opportunity for tax defaulter to clear their outstanding dues before the end of the current fiscal by availing the scheme. AMC may invoke stern action against citizens not paying taxes before the stipulated deadline,” she said. As per official data, the local civic body has been able to collect only around Rs 69.6 crore dues towards the property tax, which accounts for hardly 15% of the total recovery target of Rs 468.6 crore. The municipal limits of Aurangabad have a total of 2,82,361 registered properties, which include 2,55,682 residential properties and 26,671 commercial properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/75-waiver-of-penatly-on-tax-dues-amc/articleshow/80900564.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nashik||Nashik sr colleges to resume tomorrow||Nashik: Preparations are on as the senior colleges are set to resume physical classes across Nashik district on Monday. The RT-PCR tests for the teachers and professors along with the non-teaching staff are being carried out. The colleges have been asked to carry out sanitisation of the institutes and stick to the Covid-19 health advisories besides maintaining zero contact with the students. The University Grant Commission (UGC) and the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has announced the re-opening of the colleges physically. Accordingly, there are 198 senior colleges in Nashik district, which will reopen on Monday.  Nashik district has the strength of around 1.4 lakh students, of which, not all are expected on the first day. “The colleges have been asked to ensure social distancing between the students and strict health discipline is followed. Before the Covid outbreak, students would bunk classes and loiter around in the campus, now the college will not allow such students,” said Vinay Patil, one of the assistant professors of a private college. The college administrations have asked the security personnel to allow students with valid identity cards to enter the campus and ensure that no students roam around. “The college administration will keep a check on students in the colleges and those found loitering around will be pulled up,” Patil added. All the colleges have been conveyed about the conduct of lectures, practical, guidelines to be followed in case of multiple sessions on the same day to ensure there is no spread of the infection. The colleges have been instructed to conduct multiple sessions with the sanitising the place in between.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-sr-colleges-to-resume-tomorrow/articleshow/80900558.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Saddened by wife’s death, man kills self||Ahmedabad: A 60-year-old man from Bhavnagar allegedly committed suicide in a hotel room in Gurukul, Ahmedabad, on Friday as he was anguished by his wife’s sudden death in December 2020, said police officers. Cops said his wife had died due to a heart attack. The deceased was identified as Vijay Goradiya, resident of Nirad Flats near Rupani Circle in Bhavnagar city. He’d booked a room in Devbhawan hotel in Gurukul on Thursday and was found dead on Friday evening. Ghatlodia police said Goradiya had checked into room no. 6 of the hotel on Thursday. He was supposed to check out at around 10am on Friday but as he did not come out till evening, hotel staff knocked on his door but did not get any response. The staff called up police control room after which a team of Ghatlodia police and fire brigade rushed there. They broke the door and found Goradiya lying on his right side in a pool of blood. Police spotted that his wrist had been slashed. Police spoke to Goradiya’s son-in-law Jatin Kumar, who told cops that Goradiya was suffering from depression since Goradiya’s wife died on December 24 due to heart attack,” said police. Goradiya had left his house on Thursday and reached Ahmedabad where he committed suicide. Police did not get any suicide note, but concluded the probe on basis of the statement of Goradiya’s kin. Cops did not also get the blade or knife with which he committed suicide. Police have sent the body for post-mortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/saddened-by-wifes-death-man-kills-self/articleshow/80902364.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Goa||Motorists without helmets, seatbelts form biggest chunk of violators in 2020||Panaji: Two-wheeler riders not wearing helmets and drivers without seatbelts formed the largest portion of traffic rule violators in Goa last year, according to figures shared by the state transport department. There were a total of 1,61,519 cases of drivers without seatbelts and 2,38,978 cases of helmetless riding in the state. The trimonthly break-up revealed that there was a drastic increase in numbers for seatbelt violations, going from 29,498 violations in the first three months of 2020 to 82,886 violations in the last three. The numbers for helmetless riding, however, dropped drastically over the course of the year. While 78,112 violations were reported from January to March, they dropped to 10,705 from October to December, indicating a possible sense of traffic discipline among two-wheeler riders. Road safety activist Roland Martins attributes this drop to lesser traffic in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. “While there has also been an improvement in riders wearing helmets, the traffic police have not been very aggressive in booking cases particularly because it is tough to intercept riders if they fail to stop. There must, however, be a crackdown on people wearing helmets without an ISI mark,” he says. Martins adds that while it is commendable that seatbelt violators are being detected and booked, even co-passengers must be encouraged to wear their seatbelts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/motorists-without-helmets-seatbelts-form-biggest-chunk-of-violators-in-2020/articleshow/80902462.cms||Nida Sayed
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||From Covid tests to vax jabs, protests rage in health sector||Ahmedabad: The strike and agitation by the doctors at SVP Hospital and VS Hospital was the latest in a string of protests witnessed by Gujarat since the start of the pandemic in March last year. Observers of the trends in state health sector remarked that almost all sections, ranging from doctors to contractual employees, have resorted to protests for work-related issues to increasing the stipend and honorarium. “The contractual staff initially went on strike for the demand of pay parity and fixing the working hours. The staff at major hospitals also demanded permanent jobs keeping in mind their services during the pandemic,”said an official, adding that these protests were contained at hospital level. But soon after, nursing and lab technician staff also resorted to strike. In December, hundreds of resident doctors across Gujarat participated in a strike over demands ranging from increasing their honorarium on the lines of other states, to demand to set off twice the stretch of the Covid duty period against the bond period. After assurance from the deputy chief minister’s office,the strike was wrapped up. “The latest strike is about vaccination duty for the doctors. Earlier, several of the doctors already served in the Covid testing drive. The doctors claim that such duties hamper their core education and they have sought explanation from the authorities. Earlier, the state health department had invoked laws to tackle an epidemic to press the medicos into duties related to Covid-19,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/from-covid-tests-to-vax-jabs-protests-rage-in-health-sector/articleshow/80902400.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: From teacher to HC judge, her journey makes abrupt halt due to her debatable judgments||NAGPUR: Last month, when Justice Pushpa Ganediwala – sitting additional judge of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court -- ruled that groping breasts while the girl had her clothes on was not a ‘sexual assault’ as there was no skin-to-skin contact, it left people shocked and activists up in protest. There was truce only after a Supreme Court bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde, stayed the verdict. The Supreme Court collegium also took the unusual step of withdrawing its recommendation to the Centre proposing to elevate her as permanent judge. But, Justice Ganediwala, 51, who began her career as a lecturer in colleges in Amravati in Maharashtra before she became a judge, had more in store. From ruling that unzipping one’s pants in front of a girl and holding a minor’s hands were not sexual assault to acquitting a man accused of rape by saying he on his own could not have raped as there was no sign of a scuffle, her judgments continued to be talking points. While child and women’s rights activists alleged that many of the accused punished by trial courts in POCSO cases were granted relief by her while providing “bizarre” explanations and misinterpreting laws governing assault on women and children, a section of lawyers in Nagpur has come out in support of Justice Ganediwala and have decided to send a representation to President Ramnath Kovind and CJI Bobde to reconsider the collegium’s decision. Lawyers say that the collegium’s decision will make judges apprehensive of taking bold decisions and Bombay HC would be deprived of a promising young judge. Organizations like the National Commission for Women, however, fear that her verdicts will have severe repercussions and have even requested the apex court to stay them. The judge, however, refused to speak to TOI citing protocol. When the country was reeling under the effect of Covid-19, Justice Ganediwala, who hails from Paratwada in Amravati district -- along with Justice (retired) Ravi Deshpande -- directed the Maharashtra government in September last year to make sufficient staff and facilities available for treating Covid-19 patients in Nagpur. The same bench rejected a petition to defer the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) due to the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in Vidarbha. However, in October, Justice Ganediwala said Covid positive patients were not “untouchables” and directed Mumbai’s government hospitals to ensure treatment of a pregnant woman with Covid-19. The judge, who restrained producer-director Karan Johar, his firm Dharma Productions, music composer duo Ajay-Atul and Sony Music from airing “Oh Saiyan” song from their film ‘Agneepath’ after a city-based engineer accused them of lifting his copyright song, has had a bright academic record. After completing BCom, LLB and LLM, she was appointed as district judge in 2007 and worked at civil courts at Mumbai and Nagpur along with family court. She had also cleared NET-SET in the first attempt and worked as lecturer before being appointed as a judge. Later, she was appointed as principal district and sessions’ judge in Nagpur and subsequently, elevated as HC’s registrar-general. On June 1, 2016, as a principal judge, she allowed a criminal revision application filed by lawyer Satish Uke against former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Uke had claimed that Fadnavis had suppressed information about two pending criminal cases against him while filing an affidavit with the Election Commission before contesting assembly polls in 2014. Justice Ganediwala’s name was in the reckoning for additional judge in HC in 2018 but was not considered following adverse remarks by a few judges that led to SC deferring her appointment. It was during the tenure of former CJI Ranjan Gogoi that she was appointed to the post in 2019. She was part of many landmark judgments during her stint as HC judge. In 2019, a three-judge bench ruled that parole is limited right available to prisoners, and not merely an administrative decision. The bench had also struck down a provision under Rule 19 (2) of the Prisons Rules under Section 59(5) of the Prisons Act that had barred convicts in state from seeking multiple paroles in a year. CRIME, PUNISHMENT… & ACQUITTAL Some of Justice Pushpa Ganediwala’s judgments that became talking points · Groping breasts not a sexual offence if the girl has her top on as there is no skin-to-skin contact Judgment led to a public outcry, especially from women and child rights groups Supreme Court stayed the judgment after attorney general KK Venugopal said order would “set a dangerous precedence” Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had said the state government will challenge the order · Holding hands of a minor and unzipping pants in front of her cannot be defined as ‘sexual assault’ Acquitted the man after victim’s mother accused him of holding hands of her daughter, unzipping his pant in front of her and asking her to join him in bed, when both parents were away from home for work · If there is no evidence of a scuffle, a man alone cannot commit rape “It seems highly impossible for a single man to gag a survivor’s mouth, remove her and his clothes, and perform the forcible sexual act, without any scuffle. Had it been a case of forcible intercourse, there would have been a scuffle,” she said while acquitting man accused of raping a 15-year-old. · Acquitted a rape accused holding that the survivor’s evidence “failed to inspire confidence.” Refused to rely on rape survivor’s testimony · Demanding money from wife is a “vague term” and can’t be considered harassment as per Section 498A of the IPC Acquitted a man accused of abetting wife’s suicide. “The evidence is with regard to quarrel between husband and wife where he used to beat her for money. The demand of money is a vague term,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-teacher-to-hc-judge-her-journey-makes-abrupt-halt-due-to-her-debatable-judgments/articleshow/80901187.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||State WWF chairman adopts animals at zoo||Hyderabad: The chairman of World Wildlife Fund - Telangana, Arjun Reddy Mekapati, along with his family members, who visited the Nehru Zoological Park on Saturday, adopted four animals, including a leopard, king cobra, one-horned owl and a jaguar for a period of one year. The family presented a cheque of Rs 2 lakh to the zoo’s deputy curator A Nagamani and curator N Kshitija. “We thank the WWF chairman and his family for showing keen interest in adopting the animals and strengthening the wildlife conservation programme in the zoo,” said Kshitija.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-wwf-chairman-adopts-animals-at-zoo/articleshow/80902394.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Recall Maharashtra governor acting like a BJP puppet: Saamna||MUMBAI: Saamna has urged the Centre to recall Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for “trampling upon” the values that characterise his high office. Accusing Koshyari of being the BJP’s “puppet,” Saamna, in an editorial on Saturday, said the Centre should not place the gun on the governor’s shoulder to target the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) regime in the state. “If the Union home ministry has any respect for the Constitution and rules, it should recall the governor before he further exposes himself,” said the Sena mouthpiece. The face-off between the MVA government and Koshyari took an ugly turn when the former denied the governor use of the state-owned statecraft for his official trip to Dehradun on Thursday. The incident sparked fresh tension in political circles, and former CM Devendra Fadnavis slammed the MVA government for showing disrespect to the governor’s office. Koshyari and his entourage reached the Kalina terminal and the governor boarded the state’s Cessna Citation XLS aircraft too. However, he was told that there was no nod from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for use of the aircraft. The governor later took a commercial flight to Dehradun. Saamna clarified that the CM’s office had denied permission one day prior to Koshyari’s trip to Dehradun. “Why did Raj Bhavan lead the governor to the aircraft?” asked Saamna. Criticising Fadnavis, who described the unsavoury episode as proof of the MVA government’s growing “ego,” Saamna said, “In fact, the Modi government reeks of ego as it has refused to withdraw the farm bills despite deaths of agitating farmers.” Saamna criticised Koshyari for not putting his seal of approval to names of 12 members who have been recommended by the MVA government as governor’s nominees to the state legislative council. Pointing out that Koshyari has been impinging on principles that define his duty as governor, Saamna said, “The governor is being made to dance to the BJP’s tune... He holds a high office and it is his solemn responsibility to uphold the prestige and dignity of the office.” “The final act of the BJP’s decline has begun and the governor is playing the villain,” remarked the paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/recall-governor-acting-like-a-bjp-puppet-saamna/articleshow/80903164.cms||Ambarish Mishra
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Hotels, resorts cash in on staycations||Hyderabad: With denizens preferring staycations and long drives over travelling to a destination outside the state or country during the Valentine’s Day weekend owing to the pandemic, hotels and resorts are seen making the most as they are offering special packages at a premium cost. The prices, especially by resorts, are said to be hiked by about 40% when compared to last year. Many resorts have priced their packages between Rs 10, 000 and Rs 50, 000 for less than 24 hours stay. “Of 33 cottages, 27 have been booked. The most sought after cottages in the resort are Wayanad suite which is priced at Rs 20, 000,”said Sanketh Reddy, managing director, Brown Town Resort, Spa & Convention. He said that the packages they are offering include candlelight dinner, live band, room decoration, and breakfast. He said that they have received bookings not just from young couples, but also from those in the age group of 45-50. The same is the case with hotels in the city as many are offering special packages, with or without a stay, for Valentine’s Day weekend starting from about Rs 6,000 per couple. Many are also planning to go on long drives. Likewise, some are heading to destinations such as Goa, Mumbai, Jaipur, New Delhi, Bengaluru, among other places. International travel, however, has taken a backseat as many are preferring to travel within the country. “I will be going to Chikmagalur with my wife for Valentine’s Day,” said Ajay Varma, a techie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hotels-resorts-cash-in-on-staycations/articleshow/80902422.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Kolhapur||Satara dist reports 67 Covid cases||Kolhapur: Satara district registered 67 fresh Covid cases and two deaths since Friday late night, taking the total number of cases to 57,364. The death toll has risen to 1,837. A total of 54,648 patients recovered from Covid while 879 are currently undergoing treatment. Maan taluka added 15 new cases, Khatav taluka reported 10 cases, Satara taluka recorded nine cases while Wai added eight new cases among others. Solapur city reported 20 new cases and a 50-year-old man died due to Covid. The city has 12,021 cases, including 646 deaths, 419 active cases and 10,956 recoveries. Solapur rural registered 26 new cases and a 76-year-old man from Pandharpur taluka succumbed to Covid. The rural parts have 39,934 cases, including 1,169 deaths, 256 active cases and 38,509 recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-reports-67-covid-cases/articleshow/80900571.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Farm body forms youth wing to bulk support up||Hisar: The Hisar unit of farm group Kisan Sabha formed its own youth wing, during a meeting here, on Saturday in view of the ongoing agitaton against three contentious agri-marketing laws. For this, the sabha’s district unit president, Shamsher Singh Numberdar, called a “youth farmers’ conference” at Jat Dharamshala here on Saturday. Sabha press secretary Sube Singh Boora said during the conference, Jitendra Boora and Pradeep Singh were elected as the conveners of the young wing, Yuva Kisan Sabha.Inaugurating the conference, Boora said young farmers will lead the movement to victory. A youngster at the meeting, Naresh Dinod, said the movement needed youth. The wing will only induct farmers aged between 18 and 40 years, said a functionary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-body-forms-youth-wing-to-bulk-support-up/articleshow/80902389.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Scholars, poets must speak up’||Chandigarh: Punjab Arts Council chairman and Punjabi poet Surjit Patar, on Saturday, urged poets and scholars to raise their voice against the hatred being spread in the name of religion. Patar, who was speaking in a webinar dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Tegh Bahadur, alleged that some political leaders were trying to divide people in the name of religion. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/scholars-poets-must-speak-up/articleshow/80902407.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Neighbours recollect happy faces when family left for trip||Hyderabad: After finishing their day’s work, it is an evening routine for residents and children from Vinayak Colony to gather at some place for a casual chat. The discussion varies from how their day went, civic issues and colony get-togethers. But on Saturday, the scene was different. The air was heavy with relatives and friends mourning. Four of 26 family members who had gone on a fun trip had breathed their last in the tragic accident. The locals gathered on the roads and the discussion mainly revolved around how the family was excited and happy about this trip that they planned with the entire family and how it ended in one of the most horrific tragedies they ever came across. Some of them were seen enquiring about the condition of those who were in critical condition. One of the neighbours, Krishna Rao said, “We saw them leaving in the bus on Wednesday. They all looked so happy while leaving. They are good people. This should not have happened.” The neighbours said they were all like friends and shared good bonding since more than 10-15 years. “We used to attend functions at each other’s houses, gather in the evening to have a casual talk and share everything good and bad. This incident has left us shattered,” said Ravi, a private employee from the colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/neighbours-recollect-happy-faces-when-family-left-for-trip/articleshow/80903169.cms||Moulika.KV
February 14, 2021||Kolhapur||Rural areas outdo Kolhapur city’s vaccination turnout||Kolhapur: The rural parts of the district witnessed higher turnout of healthcare workers and frontline workers for the vaccination drive compared to the turnout in Kolhapur city. The rural parts have reported 67% turnout of the beneficiaries while it was 57% in Kolhapur city. The officials of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) said a large number of vaccination sessions have been held in rural parts as compared to the city, which is the reason for fewer turnout in Kolhapur city.In Kolhapur city, around 16,000 healthcare workers and frontline workers had registered. Of them, around 12,200 were called to take the jab but only 6,915 turned up. In the rural parts, of the 21,285 healthcare workers and frontline workers, 14,216 have taken the vaccine.Amol Mane, the medical and vaccination officer of KMC said, “We are planning to increase the sessions. The sessions are held in private establishments also to ensure the turnout of private healthcare workers. The second dose of the Covid vaccination is going to start soon, before which, we are hopeful that maximum number of registered beneficiaries will get vaccinated.”At 14 vaccination centres in the rural areas, 212 sessions of vaccination have been conducted while at the 10 vaccination centres in the city, 122 sessions have been held. For each session, 100 registered beneficiaries are called to take the vaccine. The district saw 63% turnout of beneficiaries. Kolhapur adds 7 casesKolhapur district reported seven fresh Covid cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 50,085. Of them, 48,225 have recovered, 1,729 have died while 131 are being treated. On Saturday, 10 patients were discharged after recovering.Sangli reports 11 casesSangli district reported 11 fresh cases on Saturday. The district has 48,265 cases, including 1,753 deaths, 46,384 recoveries and 128 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rural-areas-outdo-kolhapur-citys-vaccination-turnout/articleshow/80900579.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Four held for killing youth in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Police have arrested four persons, including the parents and uncle of a minor girl, in connection with the kidnapping and murder of a 21-year-old Gandhinagar resident in what is suspected to be an honour killing. The victim has been identified as Jigneshsinh Parmar, a resident of Parmarpura village near Valad in Gandhinagar. Jignesh’s father Dipaksinh told police, “Jignesh had been working at an eatery on Tragad Road for the past four months and was to be engaged to another girl on Sunday.” In an FIR filed on Thursday, Dipaksinh told police that he had got a call from his son’s friend, saying Jigneshsinh had been assaulted and kidnapped on Dharmaprabhu Society Road near Naroda Gaam. He was reportedly going on his motorcycle with the girl, a resident of the same village, around 1.30pm on Thursday when the incident occurred. CCTV footage from a dairy nearby showed a white Maruti Eeco car forcing Jigneshsinh’s motorcycle to a stop. They were then joined by another person who arrived on a scooter. Dipaksinh recognized three of the assailants as residents of Parmarpura. “The girl’s parents, their relative, and one Ajitsinh Bihola, a resident of Vehlal village of Ahmedabad district, were arrested during a vehicle-checking exercise,” Krishnanagar inspector Amarsinh Chauhan said. Cops said the accused confessed to having killed Jigneshsinh before throwing his body into the Narmada canal on Fagvel Road. Divers had not found the body at the time of this news going to press. The accused’s daughter was unharmed and had been taken home, Chauhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-held-for-killing-youth/articleshow/80902456.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Pune||Beneficiaries over 50 can pick vaccination site||PUNE: Beneficiaries who are at least 50 years old would be able to choose their nearest vaccination site after registering themselves on the CoWIN app once it is made available to the public. Ram Sewak Sharma, chairman of the empowered group on technology and data management for Covid-19, told TOI that they were working on adding user-friendly features to the app, but was non-commital on a release date. He said they were ensuring the app is user-friendly before it is rolled out to the public. “Self-registration is one key feature, and deciding on a vaccination site will be another,” he told TOI on Saturday. Currently the app is restricted to government officials to help them monitor the vaccination drive of healthcare and frontline workers. On Friday, it was announced that CoWIN would be integrated with the Aarogya Setu app. This would allow users to access information on vaccination and download a vaccination certificate, apart from offering data on the number of vaccinations in all the states and Union territories. Currently, CoWIN can be seen as a tab on Aarogya Setu. However, all the features will be available once it is rolled out for the public. Sharma said the end user experience would be similar to the Election Commission of India app, wherein users can enrol themselves and search for their polling booth. The app on the Android mobile operating system would also let users assist others register themselves. Apart from this, common services centres would also similarly help beneficiaries. “Aarogya Setu will largely be self service, but we are also ensuring that there are enough assisted services for those who are unable to use the app,” Sharma said. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said those over 50 years old would be vaccinated from mid-March. The app will be made available to the public by then. Meanwhile, states are waiting for clear directions on the registration process as well as funding of the vaccination programme. “We are unclear about the registration process. We are now focusing on the vaccination drive for health workers and frontline workers,” state director of health services Archana Patil said. On Thursday, TOI reported that the Centre would decide the funding plan for this phase of Covid vaccinations within 10 days. An estimated 27 crore people are likely to be a part of this phase,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/beneficiaries-over-50-can-pick-vax-site/articleshow/80902439.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 14, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra can’t frame laws on use of EVMs: ECI officials||PUNE: The state cannot frame any laws regarding use of electronic voting machines (EVM) for assembly elections since these elections are conducted under the Representation of People Act, 1951, which is a central law, senior officials of the Election Commission of India (ECI) said. They stressed that the state cannot suggest or make any changes and have to approach the ECI. The official was reacting to political parties in Maharashtra having approached the state legislature to frame a law to give voters the option of using ballot papers, besides EVMs in the civic and state assembly polls. The senior ECI official said that many political parties had approached the ECI earlier, too, but the stand of the ECI is very clear on the use of EVMs. The ECI on its website stated that after detailed analysis of various aspects of technological security and administrative safeguards around the use of EVMs, the credibility, reliability and robustness of the EVMs have been validated by various high courts in all cases. In some of these cases, the SC has also dismissed appeals filed by some petitioners against the HC orders which were in favour of the EVMs. While state Congress chief Nana Patole urged the state legislature to frame the law, the ruling alliance partner NCP has re-imposed faith in the EVMs. Patole’s direction came on a request by a resident following which the Congress chief held discussions with the state legislature secretary, chief electoral officer and secretary, law and judiciary department, in addition to other senior officials. He directed the law and judiciary department to prepare a draft for amendment to existing laws to give people an alternative to using paper ballots for voting. He said that people have doubts over EVMs and want the old system of ballot to be brought back. Article 328 of the Constitution empowers the state legislature to make provisions with respect to the elections, he said. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that there are no issues with EVMs and he would oppose the move. “We are a three-party alliance and it is likely that there would be a difference of opinion. When it comes to discussion, I will oppose ballot paper voting. “I have no issues with EVMs,” he told TOI. The State Election Commission (SEC) officials said the amendment related to local body elections can be made, but not for state assembly elections since it is conducted under the Representation of People Act, 1951 which is a central law. Local bodies’ elections are under four laws, each for municipal corporations, zilla parishads, village (gram) panchayat etc and all the above laws have a provision for conducting elections through EVMs. While laws can be amended for use of paper ballots, the state will have to consult the SEC and the ECI, which, the officials said, won’t be a practical move. ECI officials said that the political party has to reach out to ECI officially if they have an issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eci-says-state-cannot-frame-laws-regarding-evms-for-assembly-elections/articleshow/80902429.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS firm on increasing quota for STs to 9.8%||HYDERABAD: After implementing 10% quota for economically weaker sections (EWS) in the state educational institutions and job recruitments, the TRS is now focusing on enhancement of reservations for STs in the state. Three years ago (in April 2017), Telangana government had passed resolutions increasing reservations for Muslims from 4% (being given under BC-E quota) to 12% and STs from present 6.5% to 9.8% in the state assembly. TRS leadership believes the Centre may not accept extending quota to Muslim minorities as it is against implementing quota based on religion as a policy. The party thinks the Centre may agree to increase the quota for STs from the existing 6.5% to 9.8% by either allowing the state to implement it or implement it across the country. “The file on increased quota for STs has been pending with the Centre for the last three years. After EWS, our government is discussing on how to go forward and get it approved from the Centre. For EWS, the Centre had asked the states to have supernumerary seats, but in case of STs, it is constitutionally given reservations. A decision will be taken soon by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao,” tribal welfare minister Sathyavathi Rathod told STOI on Saturday. Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar said the party would take a call on increasing the quota for STs. “As far as Muslim quota enhancement is concerned, a case is pending in the Supreme Court and also the Centre had returned the bill raising some questions and seeking data from the state government on Muslim population and referred the SC case,” Vinod Kumar said. In previous budget sessions, especially in 2018, TRS MPs staged dharnas both inside and outside Parliament demanding that states be given powers to enhance reservations based on the population. The TRS government has been arguing that the reservations were proposed (enhanced) based on the population of Muslims and STs in the state. Since constitutional amendment is required for increasing the quota, KCR has also raised the issue saying that when Tamil Nadu was able to implement 69% reservation by amending the Constitution, same should be extended to Telangana too. KCR had raised the issue of reservation during his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and there was no response from the Centre as it would open a Pandora’s box and give political mileage to the TRS. They recalled that Union home minister Amit Shah criticised the TRS for granting 4% reservation to Muslims during 2018 and 2019 elections campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-firm-on-increasing-quota-for-sts-to-9-8/articleshow/80902433.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Resident doctors at SVP call off strike||Ahmedabad: The resident doctors of the SVP Hospital called off their strike on Saturday after the AMC assured them that they would not be roped in for the vaccination drive. The resident doctors of SVP and VS hospitals had gone on a flash strike on Friday when the authorities refused to talk to them. The resident doctors have been demanding that 60-odd resident doctors who have been given vaccination duty be withdrawn immediately from the drive and the hospitals should also admit other patients and function as usual. The doctors said that for nearly 12 months, resident doctors were not working in their respective field and were given Covid duties in ICUs, Sanjivani Raths or Dhanvantri Raths, among others. Considering the pandemic situation, the doctors worked without objections. AMC on Saturday transferred six senior staffers from the SVP to the LH Hospital which it termed as a routine transfer. The doctors, however, claimed that the doctors were shifted as the AMC felt that they were involved in the strike. One of the doctors who has been shifted refuted the claim and said that he was out of the city on Friday, and was not involved in the strike. Terming the transfer as a routine one, deputy municipal commissioner O P Machra said that the doctors have been given a chance to serve in the AMC’s premium hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/resident-doctors-at-svp-call-off-strike/articleshow/80902424.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Pune||Pune: First recipients eagerly wait for next important date||PUNE: A tiny glitch in the CoWIN system has now forced scores to wait longer for their second dose. Covid-19 inoculation is a two-dose regimen, given 28 days apart. Healthcare workers who received their shots on January 16 — day-one of the vaccine drive in the Pune region — need the second dose before they can consider themselves completely vaccinated against the pandemic. Experts said a small delay of a few days would not impact protection levels. They cited research that said the second vaccine dose could be given even 12 weeks after the first. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services, Pune region, said, “According to guidelines, the second dose should not be given in less than four weeks and no later than 12 weeks after the first. The administration has decided to start giving it from Monday. Messages will be sent out to first recipients.” Many TOI spoke to said they were awaiting time and place for second shots. “I have not received text messages or a call. I’m waiting,” said physician Subhash Kokane. Recipients said a formal message can be immensely helpful. “I can make travel plans. I’m hoping for more clarity soon,” said a nurse at a city hospital. Pharmacist Prashant Mane said, “An official announcement is an assurance of sorts. It also clears doubts about the place and time of the next shot.” Those who received their first dose said besides some expected reactions, life had been absolutely normal. Some said the 28-day break between the shots has, in fact, helped them become better at staying fit and healthy. Kokane said, “I have had no complaints of side-effects. I went on a cycling trip to Katraj with my wife after getting my vaccine. I’m enjoying my life.” And Mane said he actually “celebrated” his first dose with a trip to Raigad. “My routine remains unchanged. But I’m somehow more conscious of safety measures,” he said. Nilesh Sarikar, a data entry operator at a hospital, said while the confidence had definitely increased, the vaccination had made him consider lifestyle changes. “I’m now more serious about my family’s health. I’m also making serious efforts to maintain a more disciplined lifestyle.” Others said they used the 28-day break to spread word about the vaccines. Mahesh Gutte, a doctor at the Kamala Nehru Hospital, said he had been using his own example to encourage colleagues to come forward for vaccination. “I experienced no adverse reactions. And I have been busy with daily work ever since my shot. So I encouraged others to get inoculated as they can now see there is no danger,” Gutte said. Healthcare worker Vinod Dolas said the example of thousands of first recipients — who are going about their day without complications — proves the vaccines are safe. “I’m now looking forward to finish my two doses, as prescribed,” he said. A total of 1,805 of the expected 3,100 beneficiaries had turned up to take the shot on January 16. Officials said these first recipients shouldn’t have a problem getting their second dose. “Even if they don’t get automated alerts, heads of vaccination sites have been told to reach out. Also, walk-ins will be entertained,” said Deshmukh. Abhay Tidke, additional district health officer, Pune, said some registered beneficiaries, whose names had not appeared on the CoWIN app on day one, were vaccinated. “We have the list of beneficiaries vaccinated on January 16. All of them will be called. And if they don’t get the calls or messages from us, they can just walk in,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-recipients-eagerly-wait-for-next-important-date/articleshow/80902471.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mumbai||Navy canines trump in bomb sniffing drill||Mumbai: The Navy on Thursday gave a pat on the back of one of its sniffer dogs for an “outstanding” feat in sniffing out explosives and improvised explosive devices that had been stashed away during a drill carried out on the offshore oil platform last month. This was for the first time that the Navy’s Western Command had roped in sniffer dogs to sniff out explosives. Its trained sniffer dog Mukti and her handler SK Bishoyi were commended by the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief. The other sniffer dog is named Minki.The sniffer dogs were part of the exercise to check threat to oil platforms at Bombay High. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/navy-canines-trump-in-bomb-sniffing-drill/articleshow/80903232.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man booked for barrage of love notes||AHMEDABAD: Karanj police have filed a complaint of sexual harassment and criminal intimidation against a man from Astodia for constantly sending unwanted messages of love to a woman. The woman — an advocate at the metropolitan court — stated in her FIR filed on Friday that she had met the accused, Rankit Raval, a typist at the court, as far back as 2014. She said she had not met the accused since that year. She said he somehow managed to get her cellphone number and had begun sending her messages over the past two months. “He began sending me messages such as ‘I love you’ and ‘I miss you’ constantly,” the woman said in her FIR. “Even after I objected to those messages, he continued to send them.” She said Raval then began sending messages to her father telling him that he (Raval) was already married to her. “Raval even ordered my father to send me to his house,” she said in the FIR. Raval eventually threatened to defame the woman and she approached police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-barrage-of-love-notes/articleshow/80902459.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man beaten by wife, her paramour||Ahmedabad: A 35-year-old man from the Vasna Friday filed a police complaint on Friday, alleging that his wife and her paramour had beaten him severely for objecting their extra-marital affair.Jashwant Solanki, a vegetable vendor who stays in Vasna Auda housing society, states in his FIR with Vasna police that his wife Hansa had an affair with a man named Ranjit Parmar, who had lived in the same society, for around two years. Jashwant said that he and his wife often got into verbal spat due to her relationship with Parmar. On Thursday night, Jashwant saw Hansa roaming in an autorickshaw with Parmar. When she returned home, Jashwant faced her on the issue. As they began fighting over Hansa’s extra-marital affair, she slapped him multiple times and began screaming after which Parmar rushed to the house. Later, both of them thrashed Jashwant and when his mother tried to rescue him, Parmar and Hansa thrashed her too. Later, he approached Vasna police and filed a complaint of causing hurt against Hansa and Parmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beaten-by-wife-her-paramour/articleshow/80902485.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Araku tragedy: Relative supposed to be on same bus still in shock||HYDERABAD: Standing in a corner outside his home in Shaikpet’s Vinayak Nagar colony, on Saturday, K Jagadeeshwar, stared blankly at everyone who walked past him. Relatives said the 45-year-old is still in shock and struggling to come to terms with the news of the accident that left his uncle — K Satyanarayana — and three other family members dead, at Araku Valley’s Dumuku Ghat Road, on Friday evening. His wife — K Shailaja (44) and two children, Hitesh (17) and Srijith (14) — too suffered injuries when the bus they were travelling in, fell into an 80-feet gorge. Incidentally, Jagadeeshwar was also supposed to be on that ill-fated bus, but had to cancel his plans at the last minute because of some urgent work. “All of us are still shocked...We got to know about the accident last evening but still have no clear details about the condition of our injured relatives who are undergoing treatment in Visakhapatnam...I still cannot believe such a tragedy has befallen our family,” said Naresh, another nephew of the deceased, Satyanarayana. According to relatives, most of the accident victims are women and children from the same family. Speaking about the eight-month-old toddler, Nitya, who passed away in the accident, Naresh said, “The child’s father, Sandeep, was here in Hyderabad when he heard the news. It was heart-breaking to see him because none of us were able to reach our family members on their phones and there was no information from the government.” While Sandeep, along with a couple of other family members, wanted to leave for Vishakapatnam on Friday night itself there were no flights available until Saturday afternoon. “Worse, we were not receiving any information from the authorities...we had to constantly watch TV to spot our family members to see how they are. We are also receiving information that the toll has increased to five, but we do not know for sure. I hope it is not true,” Naresh added. Family members said that it was tough to see the visuals of children sitting in the ambulance with injuries. “The authorities should have at least arranged a vehicle to send the children, who did not suffer serious injuries, back to Hyderabad the next morning. We are afraid that this incident and the scenes that followed during the rescue operation and in the hospital will take a toll on their mental health,” added a relative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/araku-tragedy-relative-supposed-to-be-on-same-bus-still-in-shock/articleshow/80903176.cms||Moulika.KV
February 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Teen charged with rape by wife, gets bail||AHMEDABAD: A 19-year-old landed in jail after his wife, a minor, accused him of rape and abduction allegedly after she had a fight with his mother. When the court got to know of the matter, it granted bail to the husband. While registering the FIR with Bapunagar police in September 2020, the girl hid the fact that she had married the accused just 12 days ago. Her husband was booked for rape and abduction of a minor as well as under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The husband, who is from Mumbai, was arrested on January 16 and sent to judicial custody because he was facing grave charges. When the court began hearing his bail plea, the truth came out as the dispute had been resolved by then. A special Pocso court granted bail to the husband last week. It recorded in its order that the couple had already eloped on two occasions but the family members had not filed any complaint. The girl became pregnant and their families got them married on September 4, 2020 by performing religious rituals. On September 16, the girl filed a complaint with police that she had been taken to Maharashtra and raped on August 4. However, during bail hearing, the girl submitted that she had filed the FIR in anger after having a dispute with her mother-in-law. She told court that the dispute had been resolved and she was living happily with her husband now. She also told court that she was five-month pregnant and submitted that her husband may be released on bail. While the complainant requested the court to release her husband, the state government opposed the bail plea stating the charges against him were grave. However, the court granted conditional bail to the teen accused. One of the conditions was that he should not contact prosecution witnesses and try to influence them. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teen-charged-with-rape-by-wife-gets-bail/articleshow/80902488.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Delhi||4 caught for jewellery showroom robbery||New Delhi: Delhi Police has arrested a 21-year-old man and apprehended his three juvenile aides for committing an armed robbery at a jewellery showroom in south Delhi’s Tigri on Friday. The accused was arrested when he went to a shop to buy a pair of slippers as he had lost them during the robbery. Police said the accused is involved in at least eleven criminal cases including robbery, Arms Act and attempt to murder. The accused has been identified as Sunil alias Ganja, a resident of Tigri. Around 500 grams of stolen silver jewellery and some cash was seized from him. The cops received a call on Friday informing that three armed men entered Singhal jewellery store near Krishna Park at Devli road and robbed cash and jewellery at gunpoint. The owner of the showroom, Kailash Chand Singal (58), told police that three armed men had taken four boxes of jewellery containing silver toe rings and rings and Rs 3,000 in cash before fleeing. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said a case of robbery was registered. Using CCTV footage, police confirmed the involvement of four people in the crime. Local inquiry helped identify main accused as Sunil, who was then nabbed. His aides, all juveniles, were apprehended. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-caught-for-jewellery-showroom-robbery/articleshow/80902554.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Aurangabad||6 centres to prep candidates for competitive examinations||Aurangabad: Minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant on Saturday announced the setting up of six study centres in different parts of the state, including one in Nanded, for the benefit of candidates preparing for different competitive examinations such as the civil services examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC). “The candidates in the state need not go to Delhi or other metro cities to prepare for competitive examinations. The study centres will cater to the needs of all the candidates and ensure a higher success rate,” said the minister.Samant, who was on an official tour to Nanded as part of the ‘Higher Education Department @university’ initiative, also announced a corpus of Rs 25 lakh to set up the six centres. The Higher Education Department @university’ is an initiative launched by Samant to reach out to every state university, along with the Mantralaya staff, to address issues of different stakeholders. Mumbai, Kolhapur, Amravati, Pune and Nagpur are other the places that have been identified for these study centres which would be named after social reformer and late Shiv Sena chief Balasaheb Thackeray. Addressing reporters, Samant also announced three new study centres at the Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University (SRTMU) in Nanded. The proposed centres will be devoted to the study of the life and works of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, social reformer Annabhau Sathe and former CM Shankarrao Chavan. Samant announced a corpus of Rs 50 lakh for each of the facilities.The Higher Education Department @university initiative has received 373 memorandums and applications from stakeholders. Redressal of 322 cases were done successfully on the spot, read an official release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6-centres-to-prep-candidates-for-competitive-examinations/articleshow/80903181.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Delhi||How to ‘clean’ Delhi’s drains? Roadmap for 10 govt bodies||NEW DELHI: The Integrated Drain Management Cell (IDMC), a body set up on the directive of National Green Tribunal for remediation and management of drains in Delhi, has issued its first report with detailed plans for the city’s civic agencies. The directions have considered suggestions made by Central Pollution Control Board on the agencies making use of alternative technologies for drains such as phytoremediation, constructed wetlands, microbials, bioremediation, waste stabilisation ponds and mechanically aerated lagoons. Of the 10 agencies that oversee Delhi’s drains system, by far the largest is public works department with over 2,000km of drains under its jurisdiction. PWD informed IDMC that an IIT-Delhi or Delhi Technological University consultant was being hired for its plans to construct a bioremediation plant at Chhatarpur and Chhatrasal Stadium by December. These plants will have the capacity, respectively, to process 2.5 and up to 1.5 million litres daily. The irrigation and flood control department has the second biggest responsibility with 427km of drains. It said its analyses found bioremediation and phytoremediation unfeasible and so has reappointed NEERI to explore the alternatives. New Delhi Municipal Council is already carrying out bioremediation in the 6.5-km Kushak drain and did not require action plans for its other drains. DDA, meanwhile, is constructing nine wetlands to handle the nine drains between DND Flyway and Dhobi ghat. These are likely to be completed by October. It also intimated IDMC of the construction of four sewage treatment plants with the capacity to cumulatively process 26.5 MLD. The three municipal corporations said their consultancy reports were completed or in the process of finalisation, with work to commence once funds were released. For SDMC, its consultant, IIT-Delhi, suggested, after analysing the characteristics of 258km of drains, a three-step process of screening of floating material, creation of a silt arrest system and biological treatment. The cost involved is expected to be Rs82 crore for the drain in the Barapullah basin and Rs 47.4 crore for those in the Najafgarh basin. IIT-D said the pollution load on the drains should be reduced by stopping sewage flowing into storm-water drains. The report said, “Heavy load of solid waste in the drains increases the pollution load. For this purpose, screens should be installed at all culverts.” It also recommended for drains less than 1m in width the installation of a primary treatment system every 300 metres. EDMC’s action plan for 140km of drains includes bioremediation in Kazzorwali, Babarpur, Gokulpur, Geeta Colony and Kasturba drains. An EDMC official said use of phytorid beds and mechanical trash removers was already in place in Shahdara Jheel and Babarpur drain. On Wednesday, Pravesh Sharma, leader of the House in EDMC, presenting the budget for 2021-22, said alternative technology to manage waste water was likely to cost Rs59.6 crore for 15 years. Delhi State Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation, which manages 98km of drains, expects a NEERI report by September. It will then take up work on the drains and finish it in the next 4-6 months. The Integrated Drain Management Cell has so far held five meetings via video-conferencing. Its report says, “… categorisation of drains has been carried out on the basis of discharge in the drains, their width, depth of water and pollution” and that action plans for managing these drains have been prepared by Delhi’s civic agencies based on these factors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-to-clean-citys-drains-roadmap-for-10-govt-bodies/articleshow/80901205.cms||Paras Singh
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Visibility drops to zero for eight hours due to dense fog||NEW DELHI: Very dense fog engulfed parts of Delhi on Saturday after which visibility dropped to zero for about eight hours. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the visibility remained zero from midnight to 8am at Safdarjung, while very dense fog was recorded at Palam station from midnight to 5.30am. Dense fog was witnessed from 5.30am to 8.30am at Palam. IMD has issued an ‘orange’ alert for Sunday for dense to very dense fog. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Very dense fog formed due to high relative humidity in the atmosphere and calm wind in the morning hours.” Met officials said very dense fog is considered when the visibility goes below 50 metres and dense fog is when the visibility remains between 50 and 200 metres. The minimum temperature reported on Saturday was 10.8 degrees Celsius and the maximum was 26.6 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. The humidity oscillated between 100% and 49% in the last 24 hours. As high relative humidity continues to be present in the atmosphere, the meteorological department has predicted dense to very dense fog for Sunday morning and partly cloudy sky during the day. The maximum and minimum temperatures on Sunday are likely to remain around 28 and 12 degrees Celsius, respectively. According to the IMD forecast, the maximum temperature may hover around 28-29 degrees Celsius for the next five days while minimum temperature is likely to remain around 11 degrees Celsius during the same period. Meanwhile, Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) on Saturday was 334, which falls in the ‘very poor’ category. L S Kurinji, research analyst, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), said, “Delhi observed lower particulate concentrations on Saturday between 12am and 9am. This could be attributed to the high relative humidity (more than 90%) on Saturday morning. Higher relative humidity tends to increase the size of particles that results in their deposition, reducing their concentration in the atmosphere.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/visibility-drops-to-zero-for-eight-hours-due-to-dense-fog/articleshow/80901226.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Pune||Those who got Covaxin ready for booster jab||Pune: Aundh district hospital’s ambulance driver Shashikant Lohar (52) is eagerly waiting for the second Covaxin shot. “I never hesitated at the time of receiving the first dose and I am looking forward to the second. Since my first inoculation, I have received at least three follow-up calls from the vaccination authorities enquiring about my health condition and if there were any side-effects. I did not feel any, though,” said Lohar, who resumed work soon after receiving the first shot of Covaxin on January 16. Besides the regular follow-ups for Covaxin recipients — the shot is still in ‘clinical trial mode’ — authorities said there are no special preparations before its second dose. Covaxin is being administered to beneficiaries only at two sites in Pune circle — the Aundh District Hospital and the V M Government Medical College in Solapur. Sangram Kenjale (34), a physiotherapist at the district hospital, said, “Many of my colleagues discussed vaccine and its side-effects, if any, after I got vaccinated on January 16. They later decided to get vaccinated without any hesitations.” Lohar and Avinash Gavade (55), another ambulance driver from the same hospital, helped their colleagues (grade IV employees) overcome the vaccine hesitancy, leading to better achievement of vaccination targets by the hospital. Initially, there was some hesitancy about Covaxin. But four weeks on, that concern appears to be a thing of past. Beneficiaries like Lohar, Kenjale and many more from the Aundh district hospital now “just can’t wait” for receiving their second dose of the two-stage vaccination programme. The vaccination officials stated they did receive a few calls from beneficiaries expressing health concerns but they had minor issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/those-who-got-covaxin-ready-for-booster-jab/articleshow/80902495.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 14, 2021||Pune||This nurse is not scared of next round||Pune: Nurse Mukta Chatarwar, who had become breathless on the first day of the vaccination drive soon after taking the jab, is all set for the second shot in the next few days. Chatarwar had to be rushed to a private hospital from the Wagholi health centre after taking the vaccine. The nurse blamed her condition on a long night duty and lack of breakfast. She said she wasn’t wary about taking the second jab. Chatarwar has been administering other vaccines at the government hospital for over 15 years and said she would go better prepared for the second vaccine. Chatarwar said, “The rush at the government hospital the night before I received the vaccine was very hectic. After the night shift, I did not have enough food. I started feeling breathless and weak soon after the shot was given. I was rushed to the nearby private hospital for treatment.” She started feeling better within an hour of treatment. “I am not afraid of the dose. I will surely report when my turn comes,” she said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/this-nurse-is-not-scared-of-next-round/articleshow/80902487.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 14, 2021||Bareilly||Youth arrested for harassing girl for months in Uttar Pradesh||BAREILLY: Moradabad police on Friday arrested a youth for allegedly harassing a 20-year-old BA final-year student in Dilari village in Moradabad district. The complainant alleged that the youth, identified as Shariq — also a resident of Bamania Patti under Dilari police jurisdiction — often harassed her in public and passed lewd comments when she returned from her coaching classes. The victim also alleged that the accused threatened of kidnapping her on being opposed. SHO Dilari police station Sanjay Kumar told TOI, “On the basis of the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the accused under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and the accused has been arrested.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-arrested-for-harrasing-girl-for-months/articleshow/80899069.cms||Maria Khan
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Mangolpuri murder case transferred to Crime Branch||NEW DELHI: The investigation into the murder of 25-year-old lab technician Rinku Sharma in Mangolpuri will be conducted by the Crime Branch of Delhi Police. TOI had reported on Saturday that the case was likely to be transferred to the Crime Branch given the developments of Friday, when five men were taken into custody and the primary objective became the motive for the act. The Crime Branch began the probe in right earnest, with forensic experts re-examining the crime scene on Saturday. A team will record the statement of all witnesses and the family afresh. “The accused will also be re-interrogated. The allegations levelled by the deceased’s family will be probed. We have collected the documents from the local police,” said an officer. Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said, “We’re in touch with the deceased’s family and are probing all information coming to our knowledge.” While the murder weapon has been retrieved, the cops are awaiting the autopsy report to ascertain the number and type of injuries on Sharma's body. The initial probe suggested there was no business dealings between the deceased and the accused, and the restaurant dispute angle extended by the accused was related to a common friend. “Sharma hadn’t opened any restaurant. The suspects had started a dhaba in Rohini. A brother of Sharma's friend had opened a dhaba, and we are investigating if this is relevant to the case,” an investigator said. The FIR lodged by police on the complaint of the family instead talks of a brawl between Sharma and the accused during Dussehra over a religious event at the Ram temple park in the locality. It says the accused often taunted Sharma after that and the latter’s family too said the accused were miffed with Sharma's involvement in Ayodhya mandir-related activities. The five arrested men, Tajuddin, Danish, Zahid, Islam and Nasiruddin, are in custody on a three-day remand for interrogation. There is heavy police deployment in Mangolpuri to prevent the situation taking a communal turn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mangolpuri-murder-case-transferred-to-crime-branch/articleshow/80901242.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: AAP claims Amit Shah should take responsibility & resign||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj said on Saturday that Union home minister Amit Shah should take responsibility for the murder of 25-year-old Rinku Sharma in Mangolpuri and resign. Questioning the law and order situation in the capital under Shah, Bharadwaj said, “Earlier, only Muslims used to feel threatened under BJP, but now Dalits, Sikhs and Hindus also feel threatened.” Sharma was assaulted and stabbed by a group of men after being dragged out of his house in Mangolpuri in northwest Delhi on Wednesday night. Bharadwaj said the murder has raised many questions and said AAP demanded the most stringent punishment for the criminals behind the murder of Sharma. “When BJP came to power, the Muslim community used to think that they are not safe under the BJP government. But in the last six years during the tenure of the BJP-ruled central government, several incidents have taken place against all the communities. Now even Dalits, Sikhs and Hindus feel threatened,” maintained Bharadwaj. He continued, “Recent incidents in Delhi also prove that the Hindu community is also unsafe under the BJP regime. Some months earlier, a young tuition teacher named Rahul Rajput was beaten to death in Adarsh Nagar by a group of people. Delhi Police comes under the BJP-led central government. I and my party want to make it very clear that the home minister is responsible for the heinous crimes taking place in Delhi. Delhi Police is completely failing to protect the citizens.” Bharadwaj also claimed that AAP was aware of the political benefit the BJP was getting from such murders. “It is very unfortunate that for their political gains, BJP allows such crimes to take place in the capital,” he alleged. The AAP leader also slammed the Union home minister for the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day when the protesting farmers’ tractor parade turned rogue and indulged in violence. Countering AAP, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor questioned the silence of CM Arvind Kejriwal about the murder and said it was strange that AAP raised a hue over any sad event in a far-flung corner of the country, but it took the party three days to condemn the murder of a youth by a group comprising members of the minority community. “The silence of AAP leaders needs to be probed,” declared Kapoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-claims-shah-should-take-responsibility-resign/articleshow/80901273.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Aurangabad||Bamu to hold 2nd paper of PET at exam centres||Aurangabad: Candidates, who have enrolled for the PhD Entrance Test (PET) of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) will not give the exam for the second paper from their home or any other private places, unlike for the first paper. Following serious allegations of dummy candidates appearing for the test and reports of mass copying during paper-one, Bamu has decided to hold the upcoming examination scheduled on February 21 at its designated centres only. Notably, TOI had highlighted how questions were raised over the credibility of the test for paper-one of PET, for which over 10,000 candidates had enrolled. Sanjay Shinde, the public relations officer of Bamu, said the list of examination centres for the second paper of PET will be declared shortly. “Acting on the orders from the vice-chancellor Pramod Yeole of the university, the examination for the second paper of PET will be held online but only in designated centres. The preparations are on to offer the necessary IT infrastructure and internet connectivity at every centre,” he said. Student activist Tukaram Saraf said a proper mechanism to verify the credentials of students was missing during the exam for the first paper. “It is a welcome move by Bamu to conduct PET at identified centres. The measure will ensure proper talent is enrolled for research work, which is one of the areas of development for the university,” he said. As the Bamu is conducting the PET after four years, it has received numerous applications. The test results will be declared on February 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-to-hold-2nd-paper-of-pet-at-exam-centres/articleshow/80903211.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Pune||Municipal teacher among 612 positive, school closed||Pune: A civic school teacher was among 612 new cases recorded in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday, which was its highest daily tally in a month, taking its total caseload to over 3.92 lakh. As many as 450 recoveries were recorded in PMR in the last 24 hours, taking the total discharges above 3.78 lakh. Soon after the teacher tested positive, the school she was teaching in was directed to stay shut till Monday, while its 12 teachers who came in contact with the infected tutor have undergone RT-PCR test and their results are awaited. Besides, all the 400+ students who attended the school have been asked to stay in home quarantine, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Jagtap said. The PMC had reopened its schools from class IX to XII on January 4 and from class V to VIII on February 1. This is the first such case reported in the city where a school has had to shut down after reopening. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that seven more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Saturday. The region tested 6,241 samples on Saturday, which pushed the total sample testing above 21.81 lakh. The tally of active patients increased to 4,643 on Saturday, of whom 2,824 patients are in home isolation and 1,819 in various hospitals in PMR. On Saturday, for the fourth day in a row, the state added over 3,000 new cases. A total of 3,611 cases and 38 deaths were reported, taking the caseload to 20,60, 186 and the total fatalities to 51,489.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/municipal-teacher-among-612-positive-school-closed/articleshow/80902517.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 14, 2021||Ranchi||JPSC application fees slashed; Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren vows to fulfill poll promises||RANCHI: Keeping his poll promise made during the assembly polls, chief minister Hemant Soren in a tweet on Saturday said his government has reduced the application fees of the state civil service examinations. “I am committed to every promise that we made to our people during the election,” Soren said on his official Twitter account. According to the notification of the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC), the application fee for the general category has now been reduced by Rs 500 and it now stands at Rs 100 and while it has been reduced to Rs 50 for the reserved category. Earlier, those in the reserved category had to pay Rs 150. “Application forms will be out on February 15 on the JPSC website,” a JPSC official said. Earlier this week, JPSC had announced to hold the four civil services examinations — pending since 2017 — together this year to fill 252 posts across administrative and police cadres. The preliminary examination will be held on May 2 and the Main is tentatively scheduled for August, the dates of which will be announced later. Civil service aspirants welcomed the decision and Rakesh Murmu, a civil service aspirant, said it was long overdue since the majority of the candidates will be from a humble background and they had been demanding a reduction in application fees for a long time. “This is a piece of good news for all of us today,” said Murmu, who is planning to appear for the exams in other states as well. He said, “I have not decided yet but I am planning to appear in the examinations of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.” Another applicant, Mukesh Kumar, rued the less number of vacancies announced even with four years of pending exams being clubbed together. “With four exams being held together, I thought that there will be bumper vacancies but the government has only floated recruitments for 252 posts. We urge the government to increase the number of vacancies,” he said. Meanwhile, opposition BJP did not seem impressed with the decision. BJP legislative party leader and Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi said, “There is more to this than meets the eye. This government first hiked the fees and now reduced it to earn applause, indicating a fake concern for the youth. Similarly, it put the fate of lakhs of job aspirants in uncertainty by cancelling past exams and scrapping the 2016 state recruitment policy. The government has not uttered a single word on what will happen to them. The ruling dispensation is keeping mum on a host of other issues that directly concern the jobless in Jharkhand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jpsc-application-fees-slashed-hemant-vows-to-fulfill-poll-promises/articleshow/80901954.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Tesla to set up electric car factory in Karnataka: BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: Electric car giant Tesla will set up its first manufacturing unit in Karnataka, chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Saturday, while lauding the Union Budget and the benefits it held out for the state. “American firm Tesla will open its electric car manufacturing unit in Karnataka,” CM in a statement. TOI had reported on January 13 that the company owned by Elon Musk registered in the name of Tesla India Motors and Energy Private Limited at an address on Lavelle Road in Bengaluru’s CBD. The registration was done on Jan 8. Tesla is known to be doing R&D in association with at least one of the auto engineering companies in Bengaluru. Industry department officials said there is no concrete development yet on the manufacturing unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tesla-to-set-up-electric-car-factory-in-ktaka-bsy/articleshow/80901442.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Surat||First offence under new land grabbing act filed in Surat||SURAT: Police booked four persons in Varachha police station for allegedly grabbing land worth crores in a first case registered in the city under The Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act (GLGP). The accused were booked after a detailed police inquiry by senior police officials. Police booked Jinabhai Dhagal, Naresh Dhagal, Mala Dhagal and Karshan Dhagal for allegedly encroaching upon 2,500 sq m land of developer Rahul Bhadarka. Apart from the GLGP Act, the accused were booked in various sections of Indian Penal Code including trespassing to commit a criminal offence, intentional insult and criminal intimidation. Bhadarka had purchased 23,693 sq m of land from its original owner a few years ago in the Puna area of the city. Of which around 11,000 sq m land is currently free. Bhadarka alleged that the accused encroached on some portion of the land and refused to vacate it. The accused also tried to claim ownership of the land by approaching concerned government offices but their claims were rejected in 2019. Despite this, the accused refused to leave the land along with their cattle, Bhadarka alleged in the complaint. “In a dispute over the same land, BJP councillor from Karanj ward Bharat Vaghasiya was fired upon in July 2020. Since the accused did not leave, Bhadarka lodged a complaint with police,” said a police officer in Varachha police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/first-offence-under-new-land-grabbing-act-filed-in-surat/articleshow/80900024.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Jamshedpur||Less work orders from BSL making ancillary units sick: Entrepreneurs to SAIL chairman||Bokaro: Trickling work orders from Bokaro Steel Plant is rendering many industrial units of Bokaro sick, entrepreneurs on Friday told Soma Mandal, chairman of the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) on Friday. They also said Bokaro is losing its glory of being a prosperous industrial town of the state. Mandal along with director, technical Harinand Rai had arrived on Thursday on a two-day visit to BSL plant which ended on Friday. On her last day of the visit, Mandal along with the director in-charge of BSL Amarendu Prakash met the delegation of Bokaro Chamber of Commerce and Industries. Though the BSL plant is performing well in terms of production and profit, but outside the plant, the condition of MSME’s and other industrial development activities are affected in lack of support of the steel major. Industrialists said the units are starving in lack of adequate work orders. Most of the units have become sick. Those that are receiving orders from BSL are facing inordinate delay in payments from the company, resulting in financial crunch. The association also pointed out that Bokaro-based finished steel users are not getting adequate quantity of material from BSL, thereby Purvodaya Scheme of the government of India is failing. President of Bokaro chamber of commerce Sanjay Baid said that they showed the clear picture to the chairman. He said, “During the meeting, we informed them about the problems faced by local industries. We urged the chairman to provide secondary products to the local manufacturers as per the demand.” Vice-chairman of the association, Binay Singh demanded local industries to be given work on a priority basis by BSL. The demand for renovation of the lease, opening of engineering and medical colleges and allotment of new plots were also placed before the chairman. “Due to the wrong policies of SAIL, industries could not be established in and around Bokaro. If SAIL cooperates, many steel-based industries can be established here, and not only will people get employment, the state will also earn revenue,” Baid said. Chief of communication, Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), Manikant Dhan said, “As can be seen from the memorandum given by the different groups, a lot of suggestions have been given by them, not just criticism of BSL. The meeting was conducted in a very cordial environment wherein the representatives of the chamber of commere apart from putting forward some demands before SAIL also appreciated the support being extended by BSL to local entrepreneurs. The MSME representatives were requested to get themselves registered on the GeM portal so that they could have a pan-India customer base. It was also conveyed to them that BSL would facilitate local industries in their development process including regular communication with them through workshops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/less-work-orders-from-bsl-making-ancillary-units-sick-entrepreneurs-to-sail-chairman/articleshow/80901957.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Ranchi||Farm bodies stir in Ranchi, Congress foot marches statewide against new laws||RANCHI: Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvaya Samiti (JRKSSS), an umbrella organisation of farmer bodies, on Saturday held a kisan mahapanchayat here while Congress took out ‘padyatras’ across the state to demand the withdrawal of three farm laws passed by the Centre. Speaking at the mahapanchayat at Rahe, state convenor of JRKSSS, Sufal Mahto, said, “The farm laws are a death warrant for the farmers and our agitation will continue till they are withdrawn. The Centre’s approach towards the agitation is suppressive from the very beginning.” General secretary of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha, Surjeet Sinha, claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government wants the destruction of the farmers’ community. General secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, Mahendra Pathak, said, “Farmland, farming and farmers are in danger and we will hold the manahapanchayat across the state to save them.” President of Kisan Mahasabha, Puran Mahto, said the opposition to the farm laws is historic. Meanwhile, Congress’s ‘padyatras’ in the districts to protest the laws was attended by party veterans of the state. State Congress president Rameshwar Oroan said the programme was aimed to portray that the party stands with the farmers. As part of the rally, the Ranchi Mahanagar Congress Committee took out a rally from Harmu to Dibdih More while party workers staged a dharna in front of the BJP state headquarters demanding the withdrawal of the laws. They, however, vacated the area after the intervention of their senior leaders and the administration officials. Later, the protesters held a mass meeting at the Harmu ground. Meanwhile, the Ranchi district rural Congress committee organised a procession from Bapu Vatika in Morhabadi to Raj Bhawan. Congress MLA Bandhu Tirkey said the struggle against the farm laws will continue. He said the system of contract farming must be withdrawn to save the farmers from future problems. Working president of the party, Rajesh Thakur, said the entire farming community of the county is opposing the laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/farm-bodies-stir-in-ranchi-cong-foot-marches-statewide-against-new-laws/articleshow/80901986.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Vadodara||Fraudsters make fake Facebook ID of Vadodara CP||VADODARA: City’s commissioner of police Shamsher Singh became the latest target of fraudsters who created his fake Facebook profiles. This at a time when two such persons are already in police custody for making a fake FB profile of the fan club of Gujarat Assembly Speaker Rajendra Trivedi. It was Singh himself who disclosed this through a Facebook post. Singh wrote that some criminals created a fake Facebook profile using his photograph. He requested that a friend request from the profile should not be accepted. “Strict action will be taken against the criminals,” the post said. Comments on the post reveal that like the frauds in the previous cases, the conmen had asked some of those who had accepted the request to send them money. Singh could not be contacted for a comment despite repeated attempts. Besides Trivedi and Singh, BJP MLA from the Akota constituency Seema Mohile’s fake profile was also made by cyber fraudsters earlier. Senior Congress leader Narendra Ravat also was a target and so was the Gotri police inspector. Elsewhere and more recently, a fake profile of Rajkot Range IG Sandeep Singh was also created by miscreants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-cps-fake-fb-profile-created/articleshow/80899987.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Candidate gives birth minutes after casting vote in AP||VIJAYAWADA: A TDP-supported sarpanch candidate delivered her baby minutes after casting her vote at Korukallu village in Krishna district on Sunday.  Nine-months pregnant, Battu Leela Kanaka Durga, went to cast her vote at the village polling booth in the morning. Upon exiting the booth, she started experiencing labour pains. She was immediately rushed to Kaikaluru government general hospital (GGH) where she delivered a baby girl. Initially, it was Durga’s husband who was supposed to contest for the village sarpanch post. However, when the state election commission (SEC) reserved the seat for women, Durga decided to contest in the polls. Regardless of her pregnancy, Durga actively campaigned across the village going door-to-door seeking support. Speaking to the media, Durga expressed delight at her child being born on election day. “I feel lucky. This in itself is a huge victory for me as a mother. I hope the results come out positive as well,” Durga said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/candidate-gives-birth-minutes-after-casting-vote/articleshow/80900621.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 14, 2021||Ranchi||41 new Covid cases, 1 death in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Saturday recorded 41 new Covid cases of the 9,508 samples tested, indicating a positivity rate of 0.43%. Meanwhile, 29 patients were declared recovered. The maximum number of cases was once again reported from Ranchi with 24 new infections. The only death in the state was reported from Dhanbad. While 17 districts reported no new case, Deoghar reported three and Dhanbad, Khunti, Latehar and Ramgarh reported one each. The total number of cases reported in the state since outbreak of the pandemic reached 1,19,283 while recoveries stood at 1,17,749 indicating a recovery rate of 98.71%. The seven day growth rate now stands at 0.03% as against the national figure of 0.07%. The seven day doubling rate of state is now at 2173.38 days against the national figure of 981.63 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/41-new-cov-cases-1-death-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80901940.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: 12 years after assaulting doctor, families apologise||MANGALURU: Two families from Uppinangady in Dakshina Kannada, who had assaulted a doctor in 2008, went to his clinic last week to apologise. Some of them had assaulted Dr Niranjan Rai on September 26, 2008, for allegedly misbehaving with a woman. Rai told STOI, “In September 2008, the woman’s husband had made a false allegation against me. I explained to him that nothing of that sort had happened in my clinic. The next day, a group landed and though I tried to convince them of my innocence, they assaulted me and destroyed property. While I complained, they filed a case against me. Though the cases were withdrawn after a compromise months later, the allegations hurt me. I prayed to the deity at Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala to bring truth to light.” As it happened, both families underwent financial and mental trauma after the incident and recently, were advised by an astrologer to make amends for the assault. “It brought me great mental relief that they acknowledged my innocence after 12 years. They also published advertisements in local newspapers admitting their mistake,” Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/12-yrs-after-assaulting-doc-families-apologise/articleshow/80901428.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Rajkot||Anganwadi worker alleged rape by brother-in-law in Rapar||Rajkot: An anganwadi worker in Rapar, Kutch, has accused her brother-in-law of raping at her about two-and-half months ago. The woman in her early 30s had filed a rape complaint with the Himmatnagar police station in Sabarkantha, her maternal home, in November last year.The Rapar police after investigation registered an FIR on Friday. According to police, the woman’s husband is an advocate and practices in Anand while she is posted in Rapar, Kutch. She stated in her complaint on November 23, 2020, her brother-in-law who lives in the house adjacent to hers, came to her house and tied her hands and legs.She further claimed that she was hanged by her hands to the ceiling fan while her feet touched the bed. She said that her brother-in-law allegedly made video calls to her mother-in-law and two sisters-in-law. The woman alleged that her mother-in-law asked her brother-in-law to kill her.She stated in her complaint that her brother-in-law raped her with her hands and legs were tied and threatened her to keep quiet. On the next day, the survivor escaped and took a bus to Santalpur to her cousin’s house and thereafter on November 25 she reached her parents home and gave an application to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/anganwadi-worker-alleged-rape-by-brother-in-law-in-rapar/articleshow/80900103.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||UP girl breaks national record, walks into Tokyo Olympics||LUCKNOW: Ten years ago, this UP girl’s resolve for victory on tracks was for winning a bag that was at stake. On Saturday, it culminated into a national record and a ticket to Tokyo Olympics and for the World Athletics Championship in Oregon. Priyanka Goswami, 25, shattered the national record in the 20-km walk at the 8th open national and 4th international race walking championship in Ranchi on Saturday with a timing of 1:28:45. She broke Bhawna Jat’s record of 1:29.54 set at the same event last year. This, however, was not a fluke. After joining the Railways in March 2018 through sports quota, Priyanka won two silver medals at national level in 2017-2018. She also bagged gold in the all-India railway competition (2018) and has participated in World Walk Championship in Italy (Rome) and in Asian Walk Championship Japan. “I had made up my mind last year when I missed the event by a narrow margin of 36 seconds. It was then that I decided to make it to the international meet this year. Luckily, I got two qualifications (World Cup and Olympic),” Priyanka told TOI from Ranchi. “I am not able to believe this is true as I am emotionally overwhelmed. Now, I want to win gold for my country,” said Priyanka, who is currently being trained by two-time Olympian Gurmeet Singh. “I was being groomed as a gymnast till Class 8... but after a two-year break I got inclined towards track and field events at the age of 12. During childhood, I failed many times but didn’t give up and neither my parents nor my principal Usha (at Seth BK Maheshwari Inter College, Meerut) lost hope. She’d allow me to attend classes once a week so I could train myself,” she recalled. Priyanka did her graduation (arts) from Patiala. She scored 72% in high school and 58% in intermediate. “My journey to race walking began with my ‘zid’ (firm resolve) to win a bag at a district-level track and field event organised in Meerut (January, 2011). After I lost in various categories, my coach B K Vajpayee and Gaurav Tyagi forced me to participate in race walking, which I won (third position). Later, I won gold and silver while representing Meerut at junior national level walk racing. I never looked back since,” she added. Her father, Madan Goswami, is a contractual bus conductor with UPSRTC and is currently under suspension. Originally hailing from Sagdi village of Muzaffarnagar, her family of five currently resides in Meerut. Her younger brother, Kapil Goswami (22), is a boxer but had to take up a private job in Delhi due to the poor financial condition of the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-girl-breaks-national-record-walks-into-tokyo-olympics/articleshow/80903656.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 14, 2021||Vijayawada||TTD chairman lays foundation stone for Padmavathi temple in Chennai||Tirupati: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) chairman YV Subba Reddy along with Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham pontiff Vijayendra Saraswati laid the foundation stone for the Goddess Padmavathi Ammavari temple at Chennai in Tamil Nadu on Sunday. The new temple should be ready for worship in two years. It will be TTD’s second temple in Chennai and fourth temple in Tamil Nadu. Kanchi mutt pontiff Vijayendra Saraswati appreciated TTD for spearheading the propagation of ‘Hindu Sanatana Dharma’ by constructing more and more temples across the country. TTD will be spending Rs6.85 crore towards the construction of the new shrine which is its fourth temple in Tamil Nadu. Speaking to the media, the TTD chairman said that AJ Sekhar Reddy, special invitee to the TTD trust board, will donate Rs 1 crore towards the construction of the new temple while the remaining funds will be pooled in by TTD. “We thank yesteryear actress Kanchana for donating Rs 40 crore worth land for the construction of the new temple,” Subba Reddy added. TTD’s local advisory committee president for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry AJ Sekhar Reddy said that the first phase of the Gudiko Gomatha programme of TTD was launched in Tamil Nadu on the side-lines of the Padmavathi temple bhumi puja held on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-chairman-lays-foundation-stone-for-padmavathi-temple-in-chennai/articleshow/80900648.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Campaigning for municipal elections begin||VIJAYAWADA: Speculations surrounding the announcement of municipal elections has raised political temperatures in Vijayawada. All major political parties including YSRC, TDP and Jana Sena have started campaigning for the impending municipal polls. Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas along with Brahmin welfare corporation chairman Malladi Vishnu has initiated door-to-door campaigns and introducing party candidates. TDP meanwhile is asking for votes for development activities undertaken earlier. Party MLCs, Vijayawada east legislator Gadde Rammohana Rao along with left parties have intensified campaigns in the city. Jana Sena is focussing on the rise in prices of essential commodities and has started distribution of flyers showing how prices have increased over the last two years. “The cost of tamarind, dal and other essentials has doubled with taxes imposed by the state government,” said Jana Sena spokesperson Pothina Mahesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/campaigning-for-municipal-elections-begin/articleshow/80900653.cms||Venu Lanka
February 14, 2021||India||Trivedi: Would be privilege to be part of BJP||KOLKATA: TMC member and Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday hit out at exRajya Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi, who said after quitting the RS on Friday that it would be his privilege to be a part of BJP. Abhishek said: “There are some feeling suffocated. People will stop them from breathing in the days to come. They will have to go to BJP’s ICU. Members of Mir Jafar & Company will lose deposits.” Trivedi hit back, saying: “You can talk about Gandhi; about Netaji. (But) There’s no use if you don’t follow their ideologies. In Bengal, the mind is full of fear and the head is in the gutter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trivedi-would-be-privilege-to-be-part-of-bjp/articleshow/80903681.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu inoculates over 20k; 2nd shot for 1,154 workers||CHENNAI: For the first time in 27 days since TN kickstarted its vaccination drive, queues were formed outside vaccination centres on Saturday as 20,032 got their jabs. Of this, 1,154 healthcare workers were in line for their second dose of the vaccine.  The state has been increasing the number of vaccine recipients every day this week. From the 635 vaccination centres, the state had the capacity to vaccinate 73,966 people. On Saturday, the state vaccinated 27% of its capacity compared to 25% on Friday and 23% on Thursday. “We are seeing an improvement, but we have a long way to go since we started slow,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “Many districts have come up with action plans asking PHCs to get patients into the bigger centres. But the worry is that some health unit districts such as Pudukkottai, Aranthangi, Ranipet, Tirupattur and Ramanathapuram are still reporting low attendance. We are working towards improving numbers Chennai, which has the largest number of healthcare providers, and Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy.” As of Saturday, 2.2 lakh healthcare workers, 22,756 frontline workers, and 14,186 policemen have taken the vaccine. Meanwhile, public health authorities added 477 fresh cases and discharged 482 patients from the Covid-19 registry. This pushed the cumulative case tally to 8,44,650 and left the state with 4,275 people on the active list. The state reported 5 deaths due to the viral infection which took the death toll to 12,413. Though the number of deaths in the state has come down, the case fatality rate — number of patients dead over the total number of people tested positive — has remained at 1.5% since September. In the last 24 hours ending at Saturday noon, 53,873 people underwent RTPCR in the 295 authorised labs. The state has so far tested more than 1.63 crore people since February. More than 85% of the tests done in the state were done in the 68 government labs free of cost. All districts had fresh cases and Chennai, Dharamapuri, the Nilgiris, Tiruvallur and Tuticorin reported one death each. Chennai topped the case table with 149 new cases, followed by Chengalpet (47) and Coimbatore (43). All other districts reported below 25 cases with 25 districts reporting a single digit increase. Active cases were highest in the northern districts – 2,491 including 2,179 in the Chennai region. There were 915 active cases in the west compared to 428 in central TN and 433 in the south.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-inoculates-over-20k-2nd-shot-for-1154-workers/articleshow/80903694.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Four private schools told to refund nearly Rs 13 crore to parents||NAGPUR: After Narayana Vidyalayam, the state education department has named four more schools for charging excess fees from students to the tune of nearly Rs 13 crore. Deputy director for school education Vaishali Jamdar directed Podar International (Besa), St Vincent Palloti (Jafar Nagar), Sandipani (Hazaripahad) and one more at Hiwri Nagar to refund the excess amount to parents within a month. The fees were charged from the academic session 2017-18 to 2019-20 (three years). In a series of reports, TOI had exposed private schools who were allegedly harassing parents for fees that included sports, computers, library and extra-curricular activities even as classes were held online due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Schools like Centre Point, Bhavan’s, St Xavier’s and Narayana witnessed protests from aggrieved parents, many of whom lost their jobs or faced salary cuts, for reduction in fees. According to Jamdar, all these schools “illegally” increased the fees every year in gross violation of the rules. As per the ‘Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011’, schools can hike fees only up to 15% once in two years, but the management collected excess charges every year from hapless parents. A majority of these schools had collected fees under the heads of amalgamated funds, activity charge, computer and e-learning charges, but failed to give any explanation on the rules under which those were collected. Principals of the concerned schools refused to talk to TOI on the education department’s orders. “Things are not going in the right direction and hence, we do not wish to comment,” said principal SN Sahu of Podar International School. Endorsing Sahu, Sandipani principal Bharti Bijwe said the management would take a call. Palloti principal Joseph Koovely, however, told TOI that they would comply with the department’s orders and refund the fees. “If parents are benefiting, it’s good. We will not move the court or fight legal battles like the others. We’ve already granted a huge concession to parents by not charging the last instalment that would cost us Rs2 crore. In the last three years, we did not charge fees from parents of poor and backward students. Our fees are lowest at Rs30,000 in comparison to other schools,” he said. Jamdar further stated that the process to find out excess charges collected by all the four schools in the previous three years (2014-15 to 2016-17) was under way. The outcome would be conveyed to the respective management, she added. The schools came under the scanner after they allegedly harassed parents to pay the entire fees despite the fact that the Covid-19 pandemic was under way and children didn’t attend classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-pvt-schools-told-to-refund-nearly-rs13-crore-to-parents/articleshow/80900846.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Cops to start filing accident data in iRAD app||NAGPUR: The police department, with the help of the other stakeholders like health, transport, highways and 108 ambulance, is now set to fill in the accident data in the iRAD (Integrated road accident database) app from February 15 onwards. The exercise, started in six states on pilot basis, has been initiated by the ministry of road transport and highways to collect, collate and analyse accident information after preparing a comprehensive pan-India database for policy-making. Developed with the help and expertise of IIT-Chennai, the national informatics centre (NIC) has embarked upon imparting training to the police department and other stakeholders regarding various aspects of the app and modalities of filing the accidental details on a war-footing. Information collected would be used for formulating road-safety policies, rules, regulations and other plans or projects to make roads safer. Additional DG, state traffic, BK Upadhyay, who is supervising the functioning of the state nodal officer for the implementation of the iRAD app SP highway patrol Sunita Salunkhe – Thakre, said 10 districts of Maharashtra have been identified in the initial phase which would be later extended to the rest of the state. “Police would collect information of accidents from other stakeholders and fill in the App. It would have various details like the location of the accident, timing, vehicles involved, victims, injuries, use of protective gear and so on.This information would later help to study the pattern, timing and other factors leading to the accident and develop policies based on them,” he said. “We have already taken an online meeting of SPs and issued the necessary instructions,” said the top cop. Upadhyay also said the dry run of the app was also successfully conducted in the state. It’s learnt that staffers from five police stations in each earmarked districts, including Aurangabad, Beed, Pune, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Jalgaon, Palghar and Yavatmal apart from Nagpur, would be groomed to make entries in the app. According to a senior officer, the app would have accuracy up to the exact latitude and longitude of the location of the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-to-start-filing-accident-data-in-irad-app/articleshow/80900874.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||MSEDCL disconnects over 2,700 defaulters in Nagpur||NAGPUR: After waiting for months for power consumers to pay their bills, the MSEDCL has finally started disconnecting them. Over 2,700 consumers have been disconnected in the district so far and it is expected to be intensified from March. An MSEDCL spokesperson said that the consumers, who had not paid their bills since April 2020, had been repeatedly called on their mobile phones urging them to pay up. “We also sent them several text messages. They were told that they can pay the dues in instalments. Then we sent them disconnection notices. When nothing worked, we started disconnecting them,” he said. Chief engineer Dilip Dodke said the MSEDCL’s financial condition has become alarming, so consumers must pay their bills. “Consumers owed Rs71,500 crore to us till December 2020 end. We have to pay generation and transmission companies for the power we purchase. In addition, we have our own expenses. If consumers don’t pay how will we function? We are ready to provide instalments to consumers, who can’t pay in one go,” he told TOI. Disconnections have become a major political issue with the opposition BJP threatening to physically prevent the MSEDCL staffers from disconnecting consumers. The party has also threatened a statewide agitation against the disconnections. Aam Admi Party (AAP) and other opposition parties are also agitating against disconnections. The spokesperson said that in Nagpur city 81,389 consumers had not paid bills worth Rs160.90 crore since April 2020. “After we sent disconnection notices, 2,205 consumers paid about Rs3 crore. However, we now have started disconnecting defaulters and so far power supply of 1,616 consumers, who owed Rs3.70 crore has been snapped,” he said. Maximum 392 connections were disconnected in Trimurti Nagar subdivision only followed by 252 in MRS subdivision. “We disconnected 113 consumers in Regent division, which covers posh areas like Dhantoli and Ramdaspeth,” he said. In Nagpur rural, 57,493 consumers owe Rs50.53 crore to the discom. “After we sent disconnection notices, 5,358 consumers paid Rs3.77 crore. We have so far disconnected 1,135 consumers, who owed Rs1.41 crore to us,” said the spokesperson. Maximum number of disconnections were carried out in Kamptee subdivision – 312, followed by Mouda – 151. So far, no disconnection has been done in Mohpa subdivision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msedcl-disconnects-over-2700-defaulters-in-district/articleshow/80900884.cms||Ashish Roy
February 14, 2021||Gurgaon||Kherki toll plaza will shift in 6 months, says Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar||GURUGRAM: Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday announced that the Kherki Daula toll plaza will be shifted from its current location within the next six months, a long-overdue move that will bring relief to lakhs of residents as well as industrialists. Khattar made the announcement while addressing a group of industrialists and residents of new sectors at an event in Manesar. “Land acquisition for shifting of the toll plaza has been done. It (the shifting) should be done within the next six months,” Khattar said. The toll plaza has become a thorn in the side of the city because it makes residents pay a tax for commuting within Gurugram, the absurdity of which has led to frequent protests by those living in the new sectors. This has happened because Gurugram’s urban limits have expanded manifold over the years, mostly along the expressway and well past the toll plaza. Khattar said apart from shifting the toll plaza, metro connectivity between Gurugram and Manesar was under consideration too, which TOI has reported earlier. Industrialists complained Gurugram was losing out to Noida due to connectivity issues and the toll plaza. “We have acquired land for the metro. We will develop this Rs 8,000 crore project and work will start soon,” said Khattar. While the CM’s announcement raises hope that work to shift the toll plaza will now progress on a war footing, it may still be a tough deadline to meet. From a dispute on the quantum of land being offered to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to the transfer of operations and financial liabilities of the toll concessionaire, several obstacles stand in the way of the toll plaza shift from Kherki Daula to Pachgaon. There is also a possible traffic conflict due to a proposed rapid rail station near the proposed toll plaza site. Besides, land earmarked in Pachgaon for the toll plaza is facing litigations. In 2019, the Punjab and Haryana high court allowed the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) to take control of 50 acres in Pachgaon for shifting the toll plaza and developing a transit hub. However, NHAI was eventually offered 10 acres less by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), to make space for the station, forcing the number of lanes proposed to be reduced to 28 from 36. Compensation cases also need to be resolved. “There are multiple issues with shifting. We want encumbrance-free land. We need to assess the traffic mobility and feasibility of having a toll plaza at a point where a multi-modal transit hub is planned and villagers are raising demands for multiple underpasses,” said an NHAI official. A senior GMDA official said, “We have offered land to NHAI. There is some litigation in some parts of the land. A committee was formed to resolve the same and it has submitted its inputs to the state government.” The concessionaire, Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), has a legal guarantee to operate the toll plaza till January 2023 and it is not ready to give consent for toll removal. According to MCEPL, Pachgaon is beyond its jurisdiction area and if the toll plaza is shifted there, it won’t be able to manage it to recover the amount spent on constructing the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/kherki-toll-plaza-will-shift-in-6-months-says-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar/articleshow/80903237.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
February 14, 2021||Noida||Barren for months, this plot will turn into Noida’s first urban forest||GREATER NOIDA: A piece of land measuring over 4 hectares, which had been dug up to extract soil for road projects in the city, would soon be transformed into the city’s first urban forest. The top soil on this plot had become infertile and had to be conserved for around six months to make it conducive for saplings to grow. The district administration had handed over this piece of land to an IT major, which will develop the urban forest project with help from city-based environmentalists. To start with, 20,000 saplings have already been planted. “When we saw the area for the first time, the top soil was completely depleted. A lot of soil mining is taking place in Noida because of roads that are being built. The roads are being elevated with soil, but the areas where the top soil is extracted are becoming barren. It is important to conserve these spaces. Else, they will cause dust pollution. Urban forests are a great way to create dense vegetation in cities. This is the first such forest that is being developed here,” said Vikrant Tongad, a Greater Noida-based environmentalist. An urban forest is usually developed in cities. Worldwide, it is seen as a solution for absorbing vehicular pollution and creating habitats for birds and animals. The move is crucial for Noida and Greater Noida, where the quality of air has been deteriorating over the years. Moreover, it can be an alternative habitat for species such as the nilgai, which might be affected because of the airport project in Jewar. “Urban forests play an important role in controlling the local environment. The climate is also impacted by the slowing of wind and stormwater. It also filters air and sunlight. They are critical to cooling the urban heat effect and also reduces the city pollution,” Tongad added. Saplings that would be planted in the urban forest include that of the mango, jamun, neem, pilkhan, sehsut, molsri and barheda. “We are mixing ficus variety with fruit-bearing trees. This will create a dense forest area, which will help birds build nests and stray wildlife such as the nilgai get shelter. Unlike government drives, where one tree is planted at a gap of three metres, the saplings here will be planted much closer to each other. When plants are planted close to each other, they grow taller at a faster rate. This plot can accommodate up to 50,000 plants,” said Tongad. The forest will also be using a method called “mulching” or covering the top soil with crop residues to help the soil retain water during dry months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/barren-for-months-this-plot-will-turn-into-citys-first-urban-forest/articleshow/80903384.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
February 14, 2021||Surat||Instagram DP with revolver lands man in cop net in Surat||SURAT: His attempt to replicate 007’s image with a revolver to spice up his social media image, however, caught the special operation group’s (SOG) eye and a 22-year-old man soon landed in police net with his ‘armed’ video. Cops also seized a the country-made revolver worth Rs 5,000 from accused Mazhar Munaf Shaikh a resident of Variavi Bazaar in the city on Saturday. Cops were tipped off that Shaikh, who posted his video on Instagram messenger, possesses a weapon. After verification, cops arrested him along with the firearm. Shaikh told the police that he used to make videos for TikTok and after the video-sharing app was banned, he started using other platforms to post his videos, which was purely done for fun. “Shaikh, who works at a tailoring unit and earns around Rs 8,000 per month, was popular on TikTok and his videos too got appreciated. He would thus spend money on his looks, good clothes and other accessories,” said a SOG officer. Shaikh told the police that his brother’s relative from Navsari had approached him a few days ago to help them sell the weapon. Shaikh kept the weapon with him and in the meantime, made the video for which he got caught. Shaikh had earlier been arrested for assault cases by Lalgate and Athwalines police stations in 2018. Watch Video with revolver on social media lands man in cop net in Surat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/insta-dp-with-revolver-lands-man-in-cop-net/articleshow/80900036.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Sudden surge in cases likely to be temporary in some districts of Vidarbha: Experts||NAGPUR: The sudden surge in new cases of Covid-19 in some districts of Vidarbha including Nagpur has created panic among people and many have started anticipating a second wave of Covid-19 in the region. Expert doctors, authorities and doctors monitoring the VRDL labs told TOI that the phase is most likely to be temporary and shortlived. Most importantly, school re-opening or the new strain of Coronavirus are not the reasons behind this spike. “Such spikes will continue to come and go. We can’t term this as a new wave,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde. “There are many reasons like sudden weather change and cold wave which made people stay indoors last week. It’s a proven fact that more people in indoor setting result in more infections.” Dr Shinde said that cases will go down in February end and the downfall will continue in March. “Negligible cases will be seen in April and May but we can experience another spike in June-July with weather change,” he added. Officials who are monitoring Covid-19 works across Vidarbha have similar opinions. “This surge could be the fourth or fifth one for Akola district since the beginning. We have the capability to handle 1,000 patients in one go,” said Akola’s resident deputy collector Sanjay Khadse. Health authorities have decided to conduct genome sequencing tests of the new cases. Reliable sources in labs told TOI that reports of samples sent for genome sequencing in December have not tested positive. A total of 80 samples from Vidarbha were sent to NIV Pune for genome sequencing. “No new strain was detected in Vidarbha samples. Some tests are pending,” said an official. Authorities from Amravati have started collecting samples for genome sequencing. While refusing chances of the emergence of any new strain, health authorities in Vidarbha have held group testing, sudden cold wave, casual attitude of people responsible for the surge. “We need to avoid the unnecessary panic and get some scientific solutions now,” said epidemiologist Dr Anand Thatte. “Avoiding indoor gatherings, wearing masks in marriage functions, preferring outdoor locations for marriages can be some of them.” Weathermen have already predicted a thunderstorm in Vidarbha between February 16 and 18. This sudden weather change may add new cases next week. Guardian minister Nitin Raut held a meeting of district officials on Saturday. He has asked that all steps should be taken to ensure no hike in cases. “Proper monitoring should be done. Increase test centres if need be. Monitor wedding halls and do not allow over-crowding. Also, inspect schools and colleges to check if protocols are being followed,” Raut told officials who informed him that changes in weather has resulted in more cases of fever and other illnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sudden-surge-in-cases-likely-to-be-temporary-experts/articleshow/80901916.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Saibaba tests Covid positive in jail, family wants him admitted to private hospital||NAGPUR: Alleged Maoist sympathizer GN Saibaba, 54, is one of the five prisoners to have tested positive for Covid on Friday. With another employee too testing positive, the number of new cases from Central Jail is now 13. Sources at the Government Medical College and Hospital and Central Jail said that the wheelchair-bound Saibaba’s computerized tomography (CT) scan score was 5 “which is slightly above normal”. Confirming the development, jail superintendent Anup Kumre said, “The health condition of all is good. They were taken for other Covid-related tests to the GMCH and are undergoing treatment in the jail itself.” Saibaba’s wife Vasanta and family members have demanded that he be shifted to a private hospital. According to them, three days ago Saibaba had informed them that he had Covid symptoms. “On the phone call, he could barely speak to us due to a throat infection,” reads the statement. The family said that Saibaba suffers from 19 health ailments and has serious co-morbidities, including heart and kidney issues, that can lead to further complications under Covid. “Currently, he has high fever with low oxygen levels. His heart condition (hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with left ventricular dysfunction) along with hypertension can be aggravated due to Covid. We wanted him out of jail but our parole requests have been rejected,” the statement said. Saibaba, who is 90% physically challenged, has two helpers both of who tested negative. The family has written to state chief minister and home minister asking that Saibaba be admitted to a private hospital and not the GMCH which “is highly infected and overflowing with patients”. “His treatment should be monitored by family members and he should have the facility to talk to his lawyers when needed,” the family has demanded. On February 9, five prisoners including gangster-turned politician Arun Gawli tested positive. After tests at the GMCH, they are undergoing treatment in their respective cells. As per Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) data, a 45-year-old jail officer tested positive on February 3. He was followed by another officer on February 8. 10 prisoners who showed Covid symptoms were tested and five came positive on February 9. Kumre did not disclose the exact number of prisoners and staff who underwent tests on Friday. In June and July last year, over 300 inmates and staff tested positive after a jail guard developed Covid. A majority of them were asymptomatic so the remaining prisoners were not tested. At present, the Central Jail is having around 2,250 prisoners. Activist Narayan Ahuja said that Covid spreading in jail proves that government guidelines have been violated. “All staff with symptoms should be tested to prevent transmission. Also, new inmates should be kept in another area for 5-7 days and transferred into jail only if they are RT-PCR negative,” he said. Civil surgeon Dr VD Paturkar and chief medical officer of Central Jail Dr Chaudhari did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/saibaba-tests-ve-in-jail-family-wants-him-admitted-to-pvt-hosp/articleshow/80901951.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 14, 2021||Nagpur||Only post-plantation care will give the desired results: Gaurav Taori||NAGPUR: Thirty-year-old Gaurav Taori, has started a revolution in the field of sapling plantation by inventing Rakshak, a self-watering tree guard. A Nagpurian and director of Rainbow Greeners, Taori has planted over one million trees for various organizations across the country. Rakshak not only provides water through moisture, but also safeguards saplings from stray animals. In an interview with TOI, Taori talks about how Rakshak is making an impact on our environment. Excerpts... Q. How did Rakshak come about?A. Our company (Rainbow Greeners) is into plantation and landscape development since 1986. We were facing problems pertaining to the survival rate of plantations. After a thorough study, we learnt that the problem was due to inadequate watering and stolen tree guards. The other options such as a bamboo tree guard or a plastic net didn't have the strength as well as lifespan. Water reaching the roots was equally important for the plant’s growth. Various issues led to the invention of Rakshak, a self-watering tree guard. We tested Rakshak for two years and after getting good results in terms of the growth of plants despite reduced water input, we thought of providing it for public use at an economical rate. Q. The technology which your company is promoting seems expensive.A. The cost to grow a plant and get it transformed into a tree is invaluable. However, the cost of this technology is cheaper than the other methods available in the market. The use of self-watering tree guards ensures 70% water conservation along with the growth of the plant. The design makes the plant yield good commercial value. The Supreme Court is mulling on a report which claims to calculate the cost of a plant based on the oxygen it gives us to breathe. The other options available are guards made of steel and bricks, which are costlier than self-watering tree guards and do not have any irrigation facility. Rakshak is not just a tree guard but a medium to facilitate all that is needed for a plant to grow. Hence, it’s we who have to decide how much we can invest for a better environment. It is equally important to save water and also ensure the plant’s growth in less time. Such results come at a cost and the value gained is much more. Simultaneously, we are also working on reducing the cost and mass production which will help us get raw material and labour at lesser rates. Q. How much time does it take to plant one sapling with your technology?A. After the site is ready for plantation with excavated pits, soil and manure, it just takes 5-7 minutes to plant a sapling and install a self-watering tree guard. Most of the work is done in the factory and only installation is done at the site. This saves a lot of time compared to the conventional methods. Q. Is your technology foolproof?A. No technology is full proof, it is always an evolving process. In the case of plantations, the most important thing is post-plantation care. As the technology is new, we are educating our channel partners for its execution on a mass level. There are no failures as such but a few shortcomings related to the behavioural pattern of citizens. Bamboos are stolen, leaves are plucked and stems of plants like Neem are removed for personal use. These factors lead to decay of plants and mortality in a few cases. Q. Who should be held responsible for the failure of plantation drives?A. Climate can never be a reason for any kind of failure. We have to come up with innovate solutions. Looking at the city geographically, we must use technology that offers sustainability with optimized consumption of resources. We should plant only local/native species to enrich biodiversity. People must encourage and participate in plantation drives by not just planting trees but also nurturing them. Every plantation activity must be initiated with a proper plan, including post-plantation care. For good maintenance of the plantation, workers and agencies should be paid on time to meet their recurring expenses. Things are not going to be fine by just by handing over the maintenance job to the contractor. To get good results, this mentality has to change. We plant trees in vacant areas without good soil and manure. At times, this may be one of the reasons for failure. Individuals in the authority have always been helpful in providing support for plantation activities. Their role in survival and success rate of plantation is instrumental. They must ensure execution of plantation work as a critical part of infrastructure development. People are learning the importance of conserving and developing natural habitats. This will yield good results in the future. Q. Should sapling plantation be made mandatory for every family?A. NIT had taken the initiative of planting fruit trees in households and families were given the responsibility of maintaining it on their own. This is possible in certain areas where there are bungalows and people have easy access to water. Keeping anything compulsory might not help but educating people regarding nurturing plantations and penalizing them for creating hurdles may motivate them to adopt a sapling. Just asking a family to plant a tree isn’t enough. Maintenance and a family-like bond are important. Plants are to be cared for like humans in their infancy. Q. How do you see people’s response in terms of saving or planting saplings?A. These days, people are very aware about plantation and nature’s well-being. Various groups coming in support of environmental activities is a testimony to this cause. The response is good in certain areas but there are people who steal tree guards and material to fulfil their parallel needs. They take away the life of a plant in its developing stage. People also prune branches of trees for better visibility of their homes. Q. Are you getting enough support?A. Plantation is still not a priority for many authorities. They do it for the sake of fulfilling environmental obligations. Many authorities are simply fulfilling their plantation targets. The results, after 1, 2 or 3 years, are never surveyed and disclosed. Plantation must be taken up by authorities by involving those having technical experience in growing plants. Successful tree plantation is not just another job. It takes skills and geo specific decisions to achieve good results. The ultimate desire to have a better environment for our next generation will urge authorities to optimize plantation techniques. We have got support from the authorities because this technology is result-oriented and user friendly. The characteristics of the self-watering tree guard are beneficial for the plant’s growth and addresses all the concerns for its survival and good health. The merits and results of the product are visible to all. Gradually, people are noticing it and approaching us to know more about the method.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-post-plantation-care-will-give-the-desired-results/articleshow/80900956.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 14, 2021||Aurangabad||No politics in renaming Aurangabad: Eknath Shinde||AURANGABAD: Maharashtra cabinet minister and Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde on Saturday said his party had no political motive behind changing Aurangabad’s name to Sambhaji Nagar. “It is a wrong perception that the demand is being raked up by the Shiv Sena deliberately ahead of the Aurangabad civic body polls. The city will be named after Sambhaji Maharaj in keeping with the aspirations of the masses in Aurangabad and the region. We will always support such public sentiments,” he said. Shinde did not directly respond to a query on when the city will actually be renamed, and instead said CM Uddhav Thackeray has thrown his weight behind the demand. When asked about the status of the proposal of naming the Aurangabad airport after Sambhaji Maharaj, the minister said the necessary communication has already been established with the Centre. “We hope the Centre will name the airport after Sambhaji Maharaj without further delay,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-politics-in-renaming-aurangabad-eknath-shinde/articleshow/80903729.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||Given just 1-year extension, Ganediwala takes oath as additional HC judge||NAGPUR: Justice Pushpa Ganediwala, whose recent verdicts invited criticism, has been given only a one-year extension as additional judge after the Supreme Court collegium refused to elevate her as a permanent judge of the Bombay high court. Her term ended on Saturday. Senior administrative judge at Nagpur bench, Nitin Jamdar, administered the oath to her in the presence of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta who attended the ceremony online from Mumbai. The collegium had recommended two years’ extension to Ganediwala after withdrawing its earlier suggestion to make her a permanent judge. However, the Union law and justice ministry refused it, citing her judgments. A notification was issued on Friday by joint secretary to the government of India, Rajinder Kashyap. “… the President of India is pleased to appoint Pushpa Ganediwala to be an additional judge of the Bombay high court for a period of one year with effect from February 13, 2021,” it reads. Subsequently, President Ramnath Kovind and Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari cleared her name for the extension. A group of lawyers, meanwhile, have already written to the President and the Chief Justice of India to reconsider their decision of withdrawing the SC collegium’s recommendation against Ganediwala’s elevation as the permanent judge. After starting her judicial innings as a district judge, Ganediwala, 51, was appointed as additional judge on February 8, 2019. Earlier, her name was in reckoning for HC’s additional judge in 2018, but wasn’t considered after a few judges made adverse remarks that led to the SC collegium deferring her appointment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/given-just-1-year-extension-ganediwala-takes-oath-as-additional-hc-judge/articleshow/80903734.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||Kerala’s Covid-19 count set to cross 1 million, but CFR still lowest||Kerala is set to become the second Indian state after Maharashtra to record one million Covid-19 cases. The state, which has been averaging more than 5,000 fresh cases every day since mid-December, was less than 500 short of the grim milestone on Saturday. Kerala has been reporting the highest daily count of new cases among all states consistently since January 4. On several days, the state has accounted for nearly half of all fresh cases detected in the country. It is the only state in India where the weekly tally of cases has not shown an overall decline since the second week of November. The state’s case count stands at 9,99,524 and it has over 46% of all active cases in the country — 63,581 out of nearly 1,37,000. Despite this, Kerala continues to report the lowest case fatality rate (CFR) in the country at 0.4%, with only two-three much smaller states in the northeast doing better. By contrast, Punjab's CFR is over 3.2%, Maharashtra's is 2.5% and the national average is a little over 1.4%. CFR is the percentage of infected people who have succumbed to the virus. Kerala has recorded 3,970 deaths so far, less than the official Covid toll in nine other states, most with much lower case loads. For instance, Punjab has registered just over 1.75 coronavirus cases so far but there have been at least 5,688 deaths from the virus in the state. Madhya Pradesh has recorded nearly the same number of deaths (3,829) as Kerala while logging just one-fourth (257,423) of the southern state's case count. Maharashtra has by far the highest death toll from the pandemic at 51,489, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,413), Karnataka (12,263) and Delhi (10,889). One explanation being given by some experts on Kerala's peculiar Covid curve is that it may be capturing a higher proportion of the actual number of infections than most other states. Also, Kerala may have achieved greater success in curbing the pandemic when it was peaking in India from July to September. This is borne out from the lower prevalence of antibodies — which indicates past infection — in the state's population. In the latest serological survey in India carried out in December and January, antibodies to Covid-19 were found in 11.6% of Kerala's population, as opposed to a national average of 21.5%. Meanwhile, India recorded 12,166 fresh cases on Saturday, around the same tally as the previous day (12,149). The day's death toll, however, dropped to 86 despite a slight rise in fatalities in Maharashtra (38). India had recorded 104 deaths from the virus on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/keralas-covid-19-count-set-to-cross-1-million-but-cfr-still-lowest/articleshow/80903743.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
February 14, 2021||India||Covid-19: Beneficiaries aged 50 and above can pick their vaccination venue||PUNE: Beneficiaries who are at least 50 years old would be able to choose their nearest vaccination site after registering themselves on the CoWIN app once it is made available to the public after integration with Aarogya Setu app. Live updates: Coronavirus pandemicRam Sewak Sharma, chairman of the empowered group on technology and data management for Covid-19, told TOI on Saturday that they were working on adding user friendly features to the app. “Self-registration is one feature and deciding on a vaccination site will be another,” he said, while remaining noncommittal on a release date. Read AlsoElderly show fewer post-vaccine symptoms than young: StudyThe elderly, who bore the brunt of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, have reacted with fewer symptoms after taking the vaccine against Covid-19 as compared to people in the 20-40 age group. This was the broad observation across the country 29 days after the vaccination drive started on January 16.Currently the CoWIN app is restricted to government officials to monitor the vaccination drive. The app integration would allow users to access information on inoculation and download vaccination certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-50-can-pick-their-vaccination-venue/articleshow/80903751.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 14, 2021||India||Rahul becoming ‘doomsday man’ for India: Sitharaman||NEW DELHI: Launching a scathing attack on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said he is becoming a “doomsday man” for India by constantly insulting constitutionally elected authorities and countered the charge of cronyism by saying the main opposition functioned on the basis of family “damaad’s” interests. Replying to the discussion on Budget, Sitharaman listed 10 points where she said Rahul was expected to speak but made no mention in his speech and instead sought to create fake narratives on various issues — Covid-19 situation, farm laws or India-China border stand-off — to demean and show India in poor light. “I am very scared to think he (Gandhi) is probably becoming a doomsday man for India,” she said. Rahul Gandhi was not present in the House. Seeking to turn Rahul’s “hum do, hamare do” jibe, Sitharaman said this applied to Congress which catered to the interests of its “damaad”. There two ran the party and two, including the son-in-law, who were to be taken care of. She responded to the allegation that new farm laws will deprive farmers of their lands, saying Congress governments had failed to fulfll promises like loan waivers that were made before assembly polls in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. “It would have been nice if he (Gandhi) who talked about ‘hum do hamare do’ also talked about returning damaad’s (son-in-law) land (to farmers) … But he didn’t say anything about this,” said the finance minister. She was referring to investigations into land deals involving Congress chief Sonia Gandhi’s son-inlaw Robert Vadra. The comments on Rahul took Congress benches by surprise, with party leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury protesting feebly. The finance minister’s remarks come in the wake of Rahul’s speech during the debate on the Budget and his recent press conference where he accused the government of “ceding” land to China. Sitharaman’s speech seemed a determined counterattack that matched Rahul’s personalised attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Without taking Vadra’s name, she said the Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal has been repeatedly raising allegations of lands acquired at throwaway prices from farmers. “They gave farmers pittance and took away the lands. That is ‘hum do hamare do’. We are two people taking care of the party and there are two other people who have to be taken care of,” said Sitharaman. Referring to the farmers’ issue, she said she wanted to know from the Congress leader why the party took a U-turn on the farm laws but no reply came. He (Gandhi) did not speak on any clause of the farm laws and had even failed to explain why Congress governments in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh did not waive farm loans as promised in poll manifestoes. Sitharaman asked why didn’t Rahul say anything about the statement of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh who had advocated reform of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) laws. She also accused the Congress leader of insulting constitutional authorities, recalling an incident when Gandhi tore an ordinance promulgated by the then UPA government led by Manmohan Singh. Responding to charges of crony capitalism, the finance minister sought to remind the House about two schemes, PM-SVANIDHI and MUDRA, which are meant for street vendors and small businesses and said, “They are not cronies. They are not anybody’s cronies. Leave alone our cronies, they are not even your cronies. They are the people who think of the Prime Minister who is working for Dalits, backwards, and the poor...Our cronies are the common ‘janta’ (people) of this country”. Taking on Congress for accusing the government is favouring certain industrialists, she asked the Congress party to explain how a particular project in Kerala was awarded on invitation basis to one of the industrialists. “They invited the crony. There was no open tender, and there was no global tender. The crony was invited then. But now they have the temerity to call us crony capitalists… Remember, you invited one of them, who you repeatedly call a crony, but requested that crony to develop a port in your state,” said the minister. She was referring to Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd, part of the Adani Group, which in December 2015 formally began development of the international transhipment project in Vizhinjam in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-becoming-doomsday-man-for-india-sitharaman/articleshow/80903766.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Tribal farmer commits suicide in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 45-year-old tribal farmer committed suicide by consuming pesticide in Vikarabad on Saturday. Police suspect that the deceased, Rathod Gopal, took the extreme step due to financial stress as his farm got flooded last year and left him with losses. “On Saturday morning, he went to his agricultural field and consumed alcohol. Later, he committed suicide by drinking pesticide,” Basheerabad inspector Vidhya Charan Reddy said. Police said a man working in a nearby field noticed alerted Gopal's wife Shanti Bai about the suicide attempt, following which locals called an ambulance and shifted Gopal to a nearby hospital where he died. Police said that Gopal had 12 acres land. “He used to grow cotton on five acres, paddy on four and pulses on the rest. He took ?3 lakh loan from a public sector bank to invest. However, as heavy rains lashed the region and inundated the fields, Gopal incurred huge losses. As he lost all his produce he was not able to repay the loan,” police said. Family members said that Gopal frequently used to complain about not being able to pay the loan. A case was registered under Section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribal-farmer-commits-suicide-in-telangana/articleshow/80903773.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Hairpin bends on ill-lit ghat roads lead to mishaps||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Friday night bus accident on Araku ghat road that left four people dead and over 20 injured has once again brought to light the accident-prone nature of ghat roads in Visakhapatnam Agency. On Friday night, a private tourist bus plunged into a gorge between Damuku and Tyda in Visakhapatnam Agency. The incident took place on hairpin bend number five on the ghat road. There are eight hairpin bends (steep curves) in the 40km-long ghat road between Vizag city and Araku Valley. Negotiating these turns is a challenge at night due to lack of adequate lighting and the surrounding forest cover. Police and road transport officials say that the sharp curves and poor lighting are the main reasons for many fatal accidents on the ghat road in both Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts. On Saturday, health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) and tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao called on injured victims of the Araku ghat road mishap at King George Hospital along with Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand. A committee was announced to study the condition of ghat roads to be headed by the collector. Meanwhile, KGH officials said two of those injured need urgent surgery for their head injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hairpin-bends-on-ill-lit-ghat-roads-lead-to-mishaps/articleshow/80900599.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Bus tragedy: Case against driver in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The police on Saturday registered a case against Gurrampalli Srisailam, the driver of the ill-fated bus that plunged from the ghat road into a valley 80 feet below at Araku in Visakhapatnam district on Friday night, even as the post mortem examination of the bodies of the four killed was completed and bodies sent to Hyderabad in special ambulances. An official panel was formed to study the mishaps on the ghat road. The Vizag rural police said they will arrest the bus driver after his discharge from the hospital. A forensic medicine team conducted the post mortem at Andhra Medical College (AMC). The deceased were identified as Kottam Saritha (38), Kottam Satyanarayana (50), Kottam Nitya (eight months) and Kottam Latha (45). The police registered a case against the driver under Sections 304 A 338 337 of IPC. Vizag deputy transport commissioner GC Raja Ratnam said, “ We suspect that low-visibility on the ghat-road, drowsiness of the driver and over-speeding at the steep curve might be the reasons for the fatal accident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bus-tragedy-case-against-driver/articleshow/80900607.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||Hospitals in Kolkata see 3-fold rise in Swasthya Sathi numbers||KOLKATA: Several private hospitals in Kolkata have seen a near-threefold jump in the number of patients seeking admission under the Swasthya Sathi scheme in just a month since it was extended to cover the entire Bengal population in late-November. Hospitals believe this is just the beginning of a spurt that could soon see Swasthya Sathi patients swell to alm-ost half the total number of admissions. Between December and January, the number of patients under the scheme — that offers a health insurance coverage of Rs 5 lakh — swelled from an average of 250-300 a day to around 850 across Kolkata’s private hospitals. Till December, AMRI received around 200 Swasthya Sathi patients a month. It changed dramatically within days of chief minister Mamata Banerjee extending the scheme to the entire state population. “While we had received around 200 Swasthya Sathi patients across our three units in December, the number jumped to more than 400 in January. It will keep rising over the next few months,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. He added that the projection for February is around 600 for the three AMRI units. “The number of patients under the scheme will have to be restricted. At a meeting with government officials, we have agreed upon a cap of 15% for patients covered by all government schemes, including Swasthya Sathi. Accordingly, we have set up Swasthya Sathi wards at our units with a total capacity of 110,” said Barua. At RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), Swasthya Sathi patients have doubled in number between November and January. It is set for a threefold rise by the end of February. From around 200 in November, the number touched 424 in January. “There has been a steady stream of patients ever since the scheme was extended and we expect the number to reach 500 by the end of this month,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh. RTIICS has strengthened its Swasthya Sathi desk to cater to the sudden increase in number. “We have had the desk since 2017 when the scheme was first launched. Due to the spurt in number, we have deployed more personnel to handle our desk,” he added. Narayana Superspecialty Hospital in Howrah, too, has seen a 50% spurt — from 200 in November to around 300 last month. At Medica Superspecialty Hospital, Swasthya Sathi patients now account for around 10% of its total patients and have been climbing every week. “The spurt has been phenomenal and was expected. Eventually, we must introduce a separate ward for these patients so that most can be admitted,” said senior vice-chairman and cardiology head Kunal Sarkar. AMRI and RTIICS have recently separate Swasthya Sathi wards this week. At AMRI, a desk has been set up to handle such patients at each of the three units. “From admissions to treatment and investigations, the desk provides comprehensive guidance,” said Barua. Ruby General Hospital will start admitting Swasthya Sathi patients from the latter half of February, along with Belle Vue. Both have got empaneled and are waiting for the formalities to be completed. De Sun has started taking in surgical cases under the scheme. Hospitals, however, are worried at the spiralling number of patients seeking admission under the scheme since the rates remain low. The recent hike announced by the government, according to them, is not enough to make Swasthya Sathi feasible, they claimed. “Even with a 15% cap on the number of patients, we would be losing heavily unless the rates are increased. While the scheme could be a lifeline for many, Swasthya Sathi card-holders would be refused by hospitals if the rates don’t change,” felt Barua.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-see-3-fold-rise-in-swasthya-sathi-numbers/articleshow/80903234.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 14, 2021||Ranchi||Only 77% turnout on Day 1 of last phase of Covid vaccination drive||Ranchi: Mariyam Guriya, the first person to be vaccinated in Jharkhand on the inaugural day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16, was administered the second dose at the Ranchi sadar hospital in the final phase of the drive which started on Saturday. Guriya was among the 1,960 beneficiaries who turned up for the second or last dose of the vaccine. Among those who turned up included many health workers like district hospital doctors and prominent physicians, who took the first shot in presence of chief minister Hemant Soren on January 16. As many as 3,200 beneficiaries had taken the vaccine in the first phase and an equal number was supposed to take it in the last phase. However, the authorities prepared a list of only 2,555 beneficiaries and 77% or 1,960 persons turned up to take the shot. Talking to TOI, nodal officer for the vaccination drive in the state, Dr Ajit Prasad, said, “A list of 2,555 beneficiaries was prepared out of the total 3,200 people who took the first dose through the Cowin app. A few of the districts have been able to achieve more than the targeted beneficiaries, which is a sign that people are putting faith in the vaccines to prevent the pandemic.” While state health secretary K K Soan did not respond to clarify the number of beneficiaries, a senior official of the National Health Mission’s (NHM) state unit, claimed on condition of anonymity that beneficiaries, who were not selected for the second dose on Saturday or those who did not turn up, can take the second shot within the next two weeks. “We are unaware about the factors on which Cowin application selected the beneficiaries,” he said. Explaining the huge turnout in districts like Koderma, West Singhbhum and Jamtara where more people than the listed turned up for the second dose, the NHM official said the vaccinators have been given the option to amend or add the beneficiaries on the app, including who were not listed by the app but they had turned up as they had taken the first shot. Talking to TOI, Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said, “We had ensured that all beneficiaries listed for the second dose of vaccination on Saturday are informed about their session sites and timings. We had also ensured that they have been informed through phone calls which led to a higher turnout.” Meanwhile, Koderma reported 253% turnout on the first day of the second phase as 43 beneficiaries turned up against a targeted figure of 17. Similarly, West Singhbhum reported 122% turnout while Jamtara reported 108%. While Deoghar and Hazaribag reported 100% turnout, Chatra reported the lowest turnout at 42% with only 38 beneficiaries of the total 90 came to take the shot in the district. Along with the second phase, the first phase of the vaccination drive is also on. On Saturday, the state recorded 46% or 14,111 persons of a total of 30,576 beneficiaries turned up to take their first shots. Of the total inoculated, 9,222 are frontline workers while 4,889 are health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/only-77-turnout-on-day-1-of-last-phase-of-covid-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80901192.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||No. of personal-use vehicles in Kolkata jumps four times in 8 years||KOLKATA: The result of a vehicle-use survey in Kolkata has found that the number of personal-use vehicles has jumped four times in the eight years between 2013 and 2021. Transport department studies say the average vehicular speed in Kolkata has gone down by 25%. Taken together, this indicates that travelling comfort may have come at the cost of congestion and, of course, pollution. The report, which has been recently submitted to the state government, says that while car use has gone up threefold, two-wheeler use went up more than seven times in the same period. Even as registration of two-wheelers had exploded since 2000 and more cars were being purchased each year till 2020, when the pandemic-led lockdown saw sales plummet, usage of cars and two-wheelers have increased in the past 10 months because of safety concerns over travelling in public transport. The study, carried out three times daily at eight major road intersections, revealed that the car count had jumped up from 17,976 in 2013 to 53,930 in 2020-21. During the same period, the number of scooters and motorcycles sky-rocketed from 8,689 to 66,038. The most immediate price that Kolkatans are paying for this is, of course, congestion, which has reduced the average traffic speed from 24-25kmph in 2013 to 18-19kmph. The other is, of course, pollution, said a transport expert. The same methodology was used in the study carried out during morning peak hours (9am to 11am), afternoon off-peak hours (noon to 2pm) and pre-evening peak hours (3pm to 5pm) at Ultadanga, Rajabazar, Sealdah, Esplanade, Park Circus, Ballygunge, Dhakuria and Hazra. The study was conducted by prominent citizens’ group Switch ON, which advocates clean air and use of non-motorised transport. The only redeeming feature appeared to be a nine-fold increase in the use of bicycles. Post lockdown, use of bicycles had exploded in Kolkata, with many commuters from neighbouring districts using them, not only because they were safe but also because of lack of adequate public transport in the initial months. South Kolkata saw bicycle use go up by 15% although north Kolkata witnessed an 8% decline. Private cars, along with taxis, accounted for nearly 43% of the city’s vehicles, while motorcycles and cycles made up a further 23%. Only a third of the vehicles comprised public transport: buses, autos and trams. Switch ON also carried out a perception survey among 493 commuters at the crossings. Of them, 41% said they used buses to commute; 20.7% trains; and 12% taxis. As many as 81% commuters travel less than 10km, while for 39%, the daily commute duration is less than 30 minutes. Road users felt the biggest threat came from trucks, followed by autorickshaws. Buses and cars were less of a hazard, they said. An overwhelming 80% found motorcycles to be unsafe, while 74% said cycles were safer, compared with other modes of transport. Experts, such as Geetam Tiwari of IIT-Delhi and Sri Prakash, transport and urban governance expert from TERI, said Kolkata was designed for public transport and non-motorised modes of transport like bicycles, apart from walking. It was wrong to change that basic design of the city to create space for private cars. “If you create space for private cars, more cars will keep coming to clog the city for ever,” said Tiwari. “Official ambient air quality monitoring had shown a 61% increase in particulate matter in just four years between 2010 to 2013. Thereafter, the rise, we presume, has been sharper,” said air pollution expert Anumita Roychowdhury, who’s the executive director of Delhi-based research and advocacy agency, Centre for Science and Environment. “Kolkata is paying a very high price for congestion. Traffic jams lead to fuel wastage, more pollution and serious economic losses. Usual commuting time has increased significantly during peak hours. On many arterial roads, traffic volume has exceeded the designed capacity and the service level of the road,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-of-personal-use-vehicles-in-city-jumps-four-times-in-8-yrs/articleshow/80903247.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 14, 2021||Ranchi||Private schools in Jharkhand demand resumption of all classes||RANCHI: Members of the National Private Schools’ Association (NPSA) sat on a dharna in front of the Raj Bhavan here on Saturday demanding reopening of the schools for all classes. The agitators said students from the economically weaker sections are unable to attend the online classes since March 2020 as they do not have smartphones with internet connectivity, thus affecting their studies adversely. Akshay Prasad, president of NPSA, a state-based organisation, said, “We represent the non-recognised private schools and our organisation has 300 members. A large group of students studying in our schools come from poor families and their education has been affected because of the closure of schools. Moreover, the teachers are also not getting their salaries for the past several months. We have submitted a charter of demands to the governor and the chief minister.” He said since the intensity of the Covid-19 pandemic has declined and other public places like markets and malls are opened, the schools must also be allowed to reopen right from pre-nursery classes with preventive guidelines. Singh further said NPSA had formed a human chain in September 2020 demanding monetary aid from the government for the affected teachers but rued that the government is yet to take up any action in this regard. He added that Saturday’s dharna was aimed at drawing the attention of the government, which is scheduled to hold a meeting on February 19 to discuss further unlocking processes. Notably, there are around 1,600 non-recognised private schools in Ranchi district alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/private-schools-demand-resumption-of-all-classes/articleshow/80901236.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||PM may virtually take part in VB convocation||Santiniketan: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is acharya or chancellor of Visva-Bharati, may virtually attend the convocation programme to be held on February 19. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar may attend in person. According to VB sources, the PM’s participation is yet to be confirmed. The varsity spokesperson only said: “We cannot comment right now. I have no information.” Modi had virtually addressed VB centenary celebrations on December 24. Recently, Union home minister Amit Shah had visited Santiniketan. The PM had last been to VB in May 2018, when he and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina along with CM Mamata Banerjee attended the convocation, TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pm-may-virtually-take-part-in-vb-convocation/articleshow/80902823.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||Abhishek hits out at Dinesh day after RS resignation||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee hit out at former Rajya Sabha member Dinesh Trivedi who recently said it would be his privilege to be a part of the saffron camp. Abhishek, without naming Trivedi, said: “There are some who are feeling suffocated. People will stop them from breathing in the days to come. They will have to go to BJP’s intensive care unit. Members of Mir Jafar and Company will lose their deposits in the assembly elections.” Trivedi hit back. “You can talk about Gandhi; about Netaji. (But) There’s no use doing that if you don’t follow their ideologies. We can quote Tagore. But, in Bengal, the mind is full of fear and the head is in the gutter,” he said, a day after resigning from the Rajya Sabha. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said Trivedi was welcome to the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/abhishek-hits-out-at-dinesh-day-after-rs-resignation/articleshow/80902785.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Surat||VNSGU students to get one more chance to clear ATKTs||Surat: Over 3,000 students of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) who could not clear their exams within five years of enrolling for the graduation course will now get another opportunity to clear it — from the Babasaheb Ambedkar Open University (BAOU). According to the University Grants Commission (UGC) guideline, a student is supposed to clear all papers of the three years graduation course in the maximum five years’ time. There are over 3,000 students who could not graduate because of the UGC rule.These students are likely to get benefited now. A decision has been taken by the VNSGU after multiple representations by students and its senate member Ganpat Dhameliya. Students failing in up to two papers get attempt to keep term (ATKT) and can get promoted up to the final year. They do not get degree certificate even if they clear all subjects for the final year since their ATKT is pending for the previous years. Now, these students will be absorbed in BAOU and clear their ATKTs. “BAOU committee will decide how many more points a student needs to get a graduation certificate. Based on the requirements, the student will be asked to appear in the exam for one or two subjects. After clearing it they will get a degree certificate,” Dhameliya told TOI. According to university officials, in most cases, students fail to clear one or two subjects due to marriage, job or some other issues. “I am from a poor family background and I had to take up a job during college to support my family. I could not clear one paper of computer practical. Since I am not a graduate, I can’t get a promotion in my firm,” said Aakash Solanki, who is assistant manager at a restaurant. Solanki took admission to BCA in 2011. He failed in few attempts and after 2016 he was not allowed to appear for the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-students-to-get-one-more-chance-to-clear-atkts/articleshow/80900045.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||Papers stolen, VB exams postponed||Santiniketan: The examinations scheduled for February 11, 12 and 13 at Sangit Bhavana of Visva-Bharati have been cancelled. On Saturday, Bhavana principal Swapan Kumar Ghosh said question papers on four subjects were stolen from the custody of K Sunita Devi, head of the department of dance and drama. Prima facie, Ghosh added, they didn’t find Devi responsible for the missing question papers. He added that they would lodge a police compliant if required after preliminary investigation. A teacher of the school said: “The examinations were scheduled from Thursday but why should the principal hold the press meet on Saturday to disclose the cause of postponement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/papers-stolen-vb-exams-postponed/articleshow/80902930.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||BJP functionary shot at on Basanti Highway, critical||A former Trinamool leader from Basirhat who joined BJP two months ago was shot at on Basanti Highway near Lauhati in North 24 Parganas while on his way home from a party meeting on Saturday night. Firoz Kamal Gazi, alias Babu Master, has been shifted to a Kolkata hospital in a critical state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-functionary-shot-at-on-basanti-highway-critical/articleshow/80902847.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Ranchi||Low turnout leads to wastage of 20k vax doses in state||Ranchi: Despite best efforts of officials engaged in the vaccination drive, at least 20,000 vaccine doses have been wasted in Jharkhand in the first four weeks of the drive. Health experts do understand that the doses are costly and once opened, the vials have to be used within four hours, and for maximum utilisation, they try their best to ensure a good attendance at the session sites, but a constant low turnout has led to the loss, said officials. As of date, there are 200 plus session sites across the 24 districts. Jharkhand got a bulk supply of Covishield which comes in 5ml vials containing ten doses each. According to estimates, if 75 beneficiaries turn up at one session site, eight vials are opened, of which the eighth vial is left with five unused doses and has to be discarded. More the number of session sites, higher the expected number of doses going for a waste. This figure goes further up in case of Covaxin, which comes in 10ml vials containing 20 doses. Once opened, there should be 20 people in the queue for complete utilisation of the vial. “Our hands are tied as we can administer vaccines only to those who are registered on the CoWIN portal, so even if other potential beneficiaries are there, we cannot give them the shots,” said one of the vaccinators at Ranchi sadar hospital. Based on the current number of session sites, chances are there that at least one vial of Covishield with doses for 1-9 persons and one vial of Covaxin with doses for 1-19 persons are left unused and ultimately, wasted. In a rough estimate, if an average of five Covishield doses at each site were wasted daily in the 28 days since January 16, the total number of shots wasted goes up to 28,000. Though the drives started 28 days ago, vaccinations were not conducted on all the days. At majority of the sites, Covid vaccines are administered four days a week, while in some session sites, located at medical colleges and private medical institutions, the drive is carried seven days a week. This brings down the estimated wastage of doses as well. Secondly, at the onset, the number of session sites was 48, which was increased to 69 by January 25. It went further up to 162 on January 29 and then there was a gradual increase as per requirement of the districts. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said that being aware of the possible wastage, they wait for ten people to queue up before opening a vial, so that once they are opened, the entire content is used. “This is obviously not possible every time because the turn up is anyway lesser than the target and it will be a bad idea to ask the four remaining persons in the queue to come the next day just to save the doses from being wasted,” he said, adding that once the drives are opened for the general public, the problem will be reduced. Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak also said that they wait for at least 10 persons to queue up before opening a vial. However, although health officials agree that there is a possibility of wastage, there has been no record maintained at the level of session sites to see the exact number of doses wasted till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/low-turnout-leads-to-wastage-of-20k-vax-doses-in-state/articleshow/80901167.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||Mamata will take on BJP like Ma Durga: Abhishek||Kulpi (South 24 Parganas): Trinamool Congress’ no. 2 Abhishek Banerjee pegged his poll narrative on the Ram versus Durga template, describing the poll battle ahead as one between Bengal versus north India. The MP said that party chief Mamata Banerjee would be fighting the battle like Ma Durga did against Mahishasura (BJP outsiders). Later in the afternoon, Abhishek held a roadshow at Sonarpur, riding the “Didir Doot” vehicle in an attempt to checkmate the BJP rath yatra. According to Trinamool, “Didir Doot” is an app that people can use to interact with CM Banerjee via live streaming. The Diamond Harbour MP tried to evoke Bengali sentiments while referring to state BJP president Dilip Ghosh’s controversial comment on Ma Durga at an eastern India conclave of a media house on Friday. “Bhagwan Ram raja the. Maryada purushottam the. Durga pata nahi kahan se le aate hain (Lord Ram was a king. He was the symbol of perfection. Don’t know from where Durga came into the picture),” Ghosh had said. Citing Ghosh’s comment, Abhishek argued that BJP had no respect for women. “How dare Dilip Ghosh say so? You have all heard Mahishasuramardini. There will be replay of it in Bengal. BJP, Congress, CPM, gaddars, ED, CBI are all on one side. Along with them are the prime minister, the Union home minister and a host of cabinet ministers. They have all ganged up against the country’s only woman chief minister, Mamata Banerjee. The firebrand leader is taking on the whole brigade like Ma Durga did in the battle with Mahishasura. You all know what happened in the battle,” the MP said. Like Mamata does in her campaign events, Abhishek made a special appeal to women voters of Bengal. “Ask them (BJP) to chant ‘Jai Siya Ram. They won’t. They will raise ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan. They won’t take the name of Sita because they don’t respect women,” he said. “You are all aware of the rape incidents — Unnao and Hathras — in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh,” Abhishek continued. “These outsiders from north India are desperate to wrest Bengal. Mamata is their sole target because she is the country’s only woman CM. Didn’t you see how they insulted the Bengal CM at the Netaji birth anniversary celebrations?” Addressing an impressive Trinamool gathering at Kulpi in South 24 Parganas, the MP dared BJP to join the competition over development. “They (BJP) are saying the Mamata Banerjee government didn’t do anything for Bengal. Why then did Dilip Ghosh’s family apply for Swasthya Sathi card?” Abhishek, listing the Trinamool govertment’s welfare schemes, said: “The government released money to 90 lakh school students who are yet to take HS examination. Mamata knows these students are not voters. But she is committed to their future-building.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-will-take-on-bjp-like-ma-durga-abhishek/articleshow/80902791.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||Dilip: TMC mixing politics, religion to divide people||Midnapore: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh accused Trinamool Congress of pitting Goddess Durga against Lord Ram in an attempt to divide believers. “They (Trinamool) are trying to drive a wedge between people by mixing politics with religion. Lord Ram was a worshipper of Ma Durga. The don’t know that Lord Ram had invoked Goddess Durga to take on Ravana. Let goddesses Durga and Kali stay in temples. If you want to create a political narrative, fight over political ideologies,” Ghosh said on Saturday on Chandrakona Road, turning the tables on Trinamool. This is the first time religious slogans such ‘Jai Shri Ram’ or Trinamool’s new ‘Jai Siya Ram’ have gained traction in Bengal politics ahead of assembly polls. The state BJP president was addressing a rally as the BJP rath yatra, flagged off by party president J P Nadda in Jhargram, was passing through Midnapore. Ghosh slammed the Trinamool government, holding it responsible for Bengal’s downslide. “People in Jangalmahal do not have access to drinking water. There are hospitals here but no doctors. Here, democracy is at stake. People are witnessing political violence,” he said. Addressing supporters at Bhadutala, the BJP leader cited how the Trinamool government threw a spanner in the welfare measures PM Narendra Modi took for Bengal. “People here are not getting the annual Rs 5 lakh benefit under Ayushman Bharat health scheme. Poor farmers have been denied Rs 6,000 under PM Kisan Samman Nidhi for the last two years. Young people are moving out of the state,” Ghosh said. He added that only a “double engine” government — Modi government at the Centre and a BJP regime in the state — can pull Bengal out of its morass and put it on growth path. PM Narendra Modi is likely to visit Bengal on February 22 for the second time this month. Sources close to the development said Modi might inaugurate the Metro service from Noapara to Dakshineswar if things go according to plan. Bengal BJP leaders indicated that the PM would address a public rally on Dunlop Maidan in Hooghly. The state BJP is also planning a rally on Brigade Parade Grounds in March after the party’s yatras are over. “PM Modi will address the rally to bring an end to the misrule in Bengal,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-tmc-mixing-politics-religion-to-divide-people/articleshow/80902844.cms||Sujoy Khanra
February 14, 2021||Ranchi||Cops paste posters to denounce use of landmines by Reds in Latehar, Chatra||DALTONGANJ: For Left-Wing Extremism-hit districts of Latehar and Chatra, posters pasted on walls by Maoists are common. However, this time, it is the district police who are pasting posters aimed at Maoists to remind them that the use of landmines, which has led to the death of several innocent villagers in the recent times, is an act of cowardice. Latehar SP Prashant Anand said, “Maoists have been warned to abstain from using landmines as they have taken several lives. Poor villagers venture into the jungles to collect dry wood, fruits and leaves, but fall victim to the mines kept as booby traps by extremists to target security forces.” Additional director general of police (operations) Navin Kumar Singh said, “Police personnel are reaching out to the common people to make them aware of the nefarious activities of Maoists who use landmines that kill the poor for no fault of their own.” Singh further said, “This year, so far three people have lost their lives after wrongfully stepping on to mines in the jungles of Chatra and Latehar districts.” According to sources, the mines have not only killed human beings, but also animals, especially elephants in Palamu Tiger Reserve. Around four years ago, an elephant was found in the tiger reserve which had lost a portion of its right forelimb after it had stepped on to a booby trap near Burha Pahar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-paste-posters-to-denounce-use-of-landmines-by-reds-in-latehar-chatra/articleshow/80901304.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 14, 2021||Ranchi||19 Jharkhand doctors died with Covid, none’s kin have got compensation||RANCHI: Nineteen doctors from the state lost their lives after they contracted Covid-19 while treating infected patients, but none of their families have received the Rs 50 lakh-compensation promised by the Centre under a special insurance scheme for the kin of healthcare workers who die in the line of duty during the pandemic. TOI spoke to the family members of a few deceased doctors and found that they were also humiliated by health officials when approached for help. Deeksha Jha, wife of Dr Shekhar Dutt Jha, who succumbed to the virus on August 24, said, “I have completed all the formalities and submitted the documents to the health department, but nothing has moved yet. I have two daughters aged eight and 11 and do not have any kind of support to run the family.” Jha said what affected her more was the treatment meted out to her by senior officials when she had approached them for the compensation. Terming it “embarrassing”, she said, “My husband was deputed at ESI hospital in Dhanbad. Ten days after he died, I was asked to contact Dhanbad civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das for the compensation. I was shocked when he questioned me why it took me 10 days to inform him that my husband had succumbed to the illness.” She added, “When I asked him (Das) why he wasn’t mentioning to the health department that my husband was on Covid duty, he said that was not his job,” said Jha. Das did not respond to TOI’s phone calls and text messages till the time of filing this report. Like Jha, Dr Gautam Pandey died on November 27 after being infected on duty. His brother, Somnath Pandey, said, “I have been running from pillar to post even though I submitted all the documents to the authorities in the first week of January. My sister-in-law and her two kids were totally dependent on him and I do not know what to do.” Dr Lakshmi Kumari from Jugsalai in Jamshedpur said, “My husband was posted at the Dumariya CHC and he died on June 1. However, the authorities said his reports showed he was Covid negative and the compensation cannot be extended to us. We were also told that if any healthcare worker dies even during the transit to the workplace, the family will get all the benefits of the scheme.” Similarly, Usha Prasad, the wife of retired professor of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences late Dr Suresh Prasad said, “My husband got infected while attending to patients and died with the illness. I had requested help from the Indian Medical Association (IMA) for processing the compensation as I cannot go around doing the official work. I have a son in college and there is no one else to support my family.” According to IMA’s, Jharkhand chapter, a total of 19 doctors — seven from Bokaro, five from East Singhbhum, four from Dhanbad, two from Ranchi and one each from Palamu and Dumka — have died of Covid while in the line of duty. “We were promised that the families of doctors who die on duty during the pandemic will be felicitated during Republic Day celebrations, but nothing happened,” said Dr Pradeep Singh of Jharkhand IMA. Dr S N Jha, nodal officer who looks after the insurance scheme at the state NHM, said, “One ambulance driver from Pakur has been provided the compensation and five applications are currently under process and after evaluating them, we will forward them to the insurance company and only then will it they get approved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/19-state-docs-died-with-cov-nones-kin-have-got-compensation/articleshow/80901288.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 14, 2021||Kolkata||BSF seizes B’desh contraceptive vials||Kolkata: Vials of injectable contraceptives are being smuggled across the India-Bangladesh border. The BSF on Friday seized 380 vials of the intravenous contraceptive ‘Swosti’, which were being brought into India. Troops of the 153 Battalion found the vials and 11,500 ‘Sukhi’ tablets close to the border near Khajuri-2 outpost in North 24 Parganas. According to an official, the packet was dumped on the Indian side. Medical practitioners have warned that such injections can be deadly if administered by quacks in rural areas. In Bangladesh, ‘Swosti’ is administered to women under medical guidance. The pills called ‘Sukhi’, that are distributed for free among women in Bangladesh with the help of NGOs and international aid agencies, are also routinely smuggled into Bengal and sold at village shops. There is a demand for these tablets, despite warnings by health experts, owing to lack of proper distribution of free pills by the health department in remote parts of the state. “We have always maintained that women in our villages should not take Sukhi tablets without proper guidance. We are not sure of its efficacy or side-effects. The injections that are supposed to prevent pregnancy for 2-3 months at a time are far deadlier and can cause long-term or even irreversible damage to internal organs if administered without proper checks. The state health department needs to look into the matter,” a doctor at a public health centre in Bongaon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bsf-seizes-bdesh-contraceptive-vials/articleshow/80902912.cms||Jayanta Gupta
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||UP to withdraw 2.5 lakh cases for violation of lockdown||LUCKNOW: Over 2.5 lakh cases lodged against citizens, particularly traders for minor violations of lockdown and Covid protocols, mostly under Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, will be withdrawn by the state government. The announcement on Saturday by chief minister Yogi Adityanath comes days after his government assured traders they would be pardoned for minor violations of pandemic-triggered lockdown, making Uttar Pradesh the first state to take such a step. “Now, lakhs of people booked under Epidemic Diseases Act for violation of Covid norms will no longer have to make the rounds of courts. The government is preparing to take back cases filed for violation of Section 188 of IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant),” said a government spokesperson. The official said, after traders met law minister Brijesh Pathak in January, apprising him of cases lodged against them for minor offences, including keeping establishments open beyond prescribed hours or opening shops for nontrade purposes during lockdown, they were asked to compile a list of such cases. The government, he said, felt common people are suffering unnecessarily due to Covid-related cases slapped against them. “By withdrawing cases of violation of Covid protocols, not only will common people and traders get relief, but the pressure on courts will also lessen. Simultaneously, people will no longer have to unnecessarily run to police stations,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-withdraw-2-5-lakh-cases-for-violation-of-lockdown/articleshow/80903814.cms||Neha Lalchandani
February 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Duplicate entries inflate vaccination target list||BENGALURU: Karnataka’s vaccination target list is riddled with duplicate entries and as a result, officials are unable to determine the exact number of healthcare workers who have registered on the CoWIN portal. The health and family welfare department has been grappling with the problem for more than two weeks. Initially, it had estimated that there could be 6.5 lakh to 7 lakh healthcare workers in the state. The number of registrations currently stands at 8.2 lakh. A potential upside to this situation is that the state’s actual vaccination coverage may be more than 50 per cent, considering that duplicate entries have inflated the list of beneficiaries, an official said. As on February 12, more than 4 lakh beneficiaries had been given their first dose. Senior officials discussed the list issue during a videoconference on February 9. Health mission director Arundhathi Chandrashekar has asked all district health officers to archive the data of beneficiaries who are not eligible or traceable and those whose names are repeating. Dr Rajani BN, state deputy director (immunisation), said that around 10 per cent of the entries were duplicates. “We are in the process of removing them,” she added. Another official said that the target list had all kinds of errors, resembling electoral rolls. The problem is linked to the glitches that CoWIN suffered in the run-up to the vaccination programme, when it took time to update the beneficiary list. Staff at many colleges uploaded the same list multiple times as there was no immediate acknowledgement of data input. “This occurred in medical and nursing colleges and paramedical institutions. Removing duplicate entries is not easy. We have to conduct individual searches using phone numbers. At many places, the phone number of the head of the institution is listed against the names of students,” the official said. At some paramedical and nursing colleges, the list of healthcare workers and students was drawn up using the admission data. “Many students have passed out of college, but their names still appear on the portal. This has caused more confusion. In some other cases, students have not turned up for classes after the pandemic, yet they are listed as beneficiaries. All such entries have resulted in an inflated target list,” an official said. It is not clear if there is a similar issue with the list of frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-duplicate-entries-inflate-vaccination-target-list/articleshow/80903807.cms||Sunitha Rao R
February 14, 2021||India||No single person or institution killed the Badaun girls. I’d say that we all did||Padma, a 16-year-old given to singing, had just embroidered a parrot with a furry beak. Lalli, her poetry-loving 14-year-old cousin, had always wanted to be “something”. Then, on May 27, 2014, their bodies were found hanging from a tree. The chilling image triggered London-based journalist and author Sonia Faleiro to return to her home country to investigate the callously reported and sloppily investigated tragedy that shook Badaun in UP. The result of repeated visits to the village over four years is a potent new book called ‘The Good Girls’. Faleiro tells Sharmila Ganesan Ram how she unwound the tangle of differing eyewitness accounts to tell their storyWhat prompted you to dig deeper into the story of the two girls?Like many people, my first introduction to the case was an image of the hanging girls, which was circulated on Twitter by a reporter. It had been barely two years since the Delhi bus gang rape. I had moved to London by then, but I decided to return to India and visit the village where the girls had lived in order to learn what had happened to them. By learning about them, I hoped to learn why crimes against women continued unabated. Why does the title of the book call it ‘An ordinary killing’?It is a comment on how many people—police, investigators, politicians and even some family and friends viewed the death of the girls. What was the hardest part of your six-year long investigative journey?Reconciling with the fact that no single person, institution or policy was to blame. If you ask me who killed the girls I will say, “We all did.” Did the callous media coverage and police inquiry complicate research for you?It didn’t complicate things, as I rely on my own findings, but it did give me an insight into how even terrible events are treated for the sake of TRPs. For example, one cable news channel decided to reconstruct the events by showing a woman being strangled. Two male actors set upon her, pulling apart her legs. What was your most revelatory insight into the two girls’ stories?The fact that while they had hopes and dreams, same as anyone their age, they knew these dreams would never be realised because they were girls in a village in India. In what ways is Badaun’s Katra Sadatganj, an eyeblink of a village in North India, representative of the country?Katra Sadatganj is experiencing modernisation and experimenting with modern ideas, same as many places in India. But the process is not without its challenges. To name just one example, girls are allowed to use phones, but they can’t own phones, unlike boys. So while girls have access to modern ideas they are expected to abide by the old ways. And this naturally leads to frustration as well as friction. Why does honour continue to prevail over the lives of women in India?There hasn’t been a concerted effort to ensure equal rights for women. Women make up 48% of the population but have not benefited equally from economic growth. Female child mortality, literacy, and employment are still areas of major concern. As long as women are denied access to the same rights as men they will be treated as second class citizens who are forced to accept the narrative thrust upon them by men. One of those ongoing narratives is that women are the repository of the family’s honour. The book also details the effects of patriarchy on men. Why is it important to acknowledge this narrative?It’s important to show that the rules of behaviour we have put in place, ostensibly to protect women from harm, causes irreparable harm to both women and men. Men are forced to police their own sisters, wives, and daughters and this is hardly without repercussions. How does the stronghold of the caste system complicate rape, especially in rural India?Being forced to live in a hierarchy, where some people are naturally considered to be superior to others, will always complicate access to justice because it means that some people will have to work harder to be believed whereas others will get away without punishment. Is economic independence of women the answer to reducing crime?The argument for economic independence isn’t that it will protect women from sexual assault. For that to happen we need to continue to strengthen our laws, train our police force and work on improving our criminal justice system. But economic independence will allow women choices and control over their own life, two things that are denied to many of them. As a writer, were there any parts you struggled with?It was remarkable to be confronted with such a tangle of eyewitness accounts. On the night the children disappeared dozens of people went looking for them, but it originally appeared as though everyone saw and heard something different. One reviewer called The Good Girls a “modern day Rashomon” and I must admit it certainly felt that way to me. How has the book changed you?It was a reminder to persevere. The most important stories take the longest to reveal themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-single-person-or-institution-killed-the-badaun-girls-id-say-that-we-all-did/articleshow/80903840.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh’s only Covid death in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The only death due to the novel coronavirus that took place in the state on Saturday was in Lucknow. At least 16 persons also tested positive for the infection in the city. The figure was the highest in the state and accounted for 17% of the total cases (93). As many as 26 more patients recovered from the disease in the city in the past 24 hours. The case count since the outbreak now stands at 81,668 in the state capital. Of these, 80,094 (98%) have recovered so far, while 1,186 succumbed to the disease. The number of patients with active infection status was 388 as of Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradeshs-only-covid-death-in-lucknow/articleshow/80903841.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||Covid-19: 80 lakh inoculated in India so far||NEW DELHI: India — known as ‘the pharmacy of the world’ — has again emerged as a major supplier of Covid-19 vaccines, even as it itself is running the world’s largest vaccination drive and has inoculated more than 80 lakh people till Saturday. Exports of the Covid-19 vaccine from India stood at around Rs 338 crore till February 8 amid rising demand for both Covishield and Covaxin, while other global vaccine candidates face challenges in terms of high pricing as well as storage related logistic issues. Apart from the vaccine doses gifted by India to friendly countries, exports include commercial shipments. However, this has not impacted India’s own vaccination programme. Till about first week of February, Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII) had shipped 3 crore doses of Covishield. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is also likely to be exported to countries like Brazil and the UAE soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-80-lakh-inoculated-in-india-so-far/articleshow/80903856.cms||Sushmi Dey
February 14, 2021||Mysuru||Excise sub-inspector, three techies die in crash on Hassan national highway||HASSAN: An excise sub-inspector and three IT employees were killed as their car rammed a container truck on NH-75 near Channarayapatna in the early hours of Saturday. The four friends were on their way to attend a marriage in Chikkamagaluru. Such was the impact of the crash that the left side of the car was crushed and flattened into a mass. Chethan, the excise SI, had just finished training and was to join work on Monday in Mysuru. He was at the wheel at the time of the accident. “The youths were travelling to Chikkamagaluru from Bengaluru to attend a friend’s marriage. Around 5.45am, they were on the NH-75 bypass, about 1km from Nuggehalli circle, when Chethan failed to notice a speed barrier and lost control of the car. It rammed into the container vehicle which was moving slowly,” said a police officer. Narrow Channarayapatna bypass sees frequent accidents: LocalsThe other victims are Manjunath, Vikram and Abhishek, all 29 years old. The car belonged to Vikram. Chethan, 28, had completed probationary training at Kalaburagi just three days ago and was joined by the trio, who work in private firms in Bengaluru. “All four were residents of Bengaluru and friends since their college days,” the officer said. Chethan and the frontseat passenger died on the spot while the backseat passengers died on way to hospital, police said. “The container was empty and heading towards Hassan to pick up a consignment. The youths died of severe head and abdomen injuries,” said deputy SP Lakshmegowda. Locals said the bypass was proving to be a hazard to commuters. “NH-75 has four lanes but the bypass of Channarayapatna town is of two lanes which is causing difficulty to drivers as it is narrow. Accidents happen frequently on the bypass road,” said Raghu, a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/excise-sub-inspector-three-techies-die-in-crash-on-hassan-national-highway/articleshow/80903859.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||At Rs 98,000 cr, rail freight revenue surges past last FY levels||NEW DELHI: The cumulative freight revenue of Indian railways has surged past last year’s levels, the railway ministry claimed. It said the latest total freight revenue stands at Rs 98,068 crore compared to Rs 97,342 crore during the corresponding period in 2020-21. The railway ministry had said they expect the freight revenue of the current financial year would be more than that of the 2019-20 despite the Covid impact. It said the freight revenue in February has increased by Rs 206 crore compared to February last year. The ministry said this turnaround has been possible due to a set of new initiatives being taken in improving business development, incentives, speed and customisation. Freight loading figures have been higher since last August compared to the corresponding period of the previous financial year. “This is for the first time post Covid lockdown that freight revenue for the current month has also been showing higher estimates as compared to the last corresponding period,” it said. Higher freight revenue for the month is an important signal of all round economic recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-rs-98000-cr-rail-freight-revenue-surges-past-last-fy-levels/articleshow/80903871.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Covid test not mandatory for availing OPD services||LUCKNOW: After 26 medical facilities were denotified as Covid hospitals by the state government following decline in Covid patients, other patients have gathered courage and started visiting the facilities for medical needs. Except King George’s Medical University, SGPGI, RML Institute of Medical Sciences and Command Base hospital, all other government and private hospitals and clinics are now fully functional for non-Covid patients. But what should you keep in mind before turning up at one? Even though the government has made masks, sanitisers and social distancing the only criteria for patients coming for OPD services, those requiring admission at non-Covid hospitals will be kept in a holding area, tested for Covid-19 and only after receiving a negative report be shifted out to the respective department for treatment. “Twenty-six out of the 30 Covid hospitals were denotified and are now fully operational for non-Covid patients. Covid testing is not mandatory for OPD patients, but masks and sanitisers are a must and social distancing is to be followed,” stated chief medical officer, Lucknow district, Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar. “For indoor patients, a confirmatory Covid test has to be done before admission. This can be done prior to visiting the hospital or at the hospital itself. Only after a negative report will the patient be admitted. If positive for Covid, the patient will be transferred to the Covid centres,” he added. Indian Medical Association’s head of nursing hospital cell Dr Anup Agarwal also said that OPD patients don’t require a test, but strict social Covid-19 norms have to be followed. “It is better that patients visit the OPD services after taking prior appointments so as to avoid crowding,” he added. For example, Era’s Lucknow Medical College (ELMC) which had the highest number of Covid beds reserved when it was one of the Covid hospitals, has still retained its holding area for IPD services. “Before admitting a patient, we will do their Covid testing. Until the result comes, the patient will be kept in the holding area, where a few beds have been singled out for this purpose. Once confirmed as negative, we will shift them to the required department,” said ELMC principal, Dr MMA Faridi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-covid-test-not-mandatory-for-availing-opd-services/articleshow/80903866.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||Budget has taken forward 1991’s liberalisation: FM||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said there was an ideological consistency in BJP’s approach towards Indian economy and business since Jana Sangh days and the Budget has taken forward the opening up process, which started in 1991 resulting in dismantling of the licence quota raj, drawing upon Narendra Modi’s experience as chief minister of Gujarat. “… since Jana Sangh days, BJP has consistently believed in India, respecting Indian entrepreneurial skills, Indian managerial skills, Indian trade skills, Indian business skills and Indian youth. We did not borrow something from somewhere and gave a hybrid (model),” the minister told the Lok Sabha, while responding to the debate on the Budget, while attacking Congress for its economic ideology. She said the principal opposition Congress were socialists at one point in time, also backed communism and created a system of licences and quotas, resulting in crony capitalism, before opening up of the Indian economy in 1991. She said the privatisation plan, which has come under attack from the opposition as “selling the family silver”, requires a wholesome strategy. “…the policy, particularly the disinvestment in the PSE policy, does not allow for any kind of elementary or rudimentary approach to it”. Countering criticism of the government opening up the economy to the private sector, and accusations of favouring certain business houses, Sitharaman argued in favour of domestic businesses, citing BJP’s economic philosophy since the Jan Sangh days. “Our belief in India, our belief in Indian businesses and our belief in Indian economic strength has been consistent from Jana Sangh to BJP to, now, BJP… (it is) also going in a steady line of belief in Indian enterprises, giving them maximum freedom and giving them the respect that they deserve.” She said the Modi government believed in respecting wealth creators, taxpayers and honest citizens, and pointed to PM’s speech. “Unless the wealth-creators give the taxes and generate that kind of a lubrication in the economy, you are not going to have any money to distribute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/budget-has-taken-forward-1991s-liberalisation-fm/articleshow/80903875.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Lucknow||Youth bludgeoned to death in UP's Aashiana, two arrested||LUCKNOW: A youth was bludgeoned to death by a group of locals in Aashiana on Saturday on the suspicion of being a pig thief. The deceased was identified as Monu Rawat (22) of Usri village in Ashiyana. The deceased’s friend Shiva Rawat later told police that he along with Monu and Sonu Rawat had gone to Bijnaur to buy animal feed for their pigs, but returned empty handed as the rates were high. “While returning, we took Aurangabad-Jageer road to reach Aashiana. On the way, Suresh Rawat, his brother Mukesh Rawat and their aide Shani Rawat surrounded us from all sides and attacked us while we were on motorcycle. They said they suspected we were stealing pigs and attacked us with sticks. Taken aback by the sudden attack we fell down. We ran for our life and I and Sonu managed to escape but they caught Monu. From a distance I saw Suresh and his aides brutally beating Monu while he kept pleading and crying for help. They attacked us as they trap pigs roaming in the area,” Shiva said in his complaint. “We rushed home and informed Monu’s family. The residents of Aurangabad Jageer village had rushed Monu to Lokbandhu Hospital. When I reached the hospital, I found Monu lying dead,” he added. ACP, Cantonment, Beenu Singh said accused Suresh and his brother Mukesh have been arrested and investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/youth-bludgeoned-to-death-in-ups-aashiana-two-arrested/articleshow/80903879.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Include all subsects for OBC tag, demand Lingayat seers||BENGALURU: Around 150 seers under the aegis of the National Federation of Veerashaiva-Lingayat Seers at a convention here on Saturday demanded that chief minister BS Yediyurappa recommend all subsects of the Lingayat community to be included in the central Other Backward Class list. This new demand is a counter to the padayatra by the Panchamsali subsect of Lingayats, who form about 80% of the community. Around 500 seers from 1,200 mutts were scheduled to attend the event but finally, only 150 turned up. Panchamsali leader MLA Vijayanand Kashappanavar alleged that the meet was organised by Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra to crush the Panchamsalis’ movement seeking reservation under the 2A category. Panchamsali demand is limited to Karnataka: SeerToday’s meeting is part of the conspiracy. But we’re not deterred. Our fight will continue till we get justice,” he said. However, Mahantlinga Shivacharya Swamiji of Vibhutipura Matha, said issues raised by Panchamsalis are entirely different from the demands of the Virakta matha seers. “The Panchamsali demand is limited to Karnataka and should be decided within the state. Our demand is linked to the central government,” he said. He claimed that seers from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and other states are united. “They’re demanding that all sects should be included in the central Other Backward Class quota,” he added. The seers warned they’d intensify their fight if the demand was not met. Already, 30 sub-sects have been recognised as OBCs by the central government between 1993 and 2010 and the community is seeking inclusion of the remaining 72 subsects, they said. The convention passed a seven-page resolution which was submitted to the CM through B S Paramashivaiah, chairman, Karnataka Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation. The seers wanted the CM to visit the venue and receive the memorandum. He reportedly agreed but allegations against Vijayendra backing the convention forced him to stay away. "The CM could not come as he’s busy with pre-budget meetings. I’ve here on his behalf," said Paramashivaiah. Mines and geology minister Murugesh Nirani, a Panchamsali, said in Delhi there’s nothing wrong in giving 15% reservation in government jobs and education to Panchamsali Lingayats. He said Yediyurappa recently ordered the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission to assess the socio-economic condition of Panchamashalis. "The committee will submit a report and the government take a decision,” Nirani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-include-all-subsects-for-obc-tag-demand-lingayat-seers/articleshow/80903878.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Business||ONGC net drops 67% to Rs 1,378 crore in Q3||NEW DELHI: Flagship explorer ONGC’s December quarter net profit dropped 67% from a year ago to Rs 1,378 crore from Rs 4,222.6 crore a year ago as a sharp decline in domestic gas prices and higher statutory levies offset the benefit of a rebound in prices. Undaunted, the company board on Saturday approved formation of a wholly-owned subsidiary for gas and LNG business, the new growth area in the oil sector as the world goes through an energy transition. The company realised $43.9 per barrel on crude in the quarter under review against $58.24 a barrel in the previous corresponding period, a company statement said. “The company (subsidiary) is being formed with the objective of sourcing, marketing and trading of natural gas, LNG business, hydrogen enriched CNG (HCNG), gas to power business, bioenergy/ bio-gas/ bio methane/ other biofuels business, etc,” the statement said. ONGC said its board has also approved acquisition of 5% in Indian Gas Exchange Ltd (IGX) as strategic investment. “As an important stakeholder in the gas sector, it would be critical for ONGC to participate at the gas exchange for development of the gas sector. ONGC’s interests towards realising maximum value from its gas marketing efforts may be substantiated through this first gas trading platform in the country,” the company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ongc-net-drops-67-to-rs-1378-crore-in-q3/articleshow/80903943.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||Speaker hails MPs as House records 99.5% productivity in first leg||NEW DELHI: After initial few days of frequent adjournments and disruptions, the Lok Sabha concluded the debate on finance bill and the Motion of Thanks to President’s address with record productivity as the first leg of the Budget session concluded on Saturday. The session, which commenced with the address of President Ram Nath Kovind on January 29, concluded with 99.5% overall productivity. “I’m grateful to all MPs and the floor leaders who agreed to run the House smoothly and cooperated due to which the House could complete the business after initial disturbances,” Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla told reporters after Lok Sabha was adjourned. Birla said during the first part of the session, Lok Sabha sat for 49 hours and 17 minutes against the stipulated time of 50 hours. The discussion on the Motion of Thanks on President’s address took place for 16 hours and 39 minutes and 130 members participated in it. Birla said 49 women members participated in the discussion for which he appreciated the enthusiasm and participation of women MPs in House proceedings. “Although 10 hours was allocated for general discussion on Union Budget, the House debated for 14 hours and 40 minutes. As many as 117 members took part in the discussion,” the Speaker said. He said 173 MPs participated in Zero Hour discussions. “The House lost an effective time of 43 minutes due to disruptions,” he added. Responding to questions regarding disruptions in the House, the Lok Sabha Speaker said that the ultimate objective is to strengthen democracy. “So, it is the responsibility of all members to ensure that democratic and ethical standards are maintained in the House and rules are followed scrupulously,” Birla said and added, “Time lost due to disruptions has been compensated by the House sitting beyond scheduled time which could happen with the support of all the parties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/speaker-hails-mps-as-house-records-99-5-productivity-in-first-leg/articleshow/80903952.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Unkept promises haunt Pulwama martyr’s kin||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: Two years after the Pulwama terrorist attack, the family of Ashwini Kumar Kacchhi — one of the 40 CRPF personnel martyred — is left staring at a handful of unkept promises. “The government had promised a lot of things, including Rs 1 crore assistance, installing an idol of the martyr, making a park in his name, a job for a family member and naming a school after him,” Sumanth Kacchhi, Ashwini’s elder brother, told TOI on Saturday as the family counted down to the second anniversary of the terrorist attack. This statue of Pulwama martyr Ashwini Kacchhi was set up by his family in Khudawal village“I will come wrapped in the Tricolour one day,” Ashwini would tell friends and family in Khudawal village, about 50km from Jabalpur city. The 30-year-old was martyred when a suicide bomber rammed a vehicle wired with over 100kg of explosives into a CRPF bus in Pulwama on February14, 2019. Martyr families rue unfulfilled promisesWe got the money, and a bunch of unfilled promises. No job has been given, no school was named after him, and no park was created,” said Sumanth. The village, which counts 40 men in uniform and three martyrs, now has a statue of Ashwini, but it was set up by his family. “We collected some funds on our own and got a statue of the martyr installed in the village park. It cost us around Rs 6.5 lakh. We did it on our own,” Sumanth told TOI. “Now, no one even visits the martyr’s house. After the first few days, there was no appropriate response from the government,” he added. Sadly, other martyr families have similar stories to tell. “Except for financial assistance, not a single promise was fulfilled. We used our own money to build a boundary wall for the park, but the government hasn’t installed the statue till now,” said CRPF martyr Jitendra Singh’s brother Surendra in Bhind. Jitendra and eight others were martyred in a Maoist blast in Chhattisgarh on March 13, 2018. In state capital Bhopal, the family of martyr Harish Chandra Pal is still waiting for promises to be fulfilled. Pal was slain in a Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh’s Dhamtari district on April 5, 2019. It was only after eight months of running from pillar to post that they received cash relief of Rs 1 crore on August 15, 2019, the family members said. “We have made several rounds of offices but to no avail. Officers give some excuse or another. Neither was a job provided, nor anything else,” said Chandra Pal, the martyr’s brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-unkept-promises-haunt-pulwama-martyrs-kin/articleshow/80903966.cms||Siddharth Pandey
February 14, 2021||Bhopal||Premium petrol at never-before Rs 100 in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Premium petrol price crossed the Rs 100 / litre mark in Bhopal on Saturday — the first time ever. With fuel prices on fire, regular petrol sold at Rs 96.37 and diesel at Rs 86.84. Fuel stations in the state capital received a notification on the price hike at 3am on Saturday. Power petrol’s price shot up to Rs 100.04 a litre. It had already crossed the Rs 100 mark in Annuppur district a few days ago. In the last three months , petrol and diesel prices have risen by over Rs 6 per litre. This is going to have cascading effect on everything else. 33% VAT on petrol in MPDue to a hefty tax on petrol and diesel, fuel prices in MP are among the highest in the country. The MP government levies 33% VAT on petrol and 23% on diesel, plus Rs 4.50 cess on petrol and Rs3 cess on diesel. Finance minister Jagdish Devda had recently promised some relief — ‘rahat mil sakti hai’, he had said — but that is yet to come. Some of the older pumps were finding it impossible to handle the three-digit price of premium petrol. Ajay Singh, president of fuel pump owners’ association, said, “Petroleum companies had already updated machines for triple-digit price. There may be few machines that weren’t updated, but they will be, very soon.” Premium petrol makes up only 1% of petrol sale in Bhopal, he said. T||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/premium-petrol-at-never-before-rs-100-in-bhopal/articleshow/80903962.cms||---
February 14, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: No Covid death, for 2nd time in a week; 1829 active cases||BHOPAL: Slowly and steadily, Covid-19 pandemic is being pushed out of the state. There was no death from the virus across MP on Saturday — the second time since February 7. A total of 194 new positive cases were reported in MP on Saturday, taking count of positive cases to 2,57,423. It’s only the third time since March 25, 2020, that there was no Covid death anywhere in the state. It was only on April 2 last year and then on February 7 this year that no deaths were reported in the Covid bulletin. The death count remained at 3,q829. On Saturday, new cases were reported only from 29 of 52 districts in the state.The districts where no new cases were reported on Wednesday include Dhar, Rewa, Hoshangabad, Shivpuri, Morena, Neemuch, Shahdol, Sehore, Raisen, Rajgarh, Khandwa, Anuppur, Shajapur, Seoni, Guna, Bhind, Umaria, Tikamgarh, Mandla, Ashok Nagar, Burhanpur, Niwari and Agar Malwa. Of these 29 districts where new cases were reported, fresh cases were reported in double figures from only 5 districts. Highest numbers of cases were reported from Indore where 55 tested positive, followed by Bhopal where 28 tested positive and Jabalpur with 16 positive cases. On the brighter side, 227 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these recoveries, count of people who have recovered from Covid so far in the state reached 251765. A total of 15671 samples were tested on Saturday, out of these, 194 tested positive, thus a positive rate on Saturday stood at 1.2%. As on February 13, there were 1829 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-no-covid-death-for-2nd-time-in-a-week-1829-active-cases/articleshow/80903985.cms||---
February 14, 2021||India||Faruqui case: Two more walk out of jail||INDORE: After 44 days behind bars, an MBA student of Indore and Mumbaiker Edwin Anthony — co-accused in the Munawar Faruqui case — walked out of Indore central jail on Saturday evening, bewildered by the media attention. They seemed unaware of the controversy that has erupted over their arrest. On being told that it was being covered by international media as well, they were surprised and asked, “What are they writing about?” As with Munawar, their release too was cloaked in suspense as it wasn’t clear if a holiday at the high court registry on Saturday would keep them in prison until Monday. Unlike Munawar, however, they were let out of the main gate. At 7pm, clad in jeans and jackets, they would have passed for just another pair of youngsters out in the evening, but for the jail compound — and the fact that Anthony was barefoot. As soon as they walked out, half a dozen relatives rushed towards them, and the father of one of the accused clapped his son, tears running down his eyes. Anthony and the student seemed taken aback by the media presence. Like Munawar, they reposed trust in the judiciary. “That’s what has helped us,” said Anthony. The duo was granted ad interim bail by Indore bench of high court on Friday. Though the order was uploaded on the HC website, there was apprehension whether their lawyers would be able to get certified copies. The release orders were finally received around 5pm. Jail deputy superintendent LKS Bhadoriya arrived at 6:45 pm and signed the release orders. Now, two co-accused are left in prison — Sadaqat Khan and Nalin Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/faruqui-case-two-more-walk-out-of-jail/articleshow/80904007.cms||Karishma Kotwal
February 14, 2021||Amaravati||AP: YSRC-backed candidates continue winning march||AMARAVATI: YSRC supporters swept the second phase of panchayat polls held in the state on Saturday. While candidates backed by the ruling party annexed about 80 per cent gram panchayats, those supported by TDP and other opposition parties won in the rest of the villages. YSRC supporters bagged about 1,150 sarpanch seats out of the 1,400 villages where counting of votes was completed. TDP won around 200 seats. The counting of votes in the remaining 1,300 villages was in progress till the filing of the report. Out of 539 unanimous sarpanch posts in the second phase, YSRC won around 510. It was a near-clean sweep for the ruling party in Prakasam and Anantapur districts. TDP-backed candidates won in some villages in Guntur district. Polling for the second phase was mostly peaceful, barring minor skirmishes, with high turnouts reported in almost all the districts. Prakasam topped with 86 per cent polling, followed by Guntur (85%). Krishna, which saw the highest polling percentage in first phase, saw 84 per cent polling. The state average stood at 81.61 per cent, almost similar to what was witnessed in the first phase. Also, in a first for the state, Prakasam police pressed drone cameras for surveillance in 14 mandals of the district. The situation at polling centres was monitored through specially set-up TV screens. District SP Siddharth Kaushal they decided to take the tech route to prevent violence. “Drone cameras yielded wonderful results as not a single incident of violence was reported during the second phase of polling,” said Kaushal. The decision to use drone cameras was made as over 65 per cent of polling stations in the second phase were categorised as hypersensitive or sensitive. Out of 467 polling stations across 213 panchayats, as many as 126 stations were identified as hypersensitive and 179 as sensitive. High turnout was witnessed in almost all the villages that went to polls. While 539 villages elected their sarpanches unanimously, polling was held in the remaining 2,738 villages in 13 districts. People lined up at the polling stations from 6.30 am. The turnout was 10 per cent in the first two hours and touched 40 per cent by 10.30 am. The next two hours added nearly 25 per cent to the turnout, taking the polling percentage to 65 per cent by 12.30 pm. Interestingly, Vizianagaram and Anantapur districts reported over 70 per cent polling by 12.30 itself. While Anantapur, one of the sensitive districts in the state, witnessed 72 per cent polling, Vizianagaram reported 71 per cent by afternoon. The trend continue till the completion of polling as Anantapur reported 81 per cent polling by 2.30 pm while all other districts reported over 70 per cent. Visakhapatnam district also witnessed high turnout in the last two hours. Veteran Tollywood comedian Ramaprabha exercised her franchise at Ramacharla village of Madanapalle division in Chittoor district. Locals jostled to speak with the veteran actor. Minor clashes were reported in Krishna, Guntur and Srikakulam districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-ysrc-backed-candidates-continue-winning-march/articleshow/80904019.cms||Samdani MN
February 14, 2021||India||No threat from new lake: Geologists||DEHRADUN: Two days after it was reported that a 350-metre-long lake had formed near Rishiganga, where flash floods had occurred last Sunday, a two-member team of geologists from the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University that trekked to the lake’s site said the lake has gradually started draining. Naresh Rana, one of the geologists who had made a video pointing out the formation of the new lake, told TOI, “The good part is that with the lake gradually draining out, the chances of another flash flood are getting reduced.” A 17-member team comprising personnel of the disaster response force also set up camp at the site of the lake formation on Saturday. Speaking to TOI on the issue, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who received a briefing regarding the matter from state disaster response officials, said, “Initially, we had thought of finding a way to discharge the water of the lake, but now it is flowing out naturally. The lake now has a 25-metre wide opening and the water is coming out. It may take some time for the lake to clear as it also depends on weather conditions. We are alert on the issue and as of now, there is no need to panic.” A team of scientists from DRDO and Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology will be submitting their preliminary report regarding their findings on the lake. On being asked about the threat from the lake, WIHG director Kalachand Sain said there was none at the moment but its monitoring should be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-threat-from-new-lake-geologists/articleshow/80904024.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 14, 2021||India||Slice of heritage gets electric push: Victoria 2.0 to return soon||MUMBAI: You will soon be able to ride on those quaint Victoria tongas, minus the clip-clop sound of horses’ hooves. The battery-operated carriages are set to roll out in parts of south Mumbai from next month. The state transport department has cleared a proposal to allow the electric carriages around Gateway of India where the traditional horsedrawn carriages careened for close to a century. Initially, 10 carriages, each of which can carry six persons, will run on routes near Gateway of India, Marine Drive and Nariman Point, said officials. The fare for a ride is still to be fixed. Licences to ride the e-carriages will be issued to those who had lost their livelihood after Bombay HC banned horsedriven Victorias in June 2015. The carriages were a familiar sight on the streets of south Mumbai since colonial times. Transport minister Anil Parab told TOI, “We’ve given an inprinciple approval to the electric Victoria plan. It will be rolled out soon.” “Victorias were a part of the city’s heritage... It will be great to have them back. By giving licences to the old riders, we will also be able to rehabilitate them.” A spokesperson from Ubo Ridez, the firm that manufactures the e-carriages, said the battery-operated carriages have a maximum speed of 20 km per hour. The carriages will be GPS-enabled and fitted with speakers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/slice-of-heritage-gets-electric-push-victoria-2-0-to-return-soon/articleshow/80904045.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 14, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad jeweller robbed of Rs 5 lakh at gunpoint||GHAZIABAD: Three masked men robbed a jeweller of valuables and cash in Ghukna area on Friday. The incident took place around 9pm when Rajeev Sisodia, a resident of Ghukna, was returning home with his brother after closing his shop in Tyagi market. Krishna Gopal Sharma, SHOSihani Gate police station, said Sisodia’s shop is just 200m away from his house. “Sisodia and his brother, Amit, were returning in a scooty. Sisodia was riding pillion holding a bag, which had jewellery and Rs 5 lakh. When they reached outside their house, they were stopped by three masked men on a motorcycle. They were asked to give the bag at gunpoint. When they opposed, the accused fired in the air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-jeweller-robbed-of-rs-5-lakh-at-gunpoint/articleshow/80902998.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
February 14, 2021||Ghaziabad||Kisan Morcha in unity show at UP Gate||GHAZIABAD: For the first time since the farmers’ agitation began in the last week of November, four Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders turned up together on Saturday at UP Gate and shared the dais with Rakesh Tikait. The timing of the visit, not to mention its optics, was significant because it happened within a day of Tikait upholding the primacy of the SKM at a mahapanchayat in Haryana’s Bahadurgarh. Tikait’s influence and stature in the farm agitation have grown considerably after he lifted the protest from the Republic Day tractor parade debacle. But his October 2 deadline to the Centre to repeal the three new farming laws also raised eyebrows in SKM, which had distanced itself from any such deadline. At Bahadurgarh, Tikait clarified there was no deadline and the agitation would continue indefinitely till the laws are repealed. He also said the Singhu border, where the SKM has its base, will continue to be the main office of the farmer unions. Among the SKM leaders who spoke to protesters at UP Gate was Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who had earlier this week snubbed Tikait on the October 2 deadline. The others were Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal and Kavitha Kuruganti. Chaduni, leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni), sought a high-level inquiry into the death of Navreet Singh during the January 26 tractor rally fiasco in Delhi. “The protest will go on indefinitely and it will intensify in the coming days,” said Pal, who heads Krantikari Kisan Union. “The way things are going, we will soon make toll plazas ‘free’ in Uttar Pradesh, like Rajasthan. Panchayats will play a key role in the coming days. We have been holding mahapanchayats to prepare them to join the protest on the call of the Morcha. They should keep their tractor trolleys ready,” added Pal. Rajewal, president of BKU (Rajewal), urged farmers to give a “befitting reply” to BJP in elections for the Prime Minister’s ‘andolanjeevi’ remark in Parliament. “By calling us ‘andalonjeevi’, he has insulted the whole community and I want to know whether this is the PM’s personal opinion or his party’s stand,” said Rajewal. “I urge farmers to reply to this diplomatic ‘gaali (abuse)’. Farmers should keep this insult deep inside their hearts when BJP leaders come asking for votes next time,” added Rajewal. Bhattacharya later said she supports peaceful protest. “Even at this old age, I have come to the protest site to pray for them and extend my support to their agitation. Farmers’ sacrifices are not hidden from anyone and their interest is the nation’s interest. The government should find a solution to this,” she said. Tikait said with summer approaching, farmers will bring gensets to the protest site. “Like water from different rivers have been brought by farmers, they will also bring fuel for generators. The protest will go on at any cost,” he said. Residents of nearby areas, meanwhile, sat on a protest near the agitation site under the banner of ‘Ghaziabad Utthan Samiti’ citing inconvenience locals are facing due the blockade of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway. “We are not against farmers but against so-called farmer leaders who have held the nearby areas hostage by blocking the DME, as a result of which we are facing a lot of inconvenience in commuting. Through this protest, we want to voice that,” said Ashutosh Gupta of the Samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/kisan-morcha-in-unity-show-at-up-gate/articleshow/80903010.cms||Abhijay Jha
February 14, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Man calls up friend on Facebook, hangs himself||GURUGRAM: A 24-year-old man, who was jobless and had been living separately from his wife, allegedly hanged himself from the ceiling fan of his room after calling up his friend on Facebook messenger and telling him he was going to end his life over “personal issues”. Police said Praveen Kumar’s parents were asleep in their room when he allegedly died by suicide on the first floor. Manish, his friend in Mahendragarh whom he had called moments earlier, said he repeatedly tried to contact Praveen’s parents but they would not take the call as they were asleep. So, Manish called up another friend in the city who was nearer and asked him to reach Praveen’s house in Madanpuri. But by the time he had reached, Praveen had already taken the extreme step. According to Manish, Praveen had made a video call to him around 1.30am on Sunday and started lamenting about his personal life. “He was heartbroken, but I tried to console him. He started crying and said he wants to die. I had been persuading him when he hung up saying he was going to kill himself,” said Manish. Manish made frantic calls to Praveen’s parents, but they wouldn’t pick up the phone as they were sleeping. As he was more than 100km away, he called Suraj, a common friend, and asked him to rush to Praveen’s house. “When I reached, I found him hanging from the ceiling. He was upset with his personal life,” Suraj said. Praveen had a love marriage one and a half years ago, but the couple started having differences soon after. They had been living separately and Praveen wanted his wife to return home, his friends said. Praveen, whose father runs a grocery shop, was unemployed. Vedpal, the station house officer of New Colony police station, said, “An autopsy was conducted and the body was handed over to the family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/man-calls-up-friend-on-fb-hangs-himself/articleshow/80902581.cms||Bagish Jha
February 14, 2021||Dehradun||Rescuers try to drill into tunnel to save trapped 34||On the seventh day of the rescue operation at the NTPC tunnel in Tapovan on Saturday, rescue personnel continued with the strategy of trying to access 34 persons by drilling their way to an underground silt flushing tunnel that runs parallel to the main one and is believed to be the passage that could lead to the men, report Gaurav Talwar & Abhijeet Singh After getting success in drilling a 75mm diameter hole on Friday, drilling of a 300 mm bore hole was continuing, as per rescue officials. Rescue teams led by NDRF and SDRF also continued removing the slush from the tunnel and till the time of filing of this report had managed to clear the way up to 136 mtr inside the main head race tunnel and were aiming to reach the 180 mtr point — where the stranded persons are suspected to be — in the next 10-12 hours. “A special operation was carried out to divert water and slush flow from left bank to right bank of Dhauliganga on Saturday,” said Vivek Pandey, spokesperson, ITBP. On Saturday, no bodies were recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rescuers-try-to-drill-into-tunnel-to-save-trapped-34/articleshow/80904051.cms||---
