February 15, 2021||Goa||ISL: Mumbai City FC wary of Bengaluru FC threat||Mumbai City FC are second in the standings with four games left in the league stages of the Indian Super League. Despite losing the top spot to ATK Mohun Bagan, coach Sergio Lobera believes they are in a very good position to seal the AFC Champions League spot next season. Lobera is not concerned about what challengers ATK Mohun Bagan do and instead wants his side to continue the good work against Bengaluru FC at the GMC Athletic Stadium, Bambolim, on Monday. “Honestly, the situation depends on us and our focus is not on other games. Obviously, the result is possible to affect us, but we don’t need to waste time on things that don’t depend on us. We need to improve ourselves and need to put focus on the game,” Lobera told TOI in an online interaction on Sunday. Mumbai come into the fixture after an exciting but painful 3-3 draw against FC Goa where they conceded late in added time. However, a week’s break would have done them plenty of good. On the other hand, former champions Bengaluru have hit a rough patch and are now almost out of contention for a playoff spot. They are seventh in the standings with 19 points after 17 matches. But the Sunil Chhetri captained side still have plenty to prove. “Always every game is difficult. Always playing Bengaluru is difficult because they are a very good team and have very good players. I think they have a new motivation now after they announced a new coach. Every game it is possible to win for every team. I think you need to be careful all the time because it is possible to change the result, three points,” said Lobera. Mumbai’s star attacker Hugo Boumous is suspended for the next two games with cards accumulation but with enough depth, Lobera is not too worried. They have to keep their cool, particularly midfielder Ahmed Jahouh, who was red carded in the first leg which Mumbai won comfortably 3-1. “Most important thing for me is a collective job. Team is not about individuals. Obviously for me, if I have the full squad, I have more options to do something different if necessary, especially when playing a lot of games in a short time but there are no excuses,” said Lobera. Bengaluru’s interim coach Naushad Moosa has tried to keep the side motivated. They have already missed centre-back Juanan for three games and their defence will be further weakened with the unavailability of Rahul Bheke and Pratik Chaudhari due to suspension. “The way the other teams are performing, we have to stay positive, play good football and try to get those points,” said Moosa. Bengaluru will try to avoid the mistakes they made when they faced Mumbai and remain more compact against a side that moves the ball freely. They will have to keep a check on their forwards Adam Le Fondre and Bartholomew Ogbeche. “We are expecting they will come all out as there is a championship spot (to fight for). They are the top team, nothing much to lose. They have already qualified for the semi-finals, but as I said, they will be looking for the Champions League spot, so we are ready,” said Moosa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-mumbai-city-fc-wary-of-bengaluru-fc-threat/articleshow/80914178.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
February 15, 2021||India||Omar cries detention of Abdullah clan on Pulwama attack anniversary||SRINAGAR: National Conference vice-president and former J&K CM Omar Abdullah flew into a Twitter rage on Sunday over he and his family, including Srinagar MP Farooq Abdullah, being "locked up in our homes with no explanation" on the second anniversary of the Pulwama terror attack. Srinagar police tweeted in response that "all concerned were informed in advance not to plan a tour" during the day "due to adverse (intelligence) inputs", but Omar was in no mood to relent. In a series of tweets from his official handle, including pictures of police vehicles parked outside his gate, Omar doubted if the police clarification was from an authentic account before demanding to know "under which law you have detained me in my home today". "You can advise me not to leave my house but you can’t force me to stay in using security as an excuse," he said. Omar claimed that besides him and his father, the police had forcibly confined his sister and her children to their home. He termed this the norm in "naya/new J&K" since August 2019, when the Centre moved to nullify Article 370 and revoke the erstwhile state's special status. "Chalo, your new model of democracy means that we are kept in our homes...and then you are surprised that I’m still angry & bitter," he railed. Omar’s cousin Muzaffar Shah, who is the president of Awami National Conference, tweeted that he and his mother Khalida had been put under house arrest without being informed why. PDP president and former CM Mehbooba Mufti had claimed on Saturday that the police had prevented her from stepping out to visit the family of Athar Mushtaq, one of the three alleged terrorists killed in an encounter at Srinagar's Parimpora locality last December. "Placed under house arrest as usual for trying to visit the family of Athar Mushtaq, killed allegedly in a fake encounter. His father was booked under UAPA for demanding his dead body. This is the normalcy GOI wants to showcase to the EU delegation visiting Kashmir," Mehbooba said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/omar-cries-detention-of-abdullah-clan-on-pulwama-attack-anniversary/articleshow/80915204.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 15, 2021||Srinagar||Omar cries detention of Abdullah clan on Pulwama attack anniversary||SRINAGAR: National Conference vice-president and former J&K CM Omar Abdullah flew into a Twitter rage on Sunday over he and his family, including Srinagar MP Farooq Abdullah, being "locked up in our homes with no explanation" on the second anniversary of the Pulwama terror attack. Srinagar police tweeted in response that "all concerned were informed in advance not to plan a tour" during the day "due to adverse (intelligence) inputs", but Omar was in no mood to relent. In a series of tweets from his official handle, including pictures of police vehicles parked outside his gate, Omar doubted if the police clarification was from an authentic account before demanding to know "under which law you have detained me in my home today". "You can advise me not to leave my house but you can’t force me to stay in using security as an excuse," he said. Omar claimed that besides him and his father, the police had forcibly confined his sister and her children to their home. He termed this the norm in "naya/new J&K" since August 2019, when the Centre moved to nullify Article 370 and revoke the erstwhile state's special status. "Chalo, your new model of democracy means that we are kept in our homes...and then you are surprised that I’m still angry & bitter," he railed. Omar’s cousin Muzaffar Shah, who is the president of Awami National Conference, tweeted that he and his mother Khalida had been put under house arrest without being informed why. PDP president and former CM Mehbooba Mufti had claimed on Saturday that the police had prevented her from stepping out to visit the family of Athar Mushtaq, one of the three alleged terrorists killed in an encounter at Srinagar's Parimpora locality last December. "Placed under house arrest as usual for trying to visit the family of Athar Mushtaq, killed allegedly in a fake encounter. His father was booked under UAPA for demanding his dead body. This is the normalcy GOI wants to showcase to the EU delegation visiting Kashmir," Mehbooba said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/omar-cries-detention-of-abdullah-clan-on-pulwama-attack-anniversary/articleshow/80917613.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 15, 2021||India||J&K scraps 15 NOCs to promote industry||JAMMU: To revive the business sector and boost investor confidence with a business-friendly environment, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has approved elimination of at least 15 no-objection certificates (NOC) as a prerequisite for setting up an industry in the Union Territory. As per the decision taken by the Administrative Council (AC), which met under the chairmanship of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday, the NOCs or approvals have been relaxed for setting up of a business unit in J&K, a spokesperson said. He said the Udyog Aadhaar memorandum as per the condition of the government of India would be the only requirement for setting up a business unit now. Earlier, as many as 15 NOCs or clearances were required for a business unit to be established, which have now been reduced to a bare minimum. The official said, “These bare minimum NOCs/approvals shall be required subsequently, for which two sets of single-window committees have been established — one for business units coming up within industrial estates and another committee for units outside the industrial estates.” He said these committees would ensure time-bound issuance of the NOCs or approvals pertaining to power connection, water connection and building plan as per specified timelines on a case-to-case basis. Further, the spokesperson said a divisional-level committee has been approved, which would periodically monitor the working of the committees and address issues, if any, related to issuance of NOCs or approvals. “No pre-requisite approvals shall be required as a general rule except for NOCs/ approvals from departments like pollution control board (CTE/CTO), NOC from fire and emergency department, change of land use from revenue department, etc, wherever applicable,” the spokesperson said. During the meeting the LG remarked that consistent policy actions were being taken to encourage large-scale investment, innovation, restoring J&K’s advantage in resources and skilled workforce to create a business-friendly environment and drive economic growth in J&K.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-scraps-15-nocs-to-promote-industry/articleshow/80915260.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 15, 2021||India||On Pulwama 2nd anniversary, J&K police nabs man with 6.5kg IED||JAMMU/NEW DELHI: Jammu and Kashmir Police on Sunday foiled what could probably have caused a repeat of the 2019 Pulwama terror attack by nabbing a man, operating on the instructions of Pakistan’s Al-Badr-Tanzeem terror outfit, from a bus station with an improvised explosive device (IED) weighing about 6.5 kilograms. The Al-Badr operative Sohail Bashir Shah, 21, a resident of Newa in Pulwama and a former nursing student at a college in Chandigarh, was arrested on the intervening night of February 13 and 14. Jammu zone IGP Mukesh Singh in a press briefing on Sunday informed that Sohail was arrested after police received specific inputs that terror groups were planning an attack on the anniversary of the 2019 Pulwama attack. “Last night we arrested a person named Sohail and recovered around 6-6.5 kgs of IED from his possession. During interrogation the accused disclosed that he received orders from Pakistan’s Al-Badr-Tanzeem to plant an IED in Jammu,” he said. The IGP added, “The arrested person revealed that he was given 3-4 targets to place the IED, including the Raghunath temple, bus stand, railway station and the jewellers’ market in Jammu. After placing the IED, he was supposed to fly to Srinagar, where he was to be received by a person named Athar Shakeel Khan, who is a high-ranking overground worker (OGW) of Al-Badr-Tanzeem.” The IGP added that a person named Qazi Waseem was also lifted from Chandigarh as he was aware of the matter while a person named Abid Nabi was detained for questioning. Police also recovered 15 small IEDs and six pistols along with ammunition from Samba on Saturday night. Singh said, “During routine patrolling, a team found some suspicious material in the form of two packets hidden in bushes near Rakh Jhang nallah. Six pistols, 12 pistol magazines, 179 live pistol rounds and 15 white bottles containing IED-making material were recovered from the spot.” The IED recovery was made after the arrest of two top terrorists from Kunjwani in Jammu and Bari Brahmana area of Samba district in Jammu region in the last one week. Al-Badr-Tanzeem, which once started as a terror outfit with US forces in Afghanistan as its adversary, has been one of the 40 listed terror organisations banned by the US since 2005 and by India under the Unlawful activities (prevention), Act, 2004. Pulwana anniv The remembrance for the ghastly Pulwama terror attack was a short solemn affair this year due to the Covid outbreak, said CRPF IG (Kashmir), Deepak Rattan. “The event was held by connecting all our battalions of Kashmir via video-conferencing and CRPF DG. We have made a museum here. The anniversary would always be close to our hearts as the martyrdom of 40 jawans remains etched in our memories forever,” he said. He also said that a lot of changes have been made in the CRPF including in its SOPs, equipment and training over the past two years after Lethpora attack. The movement of jawans now is largely being done by air and stores are ferried by road, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-pulwama-2nd-anniversary-jk-police-nabs-man-with-6-5kg-ied/articleshow/80915509.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 15, 2021||India||Terrorists roping in students from Kashmir studying in Punjab to smuggle weapons: DGP||JAMMU: Terrorist outfits active in J&K have resorted to using students from Kashmir based in Punjab to smuggle weapons into the Valley, DGP Dilbag Singh said on Sunday after a nursing student who had arrived in Jammu from Chandigarh was caught carrying a 7kg improvised explosive device. The police chief said at a presser here that a clutch of outfits had been procuring weapons from Bihar and picking students from the Valley pursuing various courses in Punjab to carry these to the Valley. Singh lauded the police for not only staying ahead of the terrorists' modus operandi but also carrying out a succession of successful operations against them, including the recent arrest of two self-styled commanders of different outfits. "To give a local name to a terror outfit, Lashkar-e-Taiba created an offshoot — The Resistance Front (TRF). Similarly, Jaish-e-Mohammad created Lashkar-e-Mustafa (LeM) to carry out terror activities in J&K," the DGP said. "The commander of Lashkar-e-Mustafa, Hidayatullah Malik, was an overground worker (OGW) for a long time before he plunged into terror activities backed by the Jaish-e-Mohammad. Malik was planning to set up a base in Jammu to carry out terror activities in the region, besides receiving arms and ammunition smuggled from Pakistan through underground tunnels or dropped by drones." Singh said Malik’s interrogation revealed that he was a close associate of JeM commander Ashiq Nengroo, who used to receive arms consignments from Pakistan in Jammu before escaping across the border along with his family through an underground tunnel. "Since going to Pakistan, Nengroo, alias Doctor, has been directing terror activities in Kashmir at the behest of Pakistani agencies," said the DGP, adding that Malik had visited Delhi on Nengroo’s orders. "That means JeM is planning attacks on targets in Delhi as well." The DGP termed Malik’s arrest a big breakthrough for the police as it exposed the terrorist outfit's plan. "LeM chief Malik had also set up a network to get weapons from Bihar. He has sourced seven pistols from there till now and distributed these among his cadres."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/terrorists-roping-in-students-from-kashmir-studying-in-punjab-to-smuggle-weapons-dgp/articleshow/80915525.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 15, 2021||India||Ladakh standoff: ‘Disengagement slightly ahead of schedule on some LAC positions’||NEW DELHI: India is keeping an eagle-eye on the mutual disengagement underway between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Pangong Tso area of eastern Ladakh, tallying it with the phased pullback specified in the written agreement inked between the two countries last week. “The disengagement on both sides of Pangong Tso is progressing well so far… it is slightly ahead of schedule in some positions. The effort is to complete this Phase-I of disengagement by February 20,” a senior official said on Sunday. India insisted on a written pact for the Pangong Tso disengagement, which was approved by the country’s highpowered China Study Group just before the actual pullback kicked off on February 10, due to the continuing trust deficit with China. “The formal agreement details the exact steps each side will take for complete Phase-I disengagement. Each step is being verified both physically on the ground as well as through electronic surveillance through drones, including quadcopters, and satellites,” the official said. Within 48 hours of complet ing the Pangong Tso disengagement, India and China will hold the tenth round of corps commander-level talks to focus on the strategically-located Depsang Plains as well as the continuing ‘friction points’ like Gogra and Hot Springs. “Patrolling Points 15 and 17 at Hot Springs and Gogra are unlikely to pose a major problem. They are relatively less soldiers in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation there. But Depsang, where the two sides have amassed infantry brigades and tank regiments, will be quite tricky,” another officer said. TOI had last week reported that some in the defence establishment feel India should have used the bargaining leverage provided by occupation of the Kailash range heights for negotiations on the Depsang imbroglio, instead of squandering it just for the Pangong disengagement pact. But the government says Depsang is an old, lingering problem that has to be tackled separately. Under the current disengagement pact, both armies have already withdrawn their tanks, howitzers and other heavy weapons from the south bank of Pangong Tso-Kailash range in the Chushul sector. Now, a thinning of the rival troops is taking place in different stages. Indian troops had proactively taken six to seven tactical heights on the ridge line there, stretching from Thakung to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La (Rechin mountain pass), in end-August. In the scramble for the heights along the Line of Actual Control, which also saw at least four incidents of warning shots being exchanged, Chinese troops had also taken a couple of features like Helmet Top and Yellow Bump. These heights on the LAC had been left unoccupied since the 1962 war due to a mutual understanding, as was earlier reported by TOI. On the north bank of the Pangong lake, which is frozen now, Indian soldiers are now pulling back westwards in phases to their Dhan Singh Thapa post between Finger 2 and Finger 3 (mountainous spurs). PLA troops, in turn, are withdrawing to their old positions east of Finger 8 at Sirijap. The 10-km stretch in between Finger 3 and Finger 8 will be designated a temporary ‘nopatrol area’ till both sides reach an agreement in the diplomatic and military talks to be held subsequently. “As per the pact, the PLA also has to demolish the multiple fortifications, bunkers and pill-boxes it built after occupying the 8-km stretch between Finger 4 and Finger 8 in early-May. This will take a little time,” said an officer. Watch Ladakh standoff: ‘Disengagement at LAC slightly ahead of schedule on some positions’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ladakh-standoff-disengagement-slightly-ahead-of-schedule-on-some-lac-positions/articleshow/80915612.cms||Rajat Pandit
February 15, 2021||Bengaluru||31 test positive in Bengaluru apartment||BENGALURU: Thirty-one residents of an apartment in Bommana- halli zone in Bengaluru tested positive for Covid on Sunday and are in home isolation, sources said. BBMP disinfect- ed the complex, which has 475 flats and 2,500 residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/31-test-positive-in-bluru-apartment/articleshow/80915786.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||BCCL notice to BARC: Times Now TRP was reduced for new channel||MUMBAI: Media house Bennett Coleman & Company Ltd (BCCL) has sent a legal notice to the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) alleging “shocking illegal and fraudulent viewership manipulation and tampering of Television Audience Measurement and Television Rating Points (TRP)”, particularly of its channel Times Now, to seek over Rs 430 crore as compensation. The notice cited forensic reports of July 24, 2020 and December 1, 2020 and a press conference held by Mumbai Police on December 25 last year in relation to the investigation conducted into activities of BARC to say that “Times Now’s viewership numbers/TRP were clearly fudged and manipulated by BARC from 2017 onwards’’. BARC is an industry body founded by stakeholders who represent broadcasters, advertisers and advertising and media agencies. The notice alleges that Times Now’s viewership numbers were “deliberately and in a concerted manner, reduced for giving benefit” to “another newly launched English news channel” and that this has “considerably and adversely impacted the revenue, growth, reputation, goodwill and image of Times Now channel and the Times Group at the national and international level.’’ The notice has relied on the chargesheet filed by Mumbai police in the TRP manipulation case as well as a forensic report, which cites internal mails between various officials of BARC. Former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta has been in custody since his arrest on December 24, 2020. The notice said a press conference by joint police commissioner of Mumbai Police (crime) and a forensic report revealed that BARC had conducted a forensic audit in July 2020 “which revealed that the TRPs of various channels were manipulated, rigged, tampered and at times pre-decided by the erstwhile upper echelon of BARC’’ and the TRPs of Times Now, which was leading in the number one position till May 2017, was allegedly “suspiciously reduced’’ to the second position. It alleged that “this gross misreporting of an entire Genre for a protracted period” caused “significant financial loss” to Times Now. Despite the findings of the audit, BARC chose to suppress the matter and not report it to the authorities, it added. The BCCL notice said the alleged tampered data from BARC “constitutes moral turpitude and criminal breach of trust, cheating and fabrication and manipulation of records…gross abuse of its position being the sole rating agency in the country…” The BCCL notice dated February 11, has asked BARC to “release a Press Statement’’ on its website to clarify that Times Now was the number one channel as per its own data and the “undis puted leader in English News Genre from 2017-2019.” It also asked BARC to publicize and publish, at its own cost, the press statement in top publications across the country. The media house has further sought that BARC should publish the “Acquisory Risk Consulting’s forensic audit report” on its website in compliance with applicable codes and guidelines. The notice added, “Basis the forensic audit report dated 24.07.2020 and the charge-sheet,” BARC must “initiate Disciplinary Action against the errant broadcasters” and its officials who are/were allegedly involved in the fraudulent activities and “impose appropriate penalties including cancellation of the EULA of the errant subscribers.” The notice called for compliance within seven days from the date of its receipt failing which, BCCL said, it would be constrained to adopt appropriate criminal as well as civil action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bccl-notice-to-barc-times-now-trp-was-reduced-for-new-channel/articleshow/80915870.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||Uttarakhand: ‘Last hope lost,’ say families waiting at mouth of tunnel||TAPOVAN: For family members waiting outside the Tapovan tunnel on Sunday, their worst fears came true when the rescue teams — after an excruciating and long-winded operation lasting over a week — were finally able to enter 125m inside the 1.6-km long tunnel where they found the first few bodies under the debris. As they moved out with the bodies on Sunday around 5am, the mood was sombre and heart-rending as family members anxiously scanned the tunnel’s entrance with sinking hearts to see if the next body coming out of the tunnel was that of their loved one. “I don’t know what to say. We lost our last hope when officials called us to identify what turned out to be my brother’s body. My brother has five daughters, the youngest one is just eight months old. What do I tell them?” said Suraj Pundir whose brother Alam Pundir was an electrician at the project site. Sharafat Ali, father of Sadiq Ali, an engineer hailing from Saharanpur, said that he was “living on hope for the past seven days, but when the bodies started coming out from the tunnel, my legs were trembling at the thought of coming to the mortuary for identification of a body that may be that of my son’s.” A temporary mortuary was created by rescue personnel where the bodies’ identification was being done. A police official on duty at the mortuary said, “We have been seeing the familiar faces of distressed family members since Sunday. They had a hope in their heart that they will reunite with their loved ones. Seeing their hopes getting shattered makes us feel sad as well.” Udhay Bhan, who came from Gorakhpur looking for two members from his family, said. “For the last six days, every time I received a call from the family in Gorakhpur, I would say the teams are trying to rescue everyone. But now, I have nothing to tell them, no hope to give.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-last-hope-lost-say-families-waiting-at-mouth-of-tunnel/articleshow/80915899.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 15, 2021||India||Covid-19: Each vaccine dose given to states costs Rs 447||BENGALURU: The Centre has so far spent Rs 961 crore in providing 2.2 crore doses of the two indigenously-developed Covid vaccines supplied to states and UTs, which puts the cost of each jab at Rs 446.70. In addition, states and UTs have collectively received Rs 123 crore to meet the operational costs of administering the vaccines. Another Rs 357 crore earmarked for the purpose will be disbursed in phases. As per data made public by the Union health ministry, the Centre will, including the operational costs, incur nearly Rs 1,500 crore for vaccinating three crore healthcare and frontline workers, which gives an indication of the magnitude of funds required in the next phase of vaccination that is hoping to cover 27 crore more people across the country. The per dose cost, notably, is not uniform across states. For example, Delhi has received 7.1 lakh doses at a cost of Rs 41.3 crore, but Karnataka’s 17.2 lakh doses cost the Centre only Rs 59.7 crore. The state-wise details of number of vaccine doses supplied and the cost incurred were shared on different dates by the health ministry in Lok Sabha and no explanation was given for the cost difference. Of the 2.1 crore doses of vaccine supplied to states, nearly 1.9 crore are Oxford/ AstraZeneca’s Covishield and the remaining 25.7 lakh doses are Covaxin. UP has received the maximum number of doses. Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, which have a high percentage of India’s healthcare workers, and Rajasthan are among other states to receive large quantities of vaccines. Naturally, these five states are also the ones to have received the highest amount of funds from the Centre to meet their ‘operational costs’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-each-vaccine-dose-given-to-states-costs-rs-447/articleshow/80915904.cms||Chethan Kumar
February 15, 2021||India||Toolkit case: Charges false, it’s a witch-hunt, say Green groups||BENGALURU: Many environmental groups on Sunday condemned Disha Ravi’s arrest by Delhi police, calling the charges “fabricated” and part of a “witch-hunt”. The Coalition for Environmental Justice in India said young environmental activists have become the latest victims of the Centre’s efforts to deligitimise the farmers’ protests. “Delhi Police’s actions are all the more sinister because Disha was taken to Delhi with no disclosure about her whereabouts, not even to her parents, an action that can be termed extrajudicial abduction,” it said. In another statement, 10 environmental groups, which went unnamed, sought Disha’s immediate release. This action against an individual without following due process of law and in clear violation of norms for arrests and detentions laid down by the Supreme Court reflects absolute contempt for constitutional principles,” the Coalition for Environmental Justice in India said. In another statement, 10 youth-based environmental groups that did not want to be named urged the government to treat citizens with respect. “We demand that this young activist be immediately released, her records expunged and she be escorted safely back to her home,” they said, adding that Disha, an avid animal lover, was the sole earning member of her family. The implication that toolkits are conspiracy gizmos used by foreign forces to destabilise India was “stupid”, the groups said. “To imply climate change activists are a danger to the peace and harmony of this country in a political climate that is highly polarised is to play fast and loose with their safety and security, especially when there is absolutely no proof to back this claim. If anything, the recent Uttarakhand disaster makes it clear how important the work groups like ours are doing.” Arguing that terms like “international conspiracy”, “defame the country” and “waging social, cultural and economic war against India” to describe young environmental groups is highly unbecoming of authorities, the statement urged the government to stop viewing everyone who disagrees with its policies as enemies. The government should learn to work with the people who have elected them to office, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/toolkit-case-charges-false-its-a-witch-hunt-say-green-groups/articleshow/80915906.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Varanasi||Experts from Dhaka visit Ramnagarriverport, survey facilities for trade||Varanasi: The plan for trade through waterways with Bangladesh through Prayagraj-Haldia National Waterway-I across the Ganga, Bhagirathi and Hooghly river systems moved another step ahead as a team of experts from Dhaka visited the riverport of Inland Waterways Authority of India at Ramnagar on Sunday to study the feasibility of using waterway for goods transportation. IWAI deputy director (Varanasi) Rakesh Kumar told TOI on Monday, “A seven-member team from Bangladesh came here on Sunday and visited the riverport at Ramnagar to study whether it can be used as ‘port of call’ (an intermediate port where ships customarily stop for supplies, repairs, or trans-shipment of cargo) for shipping purposes by them. They saw all facilities available here and returned.” IWAI officials accorded a warm welcome to the team of officials from shipping and commerce ministries of Bangladesh, engineers of waterways and shipping companies, including Momenul Haq, Solim Hussain, Mohd Rafikul Islam, Rajadur Rehman, Rakibul Alam and Bashir Ahmed. The team will submit a report to their government after which a decision will be taken. The team had earlier visited Sahibganj, which was also included in the project of developing fairway, multi-modal terminal, strengthening of river navigation system, modern River Information System, Digital Global Positioning System, night navigation facilities, modern methods of channel marking and construction of state-of-art navigational lock at Farakka. “So far, ships from Bangladesh come up to Kolkata only. If both governments give consent, this riverport will be opened with all facilities, including customs clearance,” Kumar said. The Varanasi riverport was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 12, 2018. Its foundation was laid in August 2016 with cargo handling facility, berthing space for two vessels, storage area, transit shed, parking areas, and a floating jetty for passenger transportation. Officials said process of purchasing 34 hectare land for second phase of riverport development work, including laying of a railway track up to Jivnathpur, road connectivity to highways, godowns, and open areas is in final phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/experts-from-dhaka-visit-ramnagarriverport-survey-facilities-for-trade/articleshow/80932369.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Varanasi||Admin plans Kabir fest, Ravidas Jayanti to lack grandeur||Varanasi: Plans are afoot for organizing a Kabir festival showcasing the life of Saint Kabir Das, and also invoking other Bhakti cult mystics, including Guru Nanak, Gorakhnath and Rahim Das, who were contemporaries of the saint poet, in Varanasi. However, the Ravidas Jayanti celebrations at his birthplace in Seer Gowardhanpur area here on February 27 will be a bit subdued and will lack the grandeur of past years as the organisers have decided to avoid big gathering in view of Covid-19 protocol. The district administration has forwarded a proposal on holding Kabir Mahotsava between February 23 and 25. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI on Sunday, “On the state government’s directive, we prepared a proposal for holding a three-day Kabir Mahotsava and have forwarded it to the culture department to seek state government’s approval.” As per the plan, the fest will showcase the journey of Kabir’s life from dawn to dusk. With the inauguration of the event, a Yatra will also be flagged off from Varanasi, where the saint was born, and culminate at Magahar village in Sant Kabir Nagar district, where Kabir attained salvation. Many cultural events, exhibition and other activities will also be organised in Kabir Math in Kabir Chaura and Lehartara areas. “It has also been planned to link the fest with Sant Kabir’s contemporary poets and saints, like Guru Nanak, Gorakhnath, Rahim Das, Dadu Dayal, Pipa, Ghasi Das and others, who had connections with UP, by holding separate events on them as a part of this fest. This proposal was sent about a week ago and government’s approval on it is awaited,” Sharma added. Meanwhile, the traditional celebrations at the birthplace of Sant Ravidas in Seer Gowardhanpur area will be toned down this year. The DM said that during a discussion with Guru Ravidas Janmasthan Charitable Trust regarding birth anniversary celebration, the organisers said arrangements will be made for smaller gathering this year. Trustee Kishanlal Saroa said NRIs will not be coming this year and the special trains for bringing thousands of pilgrims from different states, have also not been booked this year due to the pandemic. The event, which has witnessed participation of many big wigs like Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top politicians and celebrities, will be somber this time, he said. The All India Ravidasiya Dharm’s Sant Gyandas Maharaj will reach on February 25 and attend the main function on February 27. Saroa said that tents and other arrangements for food and lodging of pilgrims are being made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/admin-plans-kabir-fest-ravidas-jayanti-to-lack-grandeur/articleshow/80912680.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
February 15, 2021||Vijayawada||Naidu urges SEC to act against ‘poll irregularities’||Vijayawada: Former chief minister and TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu has written to the state election commissioner (SEC) alleging irregularities in the gram panchayat elections. In his letter, Naidu alleged that as many as 33 nominations were rejected in Srikalahasti assembly constituency without any reasons being cited. He further alleged that a section of employees are acting at the behest of Srikalahasti MLA, B Madhusudhan Reddy, and rejecting the nominations of non-YSRC contestants. The letter said nor are officials serving rejection orders for filing an appeal, which is a statutory right of the contestants. Naidu requested the SEC immediately look into the unilateral rejection of nominations in Srikalahasti assembly constituency and demanded that action be taken against erring officials. In another letter to the SEC, Naidu complained against a sub-inspector (SI) rank official Udaya Babu who allegedly took a unilateral decision at the counting centre in favour of YSRC. He said Udaya Babu acted in favour of the ruling party at Kunkalagunta under Nekarikallu mandal in Sattenapalli constituency of Guntur district. Speaking to reporters, Naidu alleged large-scale irregularities took place in declaration of results in the second phase of counting of votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-urges-sec-to-act-against-poll-irregularities/articleshow/80912789.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||Union min ianugurates Mau-Anand Vihar terminus biweekly spl train||Gorakhpur: Union Railway minister Piyush Goyal, on Sunday, inaugurated Mau-Anand Vihar terminus bi-weekly special train through video link on Sunday. The minister said, “The train will depart from Mau in the evening and reach Delni in the morning via Mau, Aurihar, Jaunpur. Passengers of the route will be able to reach Delhi comfortably and also it will help in sending the products of the textile industry of Mau to Metro cities. It will give momentum to economic development as the sari and dress material prepared by weavers of Mau will get a market. The train will become an important link to the development of Purvanchal,” said the minister. “During time of Covid pandemic, Mau junction was dedicated to service and it was the first railway station of the country where a patient was successfully treated at Covid care coach. And during the pandemic, 55 Shramik trains brought migrants back to their home in Mau,” said minister said. GM, NER Vinay Kumar Tripatrhi said that 05139 Mau-Anand Vihar terminus biweekly train will depart at 20.50 on each Tuesday and Friday and reach Anand Vihar Terminus at 11.30 and 05140 Anand Vihar terminus-Mau terminus biweekly train will depart from Anand Vihar on each Wednesday and Saturday at 16.45 and reach Mau at 6.20 on next day. DRM Varanasi, Vijay Kumar Panjiyar gave vote of thanks and CPRO, NER, Pankaj Kumar Singh anchored the program.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/union-min-ianugurates-mau-anand-vihar-terminus-biweekly-spl-train/articleshow/80912665.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Business||‘Sputnik vaccine should get nod by March-April’||Swati.Bharadwaj@timesgroup.com Covid brought not just the usual business disruptions for Dr Reddy’s Laboratories but also cyberhackers knocking on its doors. The pharma giant’s co-chairman & managing director G V Prasad says the Sputnik V vaccine, which it is producing, should get the government’s nod by March-April, as the phase III trial will be completed by Feb-end... How did Covid impact your business? We did not have a business challenge but had operational challenges that we tackled well. Initially, we had a lot of Covid-positive people, but we did a good job of testing daily and isolating people, so operations recovered very fast. We doubled our transport fleet and reduced the number of people on the shop floor by combining some tasks and creating 12-hour shifts. How far has business returned to normal? It’s normal. In the last three quarters, we showed growth over the previous year. However, we still have some problems in one of our sites at Mexico, where attendance is very low. What strategic business realignments did the pandemic necessitate? We had to react to the Covid situation and launched two products here (Favipiravir and Remdesivir). We are still doing some clinical trials and are hoping to get the Sputnik vaccine distributed. Anti-virals were never a part of our portfolio. But as the country needed it, we reacted very fast and got the products into the market in record time. Any update on the Sputnik V rollout? We have a 1,500-patient trial (phase III) going on. We were asked to do 1,600 (phase II/III). The larger trial (in Russia) is ending almost. So, in February-end, we will get the full data package. We will add our data to that and submit it to the government. I think by March-April, we should get approval. What was the impact of the cyberattack? Was it related to the vaccine? Several companies faced cyberattacks. It was more like an inconvenience that needed some effort to remediate. Nothing of a permanent nature. What new opportunities has Covid unlocked? Covid itself is a fleeting opportunity. We don’t consider it as a very strategic opportunity because, sooner or later, it will be contained. But the overall focus on healthcare will improve. The digitisation of healthcare is happening at an unprecedented speed and the ‘Amazonisation’ or ‘Uberisation’ of healthcare will happen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sputnik-vaccine-should-get-nod-by-march-april/articleshow/80910711.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
February 15, 2021||Business||StanChart led-SME platform Solv eyes funds from multilateral instts||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Standard Chartered-backed Solv, a digital commerce platform for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), is looking at the distribution of soft loans from multilateral institutions. The move is part of its offering to take the estimated 65 million local businesses into the big league. The platform — which aims to expand the ecosystem of the MSMEs by widening markets, suppliers, service providers and financiers — has onboarded 22,000 businesses in five months. Solv, which is registered under Standard Chartered Research and Technology India, Bengaluru, is a test for the concept which StanChart plans to take to other markets. Jiten Arora, who is the global head of SME platforms for SC Ventures and venture lead for Solv, told TOI that establishing the concept in India was critical for StanChart as it provides the largest depth and breadth of MSMEs among all the countries that it is present in. At the same time, many emerging markets face a similar issue as India of a ‘missing middle’ — a very large number of small local business on one end and large corporates at the other. Solv would help the MSMEs fill the gap, Arora said. MSMEs are currently estimated to have a funding gap of $380 billion, according to the World Bank, which is also an opportunity for lenders in India. “As a bank, we know that there is a significant amount of liquidity that is available with some of our multilateral partners. Getting that to fill the liquidity gap is something that we will look at,” said Arora. He said that StanChart is in talks with ADB, organisations under UN and other development funds. “Nothing is finalised but discussions are on. As a bank, we do a significant chunk of origination in emerging markets through funds. These funds wanted to get into the MSME space. But as a bank, we could not originate enough. This platform will now facilitate it,” he added. Two developments have improved the prospects for such a platform for MSMEs — the increased availability of data, and improved businesses to digital. “Earlier, there was no data available. Now, that has changed due to GST, availability of income tax returns, transactional data and other developments. The receptivity to digital has increased significantly in the MSME space during Covid,” said Arora Speaking of the learnings from the Solv platform, Arora said that the first set of customers helped the company expand the scope of documentation for onboarding, simplify the onboarding journey, and launch desktop-based seller portal as against earlier plan to be mobile-only. During the pandemic, there was a big pickup of staples as a category. The disruption of traditional B2B supply chains during the lockdown gave a leg-up to the digital platform. “FMCG helped hone our operations — from pickup to delivery to payment reconciliation,” Arora said. Besides using feet on the street and digital channels to onboard small businesses, the bank is pursuing large corporate clients to get their partners on to the platform. In addition to regular credit for business, the platform has enabled a ‘Buy now pay later’ feature, which allows buyers and sellers to expand relationships to new clients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/stanchart-led-sme-platform-solv-eyes-funds-from-multilateral-instts/articleshow/80914423.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||Dainik Jagran, Digital Media triumph||Lucknow: Powered by Prahlad's impressive batting and Vinod's aggressive bowling spell, Dainik Jagran defeated Digital Media by 27 runs on the second day of SBI T-20 Media Cup at KD Singh Babu Stadium on Sunday. In another match of the day, Photo Journalists clocked a comprehensive 10-wicket victory over The Pioneer. In the first match of the day, Dainik Jagran set the target of 133 runs while losing four wickets. Prahlad Singh hit four boundaries to score 45 runs in 51 balls. Rohit (20), Sunil Singh (17) and Rajiv Bajpai (15) also made considerable contribution to their team's total. Saurabh and Himanshu claimed two wickets each for Digital Media. Chasing the target, Digital Media collapsed at 105 runs in 18.3 overs. Abhishek scored highest 16 runs. Alok and Vinod took three wickets each. Prahlad was named the man of the match. In the second match, The Pioneer batted first but failed to make their mark and were all out for 70 runs in 16.2 overs. Shalabh scored 17 runs in 28 balls. Kayam Raza claimed four wickets for Photo Journalists. In reply, Kashif Hasan's unbeaten 42 runs helped Photo Journalists romp home without losing any wicket. Kashif was adjudged the man of the match. Today's Fixtures: Amar Ujala vs DD-AIR; TOI vs PR XI Chandan Hosp, Cricket Buddies win quarter-finals Chandan Hospital defeated Lucknow Hunterz while Cricket Buddies beat Khandan-e-Awadh in the quarter-finals of the 3rd VGP Verma Memorial Cricket Tournament on Sunday. In the first match, Chandan Hospital scored 119 runs in the stipulated 20 overs at the loss of nine wickets. Skipper Mohd Faisal hit three sixes and two boundaries to score 43 runs in as many balls. Sachin claimed five wickets for Hunterz. In reply, Lucknow Hunterz could score 108/8 in 20 overs. Sachin scored highest 21 runs. Faisal, who also took three wickets, was the man of the match. In the second quarter-finals, Cricket Buddies chose to bat first and scored 170 for seven wickets. Amitabh Pathak hit 54 in 41 balls while Shishir Pandey scored 47 in 30 balls. Sharif took three wickets conceding 28 runs. In reply, Khandan-e-Awadh could score only 154 at the loss of seven wickets. Harshit Tiwari and Sanjay Singh claimed two wickets each. Amitabh was named the man of the match. BBD Super Cricket League Dhruv Cricket Academy humbled Paarth Cricket Academy by 111 runs in a league match of the Babu Banarasi Das Prize Money Super Cricket League. Dhruv Academy scored 257 runs for 4 wickets and bundled out Paarth for 146 runs. Dhruv's Ansh Yadav (man of the match) scored 142 runs in 112 balls. MCA edge past NER MCA, Gorakhpur, defeated NE Railway by five wickets in the quarter-finals of the 6th Lakshay Champions Trophy at NER Ground, Gorakhpur. NER's Sujeet (49) and Prashant (47) took their team to a total of 206 runs. In reply, MCA chased the target at the loss of five wickets. Vijay Yadav of MCA, who scored 72 in as many balls, was named the man of the match. Banks' Premiere League Canara Bank (127/7) defeated Bank of India (126/9) by three wickets in a league match of the Banks' Premiere League on Sunday. Anshuman (Canara) scored 38 runs and took two wickets to emerge man of the match. In another match, Indian Bank-Allahabad (101/3) beat Baroda UP Bank (100 all out) by 7 wickets. Rohit Chaurasia (IB) took four wickets and scored 36 runs to be named man of the match. Punjab National Bank (144/3) pipped Indian Overseas Bank (142/8) by seven wickets. PNB Ashish Tripathi (46) was the man of the match. In the last match, Union Bank of India (135/2) defeated Magnum Bankers SBI (131 all out). Man of the match Dharmendra Awasthi hit 47 runs in 35 balls and claimed four wickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dainik-jagran-digital-media-triumph/articleshow/80915109.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||Mont Vert Pristine Society begins V-Day with yoga||Pune: Valentine’s Day started on a cheerful note for residents of Mont Vert Pristine Society with a morning yoga session . Participants aged five to 70 years learnt important asanas and their health benefits. The Times of India in partnership with the Yoga Institute has launched the “Yoga at your doorstep” initiative, to be conducted at housing societies every Sunday for the benefit of residents. The first of the series was held at Mont Vert Pristine Society on Aundh Road, Bopodi, on Sunday. The hour-long event included a yoga session with breathing exercises, meditation, basic poses, and nutrition tips for the participants. Vijay Maru, the secretary of Mont Vert Pristine Cooperative housing society, told TOI, “The event has been a refreshing reminder to resume normal lives once again with a preference of fitness and what is better than yoga to be fit and fine. Residents were quite excited when the programme was announced and it could be seen with the participants of various ages.” A resident Pruthvee Sheth said the morning yoga session was the perfect start to Valentine’s Day. “It keeps you refreshed and I admire Times of India for organizing such a session. It will surely remind people about taking care of themselves with nothing but basic breathing exercises and meditation,” he said. The three members of the Agarwal family — Sulochana, Sneha and Ajay — who participated in the morning event, echoed their views of the importance of such initiatives. Sulochana Agarwal (65) said, “I loved the way the expert delivered basic information about every yoga pose and its health benefits and importance. This was unique and it will help me perform yoga in a much better way next time.” A resident Gajendra Chutke said that being a Sunday, he was surprised to see so many residents turn up for the event. Everybody was performing their yoga poses diligently and it was heartening to see, he said. Another resident K Sankar Narayan (71) said he enjoyed the session and the expertise offered. Rani Agarwal (53), a resident, said the session made her feel calm. “It was a perfect start to a Sunday. I am a regular reader of TOI and when I heard about the event, I was sure I would participate without fail,” she said. Pune is the first to host the “Yoga at your doorstep” initiative, which will be followed soon by other cities across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mont-vert-pristine-society-begins-v-day-with-yoga/articleshow/80914956.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||BJP machinery rolls out today to mobilise grassroot cadre||LUCKNOW: After the state government’s deft rejig of seat reservations for forthcoming three-tier panchayat elections, the saffron brigade is all set to roll out its well-oiled machinery to mobilize its grassroots cadre from Monday. BJP will kick off ward-level meetings of party functionaries in all 75 districts to put its mammoth organisational structure into poll mode to take on a belligerent opposition in rural local bodies elections, touted as a semi-final before high-stakes assembly elections next year. BJP sources said, senior party functionaries have been asked to attend meetings scheduled to be convened in 3,051 wards of 75 zila panchayats by February 26. The move comes days after the high court asked the state government to conduct panchayat elections by April 30. Confirming the move, state BJP vice-president and party in charge of panchayat elections, Vijay Bahadur Pathak, said recently appointed ward-level conveners would preside over meetings. Also, senior party leaders have been asked to attend meetings in wards where they reside or operate. The party has also decided to rope in MLAs and MPs to consolidate its position in rural local bodies’ elections. Pathak said, the party would hold multiple meetings to hammer out a strategy to win the election at the ward-level. Though he refused to divulge details, sources said, meetings would essentially focus on meeting three objectives — motivate party workers, assess ground-level political situation and ways to spread information among voters on welfare schemes taken by BJP. The tenure of members in rural local bodies — zila, keshtra and gram panchayats — expired on December 25, 2020. And BJP has decided to field its functionaries for the post of zila panchayats chairman and ward members in what is being seen as the party’s move to ramp up grassroots organisational machinery ahead of assembly elections. State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and party general secretary (organisation), Sunil Bansal, have already given the much-needed push by holding booth level meetings in various districts in past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-machinery-rolls-out-for-mobilising-grassroots-cadre-for-panchayat-poll/articleshow/80915348.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 15, 2021||Vadodara||‘Gujarat to introduce bill to keep love jihad in check’||VADODARA: Gujarat government will enact law to keep ‘love jihad’ in check. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani announced this while addressing a public gathering in Vadodara on Sunday. “In the last assembly, we had brought stringent laws. We introduced the Gujarat Control of Organised Crime Act, a stringent law against organized gang so that common citizens are not harassed by ‘gundas’,” he said, adding that under the law, an accused gets ten years imprisonment. “We introduced the new and stringent act of Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act 2020 in which there is provision of 14 years imprisonment to those who illegal grab somebody’s property. And now, our BJP government will introduce ‘Love Jihad’ act in assembly to keep a check on such activities so that such activities are not tolerated in future,” Rupani said, amidst cheers by the crowd which raised slogans of ‘Jai Shree Ram’. Rupani said this while addressing a public gathering in Tarsali area of Vadodara, one of the three public gatherings he was scheduled to address ahead of the civic body polls which are scheduled on February 21. The CM assured the crowd that drinking water problems of the area will be resolved soon. “It is our responsibility to resolve your problems,” he said, adding that in coming days, the problem of Vadodara getting flooded during monsoon will also be addressed. “We are going to resolve issue of Vishwamitri river. Every time, Vadodara gets inundated in floods. We will ensure that it comes out of this situation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/state-to-introduce-bill-to-keep-love-jihad-in-check/articleshow/80912686.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Active Covid cases in Andhra Pradesh below 0.1%||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 55 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,88,869. The state did not record any Covid-related death for the second consecutive day. Altogether 117 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Sunday. There are currently 735 active cases (less than 0.1% of the total case load) with 8,80,972 cumulative recoveries and 7,162 deaths. The quantum of active cases is the lowest among all the major states that have recorded at least one lakh Covid-19 cases. All the districts reported either single-digit case numbers or zero new cases for the second consecutive day on Sunday. The active cases are as few as six in Srikakulam district. The active case load is less than 50 in Anantapur, Kurnool, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh tested 28,788 Covid-19 samples on Sunday and detected 55 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.2%. The cumulative positivity rate stood at 6.5%, against the national average of 5.2%. The state’s mortality rate has remained stable at 0.8%. For every 10 lakh population, Andhra Pradesh tested 2,53,675 people for the disease. Kerala (2,92,395 tests per million) and Karnataka (2,67,092) stood ahead of Andhra Pradesh. Kerala is currently reporting about 5,000 cases a day. The Union ministry of health and family welfare, in a letter to the states, has asked the Adverse Effects Following Immunisation (AEFI) Committees at the state- and district-levels to meet regularly to oversee the overall performance of the AEFI surveillance system. The quantum of active cases in Andhra Pradesh is the lowest among all the major states that have recorded at least one lakh Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/active-covid-cases-in-state-below-0-1/articleshow/80912852.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||Dainik Jagran, Photo Journalists triumph||Lucknow: Powered by Prahlad's impressive batting and Vinod's aggressive bowling spell, Dainik Jagran defeated Digital Media by 27 runs on the second day of SBI T-20 Media Cup at KD Singh Babu Stadium on Sunday. In another match of the day, Photo Journalists clocked a comprehensive 10-wicket victory over The Pioneer. In the first match of the day, Dainik Jagran set the target of 133 runs while losing four wickets. Prahlad Singh hit four boundaries to score 45 runs in 51 balls. Rohit (20), Sunil Singh (17) and Rajiv Bajpai (15) also made considerable contribution to their team's total. Saurabh and Himanshu claimed two wickets each for Digital Media. Chasing the target, Digital Media collapsed at 105 runs in 18.3 overs. Abhishek scored highest 16 runs. Alok and Vinod took three wickets each. Prahlad was named the man of the match. In the second match, The Pioneer batted first but failed to make their mark and were all out for 70 runs in 16.2 overs. Shalabh scored 17 runs in 28 balls. Kayam Raza claimed four wickets for Photo Journalists. In reply, Kashif Hasan's unbeaten 42 runs helped Photo Journalists romp home without losing any wicket. Kashif was adjudged the man of the match. Chandan Hosp, Cricket Buddies win quarter-finals Chandan Hospital defeated Lucknow Hunterz while Cricket Buddies beat Khandan-e-Awadh in the quarter-finals of the 3rd VGP Verma Memorial Cricket Tournament on Sunday. In the first match, Chandan Hospital scored 119 runs in the stipulated 20 overs at the loss of nine wickets. Skipper Mohd Faisal hit three sixes and two boundaries to score 43 runs in as many balls. Sachin claimed five wickets for Hunterz. In reply, Lucknow Hunterz could score 108/8 in 20 overs. Sachin scored highest 21 runs. Faisal, who also took three wickets, was the man of the match. In the second quarter-finals, Cricket Buddies chose to bat first and scored 170 for seven wickets. Amitabh Pathak hit 54 in 41 balls while Shishir Pandey scored 47 in 30 balls. Sharif took three wickets conceding 28 runs. In reply, Khandan-e-Awadh could score only 154 at the loss of seven wickets. Harshit Tiwari and Sanjay Singh claimed two wickets each. Amitabh was named the man of the match. BBD Super Cricket League Dhruv Cricket Academy humbled Paarth Cricket Academy by 111 runs in a league match of the Babu Banarasi Das Prize Money Super Cricket League. Dhruv Academy scored 257 runs for 4 wickets and bundled out Paarth for 146 runs. Dhruv's Ansh Yadav (man of the match) scored 142 runs in 112 balls. MCA edge past NER MCA, Gorakhpur, defeated NE Railway by five wickets in the quarter-finals of the 6th Lakshay Champions Trophy at NER Ground, Gorakhpur. NER's Sujeet (49) and Prashant (47) took their team to a total of 206 runs. In reply, MCA chased the target at the loss of five wickets. Vijay Yadav of MCA, who scored 72 in as many balls, was named the man of the match. Banks' Premiere League Canara Bank (127/7) defeated Bank of India (126/9) by three wickets in a league match of the Banks' Premiere League on Sunday. Anshuman (Canara) scored 38 runs and took two wickets to emerge man of the match. In another match, Indian Bank-Allahabad (101/3) beat Baroda UP Bank (100 all out) by 7 wickets. Rohit Chaurasia (IB) took four wickets and scored 36 runs to be named man of the match. Punjab National Bank (144/3) pipped Indian Overseas Bank (142/8) by seven wickets. PNB Ashish Tripathi (46) was the man of the match. In the last match, Union Bank of India (135/2) defeated Magnum Bankers SBI (131 all out). Man of the match Dharmendra Awasthi hit 47 runs in 35 balls and claimed four wickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dainik-jagran-photo-journalists-triumph/articleshow/80927003.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Thotlakonda under threat of concretisation, fear Vizagites||VISAKHAPATNAM: The recent government order (GO) Rt No 21 declaring the extent of Thotlakonda Buddhist site as 120 acres and not 3,143 acres as was earlier believed has raised concerns among citizens and heritage enthusiasts. The 2,000-year-old prominent Buddhist hilltop site along the Vizag-Bheemili Road is protected under the archaeology department. The GO states the order is a bid to rectify a previous ‘omission/error’ in the notification in which the site boundaries were not clearly demarcated and that the extent of land at Thotlakonda was not mentioned in GO Rt No 627, dated May 2, 1978. The current order refers to two earlier GOs, one in 1976 and another in 1978, and a writ petition filed in the high court. The high court had permitted AP Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) to take up development works at Thotlakonda. Earlier, through a gazette notification, the Thotlakonda Buddhist Complex situated in survey no. 314 at Kapuluppada village in Bheemunipatnam mandal had been declared a protected monument under the AP Ancient and Historical Monument and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1960. In the late 1970s, the then revenue divisional officer, Visakhapatnam and tahsildar, Bheemunipatnam had reported that as per the field measurement sketch of Kapuluppada village, the total extent of the land in Survey No 314 was 3,143 acres. Heritage activist Sohan Hatangadi pointed out that there is a possibility of ancient ruins being spread across several parts of Thotlakonda hill, apart from where the first excavation took place. “So, historically in 1978, the entire hill under survey no. 314 was considered to be protected under the archaeology department.” Speaking to TOI, deputy director of the state archaeology department Mallikarjuna Rao said, “The protected area under archaeology department has always been 120 acres with five acres being the core area of the Buddhist complex. We have fenced and secured our area. The 3,143 acres might have been an assumption and it may constitute other department lands of which we are not aware.” Meanwhile, the MD of APTDC and CEO of AP Tourism Authority (APTA) Pravin Kumar said Thotlakonda land belongs to the archeology department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/thotlakonda-under-threat-of-concretisation-fear-vizagites/articleshow/80912868.cms||Sulogna Mehta
February 15, 2021||Varanasi||Four killed, four injured as truck rams van||VARANASI: Four persons, including three labourers and a driver, were killed while four others were seriously injured when a speeding truck overturned after it hit a pickup van and fell into a roadside ditch in Azamgarh district after Saturday midnight. The accident occurred near Bagahidand bridge in Keshavpur forest area under Jiyanpur police station in Azamgarh. SP Azamgarh Sudhir Kumar Singh, on Sunday, said the accident occurred when the pickup van was ferrying a group of labourers from Gorakhpur to Varanasi. Three persons, including two labourers and truck driver, died on the spot. “All the injured were rushed to a local hospital, but doctors referred them to Trauma Centre of BHU in Varanasi since their condition was critical. One injured labourer was declared brought dead in Varanasi,” he added. The pickup van with seven labourers was going to Varanasi from Gorakhpur and was passing through Bagahidand bridge when it was hit by a sand-laden truck which overturned and rolled into a deep ditch along the road. The van was badly damaged. On hearing the sound of collision and cries of the injured, people from nearby areas rushed towards the site and informed police. Police teams reached the spot and started the rescue operations. The truck driver Vipin Chauhan (35) of Deoria district, two labourers Sukkhu Bind (60) and Ramesh of Rohania area in Varanasi had died on the spot. The injured labourers Abhishek, Brijesh (24), Dilip (22), Pradeep (20) and Tej Bahadur of Varanasi were rushed to a local hospital from where they were referred to Varanasi after primary treatment. Abhishek succumbed before reaching Trauma Centre of BHU, said inspector Lanka Mahesh Pandey in Varanasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/four-killed-four-injured-as-truck-rams-van/articleshow/80912693.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: App anjali, phased attendance part of new normal school puja||KOLKATA: Most city schools where Saraswati Puja is part of the annual calendar will welcome the Goddess of learning on their campuses on Tuesday, albeit with precautions to keep Covid at bay. In many schools, the new normal is part of the theme, too. Some will even livestream the puja from campus so that all students can participate. While the primary and middle schools, up to Class VIII, have been kept out of the puja this time, students of classes IX-XII have been divided in small groups and given different responsibilities following puja rosters so that arrangements progress without crowding. Even on the final day, children will be coming in rotation and phased pushpanjali has been organized for small groups. The traditional distribution and throwing of flowers will not take place however. Almost all priests will be speaking on microphones so that those at a distance can hear clearly. Teachers have been given special duty to ensure that all Covid protocols are maintained while the puja is organized. Hare School, Hindu School, Jadavpur Vidyapith, N K Paul School, Dhakuria and DPS Ruby Park are some of the schools where puja preparations are on. Class XI boys are in charge of the puja at Hindu School. The students had been planning with teachers in the virtual mode since January, hoping that the school would re-start physical classes. Now that it has, those plans have smoothly been executed. “All students till Class VIII have been told to download an app on which they can participate virtually. Students of classes IX to XII have been given different time slots to come in,” said principal Shubhro-jit Dutta. At Hare School, too, preparations are similarly on. Students have been taking turns to draw the alpana on campus. At Jadavpur Vidyapith, Class XII students like Arnab Manna, Swapnanil Pal, Anirban Mandal and Srijita Purkait, and Ahana Banerjee of Class XI, are taking the lead in bringing to life the theme of “Shikshar Nabarupayan”. “It is all about how online learning saved the day for all school students,” explained teacher Somsuvra Dasgupta, who is coordinating with the students. Only the students’ council will be physically participating at the DPS Ruby Park puja, along with teachers and the administration. The others will watch virtually. “There will be no cut fruits on offer and packed bhog will be given to everyone,” said vice-principal Indrani Chattopadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/app-anjali-phased-attendance-part-of-new-normal-school-puja/articleshow/80913495.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 15, 2021||Patna||Chhapra: Rajendra College principal and 12 teachers suspended for dancing on campus||PATNA: The principal and 12 assistant professors, four of them women, of Rajendra College at Chhapra have been suspended for joining a ‘group dance’ on the tune of Haryanvi dancer Sapna Choudhary’s ‘Teri Aakhya Ka Yo Kajal’ and some other item songs during a college function organized to celebrate the birth anniversary of country’s first President Dr Rajendra Prasad on December 3. An inquiry was ordered by governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan after the dance video had gone viral on social media. The JP University (JPU) registrar said an order was issued on Saturday to suspend college principal Pramendra Ranjan Singh and 12 assistant professors for “gross misconduct and involvement in a dance on Dr Rajendra Prasad birth anniversary”. While the main function was near to close, the principal and some college teachers ordered for playing the Sapna song and danced on its tune on the main dais, which had the banner and posters about the birth anniversary of Dr Rajendra Prasad. They also played some other item songs and continued their dance, the inquiry report revealed. Those suspended have also been asked to reply within 15 days as to why departmental proceedings should not be initiated against them. While the principal has been asked to report at the university headquarters during his suspension period, the 12 assistant professors have to report at Jagdam College, Ram Jaipal College and few other colleges of Chhapra during their suspension period. In a related development, the JPU has also suspended three senior officers, including its dean (Faculty of Science) Prof Ashok Kumar Jha, dean students’ welfare Prof Uday Shankar Ojha and proctor Dr Kapil Dev Singh for “gross misconduct” and “not conducting inquiry in an impartial manner” in the group dance episode. JPU vice-chancellor had earlier constituted a committee of these three officers to conduct a probe into the dance incident. But the university was not satisfied with the way they conducted an inquiry and submitted report. The governor-cum-chancellor later constituted a high-level inquiry committee, comprising the VCs of two other universities, for a thorough probe into the incident. The action was taken on the findings of the high-level inquiry committee, a Raj Bhavan official told TOI on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/college-principal-and-12-teachers-suspended-for-dancing-on-campus/articleshow/80912870.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Taxi touts return to fleece flyers as Kolkata airport traffic rises||KOLKATA: Taxi touts are back at Kolkata airport to cash in on the gradual increase in city-bound passengers after a year of Covid-induced lull in air traffic across India. With more than 46,000 passengers travelling through the airport last Friday — the highest since reopening of the airport during the pandemic — and an average of 20,000-odd incoming passengers almost on all days of this month, taxi touts who had stepped back owing to fewer passengers and police initiatives have started returning. Last December, 7,900 flights took to the skies whereas, in January this year, the number increased to 8,600, airport officials said. However, the old touts who had been known faces and faced multiple police prosecutions over the years have given way to new people who are equally aggressive. TimesViewAn immediate crackdown is in order. It would be unfortunate if a visitor’s first taste of the city is a brush with touts.In a series of articles between October and November last year, TOI had written about some of the initiatives planned by the Bidhannagar Commissionerate — from filming touts to increasing pre-paid taxi kiosks and a virtual queue management system to book pre-paid taxis — to combat activities of touts at the airport. However, TOI, on multiple visits to the airport between Friday and Sunday, found many of these initiatives falling apart and a set of new taxi touts fleecing passengers. While none of the cops were found filming the touts with camcorders, one of the two pre-paid taxi kiosks outside gate 3A/B was found shut. The virtual queue management system initiated last November — where a passenger needs to give a missed call on a number to book a time slot to approach the counter for their cab — has also been practically useless courtesy lack of promotion among the passengers. Airport officials said all these factors combined with the increase in air traffic have led to a slow revival of taxi touts at the airport. “The only good thing about air travel during the pandemic months last year had been the absence of taxi touts. But over the last few weeks, they have been coming back in full force. My parents, who were returning from Bengaluru last week, had a tough time negotiating with the touts and booking a pre-paid taxi to come home,” said Amrita Roy from Behala. A a professional photographer who was flying for the second time since the pandemic accused the touts of lying. They reportedly said the pre-paid taxi service had been suspended for a while. “The app-cab rates were exorbitant and the cars were far away when I tried to book one two weeks ago while returning from Guwahati. I was looking for a pre-paid cab when a tout approached me and pointed at a closed pre-paid taxi counter saying the service has been suspended for the time being. He quoted Rs 750 for a ride to Jadavpur. Luckily, another flyer guided me towards another pre-paid taxi counter where I booked the ride,” said Sutirtha Basu. Officers of Bidhannagar Commissionerate promised to launch a fresh drive against the touts but blamed a technical glitch for the non-functioning of a pre-paid taxi kiosk.  “There has been some internet connectivity issues with the old pre-paid kiosk, forcing us to shut it down. The issue remains with the other kiosk, too, but we are somehow handling the entire work manually now. This is also slowing down the process and increasing crowding outside on occasions,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/taxi-touts-return-to-fleece-flyers-as-airport-traffic-rises/articleshow/80913483.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||Cops search for missing bull, owner announces cash reward||Varanasi: The cops from Dokati village in Ballia district are making efforts to search a missing bull after its owner registered a missing complaint and also announced a cash reward for searching the missing bull. SO Dokati Amit Singh said on Friday an FIR was registered on the complaint given by Chandan Singh, the owner of the missing bull. Chandan, a resident of Dhaturitola area alleged that he had two bulls, that left the house in the morning for grazing. They used to return home late in evening, but on January 24, one of them, named as ‘Vrishabh Dev’, did not return. Chandan accused three of his villagers for stealing the bull. Taking note of his complaint, the cops lodged the FIR under section 379 (theft) of IPC, said SO adding that efforts were being made made to search Chandan’s bull. However, when the cops were unable to find his bull, Chandan started running from pillar to post to increase pressure on the junior cops. He claimed that he met senior police officials. But, when even after all these efforts the bull could not be traced, he ensured printing of posters. He said he has promised in his posters that he will pay Rs 51,000 as cash reward to the person, who will bring back his ‘Vrishabh Dev’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-search-for-missing-bull-owner-announces-cash-reward/articleshow/80912662.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Allahabad||Trained staff, chef accompany akharas and religious camps, serve devotees at Magh Mela||Prayagraj: Be it spiritual matters or affairs of the world, no journey is complete without food and cooks are an indispensable part of any culture or event. Therefore, it comes as no surprise that majority of the akharas, religious and spiritual camps travelling from one state to another to attend big religious congregations also travel with a team of professional chefs and trained staff to prepare their meals. At a time when over 400 religious and spiritual groups and organsiations are camping at the ongoing Magh Mela, majority of the organisations have a group of 12 to 15 trained staff including chief chef who decide and prepare meals for the staff of the camp as well as devotees taking prasad (feast). Pithadhishwar Swami Brahmashram Maharaj, who is also national president of the Akhil Bharatiya Dandi Sanyasi Parishad, told TOI, “As we travel from one state to another to attend big religious and spiritual activities or fairs, we have a team of trained staff of 12-15 men including chefs from West Bengal and Bihar who always accompany us wherever and whenever we move. Once the Magh Mela is over, our trained staff preparing meal at the Charki Dadri Haryana Anna Kshetra will move to Haridwar to attend the Kumbh.” Swami further added, “the chef and staff ensures that all devotees and seers coming to our camp are served food with devotion and that no one returns on an empty stomach”. For that, they chalk out the menu in advance and arrange for all the required materials. The chefs and staff cooking meals for devotees and saints consider the act as a service to humanity. The chief and team members cook meals for over 1,000 to 1,500 devotees every day. Kumar, preparing meal at a Ayodhya based spiritual camp at sector no. 3 in Magh Mela, said that he has attended several Magh Mela, Ardh Kumbh and Kumbh melas since 2007 at cities like Prayag, Ujjain, Haridwar and Nashik. The Magh Mela 2021 in Prayagraj is the 14th religious fair he is attending. When not accompanying akharas, Kumar spends his days with his family in Varanasi. “God gives us a chance to serve the people. Serving a devotee with a smile gives immense pleasure to us,” he added. “I love to cook and serve visitors. After serving these saints and seers for so many years, I am well acquainted with their taste,” said Kumar who claims that he learnt cooking when he was just 18 years old. At many religious camps, mahants and mahamandleshwar cook meals for devotees and pilgrims. Pujya Guru Dev at Om Namay Shivaya anna kshetra accompanies volunteers to prepare meals. The fact is that the chef and their trained staff wake up at 4 in the morning and cook food for over 1,000-1,500 devotees every day. Though the numbers double up on main snan days. Moreover, the menu served to devotees and sadhus changes every day and includes dishes like kofta, palak paneer, dal, aloo, parwal, dal makhni, jeera rice and chapatis. The main course is often followed by sweet dishes like chandrakala, and kheer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/trained-staff-chef-accompany-akharas-and-religious-camps-serve-devotees-at-magh-mela/articleshow/80912783.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nashik||NMC-run buses to ply on city roads soon||Nashik: Shiv Sena leader and MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that the state transport department minister would soon give approval to Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) bus service. Raut was in the city to inaugurate various developmental works. When asked if state transport department minister Anil Parab was yet to give his nod for the transportation service by the NMC, Raut said, “I came to know about the issue when I visited Nashik city and, accordingly, have had a word with the minister. He has agreed to look into the issue at the earliest.” It will be the first time that the NMC will be taking over the transportation service from the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). The previous state government had given its nod to the NMC to take over the bus service in the city. The NMC plans to deploy 400 buses, including 200 CNG-run buses, 50 diesel buses and 150 electric ones. The MSRTC has already decided against adding more buses to its existing skeletal fleet of buses in the city. While the schools and colleges are reopening and the students are unable to find better transportation, the need for city buses is being felt. The NMC has placed its proposal for starting the bus service with the transport department and was intending to start from December. The municipal corporation had also announced that it would start services on January 26, but was again delayed. “I understand that the issue of starting of the buses is very dear to Nashikites. We will ensure the service is on the tracks soon,” said Raut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-run-buses-to-ply-on-city-roads-soon/articleshow/80912160.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Allahabad||Wanted criminal injured in police encounter in trans-Yamuna||Prayagraj: A criminal was injured in a police encounter in trans-Yamuna area on early Sunday morning. The criminal, identified as Neelu Dhahikar, a resident of Kharwa Tola village in Shankargarh, was admitted at SRN hospital for treatment. Police also seized a 0.315 bore country-made pistol, two live cartridges and a stolen bike from his possession. However, his associates managed to give a slip to the police. Wanted in connection with over half-a-dozen criminal cases, the criminal was playing cat and mouse with the police for more than six months. SP (trans-Yamuna) Saurabh Dixit told TOI, “After acting upon a tip-off that a gang of burglars was moving towards the trans-Yamuna area with an intention of committing a crime, two separate police teams from Shankargarh cordoned the road on Prayagraj-Chitrakoot highway. A criminal sustained injuries in his leg in the police encounter, while his associate managed to escape.” Dixit further added that the injured criminal was the leader of an inter-state burglars gang which used to target houses located at the outskirts of the city. The gang members, in past such incidents, didn’t hesitate in attacking victims if objected by the family or owner of the shops and establishments, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/wanted-criminal-injured-in-police-encounter-in-trans-yamuna/articleshow/80912757.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Muted Saraswati Puja with Cov rules in colleges, but some institutes opt out||Kolkata: Saraswati Puja will be celebrated in most colleges, if not all, in the city while observing all Covid-19 safety guidelines. The campuses are yet to reopen for physical classes, but the government has permitted celebration of Saraswati Puja in the institutes if authorities can ensure that none of the safety rules will be violated. In most colleges, the puja is usually organized with a joint effort from teachers and students. There is also prasad distribution, followed by a vegetarian lunch. This year, however, keeping the pandemic in mind, food parcels will be handed over to students. First-semester students will step on to a campus for the first time to partake in the Saraswati Puja festivities. However, the events are not expected to be elaborate due to the safety guidelines. “Saraswati Puja will be celebrated in the college on Tuesday following all Covid-19 safety rules,” said Subhasis Dutta, principal of Maulana Azad College. The puja is organized with a fund allotted for various student-related activities in the college. “There will be a puja and prasad distribution among the students, teachers and other staffers of the college on Saraswati Puja,” said Mohammad Zeeshan, student representative of Maulana Azad College. Initially, some college principals were reluctant to give permission for the puja, but once the government gave the go-ahead, students were allowed to start preparations. At Asutosh College in Hazra, the celebrations will start in the morning. But only a limited number of students and teachers are expected to attend the event. At Seth Anandram Jaipuria College, principal Asok Mukhopadhyay has instructed students to keep the celebration restricted to only 30 people at a time. “Students and teachers will come in turns to offer prayers. Crowding on the campus will not be allowed,” said Mukhopadhyay. “Every year, we distribute prasad and organize a lunch for everybody. But this year we will be handing out food parcels, which they can eat at home,” said Rohit Sonkar, secretary of the outgoing students’ council. On the other hand, some city colleges and universities have decided not to organize the puja this year as the campuses are still shut. Lady Brabourne College, where Saraswati Puja is usually held in the hostel, has decided not to organize the puja this year as the hostel is vacant and there are no students to organize on campus. Similarly, at Presidency University, too, the authorities have decided to cancel the celebrations this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/muted-saraswati-puja-with-cov-rules-in-colleges-but-some-institutes-opt-out/articleshow/80913489.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 15, 2021||Business||CDSL crosses 3cr demat account mark||Mumbai: Central Depository Services (CDSL), the largest depository in India in terms of number of demat clients, crossed the three-crore accounts mark last month. The milestone was achieved on the back of a resurgence in opening of demat accounts since the lockdown months of April-June 2020, a lower cost structure and the convenience it offers to both brokers and customer. CDSL, the only listed depository in the country, took just a year to add an additional one crore demat accounts, having crossed the two-crore mark in January 2020. CDSL had crossed the one-crore accounts mark in August 2015 and took nearly four and half years to add another crore, it said in a statement. Currently, CDSL enjoys a 59% market share among the two depositories with the balance 41% with the National Securities Depository (NSDL), the oldest one in India, which has about 2.2 crore accounts. The two depositories together now have about 5.2 crore demat accounts, official data showed. “Of the new accounts, 98.4% comes from retail investors, and with an outreach of 97% PIN codes (in the country),” Sebi whole-time member G Mahalingam was quoted as saying in the release. The senior regulatory officer also reminded that there was an immense opportunity of growth, given that a large part of India’s population was still outside of the securities markets. CDSL chairman B V Chaubal said that a large number of new demat accounts were being opened from tier II and tier III cities, which was indicative of the deepening and widening of the Indian capital market. Chaubal also said that the Covid crisis has brought an opportunity to accelerate digital innovations and “CDSL has been working towards strengthening its digital footprint and providing various digital solutions for the investors”. Since the nationwide lockdown, which had started in the last week of March 2020, the highly technology-dependent discount brokerages saw a huge spurt in demat accounts’ opening, with a majority of these being opened through CDSL. The co-founders of one of the discount brokerages, which continuously tries to minimise costs for its clients by depending more on technology, recently told TOI that since CDSL was offering demat services at a cost that was about 30% less than NSDL’s, hence these brokerages preferred it over the oldest depository in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cdsl-crosses-3cr-demat-account-mark/articleshow/80914846.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Business||Oriental, Iffco top in claim settlements||Mumbai: Oriental Insurance and Iffco Tokio had the highest claims settlement ratio among public and large private sector non-life insurance companies, respectively, in FY20. New India Assurance had the highest net promoter score, according to a report published by the Insurance Brokers Association of India. The claims settlement ratio is seen as a key reflection of service by an insurer. It is arrived at by dividing the sum of claims settled during the fiscal as a percentage of the same available for processing. While Oriental Insurance settled 91.5% of claims that came up for processing, Iffco Tokio had a settlement ratio of 92.5% for overall claims across segments. The two insurers topped the list of claims settlement ratio in the health segment as well (93.9% and 96.3%, respectively). Both also did well in the motor own-damage segment, which is a major contributor to claims. When it comes to speedy claims settlements too, Oriental Insurance topped the list with an efficiency ratio of 87.1%. This reflects the number of claims tackled within three months of reporting. In the private sector, Bajaj Allianz had the highest claims settlement efficiency of 87.9%. According to brokers, the extent of claims that an insurer receives depends on the nature of business they underwrite. Companies that cover retail risks such as health insurance and motor tend to have a higher number of claims as these are verticals with a high frequency of the same. Of late, insurers have been providing extended warranty covers for electronics purchased by tying up with the distributors. Such businesses too have low-value high frequency claims. In terms of number of claims, New India Assurance tops the list with 75 lakh processed during FY20. Among private players, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance has the most number of claims at 60.5 lakh. According to insurance brokers, many private companies tend to cherry pick retail businesses, avoiding those with chronic underwriting losses. While public sector insurers are more liberal in accepting businesses, they tend to raise queries about the proposals, which should have been done at the underwriting stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oriental-iffco-top-in-claim-settlements/articleshow/80914772.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Day after mid-sea fire, three charred bodies found on ship||MUMBAI: The charred bodies of three crew members were recovered by the Indian Coast Guard from the offshore vessel (OSV) Greatship Rohini on Sunday morning, 24 hours after a fire broke out in its engine room. The body of fourth engineer Anit Antony (31) was found in the engine room, while those of fitter Akshay Nikam (25) and oiler Ranjit Sawant (49) were recovered from the tween deck area by the search-and-rescue team around 10.15am. “The bodies were burnt beyond recognition...Casualty investigation has been ordered. Captain Jayakumar, principal officer, MMD Mumbai, will conduct the inquiry,” director general of shipping Amitabh Kumar said. The blaze broke out in the engine room on Saturday around 9.15am when the ship was 92 nautical miles (around 170km) from the Mumbai shore, near NQO platform of the ONGC-managed Mumbai High. “The fire was contained in the engine room and was doused at 4pm on Saturday. There were 18 crews onboard of which 14 escaped unhurt,” Kumar told TOI. Electro-technical officer Gurbeender Singh Chima (37) from Ludhiana, who was airlifted to hospital after he jumped into the sea, is critical in Masina Hospital, Byculla. He was in the engine room when the fire broke out. “He has sustained 78.5% burns and his condition is extremely critical,” said plastic surgeon Dr Suhas Abhayankar, who consults at the hospital. The three bodies will be brought to shore on Monday, along with the ill-fated vessel by Greatship Anjali, another offshore vessel. The bodies will be sent to JJ Hospital for DNA testing. Yellow Gate police registered an accidental death report. “We will probe the incident and initiate action if negligence is found,” said senior inspector Suhas Hemade. OSV Rohini was used as a transportation vessel for supplying food to the ONGC platform. The firefighting lasted over seven hours before the flames were extinguished. But, due to excessive heat and smoke, the search-and rescue team onboard OSV Rohini could not enter the engine room till Sunday morning. Anjali Kumar, general manager, corporate finance and communication, The Great Eastern Shipping Co Ltd that owns Greatship Rohini said that the company is liaising with the authorities and keeping them apprised of the situation. “The cause of the fire can only be ascertained after a detailed investigation,” Kumar said. Managing director of Albatross Marine Services Philip Mammen told TOI that the captain Sagar Badade of Albatross 5 was among the first to reach the spot and pull OVS Rohini away from the NQO platform. “Timely action helped avert a major disaster from taking place at the rig,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/day-after-mid-sea-fire-three-charred-bodies-found-on-ship/articleshow/80914960.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 15, 2021||Patna||Liquor smuggler nabbed in Mohali brought to Patna||PATNA: The prohibition wing of the state police arrested an interstate liquor smuggler, Pushpindar Singh Dhariwal alias Harry (29), from S A S Nagar under the Sohna police station area in Punjab’s Mohali on Saturday. IG (prohibition) Amrit Raj told TOI over phone that the police brought Pushpindar to Patna on Sunday after getting permission for his transit remand from a Mohali court. “The liquor smuggler was arrested with the help of Punjab police. Pushpindar’s father Surmukh Singh Dhariwal and some of his associates are still at large. The father-son duo was named in a liquor smuggling case registered with Manjhi police station in Saran on February 27 last year. Pushpindar was also made an accused in another liquor smuggling case registered with Brahmapur police station in Muzaffarpur on December 20, 2019,” the IG said. He added the state police initially had information about involvement of Pushpinder and his father only in the Manjhi case. However, more cases were studied after which it came to light that Pushpindar was named in another case lodged at Brahmapur,” Raj said. “Surmukh is a licenced wholesale liquor dealer in Punjab. The father-son duo runs an organised racket to smuggle liquor into dry states like Gujarat and Bihar. Surmukh had earlier been arrested by the Gujarat police too,” the IG added. “Pushpindar was continuously changing his location. He was arrested from his rented accommodation where he had shifted in September last year,” he said. On February 3, interstate liquor smuggler Ajeet Singh was arrested by the Bihar police from Panipat in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/liquor-smuggler-nabbed-in-mohali-brought-to-patna/articleshow/80912902.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 15, 2021||Patna||60-year-old farmer shot dead in Bihar's Supaul||PATNA: Unidentified criminals killed a farmer in front of his residence at ward number 16 in Mohalia village under Jadiya police station area of Supaul on Saturday night. Police said the deceased has been identified as Sundar Lal (60). They said the incident took place at around 11.15pm. The village is on Supaul-Madhepura border. Jadiya police station SHO Pankaj Kumar on Sunday said Sundar had received one bullet injury in his chest. “The bullet had pierced through his body. He had fallen down at the entrance of his house. Sundar was rushed to Triveniganj sub-divisional hospital from where he was further rushed to district Sadar hospital around midnight,” he said, adding a pellet was recovered from the spot. Kumar said Sundar was further referred to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital for better treatment as his situation was critical. “However, he succumbed to the bullet injury at around 2am on Sunday while on way to Darbhanga,” the SHO said. He said Sundar and a few other villagers had rushed outside their houses after hearing noise about theft. He said one Amit Sardar is suspected in the case. “Sundar’s family members said he was spotted fleeing along with another unidentified person after Sundar was shot at,” Kumar said. He said reasons behind the murder was yet not clear. “Amit is accused in a loot and land grabbing case registered with Jadiya police station. Sundar was also booked in a liquor smuggling case in June last year and had been to jail once in connection with the case. He was mainly engaged in farming,” he said. The SHO said it has also surfaced before police that Amit used to visit Sundar’s residence very frequently. Kumar said that Amit is a native of Parsahi village under Kumarkhand police station area of Madhubani, which is hardly one kilometre away from Mohalia. He said raids were conducted to nab Amit, but he was evading arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/60-year-old-farmer-shot-dead-in-supaul/articleshow/80912843.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 15, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Special classes in government schools to make up academic loss||PATNA: The state education department will hold catch-up classes for three months in government schools to brush students’ knowledge of the previous class which they could not attend due to Covid-19 and manage for one year academic session loss. “Last year lockdown was implemented in March and a student studying in class VI was supposed to begin his academic session for class VII from April. And the same student will go in class VIII in the new session now. So, in the initial three months in class VIII, s/he will be taught for class VII,” principal secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar explained. This will bridge the gap especially for those who could not attend online classes because of lack of smartphone and internet facilities. Classes from IX to XII resumed on January 4 after more than eight months. Classes from VI to VIII were permitted to resume from February 8 onwards, while junior classes are still closed. There are nearly 1.66 crore students enrolled in government schools from class 1 to VIII and 66 lakh in classes IX to XII. Though there is no exact figure as to how many of them don’t have access to smartphones and the internet, experts feel this could be huge. The education department is planning to complete these catch-up classes before summer vacation. Several such discussions for improving education system of the state were done in a meeting with Pratham Education Foundation CEO Rukmini Banerjee and senior department officials on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/special-classes-in-government-schools-to-make-up-academic-loss/articleshow/80912634.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||CM inaugurates Abhyudaya Yojana for youths of state||Prayagraj: The inaugural program of Abhyudaya Yojana by chief minister Yogi Adityanath was broadcast live at auditorium of MNNIT, on Monday. The scheme has been introduced to facilitate free training centre for competitive examinations for youth of the state. Speaking on the inauguration event, the CM said that Abhyudaya Yojana is not just a training centre but a new beginning for building the life of the youths. He said that the government is committed to making the future of youth bright and this beneficial scheme would pave the way in their lives. The CM said that he will popularise this scheme on the lines of One District One Product (ODOP). Abhyudaya Yojana has been started at 18 divisional headquarters of the state, which will be further expanded at the district level. The chief minister also interacted with the students of several divisions selected under the AbhyudayaYojana, including Shishya Singh Rathore of Prayagraj. Rathore thanked the CM for the scheme. On this occasion, she asked the CM about what to do for concentration in studies. Yogi advised her that positive thinking of a person enhances his or her concentration and thus she should do the same. He further added that one should not worry about the result and should keep moving forward in the direction of their goal. One should believe in hard work. A regular and moderate routine helps in taking a person to the highest peak of success. Under the Abhyudaya scheme, free of cost coaching centres for the preparation of competitive government exams will be provided by the UP government. The coaching institutions are especially aimed at providing assistance to those candidates who are not able to take coaching for the exams due to their financial problems. The free-of-cost coaching institutes will be starting from tomorrow. Students can avail offline coaching and study material too. Apart from her, the CM also interacted with Kapil Dubey of Varanasi, Sakshi Pandey of Gorakhpur, Himanshu Bansal of Meerut, Priyanshi Mishra and Anamika Singh of Lucknow. After the conclusion of the Chief Minister’s program, district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami, Chief Development Officer Sipu Giri lit the ceremonial lamp and inaugurated the program. On this occasion, the DM shared his experience with the students regarding the preparation of the competition examination and also gave tips regarding the preparations. He said that time has a lot of importance in life. He said that the focus should be on the subject with concentration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-inaugurates-abhyudaya-yojana-for-youths-of-state/articleshow/80931421.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Patna||Organic farming should be promoted in Bihar: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||PATNA: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday inaugurated a newly constructed building to be used as the regional office of the organization covering 21 districts of north Bihar. The new building, constructed at an estimated cost of Rs3 crore, is located at Kalambagh Chowk in Muzaffarpur town. Sanskritik Uthan Samiti president Gaurishankar Prasad said it took almost three years to complete the construction work. The building was constructed under the supervision of the Sankritik Uthan Samiti. Christened ‘Madhukar Niketan’, it has 40 rooms and has the capacity to accommodate 400 people. Earlier, addressing the volunteers, the RSS chief underlined the need to promote ‘jaivik kheti’ (organic farming) and asked them to create awareness among the farmers about it. “Organic farming is beneficial both for increasing the income as well as maintaining fertility of the farm land,” he added. Promotion of ‘jaivik kheti’ is perceived to counter the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. “Go to the villages and create awareness about this traditional form of farming among the farmers,” Bhagwat told the volunteers. Highlighting the benefits of organic farming, he said it would prevent the spread of pandemic. To check the outbreak of the pandemic, conservation of environment, water resources and Indian breed of cows are of utmost significance, he pointed out. Bhagwat also inspected the ‘Organic Udyan’ developed by an RSS volunteer and farmer Gopal Shahi in over 12 acres at Rajkhand village under Aurai block in Muzaffarpur district. RSS prant pracharak Ram Kumar besides a host of ministers, former ministers and RSS volunteers were present on the occasion. Earlier, Bhagwat expressed his satisfaction over the campaign to collect donations for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya. He said participation of people in the exercise is more important than the amount donated by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rss-chief-organic-farming-should-be-promoted-in-state/articleshow/80912858.cms||Ramashankar
February 15, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Beneficiaries to get second dose from today||PATNA: The exercise to administer the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare workers will begin in Bihar on Monday. The beneficiaries will be called to the same centre where they had received the first dose. The vaccination of frontline workers will also continue Simultaneously. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said a videoconference was held with the health institute heads on Sunday to give them all the necessary instructions. She said Mondays and Thursdays have been fixed for giving the second dose to the healthcare workers, the frontline workers will receive the first dose on Tuesdays and Saturdays. “This is to avoid any confusion. However, those session sites which were created later on and have not vaccinated any healthcare workers initially, will carry on the first dose vaccination on all days,” she said. Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said the beneficiaries are being sent the message about when and where they have to go. He said proper turnout was expected for the second dose. Covid-19 vaccination for healthcare workers began on January 16 and total 3,96,740 healthcare workers had been given the first shot in the state till Saturday, the last date for the first phase. As per the data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Bihar is among the top ten states with the maximum number of beneficiaries vaccinated. Total 4,92,435 beneficiaries, including 95,435 frontline workers, have been given the first shot in Bihar. Meanwhile, 51 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Sunday, taking the tally to 2,61,741. In the same time period, 78 people recovered, taking the recovery rate to 99.18%. Officially, one death was reported from Patna. Neither any Covid-19 patient was admitted nor any death reported at AIIMS-Patna. One patient was discharged and there were 33 Covid patients undergoing treatment in the hospital on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/beneficiaries-to-get-2nd-dose-from-today/articleshow/80912592.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 15, 2021||Business||Stuck Franklin MF investors to be repaid partly this week||MUMBAI: After almost 10 months, about 3 lakh investors in five of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund’s six debt schemes that are in the process of closing down will receive part of their money during this week. Under a Supreme Court order, SBI MF — the executor for the distribution of the funds — will return Rs 9,122 crore to the investors of those five schemes. This was indicated in a letter from Franklin MF’s president Sanjay Sapre to the investors. Only those who had invested in Franklin’s Income Opportunities Fund will not get any money for now. On the night of April 23 last year, Franklin MF had announced that the six debt funds would be closed down and it would return money to the investors. The process was delayed by several court cases, with the SC finally clearing the way for distribution of part of the funds that the six schemes had as of January 15 this year. Of the total Rs 9,122 crore, a little over Rs 5,075 crore will be distributed to the investors of Ultra Short Bond Fund, while Rs 1,625 crore will be distributed to the investors of Low Duration Fund. In addition, Rs 1,025 crore will be distributed to the investors in Dynamic Accrual Fund, Rs 926 crore in Credit Risk Fund and Rs 469 crore in Short-Term Income Fund. At nearly 63%, investors in Franklin MF’s Low Duration scheme will get the maximum of their money back. The ones in Short-Term Income Fund will receive just about 8% of their investments. On Friday, the SC also allowed the fund house to close down the six schemes. In April last year, faced with extremely low liquidity, the fund house had taken the decision to close it down to protect value for the investors. After Franklin MF had announced the closure of the six schemes in April 2020, several of its investors as well as their groups had approached various courts in India, opposing the closure plan. The SC finally decided to club all the cases and had asked the Karnataka high court to decide on it. After the Karnataka HC passed its order, the fund house and an investor group had moved the SC again. On December 9, the SC asked the MF to take investors’ nod to close down these schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/stuck-franklin-mf-investors-to-be-repaid-partly-this-week/articleshow/80914822.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Patna||Three held with illegal firearms in Bihar's Lakhisarai||PATNA: A joint team of special task force (STF) and police intercepted an SUV near toll plaza under the Town police station area in Lakhisarai late on Saturday night and arrested three arms smugglers. Police said 15 country-made semi-automatic pistols and 15 magazines were recovered from the possession of the arrested smugglers, who were identified as Putput Goswami, Munna Gupta and Sheet Kumar, all residents of Piro in Bhojpur district. STF sources said Putput, a notorious arms smuggler, had been jailed on several occasions earlier. “The pistols were kept inside a specially-created compartment beneath the rear seat of the SUV,” they added. Lakhisarai SP Sushil Kumar said the smugglers had picked up the consignment from a person at Wardha village under the Mufassil police station area in Munger. “The consignment was being smuggled to Bhojpur. The seized arms were supposed to be supplied to different criminal gangs. We are in touch with Bhojpur and Munger police to identify others involved in arms racket,” he added. STF sources said the person from whom the trio had picked up the consignment is an arms manufacturer. “The four country-made semiautomatic pistols, seven magazines and 199 live cartridges, which were seized in Khagaria on February 3, were also picked up from the same person,” they added. Sources said the STF would urge the state police headquarters to write to Enforcement Directorate, seeking action under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against this Wardha-based arms manufacturer. It was from Wardha that arms smugglers were running organised syndicate of supplying weapons, including AK-47 assault rifles, to criminals and Maoists after procuring them from ordnance factory in Jabalpur. The racket was busted in 2018 and more than 20 AK-47 assault rifles were seized. The case was later taken up for probe by National Investigation Agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-held-with-illegal-firearms-in-lakhisarai/articleshow/80912827.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 15, 2021||Rajkot||Straying lion population can get a home in Barda||Rajkot: The frequent jaunts of Asiatic lions into urban areas and requests to shift them to sanctuaries has once again triggered the need for relocating the large population of felines from revenue (non-protected) areas to protected areas.Experts have suggested shifting some lions moving around in the human habitation in Junagadh, Gir-Somnath and Amreli districts to Barda sanctuary near Porbandar, which is ready to welcome the lions since 2015.On Tuesday night, a lioness had entered the parking of a four-star hotel in Junagadh city and visited some highly populated residential societies too before returning to the adjoining Girnar Sanctuary.Forest department said nearly half of the lion population lives outside the Gir National Park in non-protected areas, better known as Bruhad (Greater) Gir.Barda, which sprawls on 191 sqkm hilly terrain, can accommodate 30-40 lions according to Wildlife Institute of India and experts believe that if they naturally disperse to this sanctuary, there will be no need to relocate them. A strong prey base of herbivores has also been made for lions in this sanctuary, thanks to breeding centres for sambars, spotted deer and wild boar too.Priyvrat Gadhvi, member of state board for wildlife, said, “Barda is a viable forest to relocate lions. I believe that it’s good that lions live in forest areas rather than near urban populations, lest human-animal conflicts rise.”Bhushan Pandya, a member of state wildlife board said “It’s high time to think about Barda sanctuary. The area is systematically developed to accommodate lions. The forest department should relocate some pride phase wise to Barda. It’s better to relocate lions in Barda sanctuary than putting them in Sakkarbaug zoo after capturing or release them in an already congested area.” The eight lions that were captured from Jetpur area are still in Sakkarbaug zoo and they have not been released despite demands by the activists. The forest department captured three lions from Rajkot taluka after their 40 days stay following strong demand by the locals. Priyavrat Gadhvi, another member of state wildlife board said “Barda is a viable forest to relocate lions. I believe that it’s good that lions live in forest areas rather than near urban population.”According to sources, the forest department was of the view that Barda was a lion habitat in the past and as the population will increase there will be natural dispersion of the lions but because of six lane national highway lions are hesitant to cross some portion. The other major challenge is the presence of cow breeders inside the sanctuary. There are around 400 families of maldharis living there who need to be relocated before shifting of the lions. However, there is no such project under consideration currently.Chief conservator of forest (wildlife circle), D T Vasavda said, “There is no project of relocating the cow breeders at present. We are developing a prey base in Barda, so that if the lions naturally disperse to this area they get ready made food stock.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/straying-lion-population-can-get-a-home-in-barda/articleshow/80912762.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 15, 2021||Nashik||Suspect sent to 5-day police custody||Nashik: The suspect arrested in the Ambad murder case that took place on Friday afternoon has been remanded to five-day police custody till Thursday by a city court while a minor detained along with him has been sent to a government observation home. Yogesh Tandale (27) was killed on Friday after being attacked by two youngsters with a sharp weapon at the Raje Sambhaji Stadium. The incident took place when the suspects were whiling time with their girlfriends at the stadium when Tandale, along with two more people, shooed them away. The suspects got infuriated and left the place only to return sometime later. They stabbed Tandale to death and escaped from the scene. Soon after the news spread, senior police officials rushed to the spot. Under the guidance of commissioner of police Deepak Pandey, DCP Vijay Kharat and other senior officials, teams were formed to trace the suspects involved in the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/suspect-sent-to-5-day-police-custody/articleshow/80912155.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Patna||Saraswati Puja: Music banned at PU hostels||PATNA: Acting on the advice of the district administration, Patna University (PU) has asked the principals of colleges and wardens and superintendents of all hostels to keep constant vigil on the campus during Saraswati Puja celebrations scheduled for Tuesday. In a notification issued by PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha, they have been instructed to ensure full implementation of the protocols of Covid-19 pandemic. “The puja should be organised by the inmates. It should be restricted only to the boarders. No music programmes should be organised and DJ should also be completely banned. The hostel authorities would be held responsible for any untoward incident during the celebrations. No cultural programmes will be allowed without prior permission of the civil SDO,” the notification read. For organising puja in a hostel, the inmates would have to inform the hostel superintendent in writing with a copy to the university administration and the local police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/saraswati-puja-music-banned-at-pu-hostels/articleshow/80912599.cms||B K Mishra
February 15, 2021||Goa||Money For Nothing||The concrete four-lane approach road to the new Zuari bridge has developed visible cracks on its northern stretch. The road, which starts at Bambolim and will eventually connect to the new bridge at Agasaim, is being constructed at a total cost of Rs 440 crore. The small stretch at Bambolim was opened for public use only a couple of months ago. The contractor has been asked to carry out the repairs. Such occurrence of cracks on newly constructed roads are rare in Goa, which is new to concretised roads||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/money-for-nothing/articleshow/80915644.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Business||Auto companies to hike prices again as steel rates soar||CHENNAI: The increase in raw material costs is set to trigger a second round of price hikes in the auto industry with manufacturers indicating a markup of 1-3%. Mahindra & Mahindra, Eicher Motors and Ashok Leyland may hike prices in April-May to neutralise the pinch of the sharp rise in costs of steel, aluminium and other metals. “We will probably increase prices again in April. So far, we have used a better mix of products in India and globally, but raw material costs have gone up faster than our ability to hike prices,” said Siddhartha Lal, MD, Eicher Motors. The increase will happen in both commercial vehicles as well as Royal Enfield motorcycles. This price markup comes at a time when the truck market is just about hitting the growth track after nearly two years of low demand. “We have already taken a hike last October and another in January. But there has been significant increases in steel prices and specialised metals. If this continues, we will have no option but to increase prices. With India slated to be one of the highest growth markets, we are hopeful that the price increases will be absorbed by the market,” said Gopal Mahadevan, CFO & director, Ashok Leyland. For truck makers, this rise in costs hurts more since the BS4 to BS6 shift had already involved a sharp price hike in a negative demand market. “In Q3, our raw material costs as a percentage has gone up. There was an increase from BS4 to BS6 and we started hiking prices only from Q3, when the market began to look up,” said Mahadevan. The truck industry slumped 54% in the April-December period. “Raw material costs have been going up sharply and we will take a price increase in the first quarter of FY22,” said Rajesh Jejurikar, ED (auto & farm sectors), Mahindra Group. “Currently, the supply disruption over the semiconductors continues but it should normalise in June-July,” he added, referring to a mark-up across the Mahindra range, including SUVs and commercial vehicles. Steel mills had sought yet another price hike of Rs 7,250 per tonne in January, but that demand has been softened, said Vikas Bajaj, president, Association of Indian Forging Industry. “Discussions are now on between OEMs and steel mills and some price increase will be agreed on, but the problem is supplies,” said Bajaj. “If I order 100 tonne, I am only getting 20-30.” The steel price hike has also impacted the forging steel manufacturers because steel typically constitutes 60-65% of the ex-factory value of forgings. “Domestic steel manufacturers have increased prices twice in Q3 for forging quality steel and three times in the October-December period for other types of steel, bringing the benchmark hot-rolled coil prices in the wholesale market (ex-Mumbai) to Rs 52,000 per tonne from Rs 36,500 per tonne in July — up 43%,” added Bajaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/auto-cos-to-hike-prices-again-as-steel-rates-soar/articleshow/80913838.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
February 15, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Poll preparations for phase-III on in full swing||VIJAYAWADA: The State Election Commission (SEC) has intensified arrangements for the third phase of gram panchayat elections scheduled on February 17. Altogether, 3,321 gram panchayats have been notified for elections in the third phase. . Elections to 579 gram panchayats were unanimous in the third pase, the SEC announced, while polls will be contested in the remaining 2,640 panchayats. Altogether, 7,756 candidates are contesting elections. Out of 31,516 wards notified for elections in the third phase, 11,732 wards were declared unanimous while 19,607 wards will contest polls. Altogether, 43,282 candidates are in the race for ward members. The SEC has asked the police, revenue and panchayat raj departments to be more cautious in handling the third phase of elections. State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar asked officials to focus on sensitive and Maoist-affected areas going to polls on Wednesday. — Venu Lanka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/poll-preparations-for-phase-iii-on-in-full-swing/articleshow/80912730.cms||Venu Lanka
February 15, 2021||Patna||Patna University to tie up with industries for placements||PATNA: Patna University (PU) is likely to tie up with various industries soon with a view to making its curriculum more useful for the society and securing placement for its passouts. A decision to this effect has already been taken by the internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) of the university. Giving details of the proposed academia-industry linkage, PU vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Chaudhary told this newspaper that by infusing industry-based skills into education, the university would ensure that students gain practical knowledge and graduate with a holistic view of the specializations. The university would make formal collaborations with industries in the areas of curriculum development, teaching and learning, research and development, consultancy as well as securing suitable industrial placements for students, he said. The VC further pointed out that the Bihar Industries Association (BIA) has assured of extending its full cooperation and help to the university in fostering academia-industry linkage. The university would organize a daylong workshop to interact with the leaders of different industries and discuss ways for establishing tie-up with them. The university runs dozens of job-oriented courses under self-financing mode, but the passouts of these courses fail to get suitable employment in absence of any formal tie-up with the industries. Now, after formalization of collaborations, the industries would not only train the students according to their needs but also absorb them with suitable pay package, he said. Chaudhary said the incubation centres set up in different colleges of PU would be made fully functional so that students might be encouraged to come up with their startup ideas and implement them effectively. All the postgraduate departments would set up their own placement cells by establishing linkage with industries so that the students may be placed suitably in different organizations after completing their course. Students of commerce and computer applications would be asked to lend their expertise to the university employees in promotion of their skills of accountancy and computations, said the VC. The existing placement cell would be strengthened by allocating necessary staff and infrastructural facilities and made more effective, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-university-to-tie-up-with-industries-for-placements/articleshow/80912552.cms||B K Mishra
February 15, 2021||Patna||Tej Pratap Yadav outburst: RJD on damage control exercise||PATNA: The outburst of former CM Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav against RJD’s state chief Jagdanand Singh has caused immense damage to the party at a time when it is gearing up to corner the Nitish Kumar government during the forthcoming Budget session of the state legislature beginning February 19. Though most senior leaders of the RJD preferred to remain silence over Tej’s statement, its spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said, “It’s a matter between ‘chacha’ and ‘bhatija’. The ruling alliance should not forget what it had done to its senior netas. Is Tej’s statement more grievous in nature than ill-treatment meted out to George Fernandes and Murli Manohar Joshi by the top leadership of their parties?”. Tiwari’s remarks came hours after JD(U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said senior leaders of the RJD like Jagdanand Singh should think about their relevance in the party. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand, on the other hand, said Tej’s outburst against Jagdanand had the backing of his younger brother and opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Sources in the RJD said the matter has been taken up with party chief Lalu Prasad, who is undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Delhi, and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tej-outburst-rjd-on-damage-control-exercise/articleshow/80912915.cms||Ramashankar
February 15, 2021||Noida||Nowhere to keep him, abductors kill kid||Greater Noida: A four-year-old boy, whose decomposed body was found with a biscuit in hand in a swamp 1.5km from his house in Surajpur, was allegedly smothered by two neighbourhood men who did not know where to keep the child. Hrithik, the youngest of three siblings, had been reported missing from near his house on January 24. His family, who had alleged police inaction in tracing the child, had raised suspicion on two men who had arrived in the village just a few days before Hrithik went missing. While one of the accused, Anil, was arrested, the other, Vijay, is on the run. “Anil told us they smothered the child the same day they abducted him. They did not know where to keep the boy as his parents had already approached the police. They also planned to demand ransom from the boy’s family, but got scared when we started an investigation into the case and police movement in the village increased,” said DCP (central Noida) Harish Chander. The boy’s family, however, alleged that Hrithik had been attacked with a stone and his head was split into two. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/nowhere-to-keep-him-abductors-kill-kid/articleshow/80913678.cms||Shikha Salaria
February 15, 2021||Patna||‘Food track’ court with kitchen garden inaugurated at Danapur railway station||PATNA: The first-of-its-kind ‘food track’ court was inaugurated at Danapur railway station on Sunday. The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has developed and named it as ‘food track’. Inaugurating the food court, Patliputra MP Ram Kripal Yadav said Danapur station is one of the oldest stations and divisional headquarters from where a large number of people either get down or board long-distance trains daily. Besides, it is convenient for the Army officers and jawans of the Danapur cantonment to alight from or board trains here. Speaking on the occasion, Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said the food court has both sitting and ‘take away’ facilities under the rooftop open area. In fact, railways has developed it with the concept of kitchen garden. South Indian, Chinese, Hyderabadi Biryani, Tandoori items, Indian veg and non-veg items will be available there. He said railways has made available ‘magic tea’ facility, which is the first of its kind in Indian Railways. According to Danapur senior divisional commercial manager Adhar Raj, the special attraction of the food track court is that it has the provision to make kids learn about organic vegetables and herbs. Children can also know about importance of eco-friendly environment during their visit at the specially designed and developed food track court, he said, adding this is the 15th food track court unit made functional in the division with 25 rare varieties of food and magic tea in the special tea kiosk. Lauding the efforts of the IRCTC, Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association secretary Shoaib Quraishi said the food track court facility at Danapur station was the need of the hour, keeping in view the fact that Danapur station has a direct connectivity to Patliputra Junction also. “Besides, this facility will also prove a boon for the fast developing Danapur station to provide such a food track court to benefit needy passengers at the station, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/food-track-court-with-kitchen-garden-inaugurated-at-danapur/articleshow/80912564.cms||Kumod Verma
February 15, 2021||Goa||Will contest 2022 poll only on BJP ticket: Clafasio Dias||MARGAO: Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias said on Sunday that the 2022 assembly election would be his last, and that he would contest only on a BJP ticket. If he is denied the ticket, he said, he wouldn't contest the polls.  “Whether I win or lose, this will be my last election,” he said. “I am confident the people will elect me once again, as party affiliation doesn’t matter to most of my voters. “People have seen the development work I have done in my constituency after joining BJP, and I am confident people will repose faith in me as BJP candidate.” Dias was among the 10 turncoat MLAs from Congress, led by deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar, who switched over to BJP in July 2019. Dias said that the only condition he had put forth before the BJP leadership for joining the saffron party was “jobs and development”. “I suffered a lot when I was in Congress, as all my development project-proposals would get blocked,” Dias said, and accused GFP president and then TCP minister Vijai Sardesai for putting hurdles in his development plans in a bid to promote former Congress minister Joaquim Alemao’s son Yuri as its candidate from Cuncolim. “After joining BJP, chief minister Pramod Sawant has helped me bring about a lot of development work in my constituency. I have completed almost 80% of the development work I had promised the people in my election manifesto. I am sure I will also be able to provide jobs to the youth of my constituency soon.” Dias also said that he, along with some other Congress-turned-BJP MLAs, had been approached by NCP’s sole MLA, Churchill Alemao, to join NCP, which, he said, he rejected. Dias, contesting as a Congress candidate in the 2017 polls, trounced Joaquim, who contested as an independent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-contest-2022-poll-only-on-bjp-ticket-clafasio/articleshow/80915476.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||PCMC sends notices to five private institutes||Pimpri Chinchwad: Five private schools in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits have been sent notices for not registering for the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act or Right to Education Act (RTE) admission process. PCMC’s acting education officer, Parag Mundhe, said it is mandatory for the eligible private schools to register in the process. Mundhe said, “This year, despite repeated reminders, a few schools have missed registration for the RTE. Since Monday is the last date, we sent them notices last week, while there has been a common reminder issued as well. If schools fail to comply, they can face the action in terms of cancellation of their recognition as well.” So far, 148 schools in the PCMC’s jurisdiction have registered. The application for the students will be made available once the school registration gets over. The school registration has already been extended twice by the directorate of primary education. The RTE was enacted on August 4, 2009 and it mandates all private schools to reserve 25% of seats to children from the reserved category and economically weaker sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-sends-notices-to-five-private-institutes/articleshow/80914958.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi tourist drowns in Kullu’s Parvati river||Manali: A 20-year-old tourist from Delhi drowned in Parvati river on Sunday. According to Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh, police post at Manikaran received information that a person had drowned in fast-flowing water of the river near Galu bridge. “A police team rushed to the spot and discovered that the person, identified as Rohit, 20, resident of Delhi, had gone close to the river with his friends and family members. He climbed on a slippery rock and lost his balance and fell into the river. We are still searching for his body,” he said. This is the fourth incident of tourists drowning in the Parvati river in two months. The fast-flowing rivers and rivulets of Kullu are one of the major charms for tourists. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-tourist-drowns-in-kullus-parvati-river/articleshow/80913689.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Schools hold back from RTE portal registration||PUNE: Students applying for admissions under the 25% reservation quota of the Right to Education (RTE) Act will be badly affected this year as nearly 1,300 fewer schools have registered on the admissions portal resulting in 29,000 lesser seats in Maharashtra. Monday is the last day for schools to register on the portal and display their seats under RTE. However, the poor reimbursement of fees to schools conducting RTE admissions has affected the schools, this year. The deadline for registering was extended twice. Nearly three lakh applications in Maharashtra are received for admissions under the RTE scheme. In 23 days since the registrations started, only 7,990 schools had registered as against the 9,331 schools, last year. Parents feel that they will lose the opportunity if all schools do not register. Nagnath Raut, a parent of a beneficiary student, said their elder son has been admitted to a private school under RTE about three years ago, and they were looking to apply this year for their younger son. “However, the portal does not show the school in which our elder son is admitted in the list. We are waiting for the website to update so that we can apply,” he said. There has been a delay in reimbursement of fees to the private schools and the issue has been pending for at least five years. Rajendra Singh, working president of Independent English Schools Association of Maharashtra, said, “After the government promises each year, all schools participate in the RTE rounds judicially and the admissions take place each year. However, we are left with no reimbursements as the government fails to fulfil its promises. Hence, schools are in a protest mode and this time, there will be no headway till the reimbursements are made.” The school registration process was limited till February 8 initially which was extended till February 10 and now the new deadline was set for February 15. Parents will start applying for vacant seats from the coming week onwards as per schedule declared earlier.  Around 390 schools in Aurangabad have registered for admissions under the Right To Education Act so far declaring a cummulative intake capacity of 2,587 seats under 25% reserved quota of the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-hold-back-from-rte-portal-registration/articleshow/80914962.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Three deceased were new recruits on ill-fated vessel||Mumbai/Thane: Anit Antony’s family was planning to get him married. Now, they are preparing for his funeral. The 31-year-old fourth engineer on offshore vessel (OSV) Greatship Rohini was among the three crew members who died in the fire at Bombay High on Saturday. All three deceased were new recruits on OSV Rohini who had joined one to two months back. The families plan to demand DNA tests to confirm identification of the bodies. T D Antony (64), a retired Mazagon Dock employee, said his son Anit had completed marine engineering while working at the docks. “He joined the vessel on December 12, 2020. He was passionate about his job,” the father told TOI. The family from Vasai Road is waiting for Anit’s body to be brought to the shore. “It is suspected that my son was trapped inside the engine room where the fire broke out,” said Antony. Anit is survived by his parents and a younger brother who is pursuing his Masters degree in Ireland. A sombre mood prevailed in Sai Darshan Dham society in Dombivli (W) as news of the death of Ranjit Sawant (49), an oiler on OSV Rohini, reached the family. “My brother was the sole breadwinner. He took care of his homemaker wife, son and our father,” Ranjit’s brother Chandrasen told TOI. Ranjit’s son is a third-year commerce student. Sawant worked in the shipping industry for nearly three decades. “During the lockdown, Ranjit had returned home. He resumed work only a month ago. It was his first trip in the new shipping company,” said a member of his family. At Borivli’s Khodiyar Nagar, relatives huddled outside an apartment on the first floor where Akshay Nikam (25), a fitter on OSV Rohini, lived with his uncle’s family. Nikam’s family is based out of Satara. “There has been no confirmation if Akshay survived or not. Once the ship docks on Monday and a panchnama is carried out, we are expecting more details,” said a relative. Akshay’s younger brother, who is a student, has come down to Mumbai. Akshay had joined OSV Rohini on January 21. His cousins said he had an experience of working on ships for two to three years. “He was just starting off with his career,” a friend said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-deceased-were-new-recruits-on-ill-fated-vessel/articleshow/80914976.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Farmers pay tribute to Pulwama martyrs||ALMORA: Several members of the United Kisan Morcha paid tribute to the Pulwama martyrs late on Sunday evening in the city’s Shikhar Tiraha area. They also remembered those who lost their lives in the Chamoli flash floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-pay-tribute-to-pulwama-martyrs/articleshow/80913694.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||Record Rs 42 lakh raised in 1 hour for Ram temple||LUCKNOW: Record Rs 42 lakh was collected at a programme organised by BJP state unit vice-president Daya Shankar Singh here on Sunday for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. The programme, which continued for about an hour, was attended not only by IAS and IPS officers, but also by the state bureaucracy and officers from the state police services. Members of the minority community also attended the programme and whole-heartedly donated for the Ram temple. The chief guest was kshetra pracharak of RSS Anilji and Kaushalji was a special guest. Oudh prant pracharak Prashant Bhatia coordinated the programme. Such was the enthusiasm that donors had to queue up outside the venue to wait for their turn . Speaking on the occasion, chief guest Anilji said that the Ram temple construction is a historic event and all should come forward to donate for the cause. Special guest Kaushalji said that Ayodhya would become a world class city soon. Lakhs of pilgrims would visit the Ram temple, triggering off economic activities in and around Ayodhya, he said. Daya Shankar Singh said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has visited Ayodhya 23 times to supervise the Ram temple construction work. It also showed his dedication for Lord Ram, he added. He claimed that no CM in the past ever worked for the beautification of religious places in the state. Yogi Adityanath is the first CM who is leaving no stone unturned to ensure beautification of not only Ayodhya but also Kashi and Vrindavan. “Today, festivals like Deepotsava are celebrated with great enthusiasm, while most CMs in the past were known for organising only ‘roza iftar’ parties,” he added. “The Ram temple construction would trigger an economic boom in Ayodhya as well as in UP as lakhs of tourists would start visiting the city and create jobs,” said Daya Shankar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/record-rs-42l-raised-in-1-hour-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80915493.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: As Covid loosens grip, focus on monkey business||NEW DELHI: The forest and wildlife department is looking to revive its plans to get a monkey census conducted in Delhi. Scheduled to commence in April 2020, the exercise was put on hold due to the Covid-induced lockdown. The subsequent financial crunch delayed the plans further. Forest officials said they had received fresh complaints about monkey-related problems in several parts of the city, prompting the proposal to be discussed again. The census was to be carried out by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) over a period of five years. The exercise will include identifying monkey hotspots and areas across the city where man-animal conflict is the highest. A senior forest official said the plan was put on hold with plantation work given priority over other projects after the city started to reopen. “We had a narrow window to carry out plantation work again and funds were diverted towards that. We are now looking at other projects again, including work on city forests,” said a senior forest official, stating discussions would be carried out with WII on the project. The five-year census was also supposed to include sterilisation by the third year. However, forest officials, said its duration might be brought down. “Some aspects may be adjusted and a fresh plan drawn. Once complete, the census can begin again and funds will be released for each year. Once we know the hotspots, work can be carried out in those areas on priority,” the official said. The census also aims to understand the dynamics of monkey groups and the possible routes some troops may be following. Based on these, sterilisation plans will be drawn. Aggressive monkeys would be targeted on priority, officials said. According to a 2018 status report submitted in the Delhi high court, the capital has approximately 25,000 monkeys at Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary. The simians have been transferred there since 2007, following an HC order. However, there is no clear estimate of the number of monkeys across the capital. South Delhi residents have, over the years, alleged that monkeys have been escaping the sanctuary and reaching other colonies. A forest official, however, dismissed the idea. “Monkeys are being fed by the forest department at Asola. If they have food security, why will they leave and go somewhere else to find food?” asked the official, adding that over 2,500 kg of food was being fed to the monkeys daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-covid-loosens-grip-focus-on-monkey-biz/articleshow/80913770.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 15, 2021||Vijayawada||YSRC, TDP workers clash in Guntur district||Vijayawada: Several persons were injured at Mulakaluru village under Nugendla mandal of Vinukonda assembly constituency in Guntur district after TDP and YSRC supporters clashed with each other. According to police, comments by an inebriated person over results of the panchayat elections sparked tensions between the two groups, leading to stone pelting. Elections were held at Mulakaluru on Saturday in which one Babu, a YSRC supporter, won in a closely-contested fight. On Sunday, an inebriated person publicly alleged they had been deceived in the election. His comments sparked tensions among functionaries of both parties who gathered in large numbers. A heated argument soon turned into a physical fight as both groups started pelting stones at each other. Cops rushed to the spot and dispersed the mob. Injured persons were shifted to Vinukonda government hospital and a picket set up to prevent further escalation. Meanwhile, at Kambhamapadu village under Nujendla mandal, tension prevailed for a while following disputes over the election of the vice-sarpanch. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-tdp-workers-clash-in-guntur-district/articleshow/80912755.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Young professionals use special collars to save strays from accidents||LUCKNOW: Shantanu Deep Singh (28) was travelling by road last month when he saw a speeding car running over a puppy. The sight kept haunting him all night. Next day, he shared his mind with three friends and they decided to embark on the noble initiative to tie reflective collars around the neck of stray animals to protect them from fatal accidents. The group comprising Shantanu, Himanshu Ranjan, Manish Mishra and Atul Tiwari tried to get help from civic agencies and NGOs but did not get encouraging response. Finally, they started making collars at home with jute and cotton by stitching reflective strips on them. Since the material was not strong and hurt the animals, the group switched over to soft elastic for collars which also dries quickly on getting wet. “We launched our campaign on Republic Day. So far, we have tagged more than 200 stray cattle and dogs on highways,” says Shantanu, a manager in a telecom company. “These reflectors have ensured the safety of animals as well as drivers,” says Atul, who has recently completed his training as sub-inspector from police training college, Moradabad. Sharing how difficult it is to tie a collar on a stray dog, Himanshu, a deputy manager in a technology company, says: “We have to be patient with them otherwise there is high chance that one may get bitten by them.” Manish, portfolio manager in a multinational bank, says he even takes collars when he travels for work and tie it on stray animals wherever he spots them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/young-professionals-use-spl-collars-to-save-strays-from-accidents/articleshow/80915297.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kanpur||Three-yr-old girl falls into borewell, rescued||Times News Network Kanpur: A three-year-old girl was rescued seven hours after she fell into a from a 12-ft borewell in Hamirpur district on Saturday. Himanshi, daughter of Satya Prakash Prajapati, a resident of Sisolar village in Maudaha town of the district fell in a borewell while playing and got stuck at 12-ft. After the family members failed to pull her out, they alerted the local police who immediately initiated a rescue operation. The local police, with the help of villagers, launched an operation soon after the incident which took place at around 3pm on Saturday. “The child had fallen in the borewell at an under construction site near her home in the Sisolar area. The girl’s family members were unable to pull out the child as the hole was very narrow. As the child was very young we were also unable to ask her to follow instructions to pull her out, therefore we dug up another pit with the help of a JCB machine parallel to the bore well and pulled her out,” said Sioslar police station incharge Rita Singh. A medical team present at the spot said that the child seemed unhurt. “The child was immediately rushed to the district hospital’s ICU after being rescued,” Singh said further. A similar incidence had occurred on December 2, 2020 when four-year-old Ghanendra fell into a 60-foot deep uncovered borewell in Budhaura village in Kulpahar police area in Bundelkhand’s Mahoba district but he could not be saved. He had fallen into the borewell when he was playing with his sister Rekha while their father was irrigating the fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-yr-old-girl-falls-into-borewell-rescued/articleshow/80914775.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Former Bar Council president shoots self, 2 arrested||JHANSI: Former president of Bar Council committed suicide by shooting himself with his licensed gun in Mahoba on Saturday late night and blamed a block pramukh, who is also a history-sheeter, and his son in his suicide note. The deceased Mukesh Pathak, an advocate who was former Bar Council president in Mahoba, had some financial dealings with Chhatrapal Yadav, who is a proclaimed history-sheeter having over two dozen cases against him. Yadav is also the block pramukh and a member of Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party. In his suicide note, Pathak said that Chhatrapal Yadav and his relatives have been constantly harassing and threatening him and his son and as a result he is taking the extreme step. Few days ago, Chhatrapal and his associates had brutally thrashed Mukesh’s son following which he had lodged a case against Yadav and three others. On Saturday evening, they had a meeting in a local hotel which was attended by some influential persons of the city to settle the matter but it ended without any conclusion. Mukesh shot himself late at night with his licensed gun. Police lodged a case against Chatrapal and his son Vikram under section 306 on Sunday and arrested the duo. SP Mahoba Arun Srivastav said, “Our police team has arrested the accused duo. The circle officer of the area has also been shifted.” Meanwhile, the Mahoba administration has recommended an SIT probe into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/former-bar-council-president-shoots-self-2-arrested/articleshow/80914800.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||First book bank for underprivileged children to come up in Luc​know||LUCKNOW: The humane side of men in khaki will again be on display when Lucknow Police sets up a book bank in the city to provide textbooks, competitive exam notes and free study material to underprivileged students. A brainchild of joint commissioner of police, law and order, Naveen Arora, the initiative is part of community policing. “We have other duties towards society as well, not just tackling crime,” said Arora. If a little help can help those from disadvantaged sections of society to expand knowledge and attain academic and career goals, why not make it to happen, he said. “We held talks with schools, unaided private school associations to lend support to our endeavour. A jeweller has promised to give space in Khurramnagar for setting up the first such book bank,” he said. Soon underprivileged students from any class and even those preparing for competition exams can access books for free. “An Aadhaar card or an ID-card of the institute where they are enrolled would be required for membership. Students will have the option of keeping the books or returning it after use,” the officer said. “Books will be sourced from NGOs and publishers, who print specimen copies,” the police officer said. The library science department has agreed to pitch in for upkeep of books and will train cops on ways to handle the library. A vigorous campaign about the book bank will be spearheaded on social media and through door-to-door campaign to motivate people to donate notebooks and study material on important occasions like birthdays and wedding anniversaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/first-book-bank-for-underprivileged-children-to-come-up-in-city/articleshow/80915181.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kanpur||Families in Behmai grieve, await justice four decades after carnage||KANPUR: It has been 40 years since the Behmai village in Kanpur Dehat witnessed the gory massacre of 20 men on February 14, 1981, leaving the entire country shaken. The families of the victims are still awaiting justice that has been eluding them even four decades after the carnage. Bandit queen Phoolan Devi and her gang had raided the village and killed 20 men. “The killing of my husband Lal Singh and 19 others by Phoolan and her gang left us in agony. The failure of the system in delivering justice is hurting even more,” said Munni Devi, who was just nine years old when she had been married, after paying tributes to her husband and others at the memorial in the village on the 40th anniversary of the carnage on Sunday. “I had never seen my husband as the ritual of ‘gauna’ was not held by then. My life was completely jolted when the news of Lal Singh’s death came. I had lost my parents and was being raised by my siblings. My brothers sent me to Behmai the next day to participate in rituals as a widow,” she recalled. Sumitra, widow of another victim Ram Singh was doing household chores when the gang arrived. “None of the men at home were spared. My husband and others were asked to stand in a queue. The dacoits then started firing from all sides. People did not have time to run away. Some fell prey to bullets immediately. There were no medical facilities nearby, so many injured died later,” Sumitra recollected. Among the 20 killed, there were 17 Thakurs, one Muslim, one Dalit and one OBC, while six were injured. The bereaved families got Rs 7,500 from the government as compensation. Rajaram Singh (85), the main plaintiff and witness in the case, died last year on December 13 2020 after prolonged illness and his fight for justice remained incomplete. Rajaram's two younger brothers Banwari Singh and Himmat Singh, cousin Naresh Singh, nephews Dev Singh, Hukum Singh and Dashrath Singh had been killed by the Phoolan gang. A local court of Kanpur had framed charges in the case in August 2012, 31 years after the massacre. Out of the 23 accused, 16, including Phoolan Devi, are already dead. Charges were framed against four surviving accused, while the court issued a non-bailable warrant against three absconders, Maan Singh, Ramkesh and Vishwanath alias Ashok. The special court (dacoity) had fixed January 2020 as the date for pronouncing verdict in the case, but it was adjourned several times since the original case diary was found missing from court records and a probe was ordered. “My father’s last wish was to see the accused hanged. Only God knows if we will get justice or not. We will get peace only when the killers are punished,” Ram Kesh, son of deceased Rajaram, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/families-in-behmai-grieve-awaitjustice-four-decades-after-carnage/articleshow/80914815.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Nature had been sending warnings regarding Rishiganga hydro project since two decades, say villagers||DEHRADUN: The Rishiganga hydel plant was owned by three private players starting from realtors to painters, but none had expertise in generating electricity in the Himalayas. And the locals had been continuously raising their voice against setting up the plant here. They had been warning them of facing the wrath of the deity and Mother Nature. The site was struck repeatedly by cloudburst, floods and landslides in 2008, 2011, 2103 and 2016. The most striking warning, locals said, came on August 15, 2011, when Rakesh Mehra, owner of a Ludhiana-based company came to the project site to inaugurate the trial run of a unit. He was struck by a boulder and died on the spot. “That very day we knew it was nothing short of a warning from Nature. Of the entire crowd standing there, the boulder only fell on him like a signal. This land is being converted into a shallow place by mining and tree cutting and mountain blasting. This had to happen,” said Kalawati Devi, 70, who had accompanied Gaura Devi in the 1973 Chipko movement to save the trees of Raini village. The hydel project, which was swept away in the flash floods on the fateful Sunday, has been plagued by problems since the very beginning in 1998, when a group from Kolkata was given land to construct the hydel plant in the para-glacial zone of the Niti Valley. The project didn’t see light of day for eight years. In 2005, the project was then bought over by Ludhiana-based Mehra who was killed on the project site in 2011. In fact, since the first day, the site was struck by repeated floods and tremors - in 2008, 2010, 2013 and 2016. In 2016, it was completely washed away in flash floods triggered by a severe cloudburst. “I was in Class IX when the land for this hydropower plant was purchased by outsiders in 1998. Ever since, we have seen this land turning into a hotspot for disaster. Today, our own Raini village is on the verge of collapsing,” recalled Sohan Singh Rana, grandson of Gaura Devi. Ignoring these ominous signs, another company from Delhi took up the project in 2018 and completed it in 2020. However, even before it could start its operations, the project was completely washed away again. According to the locals' century-old belief, Kaali Devi might be upset. “The villagers will soon assemble and may decide a date to call 'devta' to ask him, what is the actual reason behind this disaster?” said Avtaar Singh, a priest of Kaali temple. The deity is believed to be safeguarding the Niti Valley since time immemorial. “Our goddess Kaali is repeatedly sending us signals. Mother Nature is not happy here,” Dinesh Chandra, an elderly villager from Raini, was more forthright.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nature-had-been-sending-warnings-regarding-rishiganga-hydro-project-since-two-decades-say-villagers/articleshow/80913738.cms||Shivani Azad
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||Regular offline classes resumebut online option too remains||Lucknow: Most of the universities and colleges in the city will start full-fledged regular classes in the offline mode from Monday in consonance with the state government’s recent directions, but will continue with the online option for those students who are still wary of Covid-19 situation. In November, the state government had allowed higher education institutes to start offline classes by calling 50% students on alternate days. Now, as Covid-19 cases have come down drastically, the latest directives allow institutes to run regular classes with full strength, but after ensuring that there is adequate physical distance in the seating plan in the classroom and making all arrangements necessary as per Covid-19 protocol like sanitisation of classrooms, mandatory face cover and sanitisers. Accordingly, Lucknow University has issued an order to all its 180 affiliated colleges to resume classes. Most of the college managements TOI spoke to said that they will start classes, but also continue with online options and gradually shift to complete offline mode. Colleges where examinations are underway said that they will resume classes after papers are over. Officiating principal, Lucknow Christian College, Pranoti Singh said, "We will continue to offer online options because many outstation students have not been able to find a rented room in the city due to the pandemic situation”. National PG College principal Nirja Singh said, "We will start regular classes, but on the request of some students will continue with online options.” The same pattern will be followed by Avadh Girls PG College and Isabella Thoburn PG College. Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University and Dr APJ Kalam Technical University authorities also said that they will gradually adopt the full offline mode. Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University spokesperson Alka Singh said, "We have a number of outstation students, hence we have to make arrangements in the hostels before resume offline classes, preparations for which are underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/regular-offline-classes-resumebut-online-option-too-remains/articleshow/80915221.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||Ahead of forest fire season, all divisions on alert; awareness camps start||Lucknow: Beginning February 15, it will be crucial season for forests in UP, as they are susceptible to fires in this weather. In fact, UP has marked the period between February 15 and June 15 (or till the arrival of monsoon) as the season of forest fires. Because of high temperature and less moisture in the air, fires are most likely to happen in this time, particularly in forests with dry vegetation, which can trigger the spark. The forest department has issued instructions to all forest divisions to be on alert and ensure mechanism in place for speedy alerts and quick management in case of any such incident. Control rooms will be set up in the office of the divisional forest officers, conservators and at the headquarters for quick response to alerts. Massive awareness campaigns will be run in villages and towns close to forests and locals will be made aware about the huge loss that forest fires cause. “Even a ‘bidi’ thrown carelessly is enough to cause a fire. Educating locals about precautions to be taken during this season is important,” said sources in the department. A forest fire could either be a crown fire, which spreads through canopies, or a ground fire. In UP, crown fire has never taken place. “To control ground fires, maintenance of fire lines will be taken up,” said sources. A fire line is any pathway that can prevent fire from spreading. It could be a road cutting through the stretch or any narrow passage. The forest department may also clear ground vegetation in a patch of forest to break its continuity. Such passages have to be kept clear of everything that can add to the intensity of fire. Forest fires are monitored through satellite and alerts, if any, are generated by the website of Forest Survey of India. The website gives exact location of fire. DFOs have been asked to ensure that every officer in the division is registered in the website. Besides, precautions to be followed during fire reason will be displayed at forest outposts and other prominent public buildings and premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ahead-of-forest-fire-season-all-divisions-on-alert-awareness-camps-start/articleshow/80915323.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||BJP-SP tussle for council chairman post continues||Lucknow: As the budget session deaws closer, the Samajwadi Party’s move of serving a notice to table a no-confidence motion against the protem chairman of the legislative council Manvendra Singh of the BJP is all set to snowball into a major point of friction between the ruling party and the opposition. The budget session will commence on February 18 and the ruling party and the opposition have not been able to amicably resolve the contentious issue of having a full-fledged chairman in the legislative council or to continue with a pro-tem chairman. As of now, both the parties are sticking to their guns and consulting legal luminaries to score a political victory. Talking to TOI, Udaibir Singh, SP MLC, who has been spearheading a tireless campaign against the BJP to have its member on the seat of chairman, said: “We have already served two notices to seek a full-fledged chairman of legislative council. In the first notice we have clearly stated that as the pro tem chairman has completed his assignment of administering oaths to newly elected members the Lower House should now elect a full-fledged chairman. Besides, we have issued a notice to initiate a no-confidence motion against the pro-tem chairman. We have followed the Constitution in letter and spirit and the House cannot afford to ignore the no-confidence motion once it would be read out by a member on the opening of the budget session. Once the no-confidence motion is tabled, the protem chairman will have to go as we have a comfortable majority.” The SP MLC said that he has consulted the matter with constitutional experts who too are of the same opinion that the pro-tem chairman will have to go after tabling of the no-confidence motion. Contrary to this, a senior BJP MLC, who has been pursuing his party’s case, said that there have been a number of instances where the House was run by a protem chairman. “We will have a full-fledged chairman at an appropriate time,” he said. However, Udaibir Singh said that it was true that protem chairman has run the House for long on several occasions, but at that time no-confidence motion was not tabled against them. “The situation is totally different now and the party has already served a notice for the no-confidence motion which the chair cannot dump,” he said Meanwhile, a senior functionary in the office of the chairman said that the no-confidence motion notice has been received and legal experts’ opinion was being sought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-sp-tussle-for-council-chairman-post-continues/articleshow/80915503.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow’s 40 police stations get Aarogya Vatika||LUCKNOW: Medicinal plants were planted by Navbharat Times (NBT) and the Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP) at 40 police stations in Lucknow police commissionerate under NBT’s Aarogya Vatika campaign on Sunday. While the main function was held at Chowk Kotwali, plantation was carried out at all the other police stations simultaneously. At least 20 saplings were planted in each police station. One officer each was deployed at each police station to supervise the plantation drive. The medicinal plants included tulsi, giloy, ashwagandha, stevia, lemon grass, Indian gooseberry and khas, among others. Addressing the gathering at Chowk Kotwali, Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur said Aarogya Vatika campaign brought the humane side of the police to the fore by bringing positivity in life. He also planted a sapling on the occasion. CIMAP director Pramod Kumar Dwivedi said Aarogya Vatika campaign was the talk of the town. “It has helped in reviving people’s interest towards medicinal plants,” he added. “These medicinal plants help in boosting immunity which protects us from many diseases,” said Tilakram Yadav, a policeman. Many said the initiative should also be extended to other parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/citys-40-police-stations-get-aarogya-vatika/articleshow/80915233.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Goa||Draft coastal plan allows tourism infra in NDZ||PANAJI: Making leeway for the high footfalls Goa’s beaches receive, the draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP) has allowed for creation of tourism-related infrastructure in no-development zones provided they are not in ecologically sensitive areas (ESA).  Among the infrastructure permitted to be set up in NDZs of beaches are parking facilities, toilets, changing rooms, floating jetties, sewage treatment plants, solid waste collection systems, lifeguard towers and cabins. The draft CZMP also permits events and weddings in NDZs. “The state of Goa is popular for its beaches and there are high footfalls on the beaches in Goa thereby making it essential to provide adequate infrastructure for visiting tourists...in No Development Zone areas except in ecological sensitive areas,” the draft CZMP report has stated. A senior officer said that the state government had specifically recommended several inclusions, including permission to temporary structures in NDZs along the coast and river/estuary banks, except for where the area is marked as ecological sensitive in CZMP plan. The officer said that among the other recommendations made by the state, which find mention in the draft CZMP, are floor space index to not exceed 0.33, open area to suitably landscaped with appropriate vegetation cover, overall height of temporary structures to be capped at 9m and two floors (ground plus one). The state had also recommended “swimming pools not exceeding 50sqm in area shall be permitted. The draft CZMP maps should depict mangroves in khazan lands as mangroves in khazans and also there should not be a buffer for mangroves in khazan lands”. The senior officer said that for any major infrastructure project in CRZ areas that require environmental impact assessment (EIA) studies, consultation, etc, prior in-principal approval should be obtained from the state government before the project is placed in the public domain. There are about 100-odd applications for reconstructions and regularisation of dwelling units pending before the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) for want of final notification of the CZMP as per CRZ Notification, 2011. Similarly, there are state government projects pending, which includes toilets and changing rooms at various beach stretches. “The final notification of the CZMP will help the authorities in deciding the various violations in the CRZ areas. The final CZMP will also help the fishing community to construct dwelling units between 100 to 200m along the coast. It will also facilitate construction of fisheries- related infrastructure with the NOC of the local panchayat,” the officer said. The state government recommendation not to increase coal handling at the Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) has been mentioned in the draft CZMP report. At present 12 MTA coal is handled at MPT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/draft-coastal-plan-allows-tourism-infra-in-ndz/articleshow/80915417.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||KGMU to set up 3 super-speciality departments; revive liver, kidney transplants||LUCKNOW: Three super-speciality departments — cardiovascular surgery, thoracic surgery and medical oncology — will come up at King George’s Medical University. The university will also revive its liver and kidney transplant units in the coming months. This was announced by KGMU vice-chancellor Lt-Gen (retd) Bipin Puri at a press conference here on Sunday. These projects will be in addition to several initiatives planned by the university for the coming months. “Recruitments for these three departments have been done. We have the infrastructure and hopefully all three departments will start functioning soon,” said the VC. Until now, the cardiovascular thoracic surgery department provided surgical treatment of all organs inside the thoracic cavity, including heart and lungs. It was overburdened with work. Now, the two units of this department will be developed as full-fledged super-speciality departments, thus reducing waiting periods for patients. Cardiovascular surgery department will offer surgical treatment of all issues related to heart, including arteries, veins, and lymphatic circulation, while thoracic surgery will provide interventions for organs of the chest, including lungs, food pipe, trachea and chest wall. On the other hand, until now the oncology (cancer) treatment through medicine was part of the medicine department. Now, a separate department is being carved out to provide all cancer related medical procedures like drug therapy, chemotherapy, immunotherapy and other non-surgical treatment under one roof. For surgical treatment of cancer, KGMU already has surgical oncology unit. Regarding the liver transplant unit, which has been lying defunct for two years, Prof Puri said that efforts are underway to remove all obstacles to revive liver transplant. “Besides, we are in the process of appointing a nephrologist to revive kidney transplant unit,” he added. The liver transplant was stopped at KGMU in July 2019 because of lack of coordination, while kidney transplant hit a roadblock following resignation of few faculty members in the field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-super-speciality-depts-at-kgmu-soon-liver-kidney-transplant-units-to-be-revived/articleshow/80915207.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||6.9L land disputes disposed of in2 months under Varasat Scheme||Lucknow: The state government has settled over 6.9 lakh land disputes under the ambitious Varasat campaign envisaging issuance of land documents to its possessors. The programme was launched by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on December 15 last year. A state government spokesperson on Sunday said the novel idea aimed at resolving pending land disputes in rural areas with the promise of ‘Aapki zameen, aapka adhikar, sabko mile apna uttaradhikar’. “The Varasat campaign is being conducted in five stages with a battery of 24,000 lekhpals and 2,700 revenue inspectors of revenue department who are visiting villages to gather information and dispose of complaints,” he said. According to the government, 6,98,164 complaints were disposed of in last two months and the remaining are in different stages of resolution. “More than 10,000 cases have been referred to various revenue courts. Besides, the government is also giving the facility to people to apply through customer service centres (CHCs),” he said. The district administration will now randomly identify 10% of revenue villages and check the facts given in the report of lekhpal. Due to the efforts of revenue officials, cases have been settled amicably in Azamgarh, Prayagraj, Hardoi, Jaunpur, Ghazipur, Ambedkarnagar, Ayodhya, Sultanpur Gonda, Ballia, Gorakhpur, Kaushambi, Pratapgarh, Unnao, Lakhimpur Kheri and Sitapur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/6-9l-land-disputes-disposed-of-in2-months-under-varasat-scheme/articleshow/80915337.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Navi-mumbai||API shoots himself inside police station in Navi Mumbai, dies||NAVI MUMBAI: A 42-year-old assistant inspector Bhushan Pawar attached to APMC police station in Navi Mumbai shot himself in the chest by using his service revolver on Sunday. He was rushed to MGM hospital in Vashi, but was declared dead on arrival. DCP (zone-2) Shivraj Patil, in-charge of zone-1 said, “API Pawar was on sick leave for a month and had resumed on Sunday itself. Around 11.30 am, the staff heard a bullet shot from his cabin and rushed to find him lying in a pool of blood as he had shot himself. No suicide note was found.” The lower ranks in the Maharashtra Police force have been plagued with stress and anxiety from overwork, not getting to spend enough time with their families and suffering from lifestyle diseases like diabetes and hypertension. “Personnel between sub-inspector and inspector rank are often stressed as they are transferred every three years which affects their family life. Their children have to keep changing school or college. Often, these officers are unable to buy a permanent accommodation. Compared to other public servants, salaries in the police force are not on par with the work we do,” said an officer on condition of anonymity. Police commissioner Bipin Kumar Singh said, “We will inquire from all possible angles, whether API Bhushan Pawar committed suicide due to financial reasons or personal issues. He shot himself while talking to his wife over mobile.” He further added, “The mental stress of cops in Navi Mumbai police department does not seem to be related to housing problems, low salary or working hours. It might be due to personal or health issues and can be tackled through counselling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/api-shoots-himself-inside-police-stn-in-navi-mumbai-dies/articleshow/80914988.cms||George Mendonca
February 15, 2021||Delhi||An idea blooms: Modern flower market to come up at Ghazipur in under three years||NEW DELHI: In a move that could help the pandemic-hit flower trade bloom again, Delhi government has kicked off the process to revamp the Ghazipur flower market, the biggest in the NCR. A new complex with a multi-storey building and cold storage facilities has been planned at the current wholesale market site, which would be of immense help to traders who deal in the highly perishable product. Delhi Agricultural Marketing Board (DAMB) plans to modernise both the flower and poultry wholesale markets at Ghazipur and work is expected to start soon. The flower market sources its produce from not only different parts of India, but also South-East Asian countries and Europe. The flowers are then sold to other parts of India. The 400-plus shops in the market function out of sheds located next to grimy lanes. Lack of proper cold storage facilities means that most of the produce has to be either sold the same day or dumped as garbage as the flowers wilt quickly. The revamp of the market, however, would mean that all traders would have shops-cum-office spaces with cold storage facilities, apart from outlets for commission agents. The massive revamp to be done at a cost of Rs 197.4 crore would see a four-storey building with a huge basement come up on the current market’s 10-acre site. The “modern flower market” would not only have the latest cold storage facilities, but the entire complex would see new internal roads and better arrangements for water supply, sanitary installations, internal and external electrical works, an electric substation and a new fire alarm and fire fighting system, etc. The central structure would have a basement spread over 26,550 square metres, which would not only be used for parking vehicles but also have the cold storage with locking systems for traders to store flowers. The ground and three upper floors would have 222 outlets for wholesalers with sheds and cold storage facilities and 192 commission agent shops with cold storage. The covered area of the ground floor would be 5,530 square metres, 4,760 sqm for the first floor and 5,165 sqm for second and third floors. The first floor would have the provision for offices for traders, the second floor would be used for commercial purposes and administrative offices and the third floor would have offices for small traders. The makeover project has been delayed many times due to different reasons, including getting permission from various authorities. The project was approved in the DAMB budget passed in January 2019 and was expected to be completed by December 2020, but the pandemic put a spanner in the works. DAMB is an autonomous body of Delhi government that aims to establish and regulate wholesale agricultural produce markets in the city. It also creates a platform for farmers and growers to facilitate the sale of their produce through an open auction system. There are seven wholesale agricultural produce markets in Delhi under the superintendence and control of the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/an-idea-blooms-modern-flower-market-to-come-up-at-ghazipur-in-under-3-yrs/articleshow/80913805.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Offline exams catch parents by surprise||NEW DELHI: Reena Khurana, whose son studies in Class XI at a private school in east Delhi, didn’t send him to attend classes when the institution reopened on February 5. But now with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) asking schools to conduct offline examinations, she has no option but to follow the guidelines. “I did not send my son to school because we were worried. Now, we have no options left if the schools are saying that exams will be held offline,” the mother of the science student told TOI. Ever since the reopening of schools was announced, parents and students had been demanding holding online exams. Some parents had even complained to Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) stating that schools were forcing students to sit for physical exams. ALSO READ: CBSE Sample papers Class 12 2021: Books for commerce studentsThe school that Sushil Kumar’s daughter attends is yet to issue guidelines for the exams, but he feels that online classes should continue and exams should also be held in that mode. “Till the time vaccination reaches a wider section of the population, schools should not be opened. If a child contracts the virus at school, the entire family will get affected by it,” he added. Another parent said, “The online exams are already proctored and strictly invigilated. Continuing with the practice should not be a problem.” CBSE, in its order, said, “For classes IX and XI, schools should take steps to identify and remedy the learning gaps and conduct examinations by strictly following the Covid-19 protocols as per examination bylaws. This exam will also help in identifying learning gaps that could be addressed in the new academic session by having bridge courses.” Even the Delhi government had issued an order for conducting offline exams. After the announcement was made, students flooded social media platforms with the hashtag #OnlineExamsfor9thand11th. “The schools are saying that students will not be promoted to Class X if they don’t attend school. But I think they should take the opinion from parents if they want online or offline exams for students of these classes,” said a parent. Some schools, however, were conducting surveys to seek the opinion of parents. “We are yet to decide on the circular issued by CBSE. There is nothing certain for now,” said Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School. Tagore International School said it would be seeking clarification from DCPCR and CBSE over the matter. Madhulika Sen, senior advisor at the school, said, “We will be speaking to DCPCR and CBSE this week to get some clarification. It is important to conduct offline exams so that we can identify the learning gaps that need to be addressed in the new academic session.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/offline-exams-catch-parents-by-surprise/articleshow/80917492.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||Dark stretches, dug-up roads forsewer project trigger traffic chaos||with pics Lucknow: Driving from Parivartan Chowk to Indira Gandhi Planetarium has become a challenge these days, particularly in the night, due to digging work for laying of pipelines for smart sewage project. More than 25,000 commuters ply daily on this 2km stretch. A side of the road, which is the connecting link between the main and old city, has been closed because of digging work due to which traffic jams have become a routine feature. It takes 45-60 minutes to travel the distance which earlier took only 5-10 minutes.The situation gets worse after the sunset as no streetlight works on the route leaving commuters depend on the lights of their vehicles. This situation is expected to prevail for at least another month. Project manager of Jal Nigam Piyush Kumar said, “The private company roped in for the work is trying to complete it at the earliest. Some part of the road near Parivartan Chowk has already been repaired.” Officials said that the new sewage system was being laid in areas like Parivartan Chowk, Kaiserbagh and City Station, diversions were not possible on most of the routes. They added that the police department would instal barricades and manage traffic. According to LMC officials, streetlights have been switched off as a precautionary measure as digging work is on. Streetlights recive electricity from underground wires. However, people said civic agencies should make alternate lighting system and ensure traffic management. Chandresh Gupta, a resident of Husainabad, said: “My workplace is near Sikander Bagh and I have to use this stretch to reach my workplace. Initially, some traffic cops were deployed to manage traffic movement. But no one cares about traffic jams on the route any longer. I leave my home for work at least an hour early. Sometimes I get stuck in the traffic for more than an hour.” “One day I saw an ambulance, possibly going towards KGMU, stuck in the traffic for at least 20 minutes. Thankfully, no patient was being taken to the hospital. Besides jams, the condition of roads is so pathetic that I had to get the suspension of my car fixed twice in the last one month,” said Gunjan Asthana, a commuter. Shambhu, who sells a coconut water on the route, said: “I have seen at least three accidents during evening hours in the last few months. Those riding two-wheelers get injured as they are not able to balance their vehicle on bad roads.” Lucknow Jal Nigam is laying smart sewer pipeline in Kaiserbagh, Daliganj, Parivartan Chowk, Golaganj, Wazirganj and Nazirabad areas. The new pipelines are expected to solve waterlogging in the old city during monsoon. Jal Nigam officials said the sewer lines under the manholes would be fitted with a sensor/transmitter which would get activated after coming in contact with sewage sending an alert to the command and control centre to clean the pipelines. This will check overflowing of sewage. The total cost of the project is Rs 3.1 crore. Once completed, Lucknow will become the second city after Visakhapatman to have the UGD monitoring system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dark-stretches-dug-up-roads-forsewer-project-trigger-traffic-chaos/articleshow/80915272.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kanpur||Family of Pulwama martyr Shyam Babu pay tributes, install his statue in village||Done/ALVI\ With pic Faiz.Siddiqui@timesgroup.com Kanpur: The family of martyr Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan Shyam Babu installed his statue and organize a ‘Shanti-Path’ at the memorial in his native village (Raingawan Majra Nonari) in Derapur area of Kanpur Dehat on the occasion of the second anniversary of Pulwama attack on Sunday. Shyam Babu was one among 40 CRPF jawans who was killed in a terrorist attack in Pulwama on February 14, 2019. The relatives of the martyr and the villagers thronged Raingawan Majra village on Sunday to attend the ‘Shanti-Path’ ceremony and pay tributes to him. Shyam Babu, after passing his intermediate exam from Gandhi Inter College, joined CRPF in 2007 after completing his graduation. He was the eldest among two siblings, and got married in 2014, said his family members. “My in-laws and other relatives have decided to install a statue of my husband at the memorial on the second anniversary of the Pulwama attack on Sunday. They have spent money from their own pocket,” said Ruby, Shyam Babu’s wife. “The statue at the memorial will be a great gift to me and my children. To motivate the village youngsters to learn from Shyam Babu’s sacrifice, his family has installed his statue at his memorial in the village”, she added. “The youths of our village should learn from his valour and sacrifice”, said Ram Prasad, Shyam Babu’s father.The family gave a surprise to the relatives, villagers and people’s representatives and invited them to join the statue installation ceremony. “We had no clue about the programme. We were quite upset and were expecting that the authorities will install the martyr’s statue, but we really feel proud of his parents and siblings, who pooled money on their own,” said Rakesh Kushwaha, a local and added “The authorities had also promised to build `Amar Shaheed Dwar’, a road and a park in the martyr’s name, but all these promises are yet to be fulfilled.” He said that his (Shyam Babu) father had toiled hard for the education of his elder son. And even sold his 10 biswa agricultural land to raise money for his son’s education.” “This is a moment of pride for our entire family when we saw people thronging my home to pay tributes to my son and shower respect on us. I feel like asking the youngster’s of my village to follow Shyam Babu’s footsteps,” said Shyam Babu’s mother Kailashi Devi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/family-of-pulwama-martyr-shyam-babu-pay-tributes-install-his-statue-in-village/articleshow/80914770.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Three Karnataka districts see 99% Covid recovery rate||BENGALURU: Three districts in Karnataka have achieved 99% Covid-19 recovery rate as against the state’s average of 98.1%. Yadgir district in north Karnataka tops the list with 99.3% recovery rate, followed by Mandya with 99.1% and Bagalkot 99%. The data is dynamic and varies daily based on the number of new cases, discharges, deaths and active cases. In Bengaluru, the recovery rate has been 97.9%, with 3,926 active cases. In Bagalkot, there has been only one case reported in the past 7 days, and there are only 5 active cases as on February 12. ‘All districts inching towards 99% recovery’In Mandya there are 34 active Covid cases; in Yadgir, it’s 9. Overall decline in the Covid cases is a major factor, observe experts. According to Dr MK Sudarshan, chairperson, Covid Technical Advisory Committee, the mortality rate has gradually reduced across the state, which is one of the major factors contributing to the recovery rate. “People are forthcoming about testing and are aware of the consequences. Because of the increased testing, there has been early diagnosis. Hence, there are not many cases of delayed presentation. As the number of Covid cases have reduced, the quality of care, attention to patients in hospitals has improved,” said Dr Sudarshan. He said the understanding of the disease has gradually improved a lot and availability of required medicines like Remdesivir is not an issue. The current Covid management in the state is much different from what was done in early last year, said Dr Anoop Amarnath, geriatrician, member of Critical Care Support Team (CCST) for Covid management in the state gover nment. “In April 2020, we started focusing on data points, logistics of the treatment. By June, the screening and treatment standardisation got established in a phased manner. Now, there is a lot more awareness on when to intervene and the golden-hour treatment,” said Dr Anoop. He added that the standardisation of treatment protocol, screening has helped in treating all respiratory diseases through the guidance provided via tele erounds held with all districts. “Earlier, they were making individual decisions to know the criteria for ICU admission, based on the set protocol. This helps in the long run in overall treatment care,” said Dr Anoop. Dr KV Trilok Chandra, head of Critical Care Support Unit for Covid-19 patients in the state, said the overall Covid fatality rate is less than 1% in the state and most districts have no Covid patients in ICU. “All districts are inching towards 99% recovery. From July to October, there was an increase in the caseload and patients were coming in very late. Now, the increased testing clinical management and ICU capacity in all the districts have improved. That’s why we have 99% recovery rate in some districts,” explained Dr Trilok Chandra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-ktaka-dists-see-99-covid-recovery-rate/articleshow/80915959.cms||Sunitha Rao R
February 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Delhi cops pick up 22-year-old girl from Bengaluru for sedition in Greta Thunberg toolkit case||NEW DELHI/BENGALURU: Ten days after filing an FIR in connection with the farm protest “toolkit” tweeted and subsequently deleted by Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg, Delhi Police’s cyber cell arrested 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi in a hush-hush Saturday afternoon raid on her Chikkabanavara home, north Bengaluru. She has been charged with sedition and criminal conspiracy, among other offences. The daughter of an athletics coach, she has been remanded in police custody for five days. “Disha Ravi, arrested by CyPAD unit of Delhi Police, is an Editor of the Toolkit Google Doc & key conspirator in document’s formulation & dissemination. She started WhatsApp Group & collaborated to make the Toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the doc,” Police said in a statement tweeted on Sunday. “In this process, they all collaborated with pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State. She was the one who shared the Toolkit Doc with Greta Thunberg,” it said. Disha, who is a BBA from Mount Carmel College and works with a start-up promoting plant-based foods — she’s a vegan — broke down in the Patiala House courts on Sunday and said she had edited only two lines in the toolkit. Two more suspects on police radar; raids onPolice, however, alleged in their statement that Disha’s role in framing the toolkit was “many times more than the 2 lines editing that she claims”. Citing technical evidence, police claimed that it was Disha who asked Thunberg to “remove the main doc after its incriminating details accidentally got into public domain”. Sources in Bengaluru police said there was no prior information about a five-member cyber police team arriving from Delhi to arrest Disha, one of the early members of an environment campaign called Fridays for Future that is run by Thunberg. “Delhi Police team arrested Disha and took her there after informing jurisdictional Soladevanahalli police station,” Dharmender Kumar Meena, DCP (North), said. Investigators are looking for two more suspects identified as Shantanu and Nikita, and raids are being conducted in Mumbai and a couple of other places to arrest them, officials said. Disha will be questioned to glean more information about her alleged associates, they added. Police allege a conspiracy to resurrect a Khalistani group against the Centre and are ostensibly looking for “bigger players apart from these foot soldiers”. Disha came on police radar because her IP address figured in the list of toolkit editors. The cops sought technical inputs from Google and some internet service providers to compile the list. February 4 tweetDelhi Police had tweeted on February 4 about taking cognisance of “a toolkit document found on a social media platform that predates and indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy behind the January 26 violence”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/delhi-cops-pick-up-22-year-old-girl-from-bluru-for-sedition-in-greta-toolkit-case/articleshow/80915961.cms||Rajshekhar Jha
February 15, 2021||Delhi||As Pragati Maidan revamp finally nears conclusion, hopes rise of smoother ride||NEW DELHI: Pragati Maidan was to have completed its redevelopment by December last year. Due to hurdles raised by the Covid-19 lockdown such as shortage of labour and the pollution-forced ban on construction, Public Works Department now hopes to finish the work only by the end of March 2021. While officials claimed the tunnel, a part of the project, was almost complete, as were four of the six underpasses, there were tasks remaining on the fittings and electricity connections. A PWD official maintained that the agency had done as much work as was possible given the constraints in 2020. “Despite the labour shortage and the other problems we faced, we have still been able to wind up work at even pace,” claimed the official. A big cause of the delay was the ban imposed on construction due to pollution. The delays have escalated the project budget, estimated at Rs 932 crore, to Rs 1,000 crore. With over 95% of the 1.2-km tunnel under Pragati Maidan ready, the official said that all construction activities would come to an end by March. TOI visited the site recently to see at first hand the sections of the project that had been finished. The tunnel that will connect India Gate with Ring Road via Purana Qila Road/Mathura Road was dimly lit. The PWD officials asserted that there would be LED lights illuminating the “world-class road running through the tunnel” soon. . The six-lane tunnel is expected to reduce the traffic snarls caused by three major traffic intersections on the stretch. It had been decided earlier that the tunnel and underpasses would be opened for use together after the completion of all work. But, with the labour shortage (TOI was told that only 70% of the required manpower was at work), it is likely only at March-end or the first week of April. The two T-junctions from Bhairon Marg on Ring Road and Mathura Road were to be thrown open for public use earlier than the segments of the redeveloped infrastructure. Now, these too are expected to be inaugurated along with the underpasses. However, since the underpass on Bhairon Marg might take more time since the work there is proceeding at a slower pace than at other sites. Officials disclosed that the painting of the walls would begin soon. They said people should watch out for depictions of India’s famous monuments on the walls of the tunnel. If the March deadline is met, the commute on Mathura Road, Ring Road and Bhairon Marg will ease a lot. The project seeks to make Mathura Road — from the ITO W-point to Delhi Public School — and the Bhairon Marg-Ring Road intersection signal-free through the use of the underpasses. The main beneficiaries will be the motorists headed to east Delhi from south and Lutyens’ Delhi through India Gate and ITO. The vehicles going to south Delhi from ITO will also have access to the tunnel from Mathura Road, and this will provide a much-needed alternative to Bhairon Marg, especially during rush hour. Two of the five underpasses on Mathura Road are near Sunder Nagar and three between Pragati Maidan and the Supreme Court. Another underpass connects Ring Road with Bhairon Marg. Two elevated clover-leaf roundabouts on Ring Road are being built for south- and north-Delhi-bound vehicles emerging from the underpass. Both roundabouts are on the verge of completion. The U-turns on Bhairon Marg and Subramaniam Bharti Marg crossings are also being replaced with elevated U-turns, allowing more space to the vehicles going towards ITO. Instead of traffic signals, the three crossings on Sher Shah Road, Bhairon Marg and Subramaniam Bharati Marg will have all-access underpasses for south-bound traffic. Two more U-turns are to be constructed at Sunder Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-pragati-maidan-revamp-finally-nears-conclusion-hopes-rise-of-smoother-ride/articleshow/80913820.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Worker suffers 90% burns in fire at Tarapur factory||Mumbai: A worker suffered serious burn injuries in a fire that broke out at a bulk drug manufacturing company in Tarapur MIDC in Boisar on Saturday. The fire started at Bajaj Healthcare Limited’s plot N-128 around 12.15 pm. A worker, Nilesh Borse (29), sustained 90% burns. He has been moved to the National Burns Hospital at Airoli, Navi Mumbai. Another worker whose blood pressure shot up on seeing the fire is being treated at a local hospital. He is out of danger. A preliminary probe suggests that a spark could have occurred in the reactor, resulting in an explosion and the fire, said Manish Sawant, officer of Boisar MIDC fire brigade. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/worker-suffers-90-burns-in-fire-at-tarapur-factory/articleshow/80900179.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Delhi||North Delhi corporation report: Teachers are killing time, action needed||NEW DELHI: While several initiatives like online education, smart classes, science clubs, etc, are given credit for improving education standards for 3 lakh students of 715 schools under North Delhi Municipal Corporation, random inspections continue to expose glaring deficiencies at the very basic level. During one such inspection carried out on Friday by the assistant director, research and extensions wing of the education department, at a school in Jhandewalan, teachers were found absent and other violations like no checking of homework were also observed. The inspection report stated that “teachers of the school were just killing time and disciplinary action was required against all.” A senior official from the education department said that violations like dereliction of duty were being found in multiple schools after classes were moved online last year. “An inspection was carried out on Friday in MCPS Jhandewalan school, Karol Bagh zone, around 9am. The school has six teachers and 274 students in its records,” the official said. The inspection report said that on Friday, only 159 students were present in the online mode, while the rest were categorised as offline/not traceable. No effort was done to trace the missing students, it added. It was also found that the teacher had marked his presence at 7.50am, but he was absent. “He returned back to school at 9.20am. Teachers were also not habitual of checking worksheets, neither in online nor offline mode,” the report said. The inspection report also said that the attendance app was not downloaded by teachers and officials, despite repeated reminders. The new attendance app, which records the coordinates of the user, has been a cause of contention between teachers and the administration. While teachers say that it violates their privacy, civic officials argue that it is necessary to tackle the problem of absenteeism. Teachers’ union Shikshak Nyay Manch Nagar Nigam said these inspections were being used to put pressure on teachers. “We have not been paid for several months and now they want us to download this app. It is being done to break the striking teachers,” he added. A showcause notice has been issued to all teachers of the Jhandewalan school and an explanation has been sought in two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corpn-report-teachers-are-killing-time-action-needed/articleshow/80913827.cms||Paras Singh
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||CA opens fictitious export companies to claim ITC of Rs 11 crore, held by CGST||The Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) department on Saturday arrested a Borivli-based chartered accountant (CA), Sandesh Chandak, for opening fictitious export companies and claiming an Input Tax Credit (ITC) to the tune of Rs 11.15 crore. In January, the CGST had initiated an investigation against a company called Shreeji creations owned by one Nilesh Mehta. Mehta said that while he was the proprietor of the said firm, the business was entirely run by Chandak. Chandak admitted that he had taken the GST registration number of the firm with the sole intention of routing certain transactions through it to enhance the firm’s turnover. He also said that he issued invoices without supply of any goods or services. — Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ca-opens-fictitious-export-companies-to-claim-itc-of-rs-11-crore-held-by-cgst/articleshow/80915004.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Class XII girl get stepfather held for killing mother, sister||RAJKOT: An alert girl got her foster father arrested for the murder of her mother and sister whom he had killed and thrown into an decades-old drainage pipe near port town Gandhidham on February 12. When the 45-year-old man, Sanjay Singh Ojla, returned home after committing the crime, his 21-year-old foster daughter Saroj alias Reshma noticed that his clothes were stained with blood. Ojla told her that he had fallen off the bike and suffered injuries. However, when Saroj inquired about her mother Simran and sister Sonia (13), Ojla told her that they had gone to relative’s house and that they would return in the morning. Saroj, who studies in Class XII in a school in Gandhidham, got suspicious and alerted her neighbours. She then went to the police station where Ojla too followed. When cops grilled him, he confessed to have killed Simran and Sonia. Investigation revealed that Ojla was a liquor addict that often came home drunk after which he used thrash Simran. He even suspected her of having an extra-marital affair. Meanwhile, Sonia had been longing for a turtle as a pet. On February 12, Ojla offered to take her and Simran to the nearby seashore on his bike to get the turtle. The women had no inkling that he had hatched a plot to kill them and went along with Ojla. He, however, took them to a nearby forest area and killed them. Ojla then dumped the bodies in the long drainage pipe built by the Kandla port. When Sonia and Simran did not return in the morning on Saturday, Saroj became suspicious and talked to his neighbours. She went to the police along with her neighbour and Ojla followed them to the police station. On being questioned by cops, the accused admitted to his crime. On Saturday and Sunday, police and teams from Gandhidham municipality fished out Simran’s body and efforts are on to trace Sonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/class-xii-girl-gets-father-arrested-for-killing-mother-sister/articleshow/80912808.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Delhi||North corporation revives plan for Delhi’s first pig slaughterhouse||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation has revived the project for setting up Delhi’s first modern mechanised pig slaughterhouse in northwest Delhi’s Rani Khera. A 10acre plot has been identified for this purpose and the project has been incorporated in the civic body’s budget proposals for 2021-22, along with creation of a new gaushala with capacity to hold 2,000 cows. The project will be executed on public-private partnership (PPP) basis and help of NGOs will be taken, the standing committee chairperson Chhail Bihari Goswami said. He added that the trade of pork is currently disorganised with open slaughtering of pigs in pockets of the city. After Ghazipur slaughterhouse — where only buffalo, sheep and goats are currently processed — this will be the capital’s second modern abattoir facility. The idea for such a facility ,which will cater to the NCR region, was mooted long back in 2009, but was marred with delays due to lack of availability of land and poor financial state of the civic body. According to the estimates of the civic bodies about 1,500-2,000 pigs are consumed in the capital on everyday basis. A senior corporation official said that “At present, there is no slaughter house for pigs in Delhi and pork sellers have been slaughtering the pigs openly without disposing of the by-products, which sometimes poses health hazard. The new abattoir will help in regulating the trade.” “The pork shops are scattered all over Delhi, but the business is highly unregulated. Our role as of now is limited to issuing challans if the pork is found to be in insanitary condition. In the Rani Khera facility we will have everything from pig rearing hutments to packing the processed meat at one place. This streamlining of pork trade will also prevent any outbreak of disease,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corporation-revives-plan-for-capitals-first-pig-slaughterhouse/articleshow/80913867.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Bareilly||Kin of youth who died on January 26 march from Rampur to Ghazipur||BAREILLY: Relatives of Navreet Singh -- the Rampur youth who died near ITO crossing during January 26 violent protest-- along with scores of farmers took out a march from Rampur to Ghazipur demanding probe into his death. The protesters reached Ghazipur on Sunday and pledged that “they will continue to protest peacefully.” Former finance minister of Punjab, Parminder Singh, also took part in the protest march. Navreet’s family had been alleging that he died of a bullet injury while Delhi Police stated that he was killed when his tractor overturned. People in cars, tractors and bikes joined the march which started on Saturday evening. Navreet’s grandfather Hardeep Singh Dibdiba later went to Punjab to attend ceremonies being organised to commemorate Navreet’s death. He told TOI, “We are sure that if the facts and evidence are checked thoroughly then the truth will come out. I am sure that there were miscreants behind this act.” While former minister Parminder Singh said, “We are here to ensure justice for Navreet. Delhi Police didn’t follow the right procedure. They didn’t secure the crime scene and didn’t conduct the autopsy on the body in Delhi.” Earlier Rampur’s additional SP Sansaar Singh had said that the autopsy was done in Rampur as “there was law and order issue in Delhi”. The Delhi high court has sent notices to the Delhi government, Delhi Police, UP Police, the chief medical officer of District Hospital at Rampur, where the post mortem was carried out. The court has sought their stand on the petition moved by Navreet's grandfather. The court directed Delhi Police to file a status report with regard to the investigation on or before the next date of hearing on February 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kin-of-youth-killed-during-jan-26-violence-take-out-march-seek-probe-into-his-death/articleshow/80912828.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man held for vulgar pics sent to teen||MUMBAI: A 20-year-old student who allegedly sent obscene photos, stalked and abused a teenager he met on Facebook, was arrested by D B Marg police. A UP native, Rajkumar Morya was arrested for outraging the modesty of women, stalking and under the IT Act. According to the police, the teenage girl, who works an insurance agent in UP, met Morya on social media. They exchanged numbers and stayed in touch on WhatsApp. “The teenager had gone to Lucknow for work, where she met Morya. After that, the accused started sending obscene pictures,” said an officer. When she objected, he abused her over the phone. In the first week of February, she lodged a police complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-held-for-vulgar-pics-sent-to-teen/articleshow/80915016.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Cong to hold dharnas, demand rollback of gas and petrol prices||New Delhi: Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress held a demonstration at Rajiv Chowk demanding rollback of cooking gas and petrol prices on Monday. The party plans to hold dharnas in the five municipal wards going for bypolls this month. Former MLA Alka Lamba and president of Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress Amrita Dhawan on Monday said both the BJP and AAP governments had kept their mouth shut, even as prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas have broken through the roof. They added that the Kejriwal government, which rode to power on the strength of the “aam aadmi” votes, was silent, even as they were being crushed under the weight of soaring prices of cooking gas, petrol and diesel. Both the members also claimed that the Modi government had so far collected Rs 20 lakh crore on excise duty on petrol and diesel and had not spared people from tax burden even during the lockdown. They demanded Delhi government to immediately reduce VAT on petrol and diesel so that Delhiites get some relief. Lamba claimed that with another sudden hike of Rs 50 in cooking gas on Sunday, an LPG cylinder in Delhi now costs Rs 769 now, which was Rs 594 in December 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cong-to-hold-dharnas-demand-rollback-of-gas-and-petrol-prices/articleshow/80935055.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Second leg of electric vehicle drive to focus on three-wheelers||NEW DELHI: Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Sunday launched the next leg of the Kejriwal government’s Switch Delhi campaign, which focuses on sensitising, informing, and encouraging Delhiites to adopt electric three-wheelers in the city. “Two and three-wheelers contribute to two-thirds of pollution in Delhi. Three wheelers run for 12-16 hours a day. The focus of Delhi EV policy on this segment will greatly benefit the air quality,” said Gahlot. Switch Delhi is an eight-week mass awareness drive to sensitise Delhiites about the benefits of switching to electric vehicles on the environment and about the incentives and infrastructure being developed under Delhi’s EV policy. “E-autos can complement e-rickshaws in providing zero pollution last-mile connectivity in Delhi. The government will soon bring out a scheme to facilitate easy registration of e-autos in the city,” he added. While e-rickshaws have a top speed of not more than 25 kmph, e-autos are comparable to CNG autos, and have a top speed of 50-60 kmph. Delhi government provides a subsidy of Rs 30,000 on e-rickshaws, but now, under the EV policy launched last year, the same has been extended to e-carts/loaders and e-autos. Purchase incentives of up to Rs 30,000 per vehicle will be provided, and scrapping incentives of up to Rs 7,500 available for scrapping and de-registering old CNG autorickshaws registered in Delhi. Road tax and registration fees will also be waived for all electric three-wheelers. “The subsidies provided by the government under the policy on electric three-wheeler autos will reduce the total cost of ownership by up to 26%. By switching to electric three-wheeler auto, an individual buyer can save approximately Rs 29,000 annually,” he said, adding that subsidies provided on electric three-wheeler e-rickshaw reduce the total cost of ownership by up to 33%. Under the policy, 177 three-wheeler models are available and eligible for purchase and scrapping incentives across 68 manufacturers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/second-leg-of-ev-drive-to-focus-on-three-wheelers/articleshow/80913934.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Surat||After lull, Covid-19 cases crawling up again in Surat||Surat: After a brief lull, the number of Covid-19 cases in the city appear to be rising gradually even as vaccination targets have been achieved and the next phase begins today. It is feared that the political rallies in the run up to the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) polls and marriages could potentially halt the downward spiral in infections that has been witnessed over the last one week. SMC is gearing up to start the second dose of the vaccination from Monday for healthcare workers who had taken the first dose in the earlier round, but the slight increase in the number of Covid-19 cases has become a cause of concern. In the last week, the number of positive cases has doubled in the city to 49 as on February 13. However, there have been no Covid deaths in the last 10 days. In fact, SMC has issued an advisory to people asking them to wear masks while attending public functions like weddings and other gatherings. "People are avoiding wearing masks while attending public functions, which resulted in an increased number of Covid-19 cases in the city again. Moreover, there are a number of marriage functions to be held on February 15 and February 16 in Surat city. We advise wedding organizers not to permit entry into the venues to all those who are not wearing masks. Boards of 'No Masks No Entry' should be put up to halt the spread of virus,'' SMC said in a statement. Close to 1,247 healthcare workers, who had taken the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on January 16, will take the second dose on February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/after-lull-covid-19-cases-crawling-up-again-in-surat/articleshow/80913927.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||School attendance up from 1.11 lakh to 2.46 lakh in 10 days, batch staggering starts in Nagpur district||NAGPUR: The overall school attendance percentage in Nagpur district has shot up by 20% since restarting of Std V to VIII classes in city schools last Monday. As against around 1.11 lakh attending physical classes, the strength has gone up to 2.46 lakh in the entire district, including NMC limits, as on February 10. As per official data, 6.50 lakh Class V to XII students are enrolled in 2,780 schools in the district. Until February 8, 1,778 schools had seen 59,052 students attending physical classes for middle school. Before this, 52,357 of Std IX to XII were attending since January 4, making up 1,11,409 students. On February 9, TOI had reported that only 10% middle school students had returned to class after reopening. From 59,052 in the district then, the figure has zoomed to 2,46,119 comprising Std V to XII. Hosting fewer students had worked to the advantage of schools, who so far thanked their stars there has been no instance of a student catching Covid while attending physical classes among the 2.46 lakh students. Yet, 104 teachers have been found positive till February 10. Some schools have already started dividing each class into smaller batches to keep their number of students at 25. Bengali High School principal Madhu Joseph said, “Alternate day classes have been started as per roll number. We are repeating the syllabus on both days. Even if the numbers go further up, alternate day would be the best option.” Zafar Ahmed Khan, president of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA), said, “Not more than 25 students are allowed in one classroom. If a student has cold, cough or sneezing, we call the parents and send him back. Classes are being held only for 3 hours. I have appealed to parents not to let their wards attend any function and keep them secure for sometime till schools are going on.” Khan added that the association has also appealed to teachers as well to follow SOPs. He demanded that since the numbers are going up, government should now support schools with contingency funds to maintain safe environment. “Daily Rs3,000 to Rs4,000 are spent on sanitizers and other items to meet Covid norms,” he said. The attendance in private schools is still not at par with aided ones. South Public School principal Mrunalini Dasture said attendance is not picking up. “Some 25% students are coming. One reason is that right now revision is going on as we had completed the syllabus in online classes in November. We are encouraging and asking parents to send their kids but some are not willing. From Monday, we are starting classes for Std V to VII,” she said. SHCA vice president Ashok Gavhankar thanked teachers, saying after all it is team work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-attendance-up-from-1-11-lakh-to-2-46-lakh-in-10-days-batch-staggering-starts/articleshow/80913909.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Gangster on the run for last 22 years held||Mumbai: A former member of Amar Naik gang, Manish Shetty, who was on the run for 22 years in the alleged kidnapping case was nabbed by the city crime branch on Thursday. The 1991 kidnapping case of a Custom House Agent from Andheri to Rajasthan, was not a stray case as he was already associated with some dreaded gangsters like Amar Naik and Kumar Pillai. In Mumbai alone, Shetty has four offences of extortion, robbery and cheating registered against him. Acting on the tip, the crime branch unit 8 led by inspector Sanjeev Gawde and Deepak Sawant nabbed Shetty with a country made weapon and three cartridges from Vile Parle area on Thursday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gangster-on-the-run-for-last-22-years-held/articleshow/80915024.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Sharjah to Nagpur flight resumes after 11 months; 23 of 60 flyers quarantined, 37 exempted||NAGPUR: After 11 months, one of the two international flights — from Sharjah — resumed operations at city airport on Sunday. Of the 60 people who arrived, 23 were quarantined and remaining 37 got exemption. Following pandemic, flights from Sharjah and Doha were stopped on March 24. Once a daily flight, the Sharjah aircraft will arrive here once a week on Sundays till February 28. The decision to continue once a week or at higher frequency is likely to be taken on March 2. A 15 member team of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and MIHAN India Limited (MIL) received all passengers. Two doctors and one nurse of the civic body reportedly checked temperature and oxygen saturation level of all flyers. NMC additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Nipane told TOI, “We gave 37 flyers exemption from 7-day quarantine. There were seven couples with children below five years so total 21 were exempted. Remaining 16 were given exemption for other reasons, like cancer patients, arrived for attending funeral etc. Some were from other districts so respective district administrations were alerted. RT-PCR test of all these people is supposed to be done on 5th day and all have to strictly follow home isolation norms.” Nipane added the remaining 23 passengers were informed in detail about two types of facilities for institutional quarantine at airport itself. “Four of them had already booked rooms in a private hotel before landing here. Eleven others too wished to stay in private hotels. Eight were quarantined at VNIT Hostel as they wished to avail free of cost quarantine facility provided by NMC. I thank MIL officials as well as staff of the airlines, who had already guided flyers about system of 7-day quarantine along with paid and free facilities before landing here,” he said. NMC engaged five city buses with a driver, attendant and two security guards. Four buses took 15 flyers to seven private hotels and one bus ferried 8 to VNIT hostel. On the confusion created by NMC regarding paid and free quarantine facilities, Nipane said, “Government guidelines say international flyers have to be quarantined in paid facilities. The NMC took decision to also provide free quarantine facility. The same was done when flyers from Europe, Middle East and South Africa arrived in November and December last year,” he said. Two air passengers who opted for paid quarantine said they were clearly explained both options. They opted for paid quarantine and there were no problems at the airport, they said. One of the air passengers said resumption of Sharjah flight to the city came as a relief for him. “I used to come via New Delhi or Mumbai earlier,” he said. Some of the flyers had mentioned in airport’s note they were workers and laid-off so they were returning. Among the 15 who were quarantined in private hotels, 10 are residents of the city, one of Kamptee, two of Mumbai and one each from UP and MP. Some of the flyers had done RT-PCR tests and were negative before boarding the flight. Nipane also said RT-PCR test of all those in VNIT quarantine centre will be done by NMC free of cost. “We will also provide free test facility to those in private hotels. Charges will be taken only if they wish to get the test done from private laboratories,” he said. As per NMC guidelines, they will be discharged after seven days if they are negative in RT-PCR test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sharjah-flight-resumes-after-11-months-23-of-60-flyers-quarantined-37-exempted/articleshow/80913950.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 15, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Recite 20 Thirukkural couplets, get 1 litre free petrol at this pump||TRICHY: A private petrol pump in Karur district is motivating young minds to learn Thirukkural by offering them free petrol over the last few days. School students can drive in with their parents, recite Thirukkural and get away with petrol free of cost. The petrol pump owned by Valluvaur Agencies near Nagampalli village in Aravakurichi introduced the offer on January 16 on Thiruvalluvar Day. As many as 176 people have made use of this offer in the last two months. A minimum of half-a-litre petrol is given to a student who can recite ten couplets of Thirukkural and one litre petrol for 20 couplets. The scheme will be in place till April 31, said K Senguttuvan, 62, who is the owner of the petrol pump. He said the lockdown has made children glued to smart phones draining their time and energy. To channelize their energy in a positive way, he decided to encourage them towards learning Thirukkural. The students can also avail the benefit multiple times, but they should not recite the same couplets again. The petrol pump management notes down the couplets that the students are going to recite besides noting down their basic details. “While petrol price has crossed over Rs 90 per litre, we wanted children to use the opportunity to ease the financial burden of their parents by reciting Thirukkural. The scheme will also attract the attention of parents who would make sure their children learn Thirukkural for free petrol. Our purpose was to inculcate the interest among children towards Thirukkural,” he said. “We are not going to leave it with just petrol,” said Senguttuvan adding that the students and parents will be called to Valluvar College of Science and Management in Karur owned by him and will be oriented on making a ‘Thirukkural way of life’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/recite-20-thirukkural-couplets-get-1-litre-free-petrol-at-this-pump/articleshow/80913933.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 15, 2021||Trichy||TTV: Sasi will explore options to contest poll||Trichy: AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran has said that V K Sasikala will explore all legal options for contesting the assembly election. He was in Thanjavur to attend a marriage of a party worker on Sunday. “The grand reception for Sasikala on her return from prison is an indication of how people would vote during the upcoming election. She was a victim of conspiracy and people realised it,” Dhinakaran said adding that he is hopeful of his aunt contesting the elections. “Voters in Tamil Nadu know whom they should vote for to bring back the real rule of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. AMMK was started with that sole objective and we will achieve it,” he said. He said AIADMK ministers indulged in corrupt practices during the last four-year rule. “All their powers will cease in the next 15 days as soon as announcement for the assembly elections comes. “You all know where these ministers will go in case DMK comes to power in the state,” said Dhinakaran in response to claims of AIADMK ministers that party functionaries who went behind him end up nowhere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ttv-sasi-will-explore-options-to-contest-poll/articleshow/80913935.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Surat||International e-conference on ‘Being Covid-19 Anti-fragile’||Bharuch: A two-day international e-conference on ‘Being Covid-Antifragile: The Sustainability and Growth Perspective’ began at Bharuch on Saturday. It is being hosted by the Narmada College of Management, Bharuch, in collaboration with Tolani Motwane Institute of Management Studies, Adipur, Som-Lalit Institute of Business Management, Ahmedabad and Universal Business School, Sydney. Focusing on qualitative research and the aspects that make a quality research paper, Prof Dr Sushil from IIT, Delhi talked on ‘Qualitative Research – What and Why.’ Another session on ‘How to write and publish quality research papers in A grade journals’ was presented by IIM, Ahmedabad. A paper was presented on economic, environmental and social and ethical sustainability. Prof Dr Andrew West, dean, Universal Business School, Sydney, stressed the importance of anti-fragility in designing systems so that they not only withstand events like Covid-19 but also emerge resilient and stronger thereafter.A total of 96 authors participated and presented 55 research papers. The academician and researchers were from India and Australia. The conference was addressed by GTU VC Prof Dr Navin Sheth, Deputy VC Group Colleges, Australia, Prof Greg Whateley, Prof Dr George Chobanov, Sofia University, Bulgaria among many others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/international-e-conference-on-being-covid-19-anti-fragile/articleshow/80913963.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Salinity check, erosion mapping for Sunderbans’ eco-restoration||Kolkata: City-based NGO Nature Mates has started a year-long ‘Sunderbans Ecological Restoration’ project to mitigate the impact of cyclone Amphan. It aims to bring back the ecosystem in key areas to its pre-Amphan state. The cyclone, earlier in May last year, had largely eroded embankments, destroyed mangrove forests, raised salinity in ponds and farmland and dislodged people’s livelihoods on the delta. The project, with support from a foundation based in the Europe, also eyes to empower locals to face such devastation in a more robust manner. “We have successfully completed several pond restorations in Amphan-hit areas like Pathapratima and erosion mapping. Mangrove plantation has also started in many areas in and around high-risk zones,” said Arjan Basu Roy, secretary of Nature Mates. The primary goal, according to Basu Roy, is to restore the ecology through plantation and create food and water security for locals with the help of community conservation model. “Through this model, we hope to reach out to over 500 families in building their livelihoods post-Amphan. This project will turn around several lives and make Sunderbans ecosystem robust,” said Diya Banerjee Sur, a team lead for the project. Sur said they have tested 200 ponds and treated 40 with proper chemicals to reduce water salinity. “After three months, salinity level of 40 ponds has significantly reduced.” A team member said the large-scale devastation in the region could not be mitigated through just temporary relief. “Hence, this enormous task of re-building ecology and lives of people here,” he said, adding that Vijaygarh Jyotish Ray College has also collaborated in the project. Basu Roy said erosion mapping would guide them on plantation pattern — selecting plants based on areas where they fit the best.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salinity-check-erosion-mapping-for-sunderbans-eco-restoration/articleshow/80913959.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Lok Adalat held to amicably settle traffic challans descends into chaos||NEW DELHI: The Ghar-Ghar Lok Adalat that was organised on Sunday to settle unpaid traffic challans turned chaotic outside the court complexes and another 33 locations with several people being forced to return home without being able to complete the task. In east Delhi, people stood in three queues for over an hour, but there was only one person to attend to them. Delay was also caused due to a glitch in the system at one of the schools. At Dwarka, entry was stopped in a government school due to a large crowd. Also, some people were not wearing masks. A similar scenario existed at Patiala House Courts where people kept pushing each other to make their way in. While some managed to settle their dues, many called it a mismanaged system. Ashok Sen, a private sector employee who had reached Patiala House from Noida to pay his speeding fine, had a traumatic experience. “There was not enough parking space and people had left their cars on the roadside. At least 500 people were standing in the queue and pushing each other to get in. Some people claimed the server was down, which was leading to the delay. Social distancing had gone for a toss. They should make the process online so that people don’t need to crowd during the pandemic,” he said. Many took to Twitter to voice their grievances. Rajiv Kumar Chandiok tweeted: “Today, the virtual court became unvirtual in Delhi. One cannot settle because of huge rush at various centres of Lok Adalat. You cannot even pay virtual court challan online. Due to technical errors, the website gives the messages, captcha not correct or mobile number does not exist.” Delhi Traffic Police in coordination with Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) had organised the Lok Adalat for amicable settlement of dues on Sunday. Apart from the city courts, 33 other locations in community centres and schools were set up to pay the fines. The exercise was held in all district court complexes, including Tis Hazari, Karkardooma, Patiala House, Saket, Rohini and Dwarka. Kanwaljeet Arora, secretary, DSLSA, said, “I admit that the crowds were huge, but one also needs to understand that there are at least 80 lakh challans that need to be settled. On Sunday, we managed to sort out only around 1,58,000 challans.” “Additional locations apart from court complexes were identified for the convenience of people. The traffic server was down for a bit, but we sorted out the issue quickly. We will again conduct a Lok Adalat on April 10. We had even asked RWAs to assist us. This was successful at some places. Some residents had come on their own,” added Arora. Many people alleged that they stood in queue for around five hours, only to return empty handed. Others alleged that a few used their “contacts” to get backdoor entry and easy access. Kartik Jain tweeted: “Lok Adalat at VSPK and SSCBS college was such a sham. Gross mismanagement. Only people with reference and contacts got to settle their cases, while the common man waited for hours outside the gates that were closed at 2.30pm instead of 3.30pm. I reached there at 9.50am and found 500+ people waiting outside the gates. There was a back gate through which people with contacts got in and settled their cases. Meanwhile, we were told that the server was down and had to stand in queue for five hours after which we were asked to go home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lok-adalat-held-to-amicably-settle-traffic-challans-descends-into-chaos/articleshow/80913985.cms||Sakshi Chand
February 15, 2021||Trichy||Woman cop dies as car rams bus||Trichy: A woman police constable attached to armed reserve police unit in Madurai was killed in a road accident near Perambalur on Sunday. The victim was identified as Uma Vasuki. She, along with her police training batch mates, identified as Chithiraivel, Nirmala and Veera Raghavan, were travelling from Madurai to Kallakurichi via Perambalur in a hatchback. In the early hours of Sunday, the car while nearing Siruvachur on Trichy- Chennai NH, rammed a bus moving ahead of it. The bus had applied a sudden break leading to the accident. While three of the occupants sustained injuries, Uma Vasuki died on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-cop-dies-as-car-rams-bus/articleshow/80913956.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Delhi||141 new cases, occupancy rate in hospitals drops to less than 10%||New Delhi: Delhi recorded 141 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths on Monday, even as the positivity rate rose to 0.36% . Total 39,065 tests were conducted the previous day, according to the latest health bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The infection tally in the city rose to 6,37,087, authorities said. No death from Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Saturday, the second time in February when the single-day fatality count was nil. On February 9, no fatality from the coronavirus infection was registered in the city, after a gap of nearly nine months. Also, on February 5 and February 7, the fatality counts were two on both days, same as on February 2. Delhi had recorded 96 coronavirus cases on January 27, the lowest in over nine months, and the first time the daily incidences’ count had stood below the 100-mark in that month. On Sunday, Delhi had recorded 150 Covid-19 cases and two deaths, while the positivity rate had stood at 0.26%. The active case tally on Monday slightly rose to 1,036 from 1,031 the previous day, according to the bulletin. Nearly 38% of active cases of Covid-19 in Delhi are recuperating under home isolation. All Covid Health Centres are vacant and even in hospitals, the occupancy rate has dropped to less than 10%. However, officials said, there was no immediate plan for further de-escalation of facilities. Of the 5,765 beds reserved for treating persons suffering from the viral infection, data available on the Delhi Corona app shows, only 465 are occupied. With decline in new cases, demand for beds has gone down. Lok Nayak Hospital, which is run by Delhi government, has 300 beds for Covid-19 at present of which 268 are lying vacant, said an official. The hospital was designated for Covid-19 management during the peak of the outbreak and recently the government allowed it to start non-Covid services in view of continuous decline in new cases of the viral infection. Other hospitals like AIIMS, Safdarjung and Guru Tegh Bahadur have also increased the intake of non-Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/141-new-cases-occupancy-rate-in-hospitals-drops-to-less-than-10/articleshow/80935225.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Entire hotspot pocket testing in one go, retest must: Experts||NAGPUR: While welcoming the NMC’s decision to make RTPCR testing compulsory for ‘superspreaders’ like vendors, hawkers and maids, city doctors and experts feel that the civic body must focus on worst hit pockets of the nine emerging hotspots and ensure all of them are tested within two days. They also cautioned that NMC needs to first identify how many of people from this working group have already tested positive before making any move. Senior pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat said the concept of superspreader was coined at the start of the pandemic and may not be relevant now. “More than these people the authorities need to check many other hotspots of infections. It is good to get them tested but it has been proved that you don’t get infected by talking or coming in contact with someone within a short span. How much time do we spend with a vendor or vegetable seller?” he said. Dr Arbat added that in case this group of individuals has already been infected, then testing them will be a waste of resources. Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed, director of Crescent Diagnotics Lab, said hotspots testing is important but in one way. “Within a big area, there are certain lanes, bylanes and colonies which are reporting many Covid cases. These may not have more than 4,000 to 5,000 people and all of them can be tested in two days,” he said. Dr Ahmed said if all the people are not screened in one go, then the exercise will prove futile. “Also, a second test after seven days must be done in these hotspots as those testing positive may have close contacts with others who are infected,” he said. Door-to-door screening begins With Covid-19 positive cases on rise in the city for last few days, NMC teams have started screening of people going door-to-door. As per NMC, new cases are high from nine localities — Khamla, Wathoda, Dighori, Swawlambi Nagar, Jaitala, Jaripatka, Jafar Nagar, New Bidipeth and Ayodhya Nagar. Teams have been formed for each area. Each team is covering 50 households in a day from Saturday. They will inquire about health of people especially senior citizens and persons with comorbidities. Oxygen saturation level and temperature will be taken. Testing will be done in case symptoms are seen. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B had directed owners of all shops and hotels to get tests done of all their employees once in a month. All ten zones were directed to hold meetings with associations from Monday and test hawkers, vendors selling vegetables, milk, delivery boys and staff engaged in courier services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/entire-hotspot-pocket-testing-in-one-go-retest-must-experts/articleshow/80913969.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Brother refuses money for liquor, killed while asleep||MUMBAI: A 22-year-old unemployed man was arrested for allegedly bludgeoning his elder brother to death after the latter refused to pay for his liquor, the police said. According to inspector (crime) Vijay Mutadak, Wagle estate police station, the incident occurred, Saturday morning, at the chawl tenement of the More brothers in Ambika Nagar, Wagle estate. “Ganesh fought with his brother Rupesh the earlier night and following morning when he spotted his elder brother sleeping alone at their house, in a fit of rage, he picked up a spice grinding stone lying nearby and smashed it on his napping brother’s head killing him on the spot and fled," said Mutadak. As the accused was not to be seen for a long time and neither was he accessible on his mobile phone, the police suspected his role and following a complaint from his younger brother, tracked him down to Bhandup in Mumbai for where he was picked up later Saturday and was arrested under section 302 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/brother-refuses-money-for-liquor-killed-while-asleep/articleshow/80915042.cms||Manoj Badgeri
February 15, 2021||Trichy||Aavin to set up ice cream plant in Trichy||Trichy: Aavin has floated a tender to construct an ice cream plant with a capacity of 6,000 litres per day at the Aavin’s Kottapattu complex on the Trichy-Pudukkottai national highway. The plant, proposed at a cost of Rs 43 crore under the dairy processing and infrastructure development fund (DIDF), will also get a fermented dairy production unit with a capacity of 10,000 litres/day and allied infrastructure. Officials said that Trichy was selected for the proposal as it would reduce the cost of transportation involving expensive cold chain mechanism to central and delta districts. The ice cream plant will get the required ingredient preparation section, refrigeration units, freezing equipment and packing devices under a common roof. The same plant will also get allied infrastructure such as curd, buttermilk and lassi sections to produce fermented dairy products. Aavin has been till now sourcing ice creams and fermented dairy products from their plant in Chennai. Since the reception for the products were overwhelming among customers, mainly due to its cheaper pricing, Aavin management has planned to decentralise the ice cream production by establishing a production unit outside Chennai. “Work order to launch the construction work could be released in the next few months. The construction activities may go on for one year,” an official source with Aavin said. The proposal made under Nabard’s financial support also includes effluent treatment plant (ETP) for safe disposal of wastewater. Sources said that infrastructure development at the Aavin Kottapattu unit will also benefit livestock owners as the dairy unit may increase procurement capacity of milk to produce the value-added products locally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aavin-to-set-up-ice-cream-plant-in-trichy/articleshow/80913965.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Median railings, tree-plant drive on Hudco-Ruby stretch||Kolkata: The 10km EM Bypass stretch from Hudco More to Ruby Island will get a cleaner and greener look. The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) is engaging agencies to paint and take up other works of roadside kerbs and median railings along with plantation and maintenance of greenery or median garden along the stretch. KMDA Officials said the railings on road medians in many places of EM Bypass are developing corrosion. The fresh coat of paint will make a protective layer on the railings and give them a cleaner look along with the roadside kerbs. The authorities will also replace the stone kerbs, if found damaged. The agencies that will be selected will be asked to complete the work within 15 days from the date of its commencement. The officials said five persons each will be engaged per day for six months in two separate stretches for the upkeep of the green verge on the EM Bypass. The agencies will be responsible for manuring, watering, cleaning and plantation on the green zones for six months. The authorities are also planning to set up vertical gardens on 10 to 15 pillars of Maa flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/median-railings-tree-plant-drive-on-hudco-ruby-stretch/articleshow/80913995.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 15, 2021||Surat||Over 5,000 youths take part in 24-hr global fest||Surat: Youth from more than 20 countries across the globe participated at the SRMD Global Youth Festival, organised by Shrimad Rajchandra Mission Dharampur, based in Valsad's Dharampur town on Sunday. “The 24-hour festival was built on the holistic 5S approach of Satsang (Spiritual Wisdom), Seva (Selfless Service), Sadhna (Wellness Inside-Out), Sanskruti (Celebrating Cultures) and Sports,” the organisers told TOI. Motivators like Dr Deepak Chopra, Ronnie Screwvala, Dean Idalene Kesner and Aditi Govitrikar delivered inspiring sessions on self-development, determination and stress management. In a statement, founder of SRMD Rakeshbhai said, “Youth have the drive but need the direction. They have the wings, and if eyes are given, they can soar high in the spiritual skies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/over-5000-youths-take-part-in-24-hr-global-fest/articleshow/80913990.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Trichy||Man ends life, kin allege harassment by financier||Trichy: A 32-year-old man committed suicide in Perambalur district after not being able to retrieve his land that was pledged with a financier to avail loan. The family members of the victim alleged that the financier had harassed the victim by not returning the land even after the loan amount was repaid. Police said C Jesudoss hailing from Annamangalam attempted suicide by consuming pesticide on February 7. He was rushed to Perambalurgovernment hospital and was later referred to Trichy GH. However, he died at Trichy GH on Saturday. Meanwhile, the victim’s wife Clara Rani lodged a complaint at Arumbavoor police station claiming that her husband ended his life due to harassment from a money lender identified as R Maria Joseph, working as a headmaster of a government school near Annamangalam. In 2011, Jesudoss had pledged his 1.8 acres of land in Annamangalam as a security to avail Rs 2.35 lakh as loan. The pledged land was said to be transferred to Maria Joseph. Jesudoss’s family claimed that he had repaid Rs 6.25 lakh, which included the sum borrowed along with the interest, to the Maria Joseph but the land was returned to Jesudoss. The victim’s family staged a protest on Sunday with Jesudoss’s body at Annamangalamto-Veppanthattai road demanding action against Joseph for harassing the victim.Police said that a case has been booked under IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide) TNN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-ends-life-kin-allege-harassment-by-financier/articleshow/80913970.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Trichy||‘Big vehicle can’t always be liable for accidents’||Madurai: It is high time that all stakeholders reviewed the mindset that the driver of the bigger vehicle was responsible for road accidents involving big and small vehicles, as seen in a majority of first information reports (FIRs) registered, the Madras high court has said. The court was hearing an appeal by the Pudukottai transport corporation challenging the order of motor accidents claims tribunal (MACT) that had awarded compensation to an accident victim. The deceased Govindaraju was going to school along with three of his friends, Venkateshwaran, Prasanth and Gowthamanraj on a two-wheeler in Pudukottai in 2011. Prasanth who rode the vehicle attempted to overtake a lorry when a speeding government bus which came in the opposite direction collided with the two-wheeler and Govindaraju died.The MACT had awarded a compensation of Rs 6.6lakh in 2015 holding the bus driver responsible for the accident. Challenging the order, the transport corporation preferred the present appeal. The transport corporation counsel submitted that the person driving the two-wheeler had tried to overtake the lorry without noticing the bus, thus inviting the accident. Also, four people were travelling on the two-wheeler and since the deceased also contributed to the accident, he was liable for contributory negligence.Justice K Murali Shankar said two-wheelers are designed for only two people to travel and anyone taking more than two will be committing an offence and is punishable under Section 128 of the MV Act. If a rider takes more than two people on his two-wheeler, his sitting posture would change and he would lose control. The judge observed that it is high time for all who are dealing with motor accident claims to review the mentality in considering the plight of the injured victim or the legal heirs of the deceased victim sympathetically and awarding compensation in accidents which occurred by violating the laws and rules. In this case, since four grown-up students had travelled on the two-wheeler, the court held that the rider and all pillion riders are guilty of negligence. Partially allowing the appeal, the judge directed the claimants to bear 50% of the amount awarded by the tribunal for contributory negligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/big-vehicle-cant-always-be-liable-for-accidents/articleshow/80915037.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Nearly 15,000 take the jab in city||New Delhi: Vaccination of people above 50 years of age in Delhi is going to start from next month. On Monday, a total of 14,965 individuals, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, turned up at Covid vaccination centres to get the shot. The vaccination was carried out at 268 locations in government and private hospitals. The number of healthcare workers taking the second dose of Covid vaccine increased on Monday with 2,191 healthcare workers turning out for the second dose in the capital. During the last vaccination session on Saturday, only 1,856 healthcare workers turned up to get the shot. The administration of the second dose of Covid vaccine started from Saturday. Covid vaccination protects against coronavirus only when the individual takes two shots. The overall turnout was 55.8%, higher than 52.7% reported a day ago. The total number of vaccinated persons crossed 2 lakh. So far, 2,06,151 people have got inoculated in the capital. In the first phase, vaccine will be given to 51 lakh people, including 2.5 lakh healthcare workers and 6 lakh frontline workers. Remaining about 42 lakh people either above 50 years of age or below 50 but with comorbidities have also been kept in the priority group. “The central government has announced that vaccination of people above 50 will start in March. The vaccination of this group will start in Delhi too as per the Centre’s guidelines,” an official said. Currently, the vaccination turnout is largely driven by frontline workers. On Monday, 8,203 frontline workers, including security personnel, police personnel and sanitation workers, turned out for the drive while the number of healthcare workers turning out was just 4,571. Only seven adverse events were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nearly-15000-take-the-jab-in-city/articleshow/80935261.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Trichy||Second list of charges ready: Stalin||Nagapattinam: After handing over a 97-page “corruption list” against Tamil Nadu ministers to governor Banwarilal Purohit, the DMK’s second list of charges against the state’s rulers is getting ready, party president M K Stalin said on Sunday. Addressing a public meeting at Kilvelur in Nagapattinam district, he also sought to ridicule Prime Minister Narendra Modi raising the hands of the chief minister and deputy chief minister in Chennai as an acknowledgement of their corruption. Speaking at Poompuhar earlier in the day as part of the third phase of “Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin” campaign, he said all projects and schemes cancelled by the AIADMK regime would be revived after the DMK assumes power. “Palaniswami is acting as if he is doing something good for the people of Tamil Nadu barely a month ahead of the assembly election, just as students resort to studies a day before the examination. However, people can see through it. All grievances of the people would be resolved within 100 days of DMK assuming charge,” he said. He asked chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami whether he would take up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was in Chennai during the day, the establishment of AIIMS in Madurai, exemption for NEET, the release of Rajiv Gandhi case convicts, Mekedatu dam project and pending GST dues to Tamil Nadu. He would not as his regime was a slave to the BJP, Stalin said. Replying to questions raised by Soundrapandian, a disabled man, on enhancing financial assistance and giving priority for them in government jobs, Stalin recalled various schemes implemented by former CM M Karunanidhi for them during his tenure. He also assured to implement several welfare schemes including smart card for disabled people. He assured that the ordeal undergone by the 12,000 “Makkal Nala Paniyalargar” who were terminated by the AIADMK government would be addressed within three months. Neglected tourist monuments such as Poompuhar, the ancient port city in Mayiladuthurai, and statue of poet Thiruvalluvar in Kanyakumari will be renovated soon, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/second-list-of-charges-ready-stalin/articleshow/80913993.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Delhi||AAP slams cops, Centre over arrest of activist||New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party on Monday condemned the arrest of 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi by Delhi Police in the Greta Thunberg “toolkit” case. Chief minister and AAP’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “Arrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime.” Demanding the activist’s immediate release, AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, “AAP condemns the arrest of young climate activist Disha Ravi by Delhi Police in the strongest words. I wonder how a government that has a massive majority is scared of a 21-year-old climate activist.” “The Modi government at the Centre is scared, fearful and petrified by the voice of the youth of India. Students have been raising their voice persistently against the policies and laws implemented by the BJP government. But BJP does not like the youth of our country and that is why they have arrested India’s daughter, a 21-year-old student and climate activist,” added Chadha. The Rajendra Nagar MLA further stated, “BJP cries hoarse about the Emergency and how freedom of expression was mercilessly trampled upon during that dark period. In fact, several BJP functionaries themselves went to jail for objecting to the suspension of fundamental rights. They exercised their democratic right to protest back in the 1970s and wear their jail time as a badge of honour. How different are they now? It wouldn’t be incorrect to say that what BJP is doing now is far more sinister, far more insidious than what happened in 1975.” Claiming that Delhi Police had not produced any transit remand or followed proper legal procedure in this arrest, Chadha called it an “extrajudicial abduction”. “With this arrest, BJP has made it clear that they are rattled and cannot handle the voice against the farm laws and the protest that is happening against them. Today, AAP wants to appeal to the youth of the country to unite,” he added. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said every nationalist felt sad to see Chadha’s statement on the activist’s arrest. “It’s pathetic to see AAP defend misguided youth, from Umar Khalid to Disha Ravi. It seems the day is not far when AAP might defend Deep Sidhu or the youth who heralded the Sikh flag atop Red Fort,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-slams-cops-centre-over-arrest-of-activist/articleshow/80935331.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Udaipur||No more caste-based jobs for inmates in Rajasthan prisons||JAIPUR: Cooking of meals is no longer the sole right of upper caste prison inmates and cleaning is not reserved for inmates on the basis of their caste in the state. The state government has amended the prison manual by removing all provisions allowing/mentioning caste-based allocation of labour. The notification has been issued on February 2 with immediate effect by the home department putting the century-old British Era law to the rest. The outgoing rules were borrowed from the Prisons Act 1894 by the state and incorporated in Rajasthan Prisons Act of 1951. The landmark changes were made after the Jodhpur bench of Rajasthan High Court’s observation on December 18 that ‘Prisoners cannot be forced to indulge in menial jobs on the basis of their castes.’ The outgoing provision said ‘any Brahmin or sufficiently high caste Hindu prisoner from this class is eligible for appointment as cook’. Further chapter 10 of Employment, Instruction & Control of Convicts said ‘Sweepers shall be chosen from among those who, by the custom of the district in which they reside or on account of their having adopted the profession, perform sweepers work, when free’ The discriminatory laws have been in practice without any rider in the state and in several other states for decades. “The archaic provisions which were in contravention with the Constitution has been repealed by the state. The allocation of work is now voluntary,” said Rajeev Kumar Dasot, director-general, jails, who drafted the new provisions and submitted to the law department on January 11. The home department took no time and notified the rules with immediate effect on February 2. “The outgoing laws were discriminatory and casteist representing the regressive mindset dating back to the British era. The new rules will help in fair treatment to all inmates,” said Dasot. The drafting doesn’t come easy for the IPS officer Dasot who had consulted policymakers and sociologists. Other than re-drafting two provisions, one provision terming all de-notified tribes as habitual offenders have been dropped in the amendment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/jail-rules-change-no-more-caste-based-allocation-of-labour/articleshow/80917045.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ajmer||No more caste-based jobs for inmates in Rajasthan prisons||JAIPUR: Cooking of meals is no longer the sole right of upper caste prison inmates and cleaning is not reserved for inmates on the basis of their caste in the state. The state government has amended the prison manual by removing all provisions allowing/mentioning caste-based allocation of labour. The notification has been issued on February 2 with immediate effect by the home department putting the century-old British Era law to the rest. The outgoing rules were borrowed from the Prisons Act 1894 by the state and incorporated in Rajasthan Prisons Act of 1951. The landmark changes were made after the Jodhpur bench of Rajasthan High Court’s observation on December 18 that ‘Prisoners cannot be forced to indulge in menial jobs on the basis of their castes.’ The outgoing provision said ‘any Brahmin or sufficiently high caste Hindu prisoner from this class is eligible for appointment as cook’. Further chapter 10 of Employment, Instruction & Control of Convicts said ‘Sweepers shall be chosen from among those who, by the custom of the district in which they reside or on account of their having adopted the profession, perform sweepers work, when free’ The discriminatory laws have been in practice without any rider in the state and in several other states for decades. “The archaic provisions which were in contravention with the Constitution has been repealed by the state. The allocation of work is now voluntary,” said Rajeev Kumar Dasot, director-general, jails, who drafted the new provisions and submitted to the law department on January 11. The home department took no time and notified the rules with immediate effect on February 2. “The outgoing laws were discriminatory and casteist representing the regressive mindset dating back to the British era. The new rules will help in fair treatment to all inmates,” said Dasot. The drafting doesn’t come easy for the IPS officer Dasot who had consulted policymakers and sociologists. Other than re-drafting two provisions, one provision terming all de-notified tribes as habitual offenders have been dropped in the amendment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/jail-rules-change-no-more-caste-based-allocation-of-labour/articleshow/80917048.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Trichy||‘Monkey attack’: Police file suspicious death case||Thanjavur: A day after an eight-day-old baby girl died, allegedly after monkeys lifted twin sisters from a house and flung one of them into a moat in Thanjavur, police registered a case of suspicious death. With wildlife activists and forest department officials raising serious doubts about the claims of the baby’s parents, police are looking into the possibilities of any foul play in the incident. Honorary district animal welfare officer G Ramakrishnan, who had handled monkeys in the past, said, “This is hard to believe. Only a monkey weighing at least 10 kg can lift a baby weighing 2 kg. A monkey can hold only a tender coconut weighing about one kilogram,” Ramakrishnan added. K Bharathirajan, deputy superintendent of police, said they found nothing unusual in the postmortem report. “The parents of the infant prepared to bury the body after it was recovered from the moat. However, to ascertain if there was anything suspicious, we sent the body for postmortem. The autopsy report found nothing fishy. If there is anything beyond that, it will come out during the scientific examination,” he told TOI. When contacted, the baby’s father E Raja said monkey menace has been rampant in their area. Residents usually keep their doors shut fearing that the animals would steal food. However, they had started to enter the house through the roof. “On Friday too, a monkey damaged one of the tiles of our roof. However, I had it repaired,” he said. “Saturday was the first day I went for work after several days. I was working near New Bus Stand when I received information about the incident, at 1.40 pm. Before I rushed back, neighbours had rescued one child from the roof. Though I am a daily wager, I am determined to raise all my children. However, I was unable to save her,” he said. His twin daughter who sustained minor injuries on her left leg in the incident is undergoing treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Raja added. Meanwhile, forest authorities have placed a cage to catch the monkeys roaming in the area, district forest officer M Ilayaraja said. “Based on the information given by residents, we have placed a cage at Mela Alangam where the incident happened. After studying the presence of the animals, we have decided to put the trap wherever required,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/monkey-attack-police-file-suspicious-death-case/articleshow/80913998.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 15, 2021||Jodhpur||No more caste-based jobs for inmates in Rajasthan prisons||JAIPUR: Cooking of meals is no longer the sole right of upper caste prison inmates and cleaning is not reserved for inmates on the basis of their caste in the state. The state government has amended the prison manual by removing all provisions allowing/mentioning caste-based allocation of labour. The notification has been issued on February 2 with immediate effect by the home department putting the century-old British Era law to the rest. The outgoing rules were borrowed from the Prisons Act 1894 by the state and incorporated in Rajasthan Prisons Act of 1951. The landmark changes were made after the Jodhpur bench of Rajasthan High Court’s observation on December 18 that ‘Prisoners cannot be forced to indulge in menial jobs on the basis of their castes.’ The outgoing provision said ‘any Brahmin or sufficiently high caste Hindu prisoner from this class is eligible for appointment as cook’. Further chapter 10 of Employment, Instruction & Control of Convicts said ‘Sweepers shall be chosen from among those who, by the custom of the district in which they reside or on account of their having adopted the profession, perform sweepers work, when free’ The discriminatory laws have been in practice without any rider in the state and in several other states for decades. “The archaic provisions which were in contravention with the Constitution has been repealed by the state. The allocation of work is now voluntary,” said Rajeev Kumar Dasot, director-general, jails, who drafted the new provisions and submitted to the law department on January 11. The home department took no time and notified the rules with immediate effect on February 2. “The outgoing laws were discriminatory and casteist representing the regressive mindset dating back to the British era. The new rules will help in fair treatment to all inmates,” said Dasot. The drafting doesn’t come easy for the IPS officer Dasot who had consulted policymakers and sociologists. Other than re-drafting two provisions, one provision terming all de-notified tribes as habitual offenders have been dropped in the amendment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jail-rules-change-no-more-caste-based-allocation-of-labour/articleshow/80917047.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Jaipur||No more caste-based jobs for inmates in Rajasthan prisons||JAIPUR: Cooking of meals is no longer the sole right of upper caste prison inmates and cleaning is not reserved for inmates on the basis of their caste in the state. The state government has amended the prison manual by removing all provisions allowing/mentioning caste-based allocation of labour. The notification has been issued on February 2 with immediate effect by the home department putting the century-old British Era law to the rest. The outgoing rules were borrowed from the Prisons Act 1894 by the state and incorporated in Rajasthan Prisons Act of 1951. The landmark changes were made after the Jodhpur bench of Rajasthan High Court’s observation on December 18 that ‘Prisoners cannot be forced to indulge in menial jobs on the basis of their castes.’ The outgoing provision said ‘any Brahmin or sufficiently high caste Hindu prisoner from this class is eligible for appointment as cook’. Further chapter 10 of Employment, Instruction & Control of Convicts said ‘Sweepers shall be chosen from among those who, by the custom of the district in which they reside or on account of their having adopted the profession, perform sweepers work, when free’ The discriminatory laws have been in practice without any rider in the state and in several other states for decades. “The archaic provisions which were in contravention with the Constitution has been repealed by the state. The allocation of work is now voluntary,” said Rajeev Kumar Dasot, director-general, jails, who drafted the new provisions and submitted to the law department on January 11. The home department took no time and notified the rules with immediate effect on February 2. “The outgoing laws were discriminatory and casteist representing the regressive mindset dating back to the British era. The new rules will help in fair treatment to all inmates,” said Dasot. The drafting doesn’t come easy for the IPS officer Dasot who had consulted policymakers and sociologists. Other than re-drafting two provisions, one provision terming all de-notified tribes as habitual offenders have been dropped in the amendment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jail-rules-change-no-more-caste-based-allocation-of-labour/articleshow/80913999.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Jaipur||Covid active caseload drops to 0.4% in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While Covid cases have reduced, the state’s active caseload currently stands at 0.4% of the total positive cases while the country’s active caseload is 1.26% of the positive cases. The country’s total active caseload has dropped to 1.37 lakh while the state’s active cases stood at 1,409 with 103 more persons testing positive and an equal number recovering on Sunday. Kota has 332 active cases, highest in the state, followed by Jaipur (288), Jodhpur and Bhilwara (116 each) and Udaipur (112). No person died of Covid in the state in the last 24 hours and the fatality count stood at 2,781. Overall tally of Covid cases rose to 3,18,923. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (18), Jaipur (14), Kota (11), Rajsamand (9),Bhilwara (9), Udaipur (7), Ajmer (7), Alwar (6), Banswara (5), Barmer (4),Baran (3), Nagaur (2), Pali (2), Sriganganagar (2), Bharatpur (1), Chittorgarh(1), Dungarpur (1) and Tonk (1). While active caseload has decreased, the recovery rate in the state has rose to 98.6%. “The recovery rate has gone above 98% with more persons recovering from the virus. Vaccination is in progress, but people should continue taking all the precautions and follow Covid protocol,” said a health department official. While vaccination drive is continuing, deaths have been reported from different parts of the state due to Covid. In February, the virus has so far claimed 15 lives. Though the Covid-19 graph has gone down, the health department is still conducting more than 1 lakh Covid tests every week. In first week of February, 1.1 lakh while in second week, 1.2 lakh RT-PCR tests were conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-active-caseload-drops-to-0-4-in-state/articleshow/80914010.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Delhi||North corporation marks golden jubilee of Delhi’s first flyover||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Sunday organised golden jubilee celebrations for the Shadipur flyover, which was the first flyover project in the city. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said the Shadipur project was built by the erstwhile unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) and the project was completed on February 14, 1971. He credited veteran leader Vijay Kumar Malhotra for taking charge of the initiative in 1971 when he was the chief executive councillor of the city, a post which, under the old Delhi metropolitan council structure, is equivalent to the post of chief minister today. Malhotra, who had inaugurated the project, was also invited as the chief guest for Sunday’s celebrations. The mayor said, “It was the first flyover of Delhi that was built by the MCD on February 14, 1971. It was inaugurated by Vijay Kumar Malhotra and dedicated to the people of Delhi. This bridge shows how the corporation works for citizens. If we get the required fund, the corporation can do such work again. North corporation is doing development work for the citizens of Delhi even in adverse conditions”. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta was also present on the occasion. He said the corporation should take inspiration from the work done by Malhotra, who had planned the Shadipur flyover. “We should do more of such development work for the citizens that is dedicated to serving them for years,” he added. A senior corporation official said that the Shadipur flyover improved the lives of people living in and commuting towards Moti Nagar, Karampura, Ramesh Nagar, Raja Garden and nearby places. This had led to widespread acceptance of flyovers as decongestion infrastructure in the city. “At that time, the roads that are wider than 60 feet were also looked after by the corporation and they were transferred to PWD at a very later stage. The railway line at Shadipur was a great problem for people as traffic remained disrupted for hours,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corporation-marks-golden-jubilee-of-capitals-first-flyover/articleshow/80914021.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Surat||Woman turns home into gambling den in Gujarat||SURAT: To make up for the financial losses following the retrenchment of her diamond artisan husband during lockdown, a 43-year-old woman started a gambling den at her own residence in posh Diwalibaug area of Adajan. Crime branch sleuths arrested Ranjan alias Dimple Mehta, along with seven others who gathered at her apartment to gamble on cards. Cops also arrested the woman’s brother-in-law Dinesh Shah (55) and his son Varsad (26) along with other accused from the apartment on Saturday. Police recovered cash and mobile phones worth Rs 79,721 from the accused. The woman told the police that her husband Abhinesh remained jobless for several many months. “The family was facing severe financial crisis for the past one year. Recently, he got a job of diamond polishing but earns Rs 15,000 as monthly salary,” said a police officer, adding that the accused said that this meagre earnings was insufficient for them owing to one year’s financial crisis. Accused Dinesh Shah, husband of Mehta’s sister, is a habitual gambler. He told Mehta that she can make money by providing her house for gambling purposes. She agreed and started inviting the other accused to gamble when Abhinesh was not present at home. Shah runs a luggage shop in Varachha and used to invite his friends to gamble at the woman’s home. They used to gamble over playing cards. Other arrested accused are textile traders and diamond brokers. “We received specific information about the apartment being used for gambling. We caught the accused while gambling,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jobless-artisans-wife-opens-gambling-den-at-her-home/articleshow/80914014.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 15, 2021||Madurai||Big vehicle cannot always be liable in accidents: Madras HC||MADURAI: It is high time that all stakeholders reviewed the mindset that the driver of the bigger vehicle was responsible for road accidents involving big and small vehicles, as seen in a majority of first information reports (FIRs) registered, the Madras high court has said. The court was hearing an appeal by the Pudukottai transport corporation challenging the order of motor accidents claims tribunal (MACT) that had awarded compensation to an accident victim. The deceased Govindaraju was going to school along with three of his friends, Venkateshwaran, Prasanth and Gowthamanraj on a two-wheeler in Pudukottai in 2011. Prasanth who rode the vehicle attempted to overtake a lorry when a speeding government bus which came in the opposite direction collided with the two-wheeler and Govindaraju died. The MACT had awarded a compensation of Rs 6.6lakh in 2015 holding the bus driver responsible for the accident. Challenging the order, the transport corporation preferred the present appeal. The transport corporation counsel submitted that the person driving the two-wheeler had tried to overtake the lorry without noticing the bus, thus inviting the accident. Also, four people were travelling on the two-wheeler and since the deceased also contributed to the accident, he was liable for contributory negligence. Justice K Murali Shankar said two-wheelers are designed for only two people to travel and anyone taking more than two will be committing an offence and is punishable under Section 128 of the MV Act. If a rider takes more than two people on his two-wheeler, his sitting posture would change and he would lose control. The judge observed that it is high time for all who are dealing with motor accident claims to review the mentality in considering the plight of the injured victim or the legal heirs of the deceased victim sympathetically and awarding compensation in accidents which occurred by violating the laws and rules. In this case, since four grown-up students had travelled on the two-wheeler, the court held that the rider and all pillion riders are guilty of negligence. Partially allowing the appeal, the judge directed the claimants to bear 50% of the amount awarded by the tribunal for contributory negligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/big-vehicle-cant-always-be-liable-for-accidents/articleshow/80915043.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 15, 2021||Madurai||Ban liquor in phases: HC to govt||Madurai: The Madras high court has appealed to the state government to introduce prohibition in Tamil Nadu in a phased manner, saying the request is the collective voice of suffering housewives, children and society as a whole. The court made the observations while directing the authorities to shift a Tasmac outlet from near a government girls high school on Thattankulam main road in Madurai. Taking a larger view of the public interest litigation filed by M Thaha Mohamed, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi said many cases were coming up against Tasmac outlets near residential areas, places of worship and schools. The judges directed that all such objections should be acted on by the authorities by February 28. The judges directed the Tasmac managing director to file a compliance report on March 1 with the following details: Number of Tasmac outlets in the state, number of shops against which objections had been raised, number of shops relocated based on the objections, and number of objections rejected. The judges observed that the government didn’t mind flooding the state with liquor as long as revenue flowed in. The 5,300 tasmac outlets brought in about Rs 30,000 crores to the state government every year. "Whether water flows in rivers of the state or not, this special water (liquor) flows in every nook and corner of the state, even near places of worship, schools, colleges etc.," said the judges. They pointed out that a Nimhans study showed that the government lost more than Rs 2 in terms of health care expenses and loss of productivity for every rupee it got from alcohol. The court said drinking was the root cause for many social evils. Innumerous offences, especially against women and children, were committed daily because of alcohol consumption. Many families were shattered and the victims were women and children whose right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution was violated due to liquor consumption. The judges said it was strange that outside every Tasmac outlet and bar two-wheelers were parked though drunk driving was an offence under Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act. Prohibition would reduce domestic violence and deaths resulting from drunk driving, while incomes of families and peace in society would increase. Calling for prohibition in a phased manner, the judges disposed of the petition by posing a question whether the government would listen to them?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ban-liquor-in-phases-hc-to-govt/articleshow/80915076.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Hookah parlour raided, 49 arrested||The social service branch of Mumbai Police on Saturday raided a pub - Lemon Base in Dahisar and arrested 49 persons including 42 patrons from an illegal hookah lounge. Acting on the tip, social service branch led by Sanjay Patil and AI Sachin Waze raided the bar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hookah-parlour-raided-49-arrested/articleshow/80915079.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Statewide alert in jails after Covid outbreak in Nagpur’s ‘anda cell’||NAGPUR: Prison authorities across the state have been alerted by top officials to watch out for Covid symptoms among inmates or staffers after the infection cases were reported from high security ‘anda cell’ in Nagpur Central Jail. Jail barracks and offices are being fumigated and sanitized on war-footing to stop further spread of the infection. Over 2,000 inmates and 400 jail staffers had tested positive across the prisons in Maharashtra in the first leg of the pandemic last year. Following a high-level committee decision, more than 10,000 inmates were released on temporary bail or parole to avoid congestion in jails. Despite this, prisons had turned into Covid hotspots with Yerawada Central Jail reporting highest number of inmates testing positive, followed by Nagpur Central Jail. Maoist ideologue and former Delhi University professor GN Saibaba and gangster Arun Gawli were among the ‘anda cell’ inmates to have tested Covid positive along with eight others. “The ‘anda cell’ has three wings. The infection has spread in two of them. It’s likely that the prisoners may have contracted the infection during the few hours when they are allowed to step out into the open space and mingle with others,’ said a jail official. The jail official also did not rule out the possibility of the infection passing from a cell guard to the inmates. “We have fortified the diet of the inmates of ‘anda cell’ with ‘kadha’ (herbal concoction) and other immunity boosters,” said the official. Additional director general, state prisons, Sunil Ramanand, said instructions have been issued to jail authorities across the state to shift anyone spotted with symptoms to hospitals or medical facilities for Covid testing. “Apart from Nagpur, there was no information about Covid cases resurfacing in any other jail. We are reinforcing all Covid measures and reviving the strict protocols in jails,” he said. “We are now keeping track of the situation through daily reporting system,” he added. Ramanand also said after Covid cases decreased, the number of jail quarantine centres were reduced, but now makeshift facilities have been kept ready for any emergency use. “As the schools in which we had set up quarantine facilities are now not in our possession, every jail has been asked to create separate area for such a facility within the premises,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/statewide-alert-in-jails-after-covid-outbreak-in-nagpurs-anda-cell/articleshow/80914043.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 15, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Second dose of Covid vaccine from today||JAIPUR: The health department has finally issued orders of administering the second dose of Covid vaccine from Monday. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the action plan had been prepared for the second dose of vaccine under which, those beneficiaries who were given the first dose on January 16, will get the second dose. Simultaneously, beneficiaries of social justice and empowerment and the agriculture departments will be given first dose of the vaccine from Monday. Earlier, the health department had planned to give the second dose from February 20 to accommodate the leftout healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) till February 19. But if the health department started the second round from February 20, it would further delay vaccination of HCWs who have completed 28 days of getting the first dose on February 13. The health department has now decided to run the first dose and second dose simultaneously till February 19 and after that only second dose vaccination will continue until all beneficiaries get the two doses. The health department has decided to give one more chance to the HCWs and FLWs to get the first dose. Directions have been given to give the first dose of the vaccine to all the remaining HCWs and FLWs by February 19. All those HCWs and FLWs will be vaccinated, who have not been given the first dose. Health department directed the officers to ensure vaccination of all the beneficiaries coming to the session site. Officials have been directed to ensure that the list of all HWC and FLWs should be ready by Tuesday. In regard to the beneficiaries of paramilitary, vaccination in the coming days will be done by making more session sites. Those beneficiaries, who were given the first dose on January 18, will be given the second dose on February 17. School teachers will be prominently included in vaccination drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/second-dose-of-covid-vaccine-from-today/articleshow/80914041.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two Congress members join AAP||NEW DELHI: Municipal councillor from Subhash Nagar ward Surendra Setia and former councillor Manju Setia joined AAP with their supporters on Sunday. “AAP is the only one which is working for the common people. Today, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has made some revolutionary changes in the capital,” said Setia — former president of Subhash Nagar Block, Congress committee. Welcoming the members, AAP functionary and MCD in charge Durgesh Pathak said, “With these members joining AAP, we will become stronger.” Setia claimed that, the conditions inside the civic bodies today were well-known. “They do not even have the money to pay their employees. The citizens have made up their mind to throw BJP out of the corporations,” Setia said, adding that like Kejriwal, he, too, was keen to work for the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-congress-members-join-aap/articleshow/80914053.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Surat||AAI issues tender for parking, lane mgmt at Surat airport||Surat: The chaos around parking space inside the Surat international airport will soon be passé as visitors will have to pay and park their vehicles on the premises. After a long delay, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) finally issued tenders for vehicle parking and lane management system at the airport.In a report dated January 11, 2021, TOI had highlighted the plight of visitors to the airport owing to haphazard parking of vehicles inside the ‘free parking lot’. Sources said that about 200 cars and more than 100 two-wheelers occupy the parking area throughout the day sans any clear demarcation of category.Post-lockdown, Surat airport is connected by nearly 15 flights daily, and an average 4,500 passenger travelling to and from Surat every month.Official sources said that while the vehicle parking contract at the airport was to be operational from May-20, it didn’t happen owing to the coronavirus pandemic. Sources said that the AAI had invited tender for the parking and lane management pre-Covid contract. However, it did not receive a single application from any contractor.Airport Director, Aman Saini said, “Due to Covid-19, contractors were uncertain about the business and operational conditions. However, this time around we are hopeful that the contractors will bid for the parking and lane management contract. We have also sought airport groups’ help for good response.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aai-issues-tender-for-parking-lane-mgmt-at-surat-airport/articleshow/80912933.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Jaipur||Follow Covid norms to curb allergy due to pollens: Doctors||JAIPUR: Pollens with potential to trigger asthma attack and allergies have been found in city’s air for the first time in the season indicating that the spring season is arriving early in comparison to the past few years. Doctors advised people susceptible to allergies and asthma to follow Covid-19 protocol to ward off risk of getting affected with pollen which might cause respiratory and allergic problems. Every year Holoptelea integrifolia tree is detected first time in March, but this year, it has been detected 15 to 20 days prior. “It is the beginning of the allergic season. Peak pollen season of Holoptelea will remain until the end of April. Patients are coming to hospitals with symptoms of nasal watery discharge, breathing problem, wheezing, burning eyes and rashes,” said Dr Nishtha Singh, executive director and chest consultant of a private hospital. Throughout world it has been seen that the spring season has approached quite earlier this year. The cause behind it is difficult to find but possibly due to Covid-19 pollution has decreased and thus the nature is very healthy for trees to grow. Globally it’s a practice to forecast pollen in air just like weather forecast, the city doctors claimed. Holoptelea integrifolia tree, known for producing one of the most allergenic plant pollen of the city, remains in very high concentration in the air for the duration of one to two months. This year, this plant pollen was detected in the city’s air for the first time on February 12. The presence of the pollen in air forecasts difficult times for those patients who are susceptible for allergies from pollen. This pollen has been detected in the air with the help of an instrument known as Burkard pollen counter. It is a pollen entrapment machine which has been installed at the rooftop of Asthma Bhawan in city’s Vidhyadhar Nagar, which has been detecting pollen for the past 11 years. The pollen is present in higher concentration during morning and evening. The patients who have allergies to this plant should avoid going outside their houses and should cover the nose and mouth properly with a triple-layered mask during morning and evening. People are advised to limit their outdoor activities during the pollen season. In the city, one can find Holoptelea tree easily on every other street in large numbers. Most people are not aware about the ill effects of the tree even state government and civic bodies encourage its plantation. The trees are commonly found in government parks, Central park, Gandhi Nagar where people go for morning walk and fall ill. Around 10 % patients of asthma patients suffer from Holoptelea allergy, the doctors claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/follow-covid-norms-to-ward-off-allergy-due-to-pollens-docs/articleshow/80914032.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Surat||Five more offences registered under new land grabbing Act||Surat: City police registered altogether five offences under the recently introduced Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) (GLGP) Act on Saturday. Total 14 accused were booked for allegedly encroaching land of different individuals in various police stations. The accused were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code for forgery, threatening and trespassing. “Victims of various land grabbing cases had approached the district collector office and after examining their grievances, a committee had ordered police to register these complaints. Afterwards, city police commissioner orders police stations concerned to register FIRs,” said a senior police official. Investigation of these cases have been handed over to the assistant commissioner of police of different divisions. One of the top realtors in the city, Raju Patel, his mother Dahiben, and other accused Sorabji Muglai and Jamnaben Patel were booked in Khatodara police station for allegedly encroaching land of Hasmukh Solanki, a resident of Navsari. The accused encroached the land located in posh Vesu area in 2017. Solanki alleged that the accused made a forged sale deed and other documents and also tried to make changes in government records using the forged documents. In Katargam police station, Harsh Dangar and Nagin Rathod were booked for allegedly encroaching land of Pranami Temple. The complaint was lodged by Suryanarayandasji Maharaj, mahant of the temple in Saiyedpura. The accused carried out construction work on the plot and the temple officials were abused and threatened when they approached the accused to vacate their land. Three accused namely, Harshad alias Budha Lashkari, his son Aashish and brother Shantidas were booked in Chowk Bazaar police station following complaint of Labhu Gopani, a resident of Ahmedabad. According to the complaint, the accused had forcibly taken possession of Gopani’s flat on Singanpore Causeway road in 2010. A Navsari resident Vikram Naik was booked in Amroli police station for allegedly encroaching land in Bharthana Kosad of complainant Ketan Desai, a businessman. The accused created forged documents to grab the land in September 2020. Varachha police booked Jinabhai Dhagal, Naresh Dhagal, Mala Dhagal and Karshan Dhagal for allegedly encroaching around 2500 sqm land of Rahul Bhadarka, a developer. The accused created forged documents of the land in Puna area. They constructed on the land without permission of the complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/five-more-offences-registered-under-new-land-grabbing-act/articleshow/80914048.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Madurai||Woman gets bail in misappropriation case||Madurai: The Madras high court has granted bail to a woman who was working in a co-operative society on condition that she should remit back the money she misappropriated from the society in Thanjavur district. The court was hearing the bail petition of Vanitha who was arrested by the Commercial Crime Investigation Wing in Thanjavur district in December last year. The prosecution case is that the petitioner along with other accused who were working in the co-operative societies have misappropriated Rs 41 lakhbetween April 2017 and May 2018 by forging documents. The petitioner stated she has already repaid Rs 26 lakh and is ready to pay the balance amount. Justice M Nirmal Kumar granted bail to the petitioner directing her to pay Rs 3 lakh to the society at the time of executing sureties before the trial court. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-gets-bail-in-misappropriation-case/articleshow/80915081.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Jaipur||Mercury continues upward swing||Jaipur: Mercury continued to take an upward swing across the state on Sunday when majority of the places witnessed rise in their temperatures.Udaipur and Dholpur remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 9.6°C each was recorded.Attributing the rise in the mercury to the active western disturbances and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office stated that ongoing conditions will prevail in the state for next couple of days. There would be continued rise in the mercury at many places in the western Rajasthan.People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 14.2°C was recorded. The rise in mercury has also increased the footfall at the city parks, sports clubs and other areas during early morning hours. Since no fog and mist was seen in and around the city, the traffic on the highways was smooth. Likewise, no major flight diversions were reported at the Jaipur airport. However, due to some fog in the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and Delhi some of the early morning trains arrived late at the Jaipur railway station.Continued rise in the mercury is witnessed especially in the day temperatures which are on and above 30°C at many places in the state. Barmer was hottest where a maximum temperature of 33.6°C was recorded.Udaipur and Dholpur were followed by Alwar where a minimum temperature of 10°C was recorded, Vanasthali (Tonk) 10.2, Sriganganagar10.3, Chittorgarh 10.5, Bharatpur 11.1, Karauli 11.9, Kota 13.4, Ajmer 14.0, Bikaner 14.7, Jaisalmer 15.2 and Barmer 16°C.Jaipur Met office stated that the gradual increase in the maximum temperatures will continue in the state which would finally put an impact on the minimum temperatures.In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury will continue to take an upward swing especially in western Rajasthan. In Jaipur, minimum temperature would be on or above 14°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-continues-upward-swing/articleshow/80914046.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Surat||‘Congress contests elections to give BJP a cakewalk’||SURAT: In a massive show of strength, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) organized two rallies that were led by Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in the city on Sunday. The road shows held on Varachha Road and Katargam witnessed impressive turnout of the local AAP cadre.  Addressing reporters before starting the road shows, Sisodia said, “Looking at Kejriwal government’s work (in Delhi), people want to give AAP an opportunity. People want BJP ousted but the only option they had was Congress.” Sisodia accused the belagured Congress of contesting polls only to make the victory easy for BJP. “People are comparing five-year-old government in Delhi and 25-year-old rule in Gujarat’s local bodies. If the Delhi government is developing government schools, why are the same closing down in Gujarat?,” said, alleging that the quality of education in the state was deteriorating. He further claimed that for five years, the AAP government ensured that the private schools were not allowed to hike fees as per their whims. “In five years, government hospitals and clinics were developed properly, but BJP could not do that in Gujarat even in 25 years,” he said. Listing out AAP’s achievements, Sisodia said if 70% population of Delhi can get free electricity why was the same not possible in Gujarat which is touted to be power surplus. Sisodia was offered a yellow cap which has become a symbol of Patidar quota stir and widely used by Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) during their campaigns. Sisodia offered garland to the idol of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at Mangadh Chowk in Varachha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/congress-contests-elections-to-give-bjp-a-cakewalk/articleshow/80914065.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Gawli, 2 more jail inmates test positive for second time in 4 days||NAGPUR: Three of the five inmates of Central Jail, including gangster-turned-politician Arun Gawli, tested Covid positive for the second time in four days. The five inmates and a jail staffer had tested positive for the first time on February 9. As per the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s list, three prisoners, including Gawli (68), tested positive on Saturday also. As per guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a single RT-PCR positive test is to be considered confirmatory without any repeat testing. “No re-testing is recommended prior to discharge from a Covid-19 facility after clinical recovery or for transfer from a Covid area/facility to a non-Covid area/facility,” said an official. Chief medical officer of Central Jail Dr SD Chaudhari told TOI, “I have no idea why the second test was done on the inmates. We had taken them for diagnosis at GMCH a couple of days ago. They might have asked for re-test and accordingly it was conducted at GMCH.” On Maoist ideologue and former Delhi University professor GN Saibaba’s health, Dr Chaudhari said there was no need for hospitalization as his HRCT score was five in the chest scan a day ago. He is being treated in the cell itself.” A guard from high security ‘anda cell’ of the prison was found Covid positive, hence 25 inmates were tested and results of five, including Gawli, came positive on February 9. The results of another five, including Saibaba, came positive on February 12. Five staffers were also tested of which two were found Covid positive. Earlier, a jailer had tested positive. Thus, Central Jail has reported 13 new Covid cases as of now after a lull. Dr Chaudhari said, “Health of all 10 prisoners is good and all are undergoing treatment in separate cells as the infection levels are milder.” This is second time when pandemic has hit the Central Jail, situated in Ajni. In June and July, over 300 inmates had tested positive. Dr Chaudhari said, “All precautions for prevention of spread of the infection are being taken. We have conducted tests on inmates as well as staffers immediately after seeing symptoms. Early testing and treatment is very important, which we are ensuring.” He also said it is not only Central Jail, but new cases are being reported from across the city and other places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gawli-2-more-jail-inmates-test-ve-for-2nd-time-in-4-days/articleshow/80914058.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Lower numbers expected at next climate protest||New Delhi: The next Fridays for Future strike on March 19 may draw in a much smaller crowd than usual. The arrest of 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi is playing in the minds of parents whose children, mostly teenagers, hold protests regularly demanding action to combat climate change. Bhavreen Kandhari, a member of Warrior Moms and mother of two climate activist twins Asees and Asheer, said she had been receiving calls over the past few days from parents who were worried about going ahead with the protests. Mentioning that they would be holding a satyagraha soon to ensure that the movement against climate change did not lose steam, Kandhari said, “A few parents have shown concern, but the children are keen on going out there and making a difference. Most of them are in school and doing a lot to create awareness. During the Fridays for Future protests, we have seen support from schoolteachers and principals too, so it is not something that is being done only by a few children. They are, in fact, leading the way.” She added that fewer people may turn up for the next climate strike, but they wish to continue sending a message. “This is for the environment. While it is natural for a parent to be a little concerned at a time like this, it is also important to stay firm,” said Kandhari. Her daughter said they had been working hard to get climate justice and the movement and its veracity won’t get tainted anytime soon. “More importantly, this sets out a false example for people trying to step up and speak for what’s right,” said the twins, Asees and Asheer. Sherebanu Frosh, another parent, said she was inspired by her children in fighting the battle against climate change, one which was only going to get stronger. “You are seeing support from schools too, and it shows that children are doing something right. They are just young children looking to set an example and highlight a global cause. I will continue to encourage my children in the future,” she added. Another parent said while the arrest did play on their minds, they would continue to support their children. “It’s the least we can do. It is a cause that should not get bogged down by adverse events,” she added. Meanwhile, Licypriya Kangujam, a nine-year-old climate activist, tweeted: “Arresting a 21-year-old climate activist is never a proof of a strong nation. I feel very sad. This is an attempt to silence the voices of young girls and women in this country. But this will not stop us from fighting for our planet and future (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lower-numbers-expected-at-next-climate-protest/articleshow/80935479.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sector V to go green with cycle track soon||KOLKATA: The Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) is trying to go the New Town way in encouraging cycling in Sector V. The authorities are planning to allow only cycles and pedestrians on a flank of a Technopolis-bound one-way road from SDF Building. The other flank of the road can be used for vehicles. NDITA officials said they will hold a meeting soon with the traffic police to discuss the idea. “We are planning to allow non-peak hour cycling in Sector V on the stretches that are one-way but have a median in between. We shall hold talks with the traffic police to see whether this can be done or not,” said NDITA chairman, Debashis Sen. As of now, the authorities have identified the Technopolis-bound stretch from SDF Building. “It is a one-way road with two flanks and a median in between. One flank can be used by pedestrians and cyclists only while the other flank can be used for vehicular movement. There are, however, some traffic aspects that need to be looked into,” said an NDITA official. Unlike neighbouring New Town, it is not possible to set up dedicated cycle tracks in Sector V due to space constraints on roadsides. “We will have to find if more road space can be available for cycles to ply along with other vehicles,” the official added. An officer of Bidhannagar police commissionarate said they have not yet received any formal proposal from NDITA on this plan. “We will discuss the matter with NDITA. There is not much traffic pressure now as the said one-way road has two flanks. Other traffic aspects will have to be looked into,” he said. Many people use cycles to come to Sector V for work from neighbouring areas, but they face problems to find a suitable place to park these two-wheelers. So, the authorities have decided to set up smart cycle stands at three important places in Sector V — in front of Webel Bhavan, near Godrej Waterside and the place opposite Wipro gate. The officials have initiated the process to engage an agency for the job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sector-v-to-go-green-with-cycle-track-soon/articleshow/80914059.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Chandrapur NGO Eco-Pro to stage sit-in for Ramala lake cleaning demand||CHANDRAPUR: NGO Eco-Pro Organization will stage a daylong sit-in on Monday to press the demand for deepening and cleaning the 550-year-old Ramala lake in the heart of the city. The organization has threatened to go on indefinite hunger strike from February 22 if the administration fails to approve the proposal for cleaning the historic lake. President of Eco-Pro, Bandu Dhotre, claimed that they have been pursuing the demand for removing eichhornia weed from Ramala Lake since 2008 and implementation of a sanitation campaign. “Studies were carried out to de-pollute, deepen and beautify the lake. The administration was told about the reasons for the lake’s pathetic condition,” he said. Dhotre claimed the organization is following up the issue with the authorities since last three years. “Every year the work is postponed due to delays in release of water from the lake, duration needed for the work and for want of funds,” he said. He also said that previous collector Dr Kunal Khemnar had agreed to start the cleaning and the lake was drained but the work was postponed due to the pandemic. “A series of meetings was held and it was decided to bring fresh water pumped from WCL coal mines into the lake. Plans were laid for diversion of Macchi nullah, the main source of lake pollution, and setting up a sewage treatment plant on it, while carrying out cleaning and beautification of the historic water body simultaneously. However, administration backtracked,” said Dhotre. He informed that thousands of fish were found dead on the lake’s bank on January 26. “The incident shows how pollution is posing threat to aquatic life and people living in area nearby. The work for draining, cleaning and deepening of the lake should start before the onset of summer so that it is completed before monsoon arrival,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngo-eco-pro-to-stage-sit-in-for-ramala-lake-cleaning-demand/articleshow/80914070.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||From roof repair to drainage revamp, Kol markets undergo renovation||Kolkata: Several community markets in the city with leaking roofs, crumbling infrastructure and choked drainage systems are undergoing repairs and restoration. While work in some markets has started, repair activities in others will be taken up from next week onwards. Some of these markets which receive thousands of shoppers everyday are SS Hogg Market or New Market, Entally Market, New Alipore Market, Sakherbazar Super Market, Bakultala Bazar in Sarsuna and Maniktala Market. Some markets like New Market, Entally and Maniktala are over 100 years old and in urgent need of repairs. Amount of Rs 50 lakh to Rs 60 lakh has been earmarked for the repairs of each of these markets. “The repairs in these markets include structure strengthening, overhaul of the sewerage system, repairs of lavatories and repairs of roofs. Repair work has already started in a few markets. In others, renovation will start by the middle of next month. Till now there is no plan to shut any market for repairs,” said an official of the markets department of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation which is responsible of construction and maintenance of these markets. Work at New Market will start with repair of the roof which is leaking from various places. In the second phase, work for structural improvement will be done where walls and pillars will be strengthened with fresh plaster and paint. “The infrastructure is crumbling. Instead of patch work, thorough renovation must be carried out,” said Mahesh Kriplani, who owns an apparel store in the market. At Entally Market, the sewerage and plumbing will be overhauled. In New Alipore Market, too, the walls will get a fresh quote of paint and an anti-termite treatment. At Sakherbazar, there will be new ceramic tiles on the floor and the walls and the panels of the doors and windows will be changed. Federation of Traders’ Organisation wants more markets to be repaired both for the safety of the customers and shopkeepers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-roof-repair-to-drainage-revamp-kol-markets-undergo-renovation/articleshow/80914084.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||4 rounds fired at a man in Nalasopara||Unidentified persons fired four rounds at Raju Gupta outside the QNQ restaurant and bar in Moregoan, Nalasopara, police said. The incident happened on Sunday night. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-rounds-fired-at-a-man-in-nalasopara/articleshow/80915086.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Delhi||VK Paul and Guleria set to take 2nd shot||New Delhi: Dr V K Paul of Niti Aayog, who has led the country’s fight against Covid-19, will get the second dose on Covid vaccine on Tuesday. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria will take the second shot on Wednesday, a source said. Both were among the first frontline workers to take the shot of Covaxin — India’s indigenously developed vaccine – at the AIIMS OPD block in the presence of Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. Dr Paul’s wife, Dr Shashi Paul, also took the vaccine. There are two vaccines that have been approved for mass vaccination — Covaxin, which has been developed by Indian Council of Medical Research in collaboration with Bharat Biotech, and Covishield, which has been developed by Oxford/Astrazeneca in collaboration with Serum Institute of India. “Both vaccines are equally good. People should embrace them to save themselves and their family, so that we can win the battle against the viral illness,” said the Niti Aayog member, who heads the Covid-19 taskforce in the country. He added that, till now, the country was fighting without any effective weapon. “Prevention was the only effective way to save oneself against the disease. But now we have the vaccine. They are safe and effective,” Dr Paul said, adding that he took the vaccine to clear the doubts raised on the safety of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vk-paul-and-guleria-set-to-take-2nd-shot/articleshow/80935594.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Madurai||69 fresh Covid cases in southern TN, 48 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state on Sunday reported 69 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death. The lone death in the region is a 44-year-old man without comorbidities in Kanyakumari district. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 48 new cases taking the tally to 76,653, which include 430 active cases. The region also recorded a death in Tiruvarur pushing the toll to 949. The victim in Kanyakumari tested positive on February 6 and was admitted to a private hospital in Nagercoil the same day. He had complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for two days, and he died early on Saturday. Madurai recorded 20 fresh cases, the highest in the region, followed by Dindigul (11). Ramanathapuram (1) recorded the lowest, followed by Theni (3),Virudhunagar (3), Tirunelveli (4), Tenkasi (5), Sivagangai (6), Tuticorin (8)and Kanyakumari (8). Madurai (89) recorded the highest number of active cases, which were 71 on Friday. It is followed by Kanyakumari (70), Tirunelveli(62) and Dindigul (56). In the central region, Trichy is on top with 14 new positive cases on Sunday. With this, the toll has climbed to 14,866. Thanjavur reported 11 fresh positive cases, Karur-nine, Nagapattinam-eight and Tiruvarur-five. Pudukottai reported only one fresh case, while Ariyalur and Perambalur reported zero cases on Sunday. The casualty in Tiruvarur is a 60-year-old woman admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur. She died on February 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/69-fresh-covid-cases-in-southern-tn-48-in-central-districts/articleshow/80915098.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Biker dies after he rams into wrongly parked truck on W Exp h’way||Mumbai: A motorcyclist died while the pillion was injured after their two-wheeler rammed into a truck parked on the Western Express Highway at Andheri on Saturday at around 4.30am. The police said that a case of negligence and rash driving was booked against the truck driver, Jitendra Pal, as he had parked the heavy vehicle to offload material for the Metro construction work without taking precautions for the safety of passing motorists. While Pal fled from the spot, he was tracked down and arrested on Sunday. Meanwhile, a slum dweller, Ganarasu Rayata, died in a hit-and-run mishap after a speeding car hit him while he was crossing the Dombivli-Kalyan fata road on Saturday evening, said the police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/biker-dies-after-he-rams-into-wrongly-parked-truck-on-w-exp-hway/articleshow/80914155.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur's Bahujan Rangbhoomi celebrates 3 decade journey with three plays||NAGPUR: Established in 1990s by theatre activist Virendra Ganvir, Bahujan Rangbhoomi is known as Nagpur’s leading amateur theatre group now. On completion of 30 years of the theatre movement, the group organized a theatre workshop and a one-day theatre fest dedicated to children’s theatre at Scientific Society Hall on Sunday. Three very popular Marathi children’s plays — ‘Ghayal Pakhara’ (Wounded bird), Amhalahi Pankh Hawet (We also want wings), and Themb Themb Shwas (breathing drop by drop) — written by Virendra Ganvir and directed by three artists trained under him during these 30 years were staged. These plays are being performed at Marathi children’s theatre by various groups across Maharashtra. Appreciated for their subject, content and presentation, they are known as the identity of Bahujan Rangbhoomi. Hence, the organizers selected these three plays for the 30th anniversary show. All new teams of child artists from Nagpur performed in these plays. “For us, theatre is a social mission. It is a self-realization exercise. Our aim has been developing a thought-provoking theatre, which will spread awareness among the downtrodden and bring them into mainstream,” said Virendra Ganvir. “When we started in 1990s, my boys and girls came from financially, intellectually, and educationally backward homes, with a desire to do something creative. Today, I have at least 300 confident, independent and respectable youths working across the country,” Ganvir said. Bahujan Rangbhoomi is the biggest children’s drama group in Vidarbha. They have been doing children’s theatre since 1990. Award winning children’s play ‘Naga Ra Baba Shala’, ‘Footpath’ and mega drama ‘Chale Hum Prabuddha Bharat Ki Aur’ are just a few names from hundreds of plays staged by the group. They are also known for producing plays based on the principles of Ambedkarite Buddhism, highlighting the native Buddhist culture of India. From last three years, they are organizing a children’s theatre festival too. “This year’s event was special not only because we are celebrating our 30th anniversary but because it’s the first children’s theatre event held properly on stage after an year of pandemic,” said Surendra Wankhede, who directed one of the plays. Members of Bahujan Rangbhoomi, who are now grown-up artists, recalled their days of children’s theatre and shared several nostalgic moments after the plays were presented. Earlier, Dr Satish Salunkhe, well-known playwright, inaugurated the day’s theatre workshop. He said children’s theatre must present a scientific and logical education to them instead of showing only fairy tales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bahujan-rangbhoomi-celebrates-3-decade-journey-with-three-plays/articleshow/80915113.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Renovated lake to be opened for public use||Coimbatore: The city corporation has almost completed the rejuvenation and beautification work of Selva Chinthamani tank in the city and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is likely to inaugurate the revamped waterbody in a few days.The project was carried out by the civic body at a cost of Rs 31.47 crore under the smart city mission. The work to beautify the lake, which is spread across 35.22 acres, was commenced in April 2019. The project involved developing the lake bund for about 1.5km, strengthening the bund, erecting a bio-fence using trees and treating the water flowing into the tank from Kumarasamy tank, among others.A source privy to the project confirmed that the work was almost complete and the chief minister was likely to inaugurate it in the next few days.The city corporation has, meanwhile, fast-tracked the restoration and beautification work of lakes such as Ukkadam periyakulam, Kumarasamy, Selvampathy and Valankulam in the city limits and been setting regular targets to complete the work on time. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/renovated-lake-to-be-opened-for-public-use/articleshow/80914134.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Coimbatore||DMK govt will set up separate board for weavers: Kanimozhi||Namakkal: A separate board will be set up to address weavers’ grievances when DMK comes to power after the assembly election, said Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi while campaigning in Namakkal district on Sunday.During the campaign, she went to Rasipuram and surrounding villages and interacted with weavers, college students and truck owners. At a meeting with weavers, they requested Kanimozhi to take steps to waive cooperative bank loans and reduce yarn price. Kanimozhi promised to fulfill the demands once DMK forms government under the leadership of the party chief MK Stalin after the election. While interacting with students, she spoke about women in politics, women empowerment and social justice. Later in the day, Kanimozhi met members of the Namakkal taluk lorry owner’s association. Truck owners submitted a petition requesting reduction of VAT levied on diesel, separate motor vehicle law for Tamil Nadu, waiving quarterly tax, setting up a truck stand and opening technical parks exclusively for trucks. Earlier, Kanimozhi went to local market at Gurusamipalayam village near Rasipuram and interacted with people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-govt-will-set-up-separate-board-for-weavers-kanimozhi/articleshow/80914111.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Cardholders to be provided free chickpea till month-end||Coimbatore: Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and priority household (PHH) ration cardholders who had not received their share of five kilograms of chickpea in December can get it from ration shops till the end of February.The Union government had announced a kilogram of chickpea to AAY and PHH cardholders for five months from July as Covid-19 relief under phase II of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY). Instead of distributing a kilogram per month, the state government decided to distribute five kilograms of chickpea in December. The government also distributed a kilogram of pigeon pea to non-priority household ration cardholders.“While salesmen distributed pigeon pea to all beneficiaries, about 113.5 tonnes of chickpea or 5.75% of total stock, could not be distributed. As the deadline was over, we decided to return it to the state government. But the government decided to distribute it again in February,” said an official at the office of district supply officer. There are 9.76 lakh rice cardholders in the district, of which 51,981 are AAY cardholders and 3.42 lakh are PHH cardholders. The district received 1,971 tonnes of chickpea in November. The main reason for the pending stock is lack of sufficient time to distribute to beneficiaries, said G Rajendran, state president of the Tamil Nadu Ration Shop Employees’ Union. “In many districts, distribution commenced either in the middle or towards the end of the month. The option to distribute chickpea was removed from the PoS machine in January and we began concentrating on distribution of Pongal gift hampers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cardholders-to-be-provided-free-chickpea-till-month-end/articleshow/80914147.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||SevenHills admitted fifth of Mumbai’s Covid cases, the most||MUMBAI: Anuja Jayaraman’s father-in-law SN Subramaniam came home after 36 days of treatment at SevenHills Hospital, Andheri, last month. And even though her mother-in-law Sivakamu lost her battle with the virus after 42 days in the same hospital, Jayaraman has regained faith in the city’s public health system somewhat. “We truly believe that public health worked in Mumbai during the pandemic," she said, calling the compassion shown by doctors and nurses at SevenHills “exemplary”. The hospital, mainly known for its legal battle with the BMC and a multi-crore insolvency plea, may have become the city’s unlikely saviour in the pandemic by handling a fifth of its Covid admissions. Last week, SevenHills completed admitting over 21,000 patients -- the highest by any single Covid facility in Mumbai. “We knew this was the only facility that could be readied in the minimum possible time. That decision has paid off,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. A day after the state reported its first two Covid cases on March 9, former civic chief Praveen Pardeshi toured the hospital and gave orders to bring it to life. Though always touted as a 1,500-bed hospital, 306 beds were ever set up, of which only 55 were running since the hospital’s insolvency plea in 2018. Pardeshi’s brief was not just to activate 306 beds but to create 1,200 additional ones speedily. Mission ‘renew SevenHills’ started the very day Mumbai reported its first two Covid cases (March 11), with basics like clearing debris from partially-constructed floors. Officer-on-special-duty Dr Maharudra Kumbhar recalled at least 350 trucks of debris leaving the hospital campus that day. Labourers were also greeted with some expected sights -- over 50 snake carcasses were found. There was no time to halt as in the next 48 hours, the ward on the eighth floor was to be thrown open as a quarantine facility. Lights, fan, kitchen, canteen services to diagnostics and bio-medical waste disposal, everything had to be made functional. As the first international traveller walked into the quarantine facility on March 14, news spread and hundreds of labourers fled. Work resumed after much cajoling but manpower remained one of the biggest challenges till June, said dean Dr Balkrishna Adsul. Private hospitals like HN Reliance joined in to manage wards and ICUs while Aditya Birla Foundation, Jupiter Hospital chipped in with repairing beds and providing other equipment. Kumbhar said the hospital had its edgiest day on June 16 when its oxygen capacity had to be augmented by adding a 13 kilolitre tank, but that required the existing tank to be shut for four hours. “We had 350 patients on oxygen support, but all went well,” said Kumbhar. SevenHills also saw one of the highest Covid deaths among hospitals. Of the nearly 3,000 ICU admissions, 44% succumbed. ICU in-charge Dr Rahul Sawalia said they didn’t refuse any critical patients, including from MMR, who came with multiple comorbidities. A chunk of the BMC’s Covid expense, nearly Rs 200 crore, has gone into breathing life into SevenHills. Kakani said that while jumbo field hospitals may be dismantled eventually, SevenHills will continue to be there for Covid care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sevenhills-admitted-fifth-of-citys-covid-cases-the-most/articleshow/80915142.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 15, 2021||Chennai||‘Talks on seat sharing with the DMK may take four more hours this time’||Having taken over the reins of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) in February 2019, just a couple of months ahead of the Lok Sabha polls, K S Alagiri has not only managed to retain his position, but also keep the alliance leader DMK in good humour, barring a few blips. He now has the onerous task of wrangling with the DMK for a sizeable number of seats for his party for the 2021 assembly election. This, when the DMK is keen to contest as many seats as it can. In an interview to D Govardan, Alagiri exudes confidence of passing the assembly test too.Q: You have completed two years as TNCC president. What have been your achievements?During my tenure, I have galvanised the party in the state, conducted party workers’ meetings and activated booth level committees. I organised interactions, protests and public meetings on emerging issues that affect the people, along with frontal organisations. The focus was to connect with the grassroots workers. I came up with the concept of Plough Rally across the state as a positive counter to the BJP’s Vel Yatra. I brought Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to TN and conducted a road show in the western districts that created a "pralayam" (political tsunami). I ensured devolution of power in the Congress party, vested with just 50 people to 500 people. Q: You mean the jumbo list of office-bearers that came in for much ridicule? Yes. I consciously did that to change the perception once held against the Congress party that only the rich, English-educated industrialists and landlords could get official postings. I gave positions to the commoners. In modern-day politics, only the commoners can deliver goods and understand people’s problems better. Critics will always have their way of questioning and it has been responded by others too in the same vein. Q: Even your party MP from Sivaganga Karti Chidambaram had criticised the need for such a jumbo-sized office bearers list.My response is for people like him too. Even at the rate of three state-level office-bearers per assembly constituency, I would need 700 people. The number of postings is much less. If during Rahul Gandhi’s recent visit, we could successfully organise the road show and attract large crowds, it was because of the commoners becoming office-bearers. We have not been in power for more than 50 years in Tamil Nadu and cannot spend huge money required for organising such events. It is the commoners who are delivering for the party.Q: Did you bring in Rahul Gandhi to show off your strength because in neighbouring Puducherry, the DMK appeared to be flexing its muscle?There is no need to prove anything to anyone. The Puducherry development was put an end to with the same speed that it started, by the Congress and DMK leadership. Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Tamil Nadu was planned much earlier. But it got postponed due to various other factors. It is part of our internal initiative to strengthen the party. Our alliance with the DMK remains strong and intact. Q: Is it true that the DMK is offering only a few seats to alliance partners, including the Congress? Every political party would want to contest in maximum number of seats. There is a good understanding between Rahul Gandhi and DMK president M K Stalin. While Stalin was the first to name Rahul Gandhi as a PM candidate, we will work for Stalin to become the next CM. Just because of this friendship, we cannot expect the DMK to give us whatever we ask for or that we will accept whatever is given. We will discuss and get our rightful share of seats. Q: The DMK would seem justified since your party was allotted 63 seats in the 2011 assembly election and won just five seats, and in 2016, the Congress contested 41 seats and won only eight. Your comment? In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, we were allotted nine seats and won eight of them in Tamil Nadu with a strike rate of more than 90%. The discussion will start from there. There is not much of a difference in the vote share of an alliance in the parliamentary and assembly elections. While generally the ruling and the principal opposition parties win the maximum number of seats in an election, offering just the seats that were not won by either of these two parties to the allies cannot ensure better results. In an alliance, the seat-sharing formula should be a mix of 60% winnable seats and 40% difficult ones. If a party doesn’t add value to the other party, there is no need to have an alliance in the first place. Both sides understand this.Q: Have you started seat-sharing talks with the DMK?Not yet. We have time. The seat-sharing talks for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections were successfully concluded by the leaderships of the two parties within four hours. For the assembly election, it may take an additional four hours. We do not foresee any problems.Q: Is the Congress keen to have Kamal Haasan and his MNM in the DMK-led alliance? At a media interaction, a reporter asked me if Kamal Haasan wanted to join the DMK-led alliance would he be accepted. For sake of political decency, I said yes, because if someone wants to join how can we say no. Beyond that I have not taken any steps to invite him into the alliance. Only the DMK can decide on such things. Q: With the Congress planning a few more roadshows with Rahul Gandhi, is it trying to enact what G K Moopanar did with Rajiv Gandhi in 1988?It was a great initiative by G K Moopanar with the support of Rajiv Gandhi. Even though the Congress party came third, it was a thin margin that separated us from the J Jayalalithaa faction of the AIADMK, which eventually assumed office two years later. Not only the effort, even the result was fantastic for the Congress in the 1989 assembly poll. But the mistake the party made was to immediately replace Moopanar. While the party high command is free to take a decision on state units and offer the incumbent a new assignment, they should not have abandoned the policy of the Congress leading the alliance. Had they continued that policy, we could have considerably grown in Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/talks-on-seat-sharing-with-the-dmk-may-take-four-more-hours-this-time/articleshow/80914166.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Actor held for Rs 100 crore deals with realtor firm||MUMBAI: Businessman and actor-producer Sachin Joshi was arrested on Sunday in connection with “suspicious” transactions to the tune of Rs 100 crore in a money-laundering case being probed against developer Omkar Group. The construction group has taken up many big-ticket projects in the city. Enforcement Directorate officials on Saturday picked up Joshi for questioning that went on till late night. He was arrested for not cooperating in the probe, said officials. An official said there were multiple “fraudulent” deals between Joshi and Omkar Group which were being probed. On January 28, top officials of Omkar group — Kamal Kishor Gupta and Babulal Varma — were held in a Rs 410 crore money-laundering case linked to a slum rehabilitation project. The agency alleged that SRA work had not begun and work slum-dwellers’ names were forged to get more FSI and to procure more funds in loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-held-for-rs-100cr-deals-with-realtor-firm/articleshow/80914177.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 15, 2021||Coimbatore||PMK welcomes clubbing of 7 SCs||Coimbatore: Paattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) leader S Ramadoss has welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of clubbing together seven scheduled castes into one and call them as `Devendra Kula Velalar’. In a statement issued on Sunday, Ramadoss said it was he who had spoken about the rights and virtues of Devendra Kula Velalar way back in 1989 in Madurai before any other politicians.“It is heartening to note that the Prime Minister had spoken for 10 minutes about the bill to be presented in Parliament to call seven castes as Devendra Kula Velalar,” he said. Ramadoss recalled that the PMK had held a conference in Madurai in 1989 with the slogan ‘Vanniyars in north TN and Devendrar in south TN’ as the party’s focus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pmk-welcomes-clubbing-of-7-scs/articleshow/80914165.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Coimbatore||At Rs 93 crore, agriculture infra in state gets boost||Coimbatore: Giving a fillip to the agricultural infrastructure in the state, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has inaugurated a number of warehouses in Villupuram, Kallakurichi and Cuddalore districts, laboratories and training centres at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), and market complexes in various districts. In all, the government had spent Rs 93 crore on the new infrastructure. According to a statement issued by the state government on Sunday, the warehouses with a capacity of 500 tonnes to 7,500 tonnes were built at a cost of Rs 45 crore. They were inaugurated by the chief minister on Saturday. These warehouses at Avalurpettai, Thirukovilur and Gingee in Villupuram district, Ulundurpet in Kallakurichi district, and Kurichinipadi and Srimushnam in Cuddalore district are also equipped with auction and trade centres as well as resting lounges for farmers and traders.The agricultural colleges and research centres that are run by the TNAU in Madurai, Killikulam, Eachankottai and Kudimiyanmalai have also got an infrastructure boost with lecture halls, office buildings, laboratories, libraries and training centres with hostel facilities for trainers.“These facilities are part of the government’s objective of improving agricultural infrastructure to maximise the profits of farmers and thereby paving the way for the second green revolution in Tamil Nadu,” the statement said.The chief minister had also inaugurated integrated agricultural extension centres at Kaveripattinam and Shoolagiri in Krishnagiri district and Radhapuram in Tirunelveli; two labs to research about pesticides at Aduthurai in Thanjavur district and Vaigai dam in Theni district; and three soil testing labs in Nagapattinam, Thanjavur and Kallakurichi.In a bid to encourage farmers to cultivate fruit crops such as mango, guava, jack fruit and pappaya, the state government has established a centre for fruits at Kanchanaickenpatti near Marungapuri in Trichy district at a cost of Rs 2 crore. A similar centre for plantation crops has, meanwhile, also been opened at Nanjanad in Nilgiris.Aiming to bridge the gap between consumers and farmers, a rural market complex has been built at Chengelpet at a cost of Rs 96 lakh. With a similar objective, two horticultural sales centres have also been opened – one on Thadagam Road in Coimbatore district and another at Semmozhi Poonga on Cathedral Road in Chennai. “The centres will eliminate the hazards posed by middlemen,” the government statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/at-rs-93-crore-agriculture-infra-in-state-gets-boost/articleshow/80914164.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Hindu outfits commemorate lives lost on serial blasts anniv||Coimbatore: Members of BJP, Hindu Munnani, Vishva Hindu Parishad and other right-wing outfits commemorated the lives lost in the 1998 bomb serial blasts in the city on the occasion of its 23rd anniversary on Sunday. The blasts had claimed 58 lives and injured more than 200 .After paying floral tributes to the victims, BJP state president L Murugan said the forthcoming assembly election in the state will be a contest between patriots and anti-nationals.Murugan said DMK and Communist parties have been working against the Hindu and Tamil culture and the state government has failed to act against those who tarnished the image of Hindus.“As our party’s ‘Vel Yatra’ received good response, DMK has now taken ‘Vel’ in its hands to cheat the people of Tamil Nadu. People of Tamil Nadu should understand the DMK and defeat the party,” Murugan said.BJP state vice-president K Annamalai said that attempts are being made to destroy spirituality in the garb of Dravdianism in the state. “To destroy the Dravidian parties, we must speak historically and factually. BJP is growing into a powerful party in Tamil Nadu. Many BJP MLAs will be present in the legislative assembly after the assembly election. DMK will not exist after 2021,” Annamalai said.Hindu Munnani state president Kadeswara C Subramaniam and BJP state treasurer Annanmalai, among others, paid floral tribute to the bomb blast victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hindu-outfits-commemorate-lives-lost-on-serial-blasts-anniv/articleshow/80914161.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Coimbatore||New gall midge species named after Singanallur lake||Coimbatore: In 2015, a team led by Durai Vasanthakumar, a researcher from the western regional centre of Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), spotted a small bulge on the middle vein of a leaf of Indian jujube (Ziziphus mauritiana) near Singanallur lake in the city during a field visit. It turned out to be a new gall midge species pupa.Zootaxa, an international journal, published the research paper in March 2020, naming the species Asphondylia singanallurensis Vasanthakumar and Sharma, sp. nov.Director of the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding C Kunhikannan along with district forest officer D Venkatesh released the paper during a function organized by the Centre for Urban Biodiversity Conservation and Education (CUBE) on Sunday to mark World Wetlands Day.The insect is found only in the leaves of Indian jujube and only for two to three months during the rainy season starting September or October, Vasanthakumar said. “We found 20 to 30 such insects in a tree. They are 2mm long. Females would lay an egg near the middle vein of leaves and it is covered by leaf tissues, thus trapping it inside. Within five to six days, larva is hatched. After 14 to 15 days, it becomes pupa and takes another seven to eight days to become an adult when it will come out of the gall. Until it becomes an adult, it grows eating leaf tissues,” he said.While the life cycle of the male insect ends as soon as it mates, the female insect is expected to live for some more days, Vasanthakumar said. “We are yet to conduct a detailed study to understand its behavior and other features.”The team comprised Vasanthakumar, Senthilkumar Palanisamy, Vinny R Peter and Radheshyam M Sharma.Meanwhile, four species – one spider and three insects – found along the lake are suspected to be new species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-gall-midge-species-named-after-singanallur-lake/articleshow/80914153.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||History etched in ancient grains||AHMEDABAD: It could well be grains like any – but when they are discovered from several metres of excavation along with relics of the past, their significance and role changes dramatically for the archaeologists. For example, the discovery of grains, dating back to first century BCE to fourth century CE (2,100 to 1,600 years before present), gave insights into the possible climate of the region and possible food habits during the Buddhist era of the ancient town. Findings of the study, carried out by a group of researchers including Anil Pokharia from Birbal Sahni Institute of Paleosciences (BSIP) and Y S Rawat from Gujarat state archaeological department, have taken the shape of a paper ‘Rice, beans and pulses at Vadnagar: an early historical site with a Buddhist monastery in Gujarat, western India,’ which was recently accepted in Elsevier’s journal Geobios. ‘The study of the plant remains from Vadnagar Monastery site has proved to be informative and highlights the potential for plant diversity research during Buddhism in the subcontinent… Presence of variety of crops along with rice spikelet bases and weeds suggests their local cultivation on arable lands of northern Gujarat to feed the expanding population,’ stated the paper. The paper claimed that presence of 99% of traditional summer crops among the grains found point towards warm and humid climatic condition compared to present semi-arid region of north Gujarat. The researchers also pointed at rice’s role in rituals and elite consumption during early historic times. Rice is considered to have been introduced in central India through trade and later became a locally produced crop. ‘The region (north Gujarat) lacks major perennial rivers for irrigation; people might have opted for rain-fed cultivation. Monsoonal variability would have caused an increase in rainfall for significant non-irrigated wet-rice agriculture. The settlements in the region are situated in fertile soil with high agricultural potential... The dominance of rice suggests better hydrological and conducive (summer monsoon) environmental conditions in the semi-arid region of Gujarat during the 100 BCE−400 CE time interval. Evidence of caves used by Buddhist monks for shelter during the monsoon season also suggest high rainfall,’ mentioned the paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/history-etched-in-ancient-grains/articleshow/80914184.cms||Parth Shastri
February 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Earthmover owners begin indefinite strike||Coimbatore: An association of earthmover owners launched an indefinite strike in the district on Sunday.As many as 60 earthmovers from Jallipatti and another 60 from Sulthanpet were parked on agriculture fields to show solidarity with the Coimbatore and Tirupur Districts JCB Owners Welfare Association, which wants to revise rent on the vehicles.“Owners from Sulur, Udumalpet and Palladam will participate in the strike from Monday. They won’t work until we revise the rent,” said Jothiraj, an association representative. “Diesel price has been increasing across the country. Price of spare parts has also gone up. We are forced to pay huge amounts on insurance every year. More than 250 earthmovers are in Coimbatore and Tirupur districts. Some owners charge Rs 800 for using the vehicle for one hour and some collect Rs 1,100. We want a standard tariff in the two districts,” he said. “We want to charge Rs 2,500 for the first two hours and Rs 1,100 for each hour after that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/earthmover-owners-begin-indefinite-strike/articleshow/80914168.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Coimbatore||Tirupur gets home for inter-caste couples||Tirupur: A home for protection of newly-wed inter-caste couples was inaugurated in Tirupur on Sunday, even as social activists in Coimbatore gathered together to get inter-caste couples married as part of the Valentine’s Day celebrations.“Several inter-caste couples face threat from their family and relatives. The idea is to give them abode and keep them protected,” , S Gunasekar, an advocate and managing trustee of Athalinal Kaathal Seivir Trust, said. The protection home is a two-room portion of his own house, which he handed over to the trust. Two couples can be accommodated at a time in the house.A similar home was inaugurated in Trichy some time ago. The trust also has plans to open similar homes in Madurai and Chennai.Gunasekar said the Trichy home was a highly fortified one located within the police colony and close to the police station where couples facing extreme threat would be kept for a week or a month. “Later if the parents accept them they can go back. Or if they want protection for more time, they can come to Tirupur home, find work here and stay here,” he said.Gunasekar said the trust has been helping inter-caste couples get married, give them legal assistance before accommodating them in the home.Meanwhile, in Coimbatore, members of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam got an inter-caste couple married on Sunday in the presence of several such couples who got married in the past, despite opposition from the family. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-gets-home-for-inter-caste-couples/articleshow/80914167.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: This NH stretch turns into a ‘road’ model||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The newly-inaugurated Pravachambalam-Kodinada stretch of national highway road has been winning praises for its special features which make the stretch safer not just for motorists but also for pedestrians and disabled. The highlight of the stretch is the footpath with tactile tiles that helps navigation easy for blinds. The middle row of tiles on the 1.5-metre-wide footpath is paved with tactile tiles with textured surface. There are tiles with two types of textures — those with straight lines and those with dotted surfaces. The straight line tiles indicate that it is safe to proceed and the dotted surface tiles indicate that there is obstructions such as pedestrian crossing, signal junction or bus bay ahead. Speaking to TOI, Sreenath P J, assistant engineer of national highway division of PWD, said the stretch has been completed as a model road, following the guidelines set by Indian Road Congress (IRC), which is the apex body of highway engineers in the country. “The footpaths are wheelchair-friendly too,” Sreenath said adding that ramps have been constructed at every 10 metres to facilitate the entry and exit of wheelchairs from the footpath. The footpaths are also fitted with handrails for safety. Special focus has been given to prevent accidents during night owing to poor visibility. For this, solar-powered streetlights have been installed along the median. High- mast lights are also installed at four signal junctions — Pravachambalam, Pallichal, Vedivachan Kovil and Madavooppara. Reflective road studs, median markers, delineators and thermoplastic road markings are the other safety features of this stretch. The total stretch has a width of 10.5 metres on either side. Pravachambalam-Kodinada stretch is a 4.5km stretch that starts at Pravachambalam in the city corporation limits and ends at Kodinada near Balaramapuram. It is the second reach of Karamana-Kaliyikkavila highway road. The works of the first reach from Karamana to Pravachambalam was completed during the tenure of UDF government in March 2016. The construction works of the second reach commenced in January 2019. The stretch was inaugurated by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/this-nh-stretch-turns-into-a-road-model/articleshow/80912984.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Screening at homes in Kurla, Tilak Nagar as Covid cases up||MUMBAI: Two city wards, M west and L, that have been seeing a surge in Covid-19 cases have joined forces to comb households for individuals with symptoms, an approach usually followed to combat diseases like malaria and dengue. Over 5,500 houses within L ward’s Nehru Nagar and M west’s Tilak Nagar have been screened after these bordering areas started seeing a surge in cases over the past week. Teams from both these wards joined hands to carry out door-to-door screening. Of the 5,500 homes screened during the weekend, the teams could send only 24 for testing, of which 50% were referred for treatment to dispensaries. However, field staff faced resistance from people who outrightly refused to get tested. In Kurla, particularly, ward officials found that people from sealed floors of high-rises were going to offices and doing their chores, violating quarantine norms. “High-risk contacts of positive patients are getting tested willingly. But those with mild symptoms are unwilling to get tested,” said Dr Jeetendra Jadhav, medical officer of health (MOH), L ward. He said quarantine violations were found in nearly 60% sealed floors. Similar reluctance to get tested was seen in M west ward during screening in Tilak Nagar where cases have doubled from 15 about 10 days back. MOH Dr Bhupendra Patil said unless somebody was taking a flight and had to take a test, most were reluctant to get tested for Covid. M west has highest weekly growth rate in the city at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/screening-at-homes-in-kurla-tilak-nagar-as-covid-cases-up/articleshow/80915156.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||In a month, admissions to first-line centres soar 128%||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The district, over the past one month, has been witnessing a slow rise in daily Covid-19 cases. Meanwhile, ICU and ventilator occupancy has declined drastically compared to the peak months. While the district managed to avoid an immediate Covid surge post local body election, Christmas and New Year festivities, weekly admissions to medical college hospital and CFLTCs (Covid first-line treatment centre) increased by 54% and 128%, respectively between the first week of January and first week of February. Since the second week of October, weekly CFLTC admissions had slumped from 901 to 109 in the fourth week of December. Since the first week of January, admission to first-line treatment centres on a weekly basis grew from 142 to 325 by the first week of February. During the same period, MCH weekly admissions too increased from 135 to 208. Weekly admissions at MCH for Covid-19 had remained below 200 for 10 weeks till it touched 207 in the last week of January. Even with an evident rise in number of admissions to first-line centres and medical college, total ICU occupancy in the district had shown a 30% fall from the peak months. By the end of October, ICU occupancy was as high as 202 and as on February 10, it stood at 144. The load of patients requiring critical care categorized under Category C has also shown a marked dip by 50% from the peak months. As for category B patients admitted in Covid hospitals, secondary-line treatment centres and private hospitals, the fall from peak has been 60%. The officials associated with Covid-19 management highlight Covid hospital occupancy trends. “A study of weekly average shows that active cases on ventilator dropped from 1.77% in December to 0.9% in the first week of February. Ventilator occupancy had touched the peak of 1.79% in the last week of December which came down to 1.77% by December 30. The authorities, though wary of rise in daily admissions, are assured about the available infrastructure in first-line and second-line treatment centres. As on February 13, of the 1,156 beds in first-line treatment centres, 804 beds were vacant. In secondary-line centres, 219 beds are ready and as on February 13, 109 beds were vacant. Also, 49% ventilator facility is vacant in the district at present and 59% of ICU is now occupied. The number of weekly cases has not crossed 3,000 in the past three weeks. However, the weekly cases which had dropped from 2,878 to 2,762 in last two weeks of January increased to 2,793 in the first week of February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/in-a-month-admissions-to-first-line-centres-soar-128/articleshow/80913001.cms||Aswin J Kumar
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Covid-19 cases on rise in Nagpur division too||NAGPUR: Districts in Amravati division recorded high number of Covid-19 cases in the last six days while all districts, except Nagpur, in Nagpur division had shown good control over the spread of virus. However, on Sunday even Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts in the division recorded more cases than number of recoveries, which resulted in 1,356 new cases in a day for Vidarbha. It was the highest tally of single-day cases for the region this year so far. Apart from Nagpur district which registered highest 455 cases for the day, other districts in Nagpur division also reported more cases than their previous day average on Sunday. Bhandara (19), Chandrapur (19), Gadchiroli (7), and Wardha (69) raised the alarm for east Vidarbha too. Gondia was the only district where only one new case was reported. Amravati division, which is already suffering from new wave like situation, added to its surge. Amravati (399), Yavatmal (115), Akola (113), and Buldhana (110), reported more than 100 cases while Washim at 49 reported its highest spike this year. Day’s 854 recoveries came from Nagpur (251), Amravati (374), Yavatmal (65), Akola (48), Buldhana (46), Washim (25), Wardha (14), Chandrapur (12), Bhandara (11), Gondia (4), Gadchiroli (4). With the gap between new cases and recoveries widening, it is resulting in increased in under-treatment patients. Vidarbha now has 8,134 patients under treatment. Relief factor is that a very few of them are hospitalized and a majority are recovering in home isolation. Overall, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 94.6% which has declined constantly in the last five days. The national average recovery rate is 1.43% while the state is 95.7%. Fatalities, which were in single-digit during last two days, reached double digits on Sunday. Out of the 12 deaths reported on Sunday, six were from Nagpur district — 3 from Nagpur city, one from district and two deceased were patients from other states/regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-cases-on-rise-in-nagpur-division-too/articleshow/80915149.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Miffed with non-payment of salaries, sanitation staff goes on strike in Piran Kaliyar||Roorkee: Unhappy with the non-payment of their salaries for the last four months, the sanitation staff of the Piran Kaliyar town near Roorkee has been boycotting work for two days now. The agitating staff alleges that the salaries are not being released due to a tussle between the executive officer (EO) and the chairman of the town council (nagar panchayat). “We have not received our salaries since October 2020. The issue of pending salaries is getting prolonged as we don’t find the EO in office on most days,” Amit Raj, safai supervisor, told TOI. Meanwhile, the local administration has said that they are looking into the matter and have assured that the salaries will be released at the earliest possible. Roorkee joint magistrate Namami Bansal told TOI, “The EO and the chairman were found to be blaming each other on the issue. Thus, we have launched a probe. Also, I urge all the sanitation workers to resume with their work and assure them that their dues will be paid in a matter of a few days.” Piran Kaliyar Nagar Panchayat (town council), which has come into being in 2018, provides sanitation facility to the town with a battery of 38 sanitation staff including 9 woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/miffed-with-non-payment-of-salaries-sanitation-staff-goes-on-strike-in-piran-kaliyar/articleshow/80913272.cms||Tapan Susheel
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||ATM card stolen, cash withdrawn||Ahmedabad: A 38-year-old woman from Vasna filed a complaint of theft with Sabarmati riverfront (west) police on Sunday, stating that first her and her husband’s valuables including cellphone, wallet and the gold earrings of her daughter were stolen from their parked scooter, and later the thief had also withdrawn money using the ATM card and cellphone and also transferred their money through UPI. In all, the couple lost Rs 89,000. Ahana Sen, who works at a private firm, states in her FIR that she along with her two-and-a-half-year-old daughter and her husband Hemant Mukharjee, who works at an international airlines, had gone to the riverfront on a scooter on February 7. As they had to care for the child, they kept their cellphone worth Rs 15,000, gold earrings worth Rs 15,000, Rs 4,000 cash and a wallet containing an ATM card and a hospital card in the scooter and went for a stroll. When they returned about an hour later, they found that their valuables worth Rs 34,000 were stolen. They immediately checked with their bank and found Rs 50,000 had already been withdrawn in five different transactions. Along with that, Rs 5,000 was transferred through Google Pay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/atm-card-stolen-cash-withdrawn/articleshow/80914213.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||UP to hold Savatestate c’ship soon||Lucknow: French martial art, Savate, is fast gaining popularity in India and efforts are on to promote the sport in Uttar Pradesh. UP Savate Association (UPSA) has decided to organise a technical referee seminar within the next two months. UPSA president Manoj Dixit and general secretary KB Pant said that a state-level Savate championship would also be organised soon. General secretary of UP Olympic Association Anandeshwar Pandey also gave away accreditation certificates to the office-bearers of the association. Dixit said combat events were currently not allowed in view of Covid-19 protocol but hoped that permission would be granted soon. On this occasion, sportspersons Ganga Datt Pant, Rudra Bharadwaj, Indrajeet, Ranvir Singh Sodhi, Manjari Dubey (all for Savate), Nikita Negi, Krishna Chauhan, Siza Rai (all dance sports), Ansh Pandey, Ratnesh Singh, Akhil Singh, Jai Tiwari (all for cycling) and Shashwat Tripathi (football) were given promising player award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-hold-savatestate-cship-soon/articleshow/80915147.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Van flips on NH divider, crashes into lorry; 14 die||Tirupati: Fourteen people were killed and four others severely injured in a ghastly road accident on Hyderabad-Bangalore National Highway-44 near Madarpuram village of Veldurthi mandal in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh on Sunday morning. The mishap occurred when the driver lost control, hit a road divider and fell on the opposite lane right on the path of a lorry that crashed into it. Fourteen of the 18 in the van were killed on the spot and the impact was such that the area was strewn with blood and bodies. The mini van driver and cleaner were among the dead that included eight women, 5 men and a child. The victims belonged to three families from Madanapalle town of Chittoor district and were proceeding to the dargah of Hazrat Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti in Ajmer. Overspeeding is said to be the cause of the mishap. A pall of gloom descended on Madanapalle town as the news of the mishap reached. The mini van turned into mangled metal and rescue teams had to use a crane and cutters to retrieve some of the bodies. Traffic on the busy highway came to a standstill as teams struggled to remove the bodies and shift the injured to government hospital in Kurnool. The state government announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of the victims. It also said Rs 1 lakh will be paid to each of the four injured. This is the second major road mishap in Andhra Pradesh in the last three days. Earlier, a tourist bus fell from the ghat road in Araku valley into a 80 feet deep gorge, killing four people and injuring 24 others on Friday night. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and AP governor Biswabhusan Harichandan and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock over the gory road mishap. Jagan directed officials to provide good medical aid to the injured. Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian told reporters that a joint family of 18 members belonging to Madanapalle in Chittoor district started for Ajmer on Saturday night. “Early Sunday morning when the vehicle reached Madarpuram village, the driver lost control and rammed into the road divider. The vehicle toppled over and hit a truck on the other side of the road about 40 feet away. Except four all the other occupants died on the spot,” he said. He said the victims were identified based on the Aadhaar cards they were carrying with them. After the post-mortem, the bodies will be sent to Madanapalle in special ambulances. Kurnool district superintendent of police Dr Kaginelli Fakeerappa said the mini van driver may have dozed off and lost control of the vehicle. The deceased are Shaik Dastagiri (50), Shaik Ammajan (35), Shaik Shameera (16), Shaik Ameeroon (15), Shaik Rafi (36), Shaik Jaffer Vali (30), Shaik Nazirabi (65), Shaik Rohini (29), Shaik Mohammed Rihan (one year old), Shaik Naziya (34), Shaik Amir Jaan (63), Mastani (30), Shafi (35) and Nazir (55). The four survivors, Shaik Shafi (38), Shaik Khasif (14), Shaik Yasmin (5), and Shaik Asma, are admitted to government general hospital in Kurnool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/van-flips-on-nh-divider-crashes-into-lorry-14-die/articleshow/80915751.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 15, 2021||Ludhiana||After GST, income tax dept also starts probe against city bizman||Ludhiana: Two days after the state GST department raided a Mandi Kesar Ganj-based businessman on suspicion of tax evasion, the income tax department launched its own investigation against him. The probe started after Rs 80 lakh cash was found from the premises of his firm during a raid by the state GST department and the matter was reported to the income tax department. An I-T officer said the businessman has been asked to explain the source of this huge amount of cash recovered from his office and the next course of investigation would be based on the information received in his reply. Meanwhile, the state GST department is holding a separate probe against the company for tax evasion and it suspects that multiple firms were being run from the same address for the purpose. A GST team had, on February 12, raided the Kesar Ganj Mandi office of the businessman who deals in edible and non-edible oils. In a statement, the department had claimed that the company was showing sales through bogus transactions and sending actual goods elsewhere. In this action, several documents and multiple bill books, receipt books and cheque books were recovered along with a huge amount of cash. Many loose papers and account books related to business transactions were also seized from the business premises.If the source of cash is not found to be legitimate, it will be treated as undisclosed income of the businessman and tax and penalty will be imposed on the entire amount, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-gst-income-tax-dept-also-starts-probe-against-city-bizman/articleshow/80913005.cms||Mohit Behl
February 15, 2021||Goa||BJP to announce municipal poll candidates in 2 days||PANAJI: BJP has sprung into action to leave no stone unturned to win the municipal elections. BJP will announce its candidates within two days. With the elections to the 12 urban local bodies including the corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) fast approaching, BJP has appointed sitting MLAs and party senior leaders as observers to over see all activities of the party pertaining to elections which include selection of candidates and over all campaign in respective areas Chief minister Pramod Sawant and BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Sunday held their first meeting with observers to chalk out a detailed plan. Tanavade told TOI that they have asked told observers to finalise the candidates for the municipal elections and start campaigning. The municipal elections are likely to held by March-end. The appointment of observers for municipal elections was taken during the recent visit of Goa desk in-charge C T Ravi. Tanavde said that health minister Vishwajit Rane has been appointed as observer for Valpoi municipal council , Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate for CCP, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar for Quepem municipal council, power minister Nilesh Cabral for Curchorem municipal council, speaker Rakesh Patnekar, Pernem MLA Dayanand Sopte and chief minister will look after Bicholim municipal council, former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar for Mapusa municipal council, Rajendra Arlekar and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes for Canacona municipal, Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar for Mormugao municipal council, Tanavade and Datta Kholkar for Margao municipal, Narendra Sawaikar and Subhash Phal Dessai for Sanguem municipal and Sawaikar and Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias for Cuncolim municipal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-to-announce-municipal-poll-candidates-in-2-days/articleshow/80915194.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana asks PRIs to submit records in zila parishad offices||CHANDIGARH: With no signs of announcement of elections to panchayati raj institutions any time soon, Haryana government has asked PRIs and their elected representatives to submit their records in zila parishad offices concerned by Tuesday. The government has already notified the appointment of administrator to panchayati raj institutions from February 23 onwards. The term of PRIs, including gram panchayats, block samitis and zila parishads ends the same day. Even as the government claimed that arrangements are being made to ensure timely elections, delay has been attributed to the Covid lockdown and revision of electoral rolls. CM Manohar Lal Khattar and deputy CM Dushyant Chautala had been claiming that panchayat elections would be held well on time. Opposition parties including Congress, INLD and AAP have attributed the delay to sentiments of farmers, who are major stakeholders and participants in PRI elections. “This was expected from this alliance. This government can give any reason for not announcing or conducting polls in time. Haven’t they conducted civic polls? Elections are being held in other states as well. Anyone can conclude the reason behind delayed elections,’’ said Aftab Ahmed, deputy leader of Congress legislative party (CLP) of the state. He added that the state government could even delay announcement of Ellenabad by-election. Yogeshwar Sharma, a senior AAP leader alleged that the delay was deliberate. “They are keen on contesting elections in states like West Bengal but not here as their chances of having their own representatives elected are quite less. Anyhow, we are prepared for anything,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-asks-pris-to-submit-records-in-zila-parishad-offices/articleshow/80914214.cms||Manvir Saini
February 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Rewari, Jhajjar, Nuh emerge as Covid-19 free districts in Haryana||Chandigarh: Rewari, Jhajjar and Nuh emerged as Covid-19 free districts while 10 out 22 districts reported zero new case. In all, Haryana on Sunday reported 77 new Covid-19 cases. Seventy persons recovered during the day while no death was reported. No vaccination session took place due to Sunday being the holiday. State’s Covid-19 count has gone to 2,69,046 cases, 3,039 deaths, 2,65,155 recoveries and 852 active cases. Active cases include 23 serious patients who are on ventilator support and oxygen support in various Covid-19 care centres across the state. Among the districts reported zero cases include Hisar, Rewari, Sirsa, Mahindegarh, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Palwal, Fatehabad, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri. While highest 20 cases were reported from Gurgaon where the overall tally has gone to 58,540cases, 356 deaths and 354 active cases. Yamunanangar reported second highest of 11 cases while rest nine districts reported between one to nine cases. As many as 14,767 persons were tested during the day. This took state’s testing rate to 2,151,68 tests per million per day. The positive rate of the state has come to 4.94% and death rate remained stable at 1.13% and the recovery rate was recorded at 98.55%. While state has a doubling rate of 132 days now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rewari-jhajjar-nuh-emerge-as-covid-19-free-districts-in-haryana/articleshow/80914225.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Jaipur||Registration of pets gets lukewarm response in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Two hundred eighty dogs were registered during two-day camp organised by Jaipur Municipal Corporation Greater. The camp witnessed registration of less than 100 canines on Sunday which was the last day. The actual number of dogs will be more than 50,000 in the city. Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Greater along with the NGO Protection of Animal and Welfare Society (PAWS) has taken up this initiative to motivate people to get their dogs registered on the occasion of Valentine’s day. The idea behind this is to care for your pets as you do for your lover. Registration of dogs is essential and a rule in the municipal corporation which most of the residents are unaware of. A senior JMC, Greater official said that lack of awareness among residents is the reason that people do not come forward for dog registration. “We organised this camp along with PAWS to provide easy access to people who can get on spot registration. But the turnout was slow as compared to the number of dogs that must be present in the city. There is a need to improve the registration and JMC now have to take up initiative to make it popular,” said JMC official. At present only 350 dogs are registered in JMC Greater. Registration of dogs is essential because if your dog bit any person, the certificate of registration if valid in the court to show that your dog was vaccinated and isn’t harmful. Viren Sharma, secretary of PAWS, said, “This is a unique initiative by JMC to facilitate people for getting their pets registered on spot with a certification of JMC and Kennel Club of Rajasthan. The camp was organized at Panch Batti where registration, vaccination and even street dog adoption had taken place. We made more than 100 street dogs adoption in one day which is a record in itself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/registration-of-dogs-gets-lukewarm-response/articleshow/80914218.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Godhra victims’ kin donate for Ram Temple||Ahmedabad: Family members of karsevaks who were killed in the Sabarmati Express train tragedy at Godhra railway station in 2002, visited the Vishwa Hindu Parishad office in the city on Sunday and contributed towards construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya. About 15 families met VHP office-bearers and handed over their contributions. Bipin Thakkar, who lost his father-in-law and brother-in-law in the incident, said, “Family members of about 15 victims visited the VHP office and handed over their contribution for construction of the temple. Families of Godhra train victims have made a contribution of about Rs 2.50 lakh for the cause.” Thakkar added that he made a contribution of Rs 21,200 for the cause. “I had earlier given two cheques of Rs 5,100 each to VHP workers at the place where my shop is, and also at one of their offices. Today, I handed over a cheque of Rs 11,000,” he said. Vilas Jadhav, who also visited the VHP office with his relatives, said that he had already made contribution for the Ram Temple construction earlier. “I had been with the others to the VHP office, but I made a contribution of Rs 11,000 last month, when the drive was launched at Amraiwadi area of the city,” he said. Vilas lost his father Sadashiv Jadhav in the incident. The VHP has embarked on a nationwide drive to collect funds for construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya. Fifty-nine persons were killed in a fire in coach S-6 of Sabarmati Express on February 27, 2002, while they were returning after performing karseva at Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/godhra-victims-kin-donate-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80914251.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Aurangabad||390 schools register for RTE admissions||Aurangabad: Around 390 schools have registered for admissions under the Right To Education Act so far with the deadline for necessary enrolment getting extended till Monday. As per the official data, these schools have declared cumulative intake capacity of 2,587 seats under 25% reserved quota of the Act. While 584 schools had registered for admissions under the RTE Act during the last academic year, a considerable number of institutions are yet to complete the registration this time. At the state level, 7,992 schools have conducted the registration, declaring a combined intake of 86,280 seats. Last year, 9,331 schools were part of admissions with a cumulative intake capacity of over 1.15 lakh seats. The education department of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has appealed to the remaining schools to complete the registration before the deadline. “The timely registration will facilitate the opening of registration of beneficiaries at the earliest.” said AMC education officer Ramnath Thore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/390-schools-register-for-rte-admissions/articleshow/80912369.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to stop criminal action against maskless pilot||MUMBAI: Bombay high court refused to quash a criminal complaint filed against an Air India pilot who did not wear a mask and whose saliva droplets allegedly flew onto a Directorate General of Civil Aviation inspector’s face as he argued over the aviation regulator’s Covid-19 sanitization measures for simulators. A bench of justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale dismissed a plea by Captain Rajneesh Sharma to quash the FIR lodged by airport police station on July 3, 2020 under IPC sections including 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). The FIR said on June 2, 2020, an angry Sharma came to the briefing room at the AI simulator training centre at Kalina and questioned Captain Charanveersingh Randhawa about regulations for sanitizing simulators after every session. He banged on the table aggressively, used extremely abusive language and pushed Randhawa, who fell on the table. “It also alleged that the petitioner was not wearing a mask and by shouting at respondent (Randhawa), droplets of spit from the mouth of the petitioner fell on the face of respondent,” the HC verdict of January 18 noted. Sharma was suspended on June 3, 2020 and his airport entry pass (AEP) withdrawn. His suspension order was withdrawn on June 24 and on July 7, AI issued him penalty of strict censure. His advocate Arshad Shaikh said AEP was issued subject to outcome of the petition. He said FIR does not disclose commission of offence. Citing delay in the FIR, he said while departmental proceedings resulted in minor penalty, the FIR would certainly not lead to conviction. The judges disagreed saying the FIR and material on record do indicate offence. They said a written police complaint was filed immediately on June 3. Also, the manner in which Randhawa and two witnesses “described the falling of the droplets of spit from the mouth of the petitioner on the face of the respondent (Randhawa), it cannot be said that even prima facie no case can be said to be made out under section 269 of IPC” which is clearly a cognizable offence. While Sharma relied on an earlier ruling by the HC’s Nagpur bench where FIR under section 269 was quashed, the judges said he could not draw a parallel as the applicants’ Covid-19 test report was negative in that case. “In the present case, there is no such material before this court and the allegations made in this context by respondent (Randhawa) assume great significance due to the fact that Covid-19 pandemic is indeed prevalent even today, and certainly, it was at intense stage on the date of the incident,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-refuses-to-stop-criminal-action-against-maskless-pilot/articleshow/80915227.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Injured Uttam Galva worker dies in Nagpur hospital||WARDHA: Abhishekh Bhaumik, 35, a worker who was injured in an accident at Uttam Galva Metallics Limited at Bhugaon in the district, died during treatment on Sunday. He was undergoing treatment at Orange City Hospital in Nagpur. Thirty-eight workers of Uttam Galva Metallics were injured on February 3 due to sudden outflow of hot air from furnace, which was shut for annual maintenance. Eighteen workers are undergoing treatment at Nagpur and Wardha hospitals, while others have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/injured-uttam-galva-worker-dies-in-ngp-hospital/articleshow/80915177.cms||Balwant Dhage
February 15, 2021||Jaipur||JDA miserably fails in providing EWS/LIG houses||Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has miserably failed in providing houses to economic weaker section (EWS) and lower income group (LIG) under the Chief Minister Jan Awas Yojana. In the past five years, the civic body was able to provide possession to only 991 affordable houses as against approved 44,900 houses in more than 65 schemes. As per JDA records, more than 15,000 flats of EWS/LIG category are under construction and will be allotted soon. The work in 69 multi-storied housing schemes is in progress. Similarly, plots will be allotted in 15 housing colonies.An official said, the civic body provides relaxation in land conversion, building map approval and other charges to developers for constructing houses for EWS and LIG category. In return of the benefits, the private developers have to develop schemes and invite applications by lottery in the presence of representative of local bodies. "Around 36,000 affordable houses are proposed to be constructed in private schemes and 7,500 houses in JDA colonies. JDA is planning to impose late fee on the developers who have not completed the construction," said an official.Sources said, in a recent meeting the zone commissioners were also directed to monitor the houses and plots constructed under the Chief Minister Jan Awaas Yojana. However, report of 19 schemes is still pending. As per the township policy rules, builders or developers launching group housing schemes or high-rises have to construct houses for EWS and LIG category. Till date, no project has been cancelled or penalty has been imposed on developers who have not initiated construction.Sources said, "Developers had shown apprehension to construct houses for poor on premium land and schemes. Following this, relaxation was provided to construct houses for EWS and LIG category on some other project land. However, many have not adhered to the policy. But no action was taken," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-miserably-fails-in-providing-ews/lig-houses/articleshow/80914217.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Bodies of Araku accident victims handed over to kin||Hyderabad: A wave of grief swept across Shaikpet’s Vinayak Nagar colony where several people gathered to pay their last respects to the Araku bus accident victims after their mortal remains reached Hyderabad on Sunday afternoon. The bodies of four people, identified as K Satyanarayana (50), K Saritha (30), N Latha (30) and Sri Nithya, an eight-month-old toddler, were brought to Hyderabad in a special flight and shifted to their residence in an ambulance along with 16 people injured in the accident. However, around eight people who sustained serious injuries are still undergoing treatment at KGH Hospital in Visakhapatnam. “The bodies of all four members have reached Hyderabad. We have been informed that those who have sustained head injuries and are still undergoing treatment will be shifted to Hyderabad once their condition is stable,” said K Naresh, a close relative. A pall of gloom descended in the area when the bodies of the deceased and the injured reached the residence in Shaikpet. One of the injured lamented that the accident took place due to the negligence of the bus driver. “We had asked the bus operator to send an experienced driver who can drive on a ghat road and yet they sent an inexperienced driver. Also, we request the government to shift the rest of our family members who are in KGH Hospital to Hyderabad immediately. We will get them treated in a private hospital here. They are not being treated properly there,” she said. The accident took place when a tourist bus they were travelling in fell into an 80 feet-deep gorge near Damuku in Visakhapatnam district’s Araku on Friday. The last rites of the four family members were performed by the family members on Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bodies-of-araku-accident-victims-handed-over-to-kin/articleshow/80914258.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Jaipur||Panel gives nod to allot land to RCA for stadium||JAIPUR: The state government will provide land to Rajasthan Cricket Academy (RCA) at concessional rate in Chop village on Jaipur-Delhi national highway. The proposal was given a nod at the empowered committee meeting chaired by urban housing and development (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal. The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will now allot 40.6 hectares to develop a stadium at 30% district lease committee (DLC) rates. An official said, “The RCA will provide payment in four instalments. The JDA will give possession of land after the first instalment. However, the lease deed will be issued after receiving the total payment. Also, the RCA will also construct a hotel on the allotted land. However, a condition has been laid that JDA will approve maps of the hotel only after 50 % of stadium construction is completed.” The academy claims this will be the third-largest stadium (having a capacity of approximately 75,000) after the Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad and the Melbourne Cricket Stadium. Motera has a seating capacity of 1.10 lakh, while the Melbourne stadium can host 1.02 lakh people. The empowered committee also paved the way for JDA to earn revenue after providing nod to many projects. At the meeting, it was decided to issue commercial and mixed lease deeds on Gopalpura bypass as per Master Plan-2025. The move will allow JDA to earn approximately Rs 500 crore. After receiving the nod, JDA will also resolve the dispute of its old schemes to earn revenue. After almost 23 years, the JDA moved ahead to give compensation to farmers, whose land were acquired for developing central spine scheme at prime location in Jagatpura. In 1997, the JDA started the process to acquire 190.31 hectares, which was completed in 2000 to develop the scheme. The project was jointly proposed by the JDA and Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation (RIICO). However, after JDA failed to provide compensation (25 % developed land) to farmers on the state government’s direction, the development of scheme was stalled for the past 20 years. An official said at the time when plots were acquired, the agencies proposed to give 15 per cent land as compensation. Following this, farmers approached the court and the state government and it was decided to increase the compensation up to 25 per cent. But, JDA did not have this much land to distribute as compensation and scheme came to a grinding halt. “Now, to resolve the issue, the JDA will take 35 hectares from RIICO. The urban development and housing (UDH) minister, Shanti Dhariwal, has directed to call a meeting between JDA and RIICO to resolve the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panel-gives-nod-to-allot-land-to-rca-for-stadium/articleshow/80914238.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||App fraud: Rs 1 crore found in Delhi labourer’s account||HYDERABAD: After finding nearly Rs 1 crore in an account which actually belongs to a daily wage worker from Delhi, Telangana police probing the instant loan app cases are now looking into the profiles of various individual accounts linked to the scam. While analysing the inward and outward money flow into various accounts belonging to companies and individuals linked with loan app transactions, a team of Telangana police which went to Delhi also verified the details of account holders. To their shock, they found one of the accounts belonged to a Delhi-based daily wage worker. He was not in possession of the banking kit, including the net banking details or an ATM card. “Using his details, a bank account was opened and he was promised Rs 4,000 per month for letting the culprits use his bank account. But the account holder is unaware that he has a balance of nearly Rs 1 crore and it is being misused. He was scared to tell us about people carrying out bank operations in his name. He fears a threat to his life from his handlers. This is an organised racket and it requires an in-depth investigation,’’ a police officer told TOI on the condition of anonymity. Sources said police recorded the statement of the daily worker. They found several such dubious accounts. Police said that this has exposed the authenticity of Know Your Customer (KYC) verification done for bank account holders. This trend was observed even during the online gambling racket, wherein bank account holders were lured by the racketeers. The sources said whether it is the case of Chinese-promoted loan app fraud or the online gambling racket busted earlier, payment gateways played a key role in helping them with large volumes of transactions. “Each of these apps promoted by Chinese companies, which are into the business of loan app or any other, have tie-ups with some gateways. These gateways are allowing huge inflow and outflow of money, without any check. The amount collected from customers, in turn credited into a company’s bank account, is redistributed into multiple accounts. This service is again being done by the same payment gateways, without any trouble to these companies,’’ an official said. Till now, Chinese companies have done a business turnover of at least Rs 25,000 crore through nearly five crore transactions. A few payment gateways, through which maximum number of transactions were done, allegedly did not verify in detail the nature of the business being done by these Chinese-promoted companies, while entering into a tie-up to facilitate the payment gateway service, cops said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/app-fraud-rs-1-cr-found-in-delhi-labourers-a/c/articleshow/80915775.cms||Srinath Vudali
February 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Dry port near Jalna to be ready by end of 2021: Danve||Aurangabad: Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Sunday said the upcoming dry port near Jalna will be ready by the end of 2021, for which the Centre had already provided Rs 350 crore. The dry port will be a landmark project in the development of Marathwada, he said.“The fencing work around the identified land of the dry port is already over and the construction of internal roads is in progress. The project needs rail connectivity and efforts are on to provide the same,” he said.Addressing the media on Sunday, Danve, who represents Jalna Lok Sabha constituency, said the Centre, in the past budgets, had ensured necessary funds. “Even if the latest Union Budget has not made any major allocations for the dry port, the Centre has already ensured sufficient fund flow which will be utilised for the ongoing works,” he said. The BJP leadership at the Centre and the state said the geographically strategic locations of Jalna and Aurangabad for upcoming dry port along with Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor and Samrudhhi Express Highway would make these cities “growth engines” of Maharashtra in the future.To be built by the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), the dry port near Jalna is expected to operate as one of the largest major container ports of India with an upcoming container handling capacity of almost 10 million Twenty-foot Equivalent Unit (TEU). As announced earlier, JNPT envisaged the need to establish extended logistic facilities in the hinterland to facilitate the overall operations at the port.Meanwhile, Danve has criticised MVA government for putting curbs on public celebrations for the birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj on February 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dry-port-near-jalna-to-be-ready-by-end-of-2021-danve/articleshow/80912373.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Govt yet to release Rs 122cr to Aurangabad civic body||Aurangabad: The state government is yet to release Rs 122 crore to the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to carry out different key development works.Of the funds, Rs 70 crore is meant for different road works whereas Rs 52 crore has been sanctioned for the management of municipal solid waste, according to the official records. As per the Government Resolution (GR) issued in 2017, AMC was allotted Rs 100 crore for development of roads. While the government has released Rs 79.8 crore towards the committed funding, it is yet to release Rs 20 crore. Similarly, the government last year had sanctioned Rs 152 crore for development of another set of roads through Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and the AMC has been waiting for the release of its share of Rs 50 crore. As Aurangabad city was coping with garbage issue, the state government in 2019 had pledged Rs 148.79 crore for solid waste management. While it has released Rs 72.32 crore so far, the second instalment of Rs 52 crore is still awaited. The AMC authorities said the consolidated list of pending development funds from the state government was shared with the Aurangabad district guardian minister Subhash Desai and urban development minister Eknath Shinde among other leaders. “The state government has released Rs 201.3 crore for road development works and solid waste management, which are being utilised to create the necessary infrastructure. The remaining money is also expected to be released shortly,” said outgoing city mayor Nandkumar Ghodele, adding that the city would soon undergo a transformation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/govt-yet-to-release-rs-122cr-to-aurangabad-civic-body/articleshow/80912376.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: 2 held for selling data of own company to UK firm||JAIPUR: Two employees of a software company were arrested by the special offences and cybercrime police station on Sunday for allegedly stealing the data of the company and further selling it to a UK-based software firm. Probe revealed that the accused have earned Rs 1.5 crore. Senior police officers of the Jaipur police commissionerate said one Manoj Kachchawa of a Jaipur-based private software company approached them and complained that their employee identified as Agam Makkad was in touch with a UK-based company. Based on the complaint, an FIR was lodged and a special team was constituted to crack the case. “He had allegedly sold the software, source code and other things on his own through impersonating as a different person. These softwares were supposed to be sold by the company. However, during the lockdown, he developed sources and with the help of his team, he sold these softwares and took payments from the UK-based company,” said Digant Anand, deputy commissioner of police (crime). He was using the mail address of the complainant and had also made a fake email ID in the name of one Steve Butler of a UK-based software company. “He convinced the private company of UK to work outside the ongoing project and he sold the software by stealing the data of his own company and earned crores of rupees,” said an officer. Thereafter the accused Makkar also took the help of his colleague Mudit Mathur in the impersonation and selling off the data and software. “Mathur was working under Makkar in the same software company and he had delivered the important data and other things to Makkar to further sell off to the UK company,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-held-for-selling-data-of-own-co-to-uk-firm/articleshow/80914256.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Indian seafarers stranded in China arrive in Mumbai||Mumbai: The 16 Indian seafarers of MV Anastasia, which was stuck at a Chinese port for more than six months, arrived in Mumbai on Sunday. National Union of Seafarers of India (NUSI) and Maritime Union of India (MUI) had pursued the issue of Jag Anand and Anastasia, the two merchant ships stuck at Chinese anchorage. NUSI PRO Sunil Nair said of the 16 crew members, three are from Mumbai and one from Pune. NUSI general secretary and treasurer, Abdulgani Y Serang, said the companies Great Eastern and MSC, the maritime administration as well as the ministries of shipping and external affairs coordinated the efforts to secure the release of the ships. “On the instructions of NUSI, thousands of seafarers and their families and the shipping associations wrote to the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) demanding strong action for a crew change of Jag Anand and Anastasia,” he said. Despite several requests from the Indian government, China had cited Covid-19-related restrictions and did not allow the ships to either dock or go for a crew change for months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/indian-seafarers-stranded-in-china-arrive-in-mumbai/articleshow/80914261.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 15, 2021||Madurai||Sattur blast: DNA test to identify dead||Virudhunagar: The death toll in the Friday’s blast at a fireworks unit at Achankulam near Sattur climbed to 20 on Sunday with a 52-year-old man undergoing treatment at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai succumbing to injuries. Meanwhile, police said DNA tests will be conducted to identify two bodies which were charred enough to mask even their gender though people have come forward with claims. Fireworks and matchbox workers association district secretary M Mahalakshmi said the unidentified bodies were of two women aged about 50. One was identified by matching a brass bracelet she wore with another that was in her house while the other was identified with the remains of her sari. R Ramasamy, sub-inspector of Elayirampannai police station said that the process of handing over the bodies to their families will begin after getting the DNA test results. The remaining survivors have suffered 50% or lesser burn injuries. The 20th victim was identified as J Vanaraj of Amir Palayam Kovil Street in Sattur who had suffered 95% burns. Meanwhile, of the six people booked – licencee M Santhanamari and leasees Sathivel, Raja, Sivakumar, his son Ponnupandi and Velraj – only Ponnupandi was arrested. Madurai range DIG S Rajendran said that special teams were on the lookout for the five others in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. A senior official said negligence of a worker had triggered the accident on Friday. He said the man had confessed that he dragged a bag with chemicals that sparked the disaster. “He breathed his last at a hospital in Madurai on Saturday,” he added. Commissioner of Revenue Administration (CRA) K Phanindra Reddy on Sunday inspected Sri Mariyammal Fireworks where the accident took place, interacted with the injured undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sattur and chaired a review meeting on the incident with officials of various departments. He told reporters that human error was the cause of such accidents with non-compliance of norms by employers being the key. They hired more people beyond the permitted capacity thereby increasing the intensity of the disaster and loss of lives. “Efforts will be taken to train workers at all levels and check the factories regularly to ensure compliance with safety norms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sattur-blast-dna-test-to-identify-dead/articleshow/80915208.cms||V Devanathan
February 15, 2021||Jaipur||Police arrest a man attempt to appear in an exam on behalf of original candidate||Jaipur: A 24-year-old man was arrested by the Bajaj Nagar police station on Sunday when he was appearing as a proxy examinee on behalf of a candidate appearing for Combiner Higher secondary level Tier-II exam. The accused person had earlier cleared an exam of CISF as sub-inspector and had promised the candidate that he will appear in the exam and the candidate was supposed to pay him Rs 2lakh. Abhijeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police(East) on Sunday stated that the accused identified as Ramnarayan Yadav pasted his picture on the examination letter of the candidate Pawan Meena when he came at a examination centre at Kisan Marg in Jaipur. “After the suspicion he was taken in custody and was later arrested while he was attempting to appear for the exam on behalf of other candidate,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-arrest-a-man-attempt-to-appear-in-an-exam-on-behalf-of-original-candidate/articleshow/80914253.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Goa||More pleas against changes to municipalities act in HC||Panaji: Two more petitions have been filed before the high court of Bombay at Goa challenging the recent amendments to the municipalities act and reservation of wards for the upcoming municipal elections.  The petitions state that with the amendment to the act, the entire election process has now been reduced to only few days, obviously with an intention to deprive prospective candidates to identify the ward in which they can contest the election. “The time is stipulated to the director of municipal administration to issue the order of reservation, delimitation and rotation of wards in the municipal areas to be within at least 7 days from the date of notification of general election,” the petitioners stated. The earlier time limit of 100 days has been reduced to 10 days for the inspection of the voters’ list to enable a person to know which ward is he/she enlisted, the petitions stated. The exercise of altering or reconstituting wards of the municipal council as also the identification and rotation of the seats for the reserved categories (SC/ST/OBC/women) at the last minute, is not only arbitrary but will also cause grave injustice to the candidates who have been working on the wards with expectation of contesting the election, one of the petitions stated. The petitioners said that prospective candidates are required to know in advance the voters of the wards, reservation of wards so that they can plan to contest elections and this cannot be taken away by prescribing a very short schedule. This “would only weigh in favour of the ruling party as they would be having knowledge in advance about the reservation of wards and would therefore amount to inequitable treatment in the election process,” it pointed out. “It is sought to be declared that all voters are in fact the population of the said area, which cannot be countenanced in law. The entire population of the area can never be or elevated to be voters, since the population can be voters only on the basis of eligibility/adult suffrage, until which they remain to be a population,” the petitioners said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/more-pleas-against-changes-to-municipalities-act-in-hc/articleshow/80915290.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Charting path, asserting trans identity||As a group of 50-odd artists from a Rajkot-based art collective created wall paintings on the ADGP (prisons) boundary wall near Ahmedabad Central Jail, one of the painters caught attention of the onlookers. Payal Rathva, a transwoman, was among the artists who lent their touch to the beautification of the walls. “People get surprised that I assert my identity and am not typical ‘masi.’ In fact, I have started my further studies for past few years and aim to get an engineering degree,” said Payal. She said that she left home from a tribal district of Gujarat when her family could not come to terms with her identity. “I lived on streets and did odd jobs. A group of trans people also got me into their fold where I even became part of collecting money. But I realized that it was not my calling,” she added. Concealing her identity, she got a job as sweeper/ sanitary worker at a hospital in Rajkot some time back. “The doctor eventually got to know. But he was happy that I was more than my sexuality. With support of well-wishers, I started education and becoming part of social initiatives,” said Payal, adding that stigma around the topic is preventing many like her to come out or seek meaningful employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/charting-path-asserting-trans-identity/articleshow/80914270.cms||Yogesh Chawda
February 15, 2021||Shimla||Two die of Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh, 21 test positive||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported two Covid-19 deaths and 21 positive cases on Sunday while 83 positive patients recovered. The state has 58,222 positive cases of which 411 cases are active, 56,817 patients have recovered while 981 patients have died. A total of 10,14,237 persons have been tested for Covid-19 till date of which 9,55,942 persons have tested negative while results of 73 samples are awaited. Positive cases reported include one from Chamba district, two from Kangra district, one from Mandi district, three from Shimla district, nine from Sirmaur district, one from Solan district and four from Una district. Those who have recovered include three from Bilaspur district, eight from Kangra district, three from Kullu district, 59 from Mandi, four from Shimla district and six from Una district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/2-die-of-covid-19-in-hp-21-test-positive/articleshow/80914265.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Farm laws and not civic issues on voters’ mind||Khanna/Jagraon/Raikot: Ripples of farmers’ agitation were felt on the day of municipal elections in the district. Facing hostility because of farmers’ agitation, the BJP had not entered the fray in Samrala, Raikot and Payal, and fielded candidates in less than half the wards in Jagraon and Doraha. Only in Khanna MC, the party had fielded candidates on most of the seats.“Since Punjab is an agrarian state, everyone is directly or indirectly linked to farming. Farmers protesting against the agri laws in adverse weather at Delhi borders remained in the minds of many voters even though this election is about civic issues,” said 55-year-old Balwant Singh, a voter from Raikot Adda in Jagraon. Many voters said civic issues were important, but farmers’ demands were paramount. “We do want better roads, sewerage system and proper hygiene in our wards, but then farmers are the soul of our state. Their pain was on my mind when I went to vote,” said Navtej Singh from ward 9 in Samrala. For some, civic issues outweighed other matters. “People must vote for better roads, sewerage system and clean surroundings. I don’t think farmers’ stir will have an effect,” said Harsh Kumar, a voter from Khanna. Many voters, who supported protest against farm laws, claimed the BJP didn’t field candidates in many MCs of the district that were predominantly rural or where farmers’ organisations had a strong base, and where they did, the response remained poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farm-laws-and-not-civic-issues-on-voters-mind/articleshow/80913025.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 15, 2021||Chennai||Three cleaning septic tank get asphyxiated in Kancheepuram, had no safety gear on||CHENNAI: Three men cleaning a septic tank in a caterers’ kitchen died due to asphyxiation at Katrambakkam near Sriperumbudur in Kancheepuram district on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Murugan, 42, and Bhagyaraj, 40, of Katrambakkam village, and Arumugam, 45, from Amarambedu village. The three worked in a catering firm that supplied food to thousands of factory and company workers in Irungattukottai. Around 10am, Murugan entered the facility’s septic tank to clean it. As he failed to respond to calls, Bhagyaraj and Arumugam, who were waiting outside, entered the tank to check on him. All three collapsed inside the tank after inhaling toxic fumes, police said confirming asphyxiation. Since the trio was not seen for nearly 30 minutes, the staff in the catering office alerted the fire and rescue services control room and police. The Somangalam police and fire and rescue personnel rushed to the spot and retrieved bodies of the victims. The bodies were sent to Sriperumbudur government hospital for post-mortem. The Somangalam police registered a case and initiated inquiry. A revenue divisional officer’s inquiry has also been initiated. Experts suggest that septic tanks be left open for at least half an hour before personnel enter them. Workers in this incident did not have any safety gear on. Police have detained two workers of the catering service for further investigation. Expressing his condolences, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami ordered a detailed probe into the incident and assured action against those responsible for the deaths. He has announced Rs 10 lakh solatium to the families of each of the three victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/three-cleaning-septic-tank-get-asphyxiated-had-no-safety-gear-on/articleshow/80914275.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Kanha tiger killed in territorial fight; viscera sent for test||BHOPAL: The decomposed carcass of a tiger was found in Kanha Tiger Reserve in Mandla district of Madhya Pradesh on Saturday night. Kanha field director S K Singh said that the tiger may have died in a territorial fight since there were canine wounds on its right foot and its spleen was injured. All its body parts are intact, and the viscera has been sent for tests. The carcass was disposed of according to National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) norms. On the same day, forest officials arrested a gang that was trying to sell the claws of a poached leopard in Balaghat district. Suspects Dhasu Mandavi and Harilal markam, residents of Pipratola, were nabbed in Baraseoni area when they were allegedly trying to strike a deal for four claws, whiskers and pangolin scales, say officials. During interrogation, they admitted to have smuggled the wildlife articles, say officers, adding that the leopard must have been two-to-three-year-old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kanha-tiger-killed-in-territorial-fight-viscera-sent-for-test/articleshow/80913021.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolhapur||Water cuts in Kolhapur city today||Kolhapur: The entire C and D wards and parts of A and B wards of Kolhapur city will face water cuts on Monday. These wards will receive water supply at low pressure on Tuesday. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will carry out work to replace the damaged control panel at Balinga pumping station. Narayan Bhosale , the chief hydraulic engineer of KMC, said, “The residents from these wards must use water carefully for two days. We are going to deploy water tankers to affecting localities.” The localities from A and B wards that will face water cuts are Lakshtirth Vasahat, Sane Guruji Vasahat, Aptenagar, Kanerkar Nagar, Shivaji Peth and Mangalwar Peth. The suburbs around these major localities will also face water cuts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/water-cuts-in-kolhapur-city-today/articleshow/80912381.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Health care workers in Vidarbha to get Covid vaccine second dose from 15 February||NAGPUR: Second dose of Covid-19 vaccine for health care workers (HCW) will start in all 11 districts of Vidarbha on Monday. It is an important stage of vaccination programme as the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said sufficient antibodies for protection from novel coronavirus will develop in beneficiaries after two weeks of second dose. Deputy directors of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal (Nagpur division) and Dr Rajkumar Chavan (Amravati division) told TOI, “Second dose is to be given to HCWs 28 days after first dose as per government guidelines. First dose was started on January 16 so second dose will kick-off from Monday. Government had already supplied sufficient number of doses of Covishield and Covaxin,” they said. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said, “Co-WIN application developed by the government is automatically scheduling HCW for second dose. Co-WIN scheduled second dose of HCW on Monday for those vaccinated on January 16. It is being done when session is being created for each centre. Also, scheduling of first dose of HCW who did not turn up earlier is being also done. Vaccination of front-line workers (FLW) will also continue simultaneously,” they said. The NMC control room as well as vaccination centres have started contacting HCW for second dose. Radhakrishnan and Chilkar added, “HCW should not even wait for scheduling by NMC. They can go to the centre where they took the first jab and take second dose. Those out of station can take the jab anywhere across the state,” he said. After first dose, HCW received certificate of ‘partially vaccinated’. They will get ‘fully vaccinated’ certificate after taking second dose. On trial basis, the civic body had selected a doctor and administered second dose at vaccination centre at IGGMCH on Saturday. The beneficiary received ‘fully vaccinated’ certificate. NMC has also received a call from a New Delhi-based HCW. “He took first dose in Delhi. Now, he wishes to take second one here as he is in city for some work. We will be processing his vaccination on Monday. In case it succeeds, it will help registered HCWs get the jab across the country,” NMC officials said. On January 16, 3,881 HCW had taken the first dose and became eligible for second dose on Monday. Till February 13, 1,41,011 people, of which HCW 1,07,174 and FLW 33,837 had taken the jab in 11 districts of Vidarbha. The state government had set deadline of February 14 for completion of first dose of HCW so that second dose begins from February 15. Around 60% HCW had turned up for the inoculation within the deadline. Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) Dr Anup Marar and infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde have said that chances of minor adverse event following immunization (AEFI) like fever, body ache etc cannot be ruled out in second dose for HCW who did not witness any such effect in first dose. “It was observed Covid-19 recovered patients who were already having antibodies got minor AEFI after taking first dose. Some amount of antibodies developed in HCW after first dose. Therefore, there are chances of minor AEFI. But there is nothing to worry as minor AEFI is common in any vaccination and lasts for 1-2 days,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/health-care-workers-to-get-covid-vaccine-second-dose-from-today/articleshow/80915265.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 15, 2021||Meerut||In a first, indigenous to Karnataka hounds inducted into IAF||AGRA: Indian Air Force (IAF) has for the first time inducted the Mudhol Hound, a purebred Indian breed of sight hound from Karnataka, to chase away birds and animals which stray on runways, hampering flights and causing risk of bird-hits. Four Mudhol hound puppies, including two females, were brought to the Agra airbase on Sunday. These were handed over to the IAF on Friday by deputy chief minister of Karnataka Govind M Karajol on behalf of the Canine Research and Information Centre (CRIC) in Bagalkot district of Karnataka. CRIC head Mahesh Akashi told TOI, “Mudhol hounds have earned the reputation of being fiercely loyal to their owners and are excellent hunting dogs. The breed is best known for its stamina, sharpness and agility. The services of the hounds are invaluable.” These agile all-weather dogs that enjoy good health and require minimum grooming have already been recruited by the Indian Army, CRPF, CISF, BSF, SSB, ITBP and the police departments of a few states. Known predominantly for their hunting and chasing skills, Mudhol hounds were bred by Ghorpade kings of Mudhol (now in Bagalkot in North Karnataka) in the 1920s, by crossing Persian and Turkish breeds with local dogs. The training of these Karnataka-origin hunting hounds first started in 2016 by the Army’s Remount and Veterinary Corps (RVC) centre in Meerut. Akashi said, “A few weeks ago, IAF officials wrote to us placing an order for seven puppies. After completing all the formalities, we have handed over four Mudhol hounds, aged around three months to the IAF officials of Agra Air Force station. Another three puppies will be handed over after six months as per an agreement.” He said bird-hits are a big problem at several airbases. These hounds will be trained by experts to scare away the birds. A senior IAF officer said, “To address the problem of ground-dwelling birds such as lapwings and larks, IAF planned dog walking module. IAF chose to use a domestic breed as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat. Taking a cue from PM’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ wherein he had praised this breed, we decided to try the Mudhol hound. The qualities and temperament of this native breed were found suitable for bird scaring. Air Force station here was selected as a pilot project. Depending on the success of the project, it will be extended to other stations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-a-first-indigenous-to-ktka-hounds-inducted-into-iaf/articleshow/80912385.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Prisoners on parole due to Covid-19 to surrender from Feb 17||Chandigarh: A Punjab government committee has decided that in view of the substantial downward trend in Covid-19 cases in the state, there is no need to extend the parole of prisoners further. It has been decided that such prisoners should start surrendering in batches from February 17 onwards. The decision was taken by a committee headed by Justice Ajay Tewari of the Punjab and Haryana high court. It also comprises principal secretary, prisons department D K Tiwari and ADGP, prisons P K Sinha. The committee recommended that over 9,500 prisoners released on parole last year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic should surrender to prisons that have been designated specifically to quarantine returnees before they are tested for Covid-19. Thereafter, they will be transferred to their respective prisons. The entire process shall be conducted in a phased manner, starting from February 17 onwards, for which ‘first out-first in’ mechanism shall be followed. Under this, prisoners who availed the longest period of parole would report back to prisons first. Jail department spokesman said a schedule for the return of approximately 650 to 700 prisoners in one batch every 9 to 10 days has been circulated among authorities concerned. “All parolees are required to report to the designated jail (Barnala or Pathankot for men, Malerkotla for women) with a negative Covid-19 test report (RT-PCR only) received within three days preceding surrender,” said the spokesman. He added that such prisoners would be quarantined in jail for four days and their Covid-19 sample would be collected on the fifth day, subsequent to which they shall be transferred to their respective prisons. In case a prisoner tests positive in the pre-admission test, he or she shall inform the superintendent of the designated prison at the earliest possible, and report on the 18th day from the date of result, said the spokesman. Prisoners above 60 years of age and those with chronic co-morbidities shall be taken back in the last batch of returnees. However, this schedule is not applicable to prisoners released on parole in 2021, who will have to return to the respective prisons as and when their parole period expires.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/prisoners-on-parole-due-to-covid-19-to-surrender-from-feb-17/articleshow/80914259.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records three Covid deaths, 234 new positive cases||CHANDIGARH: Punjab registered three Covid-19 deaths and 234 new positive cases on Sunday. This took the number of Covid deaths in the state to 5,697 and the total number of positive cases to 1,76,296. Total 204 Covid patients were declared “discharged” during the day. Nawanshahr district registered the highest number of 66 positive cases, followed by Ludhiana (57), Jalandhar (25), Mohali (20), Patiala (16), and Amritsar (12). There were a total 2,360 Covid-19 active cases on Sunday. So far, 1,03,725 frontline and healthcare workers have received Covid-19 vaccine jab in Punjab. The inoculation exercise was not carried out in the state on Sunday due to public holiday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-3-covid-deaths-234-new-positive-cases/articleshow/80914264.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Madurai||‘Anna, take care of my daughter,’ were her dying words||Virudhunagar: The cracker accident that claimed 20 lives and left over 30 others injured has left scars in families whose kin were workers at the unit. Nandhini, 12, of Soorankudi, is one among them who was lucky enough to be alive but she lost both her parents on the fateful day. She did not accompany them that day. Her maternal uncle Jegasamy, 42, a groundnut chikki trader at Keela Eeral near Ettayapuram in Tuticorin, said that his sister Selvi, 40, and brother-in-law Packiaraj, 45, had got married 18 years ago and Nandhini is their only daughter. “Nandhini used to accompany her parents to work every day,” he told TOI. Packiaraj was charred to death. “We identified him based on the fully burnt structure and his arrangement of teeth. My sister’s face was completely damaged and we could not recognise her when she was in the ICU at the Sivakasi GH. She identified us and spoke,” he lamented. “Anna (elder brother) take care of my daughter… It is burning … I’m unable to bear the pain,” were her last words, Jegasamy recalled. The family could not bear her sight and came out in tears. Around 7pm she was declared dead. The little girl is expressionless as she is yet to realise her loss. “Among those who died are a college student who wanted to earn to repay money borrowed for her fees and a woman in her eighth month of pregnancy,” M Mahalakshmi district secretary of the Fireworks and Matchbox Workers Association said. Sandhya, 19, of Anbinnagaram in Vembakottai, had borrowed money to pay her college fees. “The fateful Friday was her first day at work, while her parents worked in another unit. The girl wanted to work for 10 days to repay the money she had borrowed for the fees,” she said. The pregnant woman has been identified as Karpagavalli, 22, of Naduchoorankudi village near Sattur. Her husband works in another cracker unit. They fell in love and got married 10 months back. “She was eight months pregnant. Others who died also have such sad stories. We are concerned about the condition of everyone who has more than 40% burns,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/anna-take-care-of-my-daughter-were-her-dying-words/articleshow/80915270.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Killer stunts on locals, selfies on tracks resume; RPF hunt on||MUMBAI: Dangerous stunts have resumed on Mumbai railways even as the city is limping back to normalcy post lockdown. A video showing a man bending out of a running train trying to touch another local has gone viral and has led Central Railway to flag off a massive drive. RPF officials said the video appears to have been filmed between Dadar and Kurla and they are looking for the man. Another dangerous trend that has security officials concerned is people venturing on to railway tracks to click selfies. Times ViewStunts on moving trains or on tracks have resulted in loss of life or limb on countless occasions in the past. Railways should tackle them with a combination of enforcement and penalties. A public awareness drive or an educational campaign in schools may be timely. There is also room for commuters to come forward and report such instances on social media to help combat the menace.After a commuter lost his life in this manner on CR last month, a list of “black zones” is being compiled where instances of clicking selfies on the tracks are frequently reported. Video: Man bending out of a running train trying to touch another local has gone viral and has led Central Railway… https://t.co/0yhO6zoKxE— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1613359683000The viral video shows a man bending out of a train trying to touch the front glass in a motorman's cabin of a local coming from the opposite direction. He slides back just in time as the local passes by. He then bends out again, moving very close to the railway poles. All this while, someone in the coach behind him films his dangerous act. The RPF believe there’s a possibility there may be others who were competing with him. “Stunts can pose a serious risk to life and limb. Not only have we flagged off a campaign to make passengers aware, but RPF is out to surveil and pick up anyone indulging in such a dangerous act,” said chief PRO Shivaji Sutar, Central Railway. Last month, a motorman steering a CR local between Kurla and Vidyavihar stations noticed a man on the tracks taking a selfie. “It is not always possible to halt a train immediately and he was run over. As motormen are usually witnesses to such acts, we started asking them for information to identify where people are venturing on tracks frequently,” said Jitendra Shrivastava, senior divisional security commissioner, RPF. So far, RPF has identified stretches in Dadar, Sion, Kalyan, Kalwa, Kurla and Dombivali as black zones and upped vigil there. “These are largely stretches where there are slum colonies dotting the tracks,” said Shrivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/killer-stunts-on-locals-selfies-on-tracks-resume-rpf-hunt-on/articleshow/80914284.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 15, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Two die of suspected liquor poisoning in Chattarpur||BHOPAL: Two people died of suspected liquor poisoning in Paretha village of Chattarpur district. Four villagers have also fallen ill. As per reports, those who fell ill also complained of loss of vision. Police, however, said the cause of death will be confirmed only after postmortem report. On Sunday, officials of district administration, including collector Seelandra Singh and senior police officials including the DIG Chattarpur range Vivekraj Singh and SP Sachin Sharma visited the village. A team of doctors is also medically examining them. The DIG said, “ two people have died. Investigations are on and the cause of the death would be clear only after the post mortem report.” Villagers claimed that all those who died and those who fell ill had consumed liquor. Among others, Tulsidas Barar and Lallooram Ahirwar were admitted to hospital. A team of excise department was collecting samples of the liquor sold in the village located on the border of Uttar Pradesh. As many as 14 people died following a hooch tragedy in Ujjain in October last year. In another similar tragedy in Morena this year, 28 people lost life after consuming illicit liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2-die-of-suspected-liquor-poisoning-in-chattarpur/articleshow/80913033.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Age could not dampen their spirit for democracy||Khanna/Raikot/Jagraon: As six municipal councils in Ludhiana district went to polls on Sunday, there was much enthusiasm among the elderly and the first-time voters. Elections were held for the civic bodies of Khanna, Jagraon, Samrala, Raikot, Doraha and Payal, besides byelections in ward 8 (general) of Mullanpur Dakha and ward 6 of Sahnewal.In Khanna, one of the oldest voters in the district was among the first ones to cast his vote. “I always exercise my franchise as it is my duty. It makes me happy,” said 104-year-old Karan Singh of Mata Rani Mohalla after coming out of a polling booth in ward 21. His granddaughter, Gurinder Kaur, who accompanied him, said, “I am not eligible to vote. The condition of roads and sewerage system, among others, is good in our area.” Another elderly voter, too, was excited. “I have voted most of the times. It is good to elect representatives through democratic process,” said 83-year-old Ramesh Kumar, also a Khanna resident. He was accompanied by his family to a polling booth near Grain Market.The thrill was no less among the first-time voters. “It is important to vote in civic body elections and choose a candidate who will ensure that our area is clean and developed. It feels great to have voted for the first time,” said Jaspreet Singh of Jagraon. Covid rules go for a tossA large number of voters could be seen violating the Covid-19 rules of maintaining distance and wearing a mask outside polling stations. Besides, officials, including a sizeable number of cops and election staff, also ignored masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/age-could-not-dampen-their-spirit-for-democracy/articleshow/80913026.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Dist case count at 26,340 as 57 more test positive||Ludhiana: As many as 57 residents of Ludhiana tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.No death was reported from the district, but two patients from outside Ludhiana succumbed to the virus at hospitals here on the day.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district toll tally stood at 1,013 and that of outsiders has increased to 488.To date, 6,32,018 persons have been tested.Of the 57 new cases, 18 were from flu corner, 12 contacts of positive patients, 10 from OPD, nine through tracing process, six health-care workers, one severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) case, among others. Besides, 11 patients from outside the district tested positive here.The local health department officials said the district case count was 26,340 and that of outsiders 4,041.So far, 24,996 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.89% of the total cases. There are 328 active patients. The number of persons home quarantined is 784.On Sunday, 60 persons were quarantined and 2,388 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four of the government at CMCH.A patient from Ludhiana is on a ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dist-case-count-at-26340-as-57-more-test-positive/articleshow/80913034.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Case filed for defaming and blackmailing MLA||Ludhiana: The police have booked an unidentified person for defaming member of legislative assembly (Ludhiana East) Sanjay Talwar and trying to extort Rs 50 lakh from him.Talwar, who is also a member of All India Congress Committee, said his wife, Meenu, had recently died due to cancer. “The bhog ceremony was held on February 10. The same day, a person uploaded an obscene video on a Facebook page ‘Congress Mukt Punjab’ and claimed I was in the video. The accused deliberately uploaded the video on that day to attack me personally and emotionally. As I was broken due to the death of my wife, I did not report against it,” he said.On Saturday, the staff of the MLA found a letter at his office, in which the accused demanded Rs 50 lakh else he would upload more such videos. At night, the MLA lodged a complaint with the police. “When my PA was at the office, he found the letter at the doorstep. Earlier, people would try to defame my wife with posts on Facebook. Now after her death, they are trying to attack me personally for their political gains. I trust the city police. They will soon nab the accused,” the MLA added.Tibba Road police station SHO inspector Mohammad Jamil said a case has been registered against the unidentified accused under sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 511 (attempting to commit an offence), 499 (defamation), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and under the IT Act. “The Ludhiana Police cyber cell is tracing the administrator of the Facebook page, besides the cops are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed near the office of the MLA to trace the person who kept the letter there, the inspector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/case-filed-for-defaming-and-blackmailing-mla/articleshow/80913030.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 2,000 healthcare workers may get 2nd Covid dose from today||MUMBAI: The civic authorities plan to start administering the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare workers from Monday provided the Co-win application supports it. Sessions have been created for 1,926 individuals who took the vaccine on January 16, the first day of the nation-wide vaccine drive.  Many from the medical fraternity, however, told TOI that they would delay taking the second dose immediately in light of the WHO recommendation that the booster dose was most efficacious when taken between 8-12 weeks. Civic officials said they haven’t got any communication from the Centre or state to extend the interval between the two doses which currently stands at four weeks.  Members from the immunisation team said success of the second dose drive will depend much on CoWin working without glitches. Details of 1,926 people vaccinated on Day 1 had to be uploaded later as the software didn’t work in real-time. “We had uploaded their information as ‘partially vaccinated’ later that day. But whether the software accepted that will only be clear on Monday when their names show up in Co-win for the second dose,” said Dr Sheela Jagtap, BMC’s immunisation in-charge. For 100 recipients scheduled for a booth, about 60 will be recipients for the second dose and the rest will be healthcare and frontline workers taking the first shot. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said teams from 20 private hospitals will be trained on Monday. “They will start vaccinating on their own premises in a day or two,” he said, adding that at least 15 private hospitals may start the drive on their premises soon which will increase the coverage. The vaccine taskforce is meeting civic teams like fire brigade to pursue them to get their officials vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2000-healthcare-workers-may-get-2nd-covid-dose-from-today/articleshow/80915293.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad's Nehru zoo to get lion-tailed macaque, swamp deer pair||HYDERABAD: The Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad will soon get a female lion-tailed macaque and a swamp deer pair from Vandalur zoo in Chennai as part of the animal exchange programme. This will most probably be the first animal exchange programme for Hyderabad zoo after the outbreak of Covid-19 in March last year. “Now that the Covid-19 restrictions are a bit relaxed, we are going to go ahead with all the pending animal exchange programmes, especially with Rajkot zoo and Vandalur zoo in Chennai. We are planning to complete them before the temperature goes up. We were also supposed to get Rheas but that has been put on hold for now because of bird flu,” said N Kshitija, curator, Nehru zoological Park. The Nehru Zoological Park will be getting the lion-tailed macaque in exchange of a male one-horned rhinoceros, which was already sent to Vandalur zoo in August 2019. The zoo authorities said that they could not get the lion-tailed macaque and swamp deer to Hyderabad immediately after the Rhinocerous was sent to Chennai because the animals were pregnant around that time. This apart, the Nehru Zoological Park authorities said that they are also planning to bring in an Asiatic lion from Rajkot zoo to induce a fresh bloodline. “Although we have Asiatic lions in our zoo, we asked for a lion from Rajkot zoo in exchange for one lion from here for change in bloodline,” said Kshitija. Further, the zoo authorities told TOI that the plan to bring in a female giraffe from Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park in Patna in exchange for two lionesses is yet to be finalised by the Central Zoo Authority. The Hyderabad zoo currently has two giraffes - Bubli, a female giraffe aged three years, and a male, Sunny, aged four years, which were brought from Alipore Zoo in Kolkata in March 2019. Speaking about the influx of visitors to zoo post lifting of Covid-19 restrictions, the zoo curator said that they are now attracting 70% of the visitors compared to the pre-Covid days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nehru-zoo-to-get-lion-tailed-macaque-swamp-deer-pair/articleshow/80914278.cms||Moulika.KV
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||'No plans of making Hyderabad a Union territory'||HYDERABAD: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Sunday said that the Centre has no plans of making Hyderabad a Union territory (UT). Interacting with reporters here, he denied AIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi’s allegations that the Centre will make Hyderabad and other cities such as Chennai and Bengaluru UTs. “There is no truth to the statements. Before we could reply to Owaisi’s statement in the House, he left. We will develop all cities but not make them UTs,” Kishan Reddy said. Expressing confidence that the BJP will win two MLC seats, including Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubangar segments, he said, “Hyderabad seat is BJP’s. People have understood the real nature of TRS. During the GHMC polls campaign, the TRS leaders stated that they don’t have any alliance with the AIMIM, but took AIMIM’s support during the mayoral election,” he said. Without naming the AIMIM, Kishan Reddy said that the days of TRS are over and those who want to win with the help of TRS in elections cannot succeed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-no-plans-of-making-hyd-a-union-territory/articleshow/80914271.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Chennai||Put under police surveillance, says TN farmer leader||Chennai: K Balakrishnan, state convenor of All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee, was put under police surveillance ahead of the Prime Minister’s visit to the city. Balakrishnan said the committee had spoken to the police regarding a “small protest”. However, it later decided not to organise it. Two days ago, a team of police officers visited Balakrishnan’s house on Govindasamy Street in Palavanthangal. “The team first asked me to come out. Then the inspector spoke to me over the phone and asked whether there will be any protest. When I denied, he said there are orders to take some action as I have been supporting the farmer’s protest. They said they were here to provide security for Modi’s visit,” he said. “They then began following us wherever we went. Later, we realised that this was because they wanted to stop us from protesting. We told them we will not hold any protest, however, they refused to leave.” Balakrishnan took it up on social media and also informed senior police officers. After a few of his relatives spoke to the police team, it went 100m away from the activist’s house and waited. “Only on Sunday morning, after Modi crossed Kelambakkam, the police left the place,” Balakrishnan said. Balakrishnan said they “had legally approached the police”. “We didn’t do any conspiracy. Then why treat us like this? This was like curbing my democratic rights,” he told TOI. He claimed he was put under ‘house arrest’. A police officer said Balakrishnan was not put under ‘house arrest’ as claimed. It was just general security arrangements ahead of the Prime Minister’s visit, he said. As part of the pro-farmer movement, Balakrishnan had led about 15 agitations supporting the farmer’s protests in Punjab and New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/farmer-leader-from-tn-put-under-surveillance/articleshow/80914273.cms||Komal Gautham
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Over 1,000 turn up at pre-Army recruitment rally||Secunderabad: Over 1,020 youth from Secunderabad Cantonment turned up at a pre-army recruitment rally at Mudfort Hockey Ground on Sunday. The Army recruitment rally will begin at Telangana Sports School, Hakimpet, from March 5. On Sunday, Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) organised the event to encourage the unemployed youth. President, Cantonment board, Brigadier Abhijit Chandra, Chakrata Cantonment (Dehradun) chief executive officer Kunal Rohilla and SCB officials attended the event. Brigadier Abhijit Chandra gave tips to get selected easily and rules to be followed by the aspirants during the rally . Later, a one-mile run was conducted for the participants and 162 of them qualified. A free training camp would be held for the qualified candidates at the same venue on February 17, SCB coordinating officer A Parashuram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-1000-turn-up-at-pre-army-recruitment-rally/articleshow/80914316.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Twitter account of CID crime chief hacked||AHMEDABAD: Cyber crooks are not even sparing top cops of Gujarat police. After creating fake social media accounts of Rajkot range IG and Vadodara city police commissioner, now within four days, cybercrooks hacked Twitter account of Gujarat CID crime head, DGP T S Bisht. TOI investigation found out that someone has retweeted from Bisht’s account, promoting a website. With this, a message was posted, which reads, “I have something special for my fans. All info below (copy URL and paste).” Cyber experts and sources in cyber cell of CID (crime) and city crime branch said that if someone clicks on the website, his system whether laptop, desktop or cellphone would be hacked and cybercrooks will get a mirror image on their system. Using this modus operandi, the crooks may commit frauds in lakhs, said a cyber cell officer of CID (crime). The message by the hacker promises that if the website gets due promotion, people would get chance of doubling their income and they may also win bitcoins. Strangely, this has happened with the chief of an agency which has entire cell to investigate into cyber frauds. Besides, this is the same agency which had investigated into the multi-crore bitcoin scam and various Ponzi schemes where people were cheated by promises of doubling their income. Bisht was not even aware of this till TOI brought this to his notice. He told TOI, “I do not use Twitter frequently. I had used it initially (when he opened the account in 2013) and posed some pictures only.” Many persons were tagged by the hacker. When he was told about retweets from his account, he said, “It might be a case of hacking as it happened in Vadodara and Rajkot.” Bisht has not filed any official complaint so far in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/twitter-account-of-cid-crime-chief-hacked/articleshow/80914331.cms||Ashish Chauhan
February 15, 2021||Chennai||Youth held for stealing batteries from ATMs in Chennai||CHENNAI: Police have arrested a 22-year-old man for stealing 15 batteries from ATMs in the city. Police said the accused, Basha of West Saidapet, was a previous offender. On February 7, Sekar, in charge of a private bank on Jones Road, lodged a complaint that eight batteries from the ATM there were missing. The Kumar Nagar police probing the case skimmed through the CCTV camera footage and identified Basha to be the thief. His two-wheeler’s registration number helped police nab him. During inquiry, Basha confessed to have stolen batteries from two ATMs on Jones Road. “He chose ATMs where the security guard was either sleeping or away. But he mainly targeted ones without guards,” said a police officer. Basha stole for money to buy booze and ganja, police said. “Stealing the batteries is relatively easy and a battery fetches up to Rs 5,000 in the black market,” the officer added. He sold the batteries through agents who disposed of them in shops that buy used spares. Police seized 15 batteries, a mobile phone and the bike used for the crime from Basha. He was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/youth-held-for-stealing-batteries-from-atms/articleshow/80914311.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Bhopal||Cops mull road dividers, widening of lanes to remove traffic bottlenecks||BHOPAL: City traffic police reviewed each and every road and square in the city and found out the traffic problems which need to be addressed immediately to ensure smooth traffic flow. Police found out that merely by clearing left turn on trisection/squares or building a divider or resizing a rotary or by widening the road at various spots can help in avoiding the risk of road accidents to a great extent. Police classified these suggestions under the short-term measures and presented an elaborate report during the coordination meeting with all the road construction agencies concerned for taking immediate rectification measures. The suggestions include minor works like chopping of trees beside some roads which hinder the vision on road and improving the road engineering. Police claimed that the agencies concerned have already started working on the rectification of road engineering problems. Speaking over the plan prepared by police ASP (Traffic) Sandeep Dixit said that traffic police conducted a detailed analysis of roads and squares in the city and found out the problems which need to be addressed to ensure smooth traffic and decrease the risk of road accidents. In the short term and mid-term measures police have suggested some immediate rectifications measures which can be done well within three-month time. These can be easily done by building dividers, clearing left turns, shifting/ resizing the rotaries and removing encroachments. Giving example, he said that there is a need to build a 150-metre-long divider from Polytechnic Square to KN Pradhan trisection which will help in making traffic flow smoother during VIP movement on the road and during cultural programmes being organised at Ravindra Bhawan. ASP Dixit said that to clear traffic problems on Hamidia Road police found that the left turns need to be cleared on roads from three directions at Bhopal talkies Square. A road divider needs to be built on the road from Bhopal Talkies to Laxmi Talkies to improve traffic. Same is the problem at Karond Square where the left turns need to be cleared on roads from all four directions at the square which needs to be addressed immediately. ASP said that the left turns need to be cleared on Nadra Bus stand road from Agrawal Dharamshala to Alpana trisection and from Bhopal Talkies to Agrawal Dharamshala. He said that to improve traffic at Bharat Talkies trisection there is a need to build 400-metre divider from Bharat Talkies to Alpana trisection, 200-metre divider from Bharat Talkies to Pul Patra and 150-metre divider from Bharat Talkies to Kali Mandir. Similarly, there is an island on the Pul Patra - Talaiya Road which needs to be shifted as it blocks traffic. ASP Dixit said that the left turns at Anna Nagar trisection on Kasturba Hospital Road in Govindpura needs to be cleared. This is a part of black spot rectification. Another such accident-prone zone is the Ratnagiri Trisection. There is a need to build an oval safe island. The island on Ayodhya Nagar Bypass needs to be redesigned and the triangular island on Raisen Road needs to be shifted. Secondly, the length of the divider on Raisen Road towards Anand Nagar needs to be increased. ASP Dixit said that similarly the rotary at Rajiv Gandhi square in Habibganj needs to be shifted and left turns need to be cleared on road from Vande Matram Square to Banskheri and from Kolar Guest House to Bittan Market. He said that the rotary at Bhadbhada Square needs to be redesigned and its height should be decreased. The branches of trees blocking the view on all sides of the rotary needs to be chopped and the left turn on the road from Suraj Nagar to Prempura village needs to be cleared. ASP Dixit said that in an important suggestion police suggested to build a divider on Bawadia Kalan ROB so that the vehicles do not enter the bridge from the wrong side. The divider should be made from triangular divider built on the road entries towards Hoshangabad Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/traffic-cops-start-work-on-short-term-measures-to-decongest-roads/articleshow/80913040.cms||Sudeept Mishra
February 15, 2021||Chennai||3 big-ticket projects opened in city, suburbs||Chennai: Three major infrastructure projects in Chennai and its suburbs were opened for public use on Saturday. This included one arm of the Keelkattalai flyover, a portion of pedestrian skywalk-cum-foot over-bridge in Tambaram and Pinjivakkam bridge in Tiruvallur. The first project, located on Pallavaram-Thoraipakkam Radial Road, being built at Rs 29.5 crore, would reduce travel time from Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) to Tambaram by 10 minutes. The three-lane flyover, which is 700m wide, is expected to reduce traffic congestion at Echangadu. However, with construction of the other arm of the flyover continuing, flow of traffic below the flyover remains very slow. Gravel laid for construction work kicks up dust blinding motorists. The bridge in Tambaram connects the railway station and the bus terminus on the other side of GST Road. The Rs 9.6 crore structure has two sets of elevators, ramps, security cameras and public address systems for officials to make announcements on bus and train timings. Built at Rs.10.3 crore, Pinjivakkam bridge has been constructed across the Cooum near Kandigai to reduce congestion caused by trucks and buses. Besides these, seven other projects in Trichy, Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Madurai, Theni, Cuddalore and Nilgiris were inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The state highways department had recently approved construction of a road over-bridge in Chengalpet district near Melmaruvathur to avoid road accidents. The bridge will be built and the existing railway level crossing in between Acharapakkam and Pakkam villages will be closed on Cheyyur-Polur Road. Construction will take place under the Railway Works Programme on a cost sharing basis with Southern Railway. The state will spend Rs 15 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-big-ticket-projects-opened-in-city-suburbs/articleshow/80914286.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: TSRTC sees growth in patronage, records daily revenue of Rs 10 crore||HYDERABAD: Nearly five months after resumption of services, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC), which saw its daily revenue falling by over 70% during the lockdown and soon after it, is now witnessing a growing patronage with overall occupancy registering a steady rise. According to officials, TSRTC is currently recording a daily revenue of Rs 10 crore, which is Rs 2 crore away from the revenue it was recording during the pre-Covid times. The corporation had suspended operations for over six months and resumed services on September 25 last year. V Venkateshwarlu, executive director (Greater Hyderabad Zone) said, “When services resumed post lockdown, the corporation registered an occupancy of 10%. Now, the occupancy is slowly increasing. We are increasing operations depending on the response from passengers.” However, the authorities said that there are still some routes that are registering a very low patronage because IT employees are still working from home. On the other hand, the corporation’s efforts to increase its revenue are yielding results with its parcel, courier and cargo services (PCC) evoking an encouraging response from customers. PCC services, which were introduced in June this year, are being used for freight transport, with first phase of services made available from 147 bus stations across the state. The officials said cargo and parcel services are currently earning around Rs 15 lakh per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-sees-growth-in-patronage-records-daily-revenue-of-rs-10cr/articleshow/80914288.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||140 teams to focus on revenue drive||Hyderabad: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Sunday said that 460 teams with 1,376 personnel have been constituted across the state for the task of revenue realisation in the next 45 days to achieve the desired targets. Addressing officials of the commercial tax department at a meeting held at Professor Jaishankar University Auditorium on Sunday, he said that the department has been reorganised twice, creating two additional divisions, 18 circles and 161 new posts. He directed the department officials to work as a team and achieve the desired targets with persuasion and motivation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/140-teams-to-focus-on-revenue-drive/articleshow/80914279.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||Govt plans major legal/patent law reforms; to shut 5 tribunals||All disputes and appeals concerning intellectual property protection including patents and trademarks, in the fields of technology, engineering, pharmaceuticals and chemicals, may soon be decided by the courts, and not through the designated appellate tribunal, if a new Bill is passed. In a move which may have far-reaching implications across sectors, the government plans to dismantle five appellate tribunals for patents, copyrights and cinematography under the “The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation And Conditions Of Service) Bill, 2021. The objective is to ``streamline’’ tribunals, under a rationalisation drive which started in 2017, and to provide a mechanism for filing appeals directly to the commercial court or the high court. The Bill recently introduced in the Lok Sabha seeks to abolish tribunals, for example, Intellectual Property Appellate Board (IPAB), which handle the above cases, and transfer powers to High Courts (for patent, trademarks, Geographical Indications, Plant Varieties related issues), and to Commercial Courts (for copyright matters). In the early 2000s, the IPAB handled trademarks’ disputes, while those arising out of patents were taken up post 2007. Concerned with the sudden move, legal and patent experts told TOI: all tribunals being generalised by saying that they are not functioning properly.. is not correct. This will burden the already over-stretched high courts, and lead to delays. ``The delays and pendency plaguing the IPAB have been mainly due to the long vacancies in the posts of its members due to the various legal challenges to the provisions concerning their appointment, or due to the delay in appointments. Otherwise, it has been rather speedy in disposals and the transfer back to the high court may lead to additional burden on such courts, where their commercial division deals with varied commercial matters (not limited to intellectual property), and often do not have the requisite technical support (mainly in patents)”, a IP lawyer said, adding, also the tribunals are not bound by the procedural nitty gritties of the Code of Civil Procedure and thus disposals are quicker. However, there is a section which believes the abolishment of IPAB is well-reasoned. Says Gopakumar Nair founder Gopakumar Nair Associates, who has handled cases of domestic generic companies ``There is a potential for establishing IP related commercial courts. Even if IP courts are set-up or not, the commercial courts are well equipped to preside over orders of patent and trademark (TM) office. Over the years the commercial courts have acquired adequate expertise in dealing with litigations relating to patent matters, and have been passing excellent and judicially-sound judgments’’. Post WTO and TRIPs and IP reforms thereafter, there was a need for an Appellate Body between the Patent office and the courts in India, especially the High Courts. The new Patent Regime was difficult to comprehend since Patents relate to subject matter which is a combination of science-technology and law. The government intended to have technical members in an appellate forum, along with members having legal experience. Even though the first Chairman of IPAB was Controller General of Patent and TM office, a trend developed thereafter to have retired Judges only as chairman of IPAB. While Retired Justice Prabha Sridevan brought some honour and reputation to the IPAB during her tenure, the majority of judicial members of IPAB and their judgement were not bringing any credibility to the Tribunal. Of late, there has been extraordinary interest in maintaining and continuing the tenure of IPAB from interested parties both Indian and overseas for beneficial reasons. A couple of recent orders from the IPAB were interpreting the provisions of the Patents Act wrongly and distortedly. The Patent Act and provisions thereof were passed by the Parliament with a view to maintain the rights and obligations of inventors and users. These provisions, if wrongly interpreted, could disturb the balance which was well intended by the legislatures’’ he added. Two recent orders by the IPAB were glaringly disturbing these balances. In one order, the definition of ‘any person’ who is permitted to file a pre-grant representation under Section 25(1) was given an extended meaning and the need for establishing locus standi. In another case of an order rejecting a patent under Section 25(2) was reinstated by the IPAB, even while granting an interim order to stay the rejection of the patent. The interim order set in motion floodgate of infringement suits by the patent applicant despite the order of the Hon’ble SC which stated that rights of the patentee are crystallized only after the culmination of the procedure under Section 25(2) which bestows final approval to the patent, according to Nair. Analysis of data of the last three years has shown that tribunals in several sectors have not necessarily led to faster justice delivery, and are also at a considerable expense to the exchequer, according to the Bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/patents-cases-may-soon-go-to-courts-as-govt-plans-to-dismantle-five-tribunals/articleshow/80916049.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Alert TTI helps woman get her lost purse back||Mumbai: A train ticket inspector (TTI) in the Tejas Express helped a woman passenger get her lost purse back on Saturday. The passenger, Neetu C, was travelling with two bags and a purse on her way to Goa. “A group of passengers requested me to exchange the seat so that one of their friends could join them in the coach. I agreed to change my seat, but left behind my purse,” she said. The TTI, Amrik Singh Kapoor, said that he was on his regular rounds of checking tickets and found the woman’s purse. “I went four coaches to C1 from C5 where he found the woman and handed over the purse to her,” he said. The railway authorities have decided to felicitate Kapoor for his alertness. — Somit Sen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/alert-tti-helps-woman-get-her-lost-purse-back/articleshow/80914364.cms||Somit Sen
February 15, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Student turns chain snatcher to play rummy||KANYAKUMARI: The district police arrested a 21-year-old engineering student who was involved in three chain snatching incidents in the district to mobilise money to play ‘online rummy’. The accused, J Justin Raj of Eethavilai in Mekkamandapam in the district, was detained during a vehicle check on Friday. Inquiries by police revealed that he has been playing online rummy for nearly two years. Justin, son of a daily wage worker, is from a family that is struggling to meet its ends. “He made some small gains during the early stages of the game and this made him addicted to it. But later, he lost a few lakh rupees in the online gambling. To feed his craving for the game he started stealing money in lesser quantities from his house before resorting to selling home appliances from his house to play the game,” a police officer told TOI. His family claimed that he has pledged 15 sovereigns of gold jewellery to play the game and that they are struggling to repay the loans and recover the jewellery. His thefts at home affected his relationship with his dear ones. Realising that he cannot generate money from home, he resorted to chain snatching. Along with his accomplice he snatched chains of three women at Karungal, Thiruvattar and Eraniel. Justin’s addition not only affected him financially and personally but also his studies as he has many arrears and is struggling to clear them. Karungal police recovered three gold chains weighing 10 sovereigns that he snatched from the three women and his bike before producing him before a court that remanded him judicial custody. Police are on the hunt for his accomplice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/engg-student-turns-chain-snatcher-to-finance-online-rummy-arrested/articleshow/80915322.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Deja vote: 103 years ago, polls in pandemic||AHMEDABAD: An election fought 103 years ago in Ahmedabad shares some features with the current polling milieu. Back in 1918, the Spanish flu had reduced Ahmedabad’s population, with a large number of people leaving the city. The trying times showed the mettle of the city’s leadership. The first ever manifesto in the history of civic elections in the city was declared with 22 candidates adopting a ‘Siddhant Yojana Patra’ in 1919. They promised to resign from office if they failed to provide basic amenities and housing to citizens. A year later, in 1920, one of the candidates, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel who was a councillor, exhorted his colleagues to carry out welfare activities. He reminded them: “Chuntani vakhat na vachano yaad karo” (Remember the promises made during the elections). A few years later, Patel went on to become the president of Ahmedabad municipality and provided formidable leadership, taking pathbreaking decisions and instilling the spirit of nationalism in local body politics too. Patel headed the municipality for 1,555 days before he plunged into national politics, as directed by Mahatma Gandhi. Like Patel, many notable leaders headed the city as municipality presidents from the 1880s to 1950 and then as mayors after the civic body’s status was elevated to a municipal corporation. The story began with the legendary industrialist Ranchhodlal Chhotalal, known as Ranchhod Rentiyo. After remaining in the office of the municipality president for a couple of years as a government nominee, he got an opportunity in 1885 to get elected to the office. The first civic elections were marked by chaos with booze flowing freely in the absence of any code of conduct. Chhotalal and his contemporaries such as the famous social reformer Mahipatram Rupram contributed significantly to the effort to make the ancient Walled City modern by providing basic amenities as well as by creating infrastructure for health and education. Apart from their role in the creation of infrastructure, municipality presidents such as Ambalal Sakarlal Desai can be credited with putting the city on the map of national politics. Desai, for instance, hosted a session of the Indian National Congress in 1902 in the city. “This was important because the development of the city was closely associated with the mainstream politics of nationalism,” said a city historian, Rizwan Qadri. “Its imprint was witnessed on decisions taken by the city’s leadership.” Starting in the 1920s, Amdavadis had launched a number of bold new initiatives to improve housing, involving a striking range of actors — labour activists, middle-class reformers, mill owners, and municipal leaders. Largely ignored under the earlier British leadership, housing became a key way for citizens to lay claim to a new, more inclusive vision of the city The last member of the city’s elite families (the Mahajans) to hold the offices of the municipality president and mayor was Chinubhai Chimanlal, known as Chinubhai Mayor. It was during his long tenure that the city got libraries, a playground, a stadium, and an auditorium. Renowned architect Le Corbusier’s marvels in the city — such as the ATMA building and Sanskar Kendra — were commissioned by Chimanlal. The flow of politics later brought people from the masses to the city’s high offices. Mahagujarat Janata Parishad’s Dinkar Mehta, a known socialist, ordered the first survey of the city’s slums in 1956-57. Electricity reached many slums for the first time in that period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deja-vote-103-years-ago-polls-in-pandemic/articleshow/80915805.cms||Saeed Khan
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Civic vans chase high-risk contacts at Dharavi to prevent resurgence||MUMBAI: Fearing a surge in Covid-19 cases in Dharavi again, BMC has started sending out mobile testing vans to pockets that have been reporting positive cases lately. G North ward, that covers Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim, has a weekly growth rate of 0.12%, which is less than the city’s average rate of 0.14% at present. Civic officials said that though positive cases being reported in Dharavi are currently in single digits, they are being cautious and sending these vans so high-risk contacts (HRCs) of positive patients can be tested. Between February 13 and 15, these testing vans were sent to Dharavi 90-feet road. Civic officials also found that HRCs were avoiding getting tested as they fear a 14-day quarantine and loss of pay of salary. On February 13, Dharavi reported five new cases. Currently, the number of active cases in the locality are 14. The total cases reported are 3,970. Assistant municipal commissioner (G North ward) Kiran Dighavkar said the vans are conducting RT-PCR tests. “With the government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’... a larger number of people are stepping out and the chances of case numbers rising again cannot be ruled out. Therefore, we believe there is a need for aggressive testing,” he said. Officials said they are intensifying testing and tracing to curb a resurgence within the congested locality. An analysis of Dharavi cases in the past months showed relatives of those who tested positive account for 35% of the positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/civic-vans-chase-high-risk-contacts-at-dharavi-to-prevent-resurgence/articleshow/80915333.cms||Richa Pinto
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Land hurdles, funding issues delay Cherlapally satellite rly station||Hyderabad: The South Central Railway’s (SCR) plan to develop Cherlapally station as a satellite terminal seems to be running behind schedule despite the various infrastructural works, including provision of passenger amenities, sanctioned by the railway board. The station, which was meant to ease the load on the existing three terminals in Secunderabad, Kacheguda and Nampally, hit several land hurdles and funding issues since the inception of the project. While the initial plan was to build the station on 250 acres of land with 10 platforms at a cost of Rs 150 crore to Rs 200 crore, the authorities who failed to acquire the required land decided to implement the project on around 50 acres that is currently available. “The delay was caused mainly due to funding and land acquisition issues. Initially, our aim was to develop the station in an area of 250 acres. However, with just 50 acres available, we would be able to build only four more platforms, taking the total number of platforms to six,” said an SCR official. Cherlapally station was sought as an alternative to compensate for the increasing number of passengers from Nampally, Secunderabad and Kacheguda stations. The three terminals were handling over 450 trains with 2.8 lakh passengers on average per day before the pandemic. However, while revealing the details of budget allocation recently, SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya said that the work to complete the Cherlapally project is going on at a brisk pace. He added that the project was being taken up at Rs 240 crore and of this, Rs 50 crore was allocated in the current budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-hurdles-funding-issues-delay-cherlapally-satellite-rly-station/articleshow/80914359.cms||Moulika.KV
February 15, 2021||Chennai||Conman who duped, robbed elderly nabbed||Chennai: A 45-year-old man who, in multiple instances, diverted the attention of senior citizens and robbed their jewellery was arrested by a special team of police from the Mylapore jurisdiction on Saturday. On January 23, 63-year-old Ravanamma lodged a complaint that a man had approached asking her to bless a child and promised to get her a one-sovereign coin from the child’s parents. Ravanamma, who went along with him, said the man asked for her rings to check their size but took off once she handed them to him. She lodged a complaint at the Royapettah police station. With the help of CCTV camera footage, police identified the man to be B Tirumalai of Perambur, who was wanted in several similar cases and was out on bail. He was also detained under the Goondas Act. A special team was formed to nab him. During the inquiry after arrest, Tirumalai revealed that he had duped 15 such senior citizens in the 20 days since he got out of prison. Police recovered 26 pairs of earrings, seven gold rings, two chains and a few anklets from him. He was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/conman-who-duped-robbed-elderly-nabbed/articleshow/80914350.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Woman files DV complaint against doctor husband||Ahmedabad: A 31-year-old woman from the Krishnanagar area of the city on Saturday filed a complaint under the domestic violence act along with charges of harassment against her husband and in-laws alleging that her husband, who is a doctor and in-laws did not allow her to read newspaper and use cellphone. She said that whenever she resisted against their ‘diktats’, she was scolded and thrashed by her in-laws and husband. She in her FIR stated that she got married to a doctor based in Junagadh on July 10, 2016. Soon after their marriage, her in-laws began taunting her for not bringing enough dowry. “My in-laws used to taunt me for not bringing in dowry and provoked my husband to thrash me. They made me work all the day but did not offer me good food,” said the woman in the FIR. She alleged that her in-laws taunted her that she does not match the qualification of her husband and did not deserved to marry a doctor. “They humiliated me constantly and when I tried to increase my knowledge to come at par with my husband by reading newspaper and by using cellphone, my in-laws and husband prevented me from reading newspaper and to use cellphone,” said the woman. She further states in her FIR that once she her husband thrashed her badly and she fractured her leg. When she was taken to hospital, she was forced to give a statement that fractured her leg while during an accidental fall. She later came to know that her husband had an affair with another woman and even her in-laws wanted their son to marry another woman. She alleged that her husband began forcing her to take divorce but she refused, she was thrashed and abandoned by him on October 16, 2017. She had then called up police control room and filed a complaint with Junagadh police. Later, her husband filed a divorce petition in a local court. As he forced her to live a life of an estranged woman, she approached Krishnanagar police and filed a complaint of domestic violence against him and four other in-laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-files-dv-complaint-against-doctor-husband/articleshow/80914362.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Bhopal||Covid cases dip in Bhopal, load on hospitals reduces||BHOPAL: Less than 300 or more than half of the active COVID-19 cases in the state capital are under home isolation. For the first time in about 11 months, the state capital added only 28 new cases on Saturday. In first two weeks of February, 617 new cases have been diagnosed in Bhopal, more than 1,100 less compared to the same time a month ago. “First things first, despite the slide COVID-19 cases, there is no room from complacency. COVID-19 preventive protocols cannot be ignored. Drop in cases can be attributed to a number of factors. Vaccine rollout has developed a confidence in the public. Preventive steps taken by the government are showing results,” said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. A drop in number of active cases is not linked to reduced COVID-19 testing. “All fever clinics in Bhopal are functional. Anyone who wants to get tested can get a COVID-19 test,” the CMHO added. There are around 50 fever clinics and a dozen government-run laboratories which conduct the test. With the daily case load dropping, the stress on hospitalis has markedly reduced. On Saturday, there were only 18 patients being treated for COVID-19 in Hamidia hospital. Two of them were on ventilator support. At its peak, the largest tertiary care hospital had more than 300 critical COVID-19 cases. It developed an entire wing of about 800 beds for COVID-19 treatment. Chirayu medical college still gets the most number of COVID-19 patients. Outside district patients account for a large number of those cases, said a health department official. “Reasons for low number of cases can be attributed to the public being more aware and precautions taken. It has meant that the COVID-19 infection spread is controlled to a large extent. There are also indications that severity of the prevalent strain is far less. In effect, there is also a level of herd immunity in the community that has been developed against the infection,” said Hamidia hospital medical superintendent, Dr ID Chaurasia. Experts are of the opinion that to touch zero cases, city residents have to strictly maintain the COVID-19 preventive measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-cases-dip-in-bhopal-load-on-hosps-reduces/articleshow/80913050.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Pay double toll if you don’t have FASTag from today: Nitin Gadkari||NAGPUR: Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari has refused to extend the deadline for vehicles to get a FASTag, and made it clear that those without the tag would have to pay twice the normal toll from Monday. Talking to the media here, Gadkari said, “We have given three extensions for FASTags but now vehicle owners should get it. It is necessary to increase the speed of traffic on highways. Between 80% to 90% toll plazas on highways have FASTag systems and the remaining ones will get it soon.” The minister also urged all vehicle owners to switch to CNG. “One litre CNG costs just over Rs50 and is far cheaper than petrol and diesel. I inaugurated the country’s first CNG tractor on Saturday. A farmer can save between Rs1-1.5 lakh per year if he switches over to CNG. Those using tractors for commercial purpose can save Rs3 lakh per year,” he said. Gadkari said he aims to convert to CNG all vehicles in six districts of east Vidarbha within next five years. “The first step in this direction has already been taken. A CNG filling station has been opened in Kamptee. First we will convert tractors, city buses, state transport buses and then autorickshaws to CNG,” he added. The minister has asked the mayor, municipal commissioner and other officers and office bearers of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to convert their vehicles to CNG. In the evening, Gadkari inaugurated the second Khapri railway overbridge (ROB). He also performed the bhoomipuja of cement roads from Khapri ROB to Manish Nagar railway crossing, from Khapri ROB to Rahate Colony, and from Gandhisagar T-point to Ashok Square. All these works will be done by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Home minister Anil Deshmukh, who participated in the function through video conferencing, urged Gadkari to start work on four laning of Nagpur-Katol Road as soon as possible. He said that maximum number of accidents take place on Nagpur-Kalmeshwar Road. The minister also urged Gadkari to start broad gauge metro soon as state government had cleared it. Gadkari told Deshmukh that NHAI was awaiting signature of the state forest minister on a file. “Please ask him to sign it and I will immediately issue the work order. We will hold a grand bhoomipuja function in Katol,” he said. The central minister assured Deshmukh of starting BG Metro between Nagpur and Betul via Katol and Narkhed very soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pay-double-toll-if-you-dont-have-fastag-from-today/articleshow/80915331.cms||Ashish Roy
February 15, 2021||Goa||AAP: Can provide uninterrupted power in Goa too||Panaji: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday alleged that Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao set up a health clinic in the village after many years and this was only after AAP promised a mohalla clinic. At the party’s ‘Veej Andolan’ held at Dando, Benaulim, AAP zilla parishad member Hanzel Fernandes said that people in Goa too could get uninterrupted power either free or at a subsidized rate according to the AAP model in Delhi. “In Goa too people consuming up to 200 units will not get any bill while those consuming 201 to 400 units per month will get 50 percent rebate,” he said. “This will be implemented within 48 hours of coming to power,” Fernandes said. AAP secretary for south Goa district committee Roque Mascarenhas said that the party was helping taxi and rickshaw drivers in Delhi by giving them free ration and depositing Rs5,000 in their bank accounts. “The AAP government in Delhi increased the pension paid to senior citizens during the pandemic while in Goa people have not got their dole for six months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-can-provide-uninterrupted-power-in-goa-too/articleshow/80915339.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur Police to return seized valuables worth crores of rupees||NAGPUR: City police are gearing up to return seized property worth crores of rupees to citizens after completion of legal formalities. These properties had been retained at police stations for various criminal cases. Some of the properties, like cash, gold and silver, are learnt to have been stored at police stations for several decades. Though the drive had kicked-started towards the end of last year, with around 250 valuables worth around a crore handed over, another 38,000 items would be returned shortly. On Saturday, city polices’ cyber cell had set a benchmark by returning 111 missing mobile phones worth Rs 32 lakh to their owners. City police chief Amitesh Kumar said zonal DCPs have been urged to update the lists of the ‘muddemal’ or seized properties and ascertain their legal status so as to facilitate their return to their owners. “An instruction has been issued to police stations to issue NOC related to seized properties after legal formalities are completed. This will help owners approach the court to get clearance,” he said. The top cop said several of the seized properties may have been lying with police stations for almost 25 years or so. “The personnel dealing with the seized properties have been briefed and asked to prepare the final list after checking legal status, or even approaching the courts for orders,” said the top cop. The CP said the objective is that owners must get their valuables back after the case is disposed off. “We have already returned valuables after big recoveries by detection staffers,” said Kumar. After Kumar took charge in Nagpur, 400-500 abandoned vehicles at police stations were sold through e-auction while another 1,740 are ready for the second auction. In the third phase, another 2,000 vehicles would be auctioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-to-return-seized-valuables-worth-crores-of-rupees/articleshow/80914368.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 15, 2021||Visakhapatnam||YSRC against privatisation of VSP: Botcha Satyanarayana||VISAKHAPATNAM: Municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana on Sunday said the YSRC government will fight against the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and that their party workers will oppose its disinvestment. Talking to reporters here, Botcha said the VSP was the pride of not only the city but of the entire state. The VSP has incurred losses due to the various reasons with the Union government taking the measures in a bid to protect interests of employees and workers. Botcha said that CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to reconsider the disinvestment move and explore other options to put the unit back on track. At another meeting, CPM politburo member BV Raghavulu alleged that the BJP government has been trying to help its corporate associates by privatising PSUs. Raghavulu, who was here on Sunday to participate in various agitation programmes against the privatisation of the steel plant, claim that people would fight to stop the move at the cost of their lives like they did in the 1970s. Raghavulu appealed to leaders of various political parties to set aside their differences to fight in the interest of the steel plant. The CPM functionary claimed that the BJP-led government was planning to close or privatise 90% of the 300 public sector units in a move that would destroy the Indian economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ysrc-against-privatisation-of-vsp-botcha/articleshow/80913006.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Rajkot||Fake scribes caught for extortion||Rajkot: Three persons, who posed as journalists, were arrested for trying to extort money from a homeopathic doctor in Gondal town of Rajkot district on Sunday. At around 11am, when Dr Riddhi Radadiya reached her clinic, she saw three men doing a video shoot there. They told the doctor that her father-in-law Chunilal, who administers the clinic, was illegally checking the patients and even prescribing medicines. The trio identified themselves as scribes and asked Dr Riddhi to pay money in lieu of not publicising this. However, she immediately called the cops, who detained the three from the spot. Those caught were Piyush Rathod, Sufiyan Savan and Sslam Salim Shah. They were booked for extortion. Dr Riddhi has been practising in the town for the last two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fake-scribes-caught-for-extortion/articleshow/80912809.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Visakhapatnam||VSP formation day set to be a low key affair||Visakhapatnam: The 39th formation day of the RINL-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant on February 18 is set to be a low-key affair for over 32,000 executives, non-executives and their families. Leaders of all 24 unions of the plant, under the umbrella Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee (VUPPC), have decided to boycott the management’s celebrations. Instead, they will be observing Visakha Ukku Parirakshna Dinam (Visakha Steel Protection Day). Confirming this, VUPPC convener J Ayodhya Ram told TOI, “It is unfortunate that we are boycotting the formation day ...We are in negotiations with the police to get permission for our (protest) programme at Lanka Grounds and other venues.” An official from the RINL-VSP management said, “We will try celebrate it in a low key affair by distributing awards to 80 employees. Last year, our plant ambassador and sports star PV Sindhu joined us.” Formation day celebrations usually are large celebrations with over one lakh participants every year. They include a cricket match between RINL and Waltair railway division, stalls by Ukkunagaram schools and other departments, exhibitions, awards and VIP visits. “We have not received any official request from union leaders so far. The Lanka Grounds is not viable for large gatherings since its adjacent to NH-16 and there will be a serious law and order problem. Regarding other venues, we are yet to take any decision,” said Gajuwaka circle inspector S Malleswara Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vsp-formation-day-set-to-be-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/80913016.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 15, 2021||Madurai||Nataraja idol seized, one held||Theni: The Bodi Town police in the district seized a Nataraja idol during vehicle check and arrested a 26-year-old man from S S Puram in Bodi Town in connection with the case on Sunday. A police team led by Bodi Town inspector Saravanan conducted the vehicle check based on a tip on Saturday. A car was stopped by the team and a search was conducted during which a Nataraja idol measuring around 3ft in height and weighing around 10kg was found inside a gunny bag. The team arrested M Manikandan, who was driving the vehicle. Saravanan said that Manikandan told them that a few people gave him money to keep the idol for a while and had asked him to hand it over to a person who will approach him. He did not know the source of the idol and from where it was stolen, police said. Based on his confession, a case was registered under various sections of IPC. He was remanded in judicial custody. Tamilselvan, Thangapandi and Muthuvarman were also booked based on Manikandan’s confession. A search is on for the suspects. Saravanan said that the Idol Wing police were informed about the capture and a team led by ASP Malaisamy examined the idol. Another police officer from Theni district said that the metal composition of the idol and its antiquity will be known only after conducting a lab test. Police also suspected if any attempt was being made to smuggle the idol to Kerala given the proximity to the neighbouring state from the spot, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nataraja-idol-seized-one-held/articleshow/80915338.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Thieves hypnotize man, steal money and rings in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 56-year-old man from the Ghatlodia area of the city filed a complaint with Vadaj police on Sunday alleging that three men had taken away Rs 40,000 and two gold rings by hypnotizing him. In his FIR, Manoj Bhatt, a resident of Virat apartment near Sattadhar Crossroads in Ghatlodia, states that he had left his home on his scooter on Sunday afternoon to go to Naroda. He completed some tasks on the way and reached Sabarmati riverfront where he stayed for a few minutes and dropped his plan to go to Naroda. On his way back home, he spotted an autorickshaw was following him. There were three men inside the autorickshaw including its driver. One of the passengers asked Bhatt for directions to reach Sola Science city. The man got down from the autorickshaw, and when Bhatt was telling him how reach Science City, he told Bhatt to show his palms. When Bhatt opened his palms, the man put some yellowish vermilion powder and a flower on his palms. Then he asked Bhatt to close his palm tightly and touch his feet. When Bhatt was touching his feet, the rickshaw driver pulled out the keys of Bhatt’s scooter and all of them fled from there in their rickshaw. After a while, Bhatt realized that something had happened to him. Then he discovered his two gold rings and cash of Rs 40,000 were missing. He approached police and filed a complaint of theft and abetment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/thieves-hypnotize-man-steal-money-and-rings/articleshow/80914366.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Collecting evidence of blocked nominations, say Congress||AHMEDABAD: The state unit of the Congress party said on Sunday that it is collecting evidence in the form of video and audio footage, where its nominees were “pressurised by the BJP not to file their nominations for municipalities, taluka panchayat and district panchayat elections. At the same time, disciplinary action will be taken again those candidates who deliberately did not file their nominations for the elections. As many as 26 seats of municipalities, taluka panchayats and zilla panchayats will be won uncontested by BJP candidates, as Congress nominees failed to file their papers until Saturday, the last day for filing nominations. “The party is collecting evidence where our candidates were threatened or pressurised not to file their nominations. We will file complaints in this regard with the SEC and police,” state Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said. He admitted there were also some instances where Congress candidates colluded with BJP candidates and did not file their nominations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/collecting-evidence-of-blocked-nominations-cong/articleshow/80915817.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Bhind turns ‘zero active cases’ dist, but virus back in Morena||BHOPAL: In less than two weeks, at least two districts of the state have earned the distinction of having zero Covid-cases. It was Morena which became the first district to have zero active cases on February 2. Later, however, three new cases have been found and there are three active patients in the district. Now, it is Bhind district which has no active cases—all Covid patients there have recovered and, so far, no new cases were found in the district. And in a silver lining, as on February 13, there were at least 17 districts in the state where there were only five or less than five active cases. Cumulatively, there were only 34 active cases in all these 17 districts of the state. In Mandla and Ashok Nagar districts, there were only 1 active case each. Likewise in Shivpuri, Burhanpur and Agar Malwa, there were only two active cases. Overall, there were a total 1,829 active cases in the state as on February 13. Of this, a whopping 68% cases were only in seven districts — Sagar, Ratlam, Rajgarh, Damoh, Jabalpur, Indore and Bhopal — all these districts had more than 50 active cases. Three districts — Bhopal (584), followed by Indore (288) and Jabalpur (162) — had the maximum active cases. Sources said that the condition is definitely improving in most areas of the state. However, it is still not the time to put our guard down. People should still adhere to all the protocols and guidelines as prescribed by the government, wear masks, maintain social distance and also maintain hand hygiene, said sources. It is noteworthy that during this same duration i.e., between February 1 and 13, it has been twice witnessed that no deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the state. It was only on April 2, 2020, that no deaths were reported after the disease claimed the first life in the state on March 25. Since then, barring the above mentioned days, there was not a single day when no death was reported in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhind-turns-zero-active-cases-dist-but-virus-back-in-morena/articleshow/80913058.cms||Amarjeet Singh
February 15, 2021||Thane||Colleges in rural Thane to reopen||THANE: Colleges in rural belts of Thane district will start operating from February 15 following all safety guidelines, said Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar on Sunday. A notification to the issue was released Sunday night wherein all degree, diploma colleges including various university affiliated facilities except for agriculture colleges have been allowed to operate from Monday. "Colleges will have to follow rotation system and ensure only 50% of student presence in the classes till further notice," said resident deputy collector, Shivaji Patil. The notification covers all rural areas including Shahpur and Murbad talukas. Meanwhile, the decision to start colleges in urban limits will be taken by the respective civic corporations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/colleges-in-rural-thane-to-reopen/articleshow/80915342.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani collapses on stage due to fatigue||VADODARA: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Sunday evening collapsed while addressing a public meet in Nizampura area of Vadodara.  Rupani, who was visibly unwell, was in Vadodara to address three public gatherings ahead of the civic body polls scheduled on February 21. A bodyguard sensed something was wrong and tried to hold him but the CM collapsed even as BJP leaders who were on the dais rushed to his help. Rupani was addressing the public rally at Mehsana crossroads after similar meetings in Tarsali and Karelibaug areas. Talking to TOI, Rupani said he felt dizzy due to exhaustion. “Vadodara doctors also checked and said it may have happened due to exhaustion as I am constantly travelling. I am going to UN Mehta Hospital for further checkup.” “During election campaign in Vadodara, the CM collapsed due to dizziness. I just inquired and he is ok now. It may have happened due to exhaustion. Doctors examined him at Vadodara airport before he left for Gandhinagar. There is nothing to worry as such,”said deputy CM Nitin Patel. Rupani said he was feeling completely normal and citizens and workers should not worry. “I thank all for showing concern,” he added. “When we were on stage at Tarsali, I noticed that Rupani looked very tired. I asked him if he is feeling exhausted and he said that he wasn’t feeling well,” said BJP MLA and minister of state (urban housing) Yogesh Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cm-collapses-on-stage-due-to-fatigue/articleshow/80912823.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Three of 8 municipal corporations record rise in Covid cases||AHMEDABAD: On Monday, the period of night curfew in four major cities of Gujarat will be up for discussion with the expiry of the last relevant notification. Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot have night curfew from 11pm to 6am as a measure to reduce Covid-19 cases. An analysis of the weekly cases reveals that Vadodara and Ahmedabad have recorded a downward trend, whereas Rajkot and Surat have seen an uptick to varying degrees. Compared to 551 cases recorded by Vadodara between February 1 and 7, it registered a reduction of 23% at 423. The highest rise, on the other hand, was noted in Rajkot where weekly cases rose from 246 to 286.While Ahmedabad recorded a slight decrease of 1%, Surat recorded a 3% rise. Among the other four municipal corporations, Gandhinagar maintained the number of weekly cases at 55, whereas Jamnagar and Junagadh recorded a decrease in cases. Bhavnagar notched up a slight rise from 21 to 24. The analysis of deaths reveals that Gujarat in February so far lost 14 positive patients at the average of one death per day. Of the total, 10 or 71% of the deaths were recorded from Ahmedabad city alone. “Gujarat has recorded a dip of 5% in weekly positive cases. Compared to that average, the cities have showed both growing and decreasing trends,” said a city-based critical care specialist. “Cities are crucial at this juncture as they account for 65% of the active cases. One must not let the guard down. By continuing to be cautious, we can reap the benefits of the work of so many months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/caution-must-3-of-8-municipal-corporations-record-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/80915816.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Clash in Sultanpur Lodhi, bullet fired, Hoshiarpur BJP leader heckled in Garhdiwala||Jalandhar: Barring two incidents – a violent direct clash between Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) supporters in Sultanpur Lodhi and “farmers” confronting BJP district Hoshiarpur president in Garhdiwala town and breaking a window of his vehicle – polling remained peaceful on Doaba region where polling was held for 21 municipal bodies, including two municipal corporations, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala. In Sultanpur Lodhi, SAD alleged that bullets were also fired from Congress side. This has also led to questions that the administration had issued orders for depositing licenced weapons to the people. SAD supporter Pippal Singh was injured. He received injury on a side of his head and was seen bleeding at the clash site. He too alleged that the Congress side fired bullets. Akali Dal leader Sajjan Singh Cheema, a former SSP of Punjab, alleged that he had seen 40-50 Congress supporters near polling booth in Ward No. 1 in block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) and had called up Sultanpur Lodhi sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and deputy superintendent of police (DSP) urging them to rush police enforcement. “Just three to four minutes before the end of polling at 4pm, a group of Congress workers started coming towards the gate of the polling booth and they were being escorted by a sub-inspector. I also urged the SHO present there to stop them but the group reached the gate and tried to barge into the polling booth with police remained mute spectators. Then our workers opposed their entry,” Cheema said. In a video clip, both sides could be seen clashing and police then separated them. It soon led to stone pelting between both sides and then firing of gun shots could also be heard in the video while one person could be seen waving his weapon too. Cheema alleged that two local Congress leaders fired from their weapons. When asked Sultanur Lodhi DSP Sarwan Singh Bal said they were still verifying if bullets were fired and then who fired these. He also said police are verifying the identity of the person seen in the video clip and the circumstances. A case was being registered, he added. Box: BJP leader confronted, window of his car damaged In Garhdiwala town of Hoshiarpur, BJP district president Sanjeev Minhas was confronted by a group who claimed to be farmers. Minhas had earlier rushed to the help of a local candidate who was earlier heckled by a group. He was later sitting at the office of a local supporters where the group of “farmers” reached. In a video clip, they could be heard raising slogans against BJP and also hurling abuses. While police grappled with the protestors to make way for Minhas’s car, one person hit at the window of his door and the glass broke. Minhas later told TOI that he received injury on his arm. He alleged that these were Congress supporters who ried to attack him in the garb of protestors. “It is very unusual that on the polling day, the police allowed such groups to roam freely and attack BJP leaders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/clash-in-sultanpur-lodhi-bullet-fired-hoshiarpur-bjp-leader-heckled-in-garhdiwala/articleshow/80915340.cms||IP Singh
February 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Experts stress on counselling of rape survivors, kin,& neighbours||Ludhiana: The counselling of rape survivors and their families is not getting the importance that it requires. According to police officials, female cops present at police stations or senior ranked female cops counsel the girl and family, while only in a few cases the members of Child Welfare Committee (CWC) or District Child Protection Office are involved for the same. Experts suggest that in each case the counselling of not only the rape survivor, her family and even neighbours is also essential. Recently, the rape case of 7-year-old girl who was allegedly raped by her elder brother, 13, has left everyone shocked. While the police have arrested the accused, the family still is not ready to believe that their son could do this. After the intervention of the Punjab State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights, an SIT has been formed to probe the case. According to experts, in this case the counselling of the parents is essential as both rape survivor and the accused are from the same family. A senior police officer said, “When a rape case is reported, almost in all cases female cops counsel the girl and even parents. There are some departments like the Child Welfare Committee and District Child Protection Office which are involved, but only in a few cases, and that too depending upon the sensitivity of the case. The gap between the police and these departments must be bridged.” Member, District Child Welfare Committee, Sanjay Maheshwari said, “As per the amended rule of POCSO Rules 2020, the police have to inform the CWC in each case of POCSO Act. However, the police approach us only in cases that become a sensation in the news.” He added that, “If on an average 20 rapes cases of minor girls are reported in a month, only in one to two cases, the police approach the CWC. I have also written against it to the District Legal Service Authority, deputy commissioner, commissioner of police and to Vipul Ujjwal, director of the department of social security of women and children.” On being asked if the CWC had clinical counsellors, Maheshwari said, “We don’t have professional counsellors, but the staff of DCPO are trained for counselling, which help the police in counselling the victim and the family when approached.” A city-based psychiatrist Dr Anshu Gupta said, “Besides psychological trauma, the victim and the family has to deal with social stigma also. Therefore, the counselling of the victim, the family and even the neighbourhood is important, so that the family and victim could come out of the trauma.” “In this particular case I believe the family first needs counselling as their daughter is a survivor and son allegedly is an accused. Besides, the girl will need counselling at the adolescent age when she will actually come to know what exactly has happened with her. If the survivor and the family are not counselled, it can harm them in the long run. They can get psychiatric illness and even suicidal tendency,” added Dr Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/experts-stress-on-counselling-of-rape-survivors-kin-neighbours/articleshow/80913063.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 15, 2021||Chennai||Roads blocked, passengers tug luggage to stn||Chennai: Travel plans of hundreds of rail passengers went awry as EVR Periyar Road and Poonamallee High Road were blocked for vehicular traffic and security was heightened for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Chennai on Sunday. Traffic was affected for a while near Egmore railway station due to diversion. Those travelling to MGR Chennai Central railway station had to walk for nearly 1km to reach the station. A majority of them were passengers of West Coast Express, Tirupati Express, Bangalore Express, Hubli Express and Trivandrum Express. “We had to get down near the police commissioner’s office and walk nearly 1km to reach the railway station as the diversion route takes much more time,” said Saveetha, who was on her way to board her train at the MGR Chennai Central Railway station. Vikram, a software engineer who was boarding West Coast Express, said: “I started from my house in Koyambedu at 6am as I did not want miss my train at 11.30am.” Except for ambulances going to Rajiv Gandhi Government General hospital, all other vehicles were not allowed to take the stretch. Policemen were instructed to ensure the ambulances did not get stuck in the crowd. Police were deployed every 50m on both sides from INS Adyar helipad station near Napier Bridge to the Nehru Indoor Stadium, and on Flag Staff Road, Poonamallee High Road and Raja Muthiah Salai. The Chennai traffic police had restricted vehicle movement on Anna Salai, Poonamallee High Road and Rajaji Road from 8am to 1pm as Modi inaugurated the Chennai metro rail extension in north Chennai. Heavy vehicles were not allowed within city limits. Being a Sunday, the traffic was not affected in other parts of the city. Many motorists stayed indoors anticipating traffic jam along the routes to Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, said police sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/roads-blocked-passengers-tug-luggage-to-stn/articleshow/80914375.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Fast-track hearing under way in Hinganghat burning case||NAGPUR: Advocate Ujjwal Nikam, appointed as special public prosecutor in the Hinganghat burning case, has examined key witnesses in the ongoing trial of the sensational murder case. On February 3 last year, 25-year-old Ankita Pisudde was set on fire in the vicinity of a college in Wardha district where she was working as contributory lecturer. She was declared dead on February 10 at Orange City Hospital. The trial in the case, which triggered statewide reactions, had started on January 11 this year. Though the trial is taking place before the regular court, the proceedings have been fast-tracked. Pisudde was allegedly set on fire by Vikesh Nagrale, who was angry with the victim for having snapped their earlier friendship, and also stopped communications. After she was set afire, the woman was helped by a bystander, who had tried to douse the flames and also raised an alarm. She was shifted to Nagpur but died a week later. State home minister Anil Deshmukh had flown in doctors from Mumbai to Orange City Hospital for Pisudde’s treatment. Nikam said seven witnesses have been examined so far including the parents of the victim. “We have examined the key eyewitnesses in the case, including the one who doused the flame, and some boys who had chased the accused,” he said. “The deposition of the medical officer too would be recorded along with that of the investigation officer in the case,” said the top lawyer. He expressed hope the arguments would be completed by March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fast-track-hearing-under-way-in-hinganghat-burning-case/articleshow/80914374.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 15, 2021||Bareilly||Two of a gang held for trying to sell tiger skin, nails in UP's Kheri||BAREILLY: Two men trying to sell a tiger skin, nails and other body parts were arrested by Sashastra Seema Bal and Dudhwa forest department personnel near Belaparsuva border outpost in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Saturday night. Three others are on the run. All five have been booked. The officials believe that the tiger was poached in the buffer zone of Dudhwa tiger reserve (DTR). They seized an 18-cm tiger skin along with 10 front and eight back nails from the duo. The tiger skin was intact, suggesting that it might have killed either by poisoning or snaring, Anil Patel, deputy director, Dudhwa (buffer), told TOI, “Based on intelligence inputs, it came to the knowledge of the SSB and forest department that a few people are trying to sell a tiger skin. So a decoy customer was sent to meet the accused and they were caught with the skin and 18 nails.” The duo was identified as Somdev Pasi, 23, and Vinod Pasi, 22, from Takiya Purva village adjacent to DTR’s buffer forests. During questioning, they revealed the involvement of three others,who are absconding, said Patel. “We have registered an FIR at Belraya range against five of them and several teams have been deployed to arrest them,” he added. Manoj Sonkar, deputy director, DTR (core), said, “The pictures of the skin have been sent for matching in the database. We will produce the accused in court and seek their remand custody for further investigation in the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-of-a-gang-held-for-trying-to-sell-tiger-skin-nails-in-kheri/articleshow/80912420.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Rajdhani Express attendant caught with five liquor bottles||Ahmedabad: City police along with Railway Protection Force on Saturday held an attendant of Rajdhani Express for ferrying and possessing five liquor bottles in the train between Delhi and Ahmedabad.According to an FIR filed with the Sabarmati railway police, a team of cops and RPF personnel were conducting a routine check at the Sabarmati Railway Station when they found a bag with the attendant Dilip Sharma, 28, a resident of Naroda. When police searched his bag, they found that he was carrying five liquor bottles worth Rs 2,350 which he brought from Delhi to the train. As he did not have permit to keep the liquor bottles and was caught ferrying and possessing liquor in Gujarat, he was booked by the Sabarmati Railway Police. Police detained him and sent him for Covid-19 test before arresting him. An investigation is on in the case to determine if he had earlier smuggled liquor from Delhi or if this was his first attempt. Sources in police said that the attendant might be sourcing liquor bottles for people in Naroda by taking huge amounts of money from them. Earlier on January 10, as many as 38 liquor bottles were found abandoned in the Rajdhani Express by city police. The case is still unsolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rajdhani-express-attendant-caught-with-five-liquor-bottles/articleshow/80914371.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Rush for FASTag on eve of e-toll conversion||Kolkata: A rush for FASTag was reported at national highway kiosks on Sunday, the eve of abolition of the lone cash lane at the 25 toll plazas in Bengal. Vehicles without the tag will have to pay double the toll from Monday. The cash lane will be converted into a hybrid lane. If a vehicle without FASTag appears, the occupants can pay in cash in that lane but only after the rush of FASTag is cleared. Also, the amount charged would be double the toll , said an official. Security at each toll plaza has been enhanced to avert any possible trouble created by a motorist without the tag. “We have reports of FASTags flying off the shelves at the kiosks at different parts of national highways a day before the cash-only lane is abolished. People don’t want to take any risk further. We hope to achieve over 90% electronic toll collection shortly,” said a NHAI official. Officials said people had increasingly been embracing the technological advantage of electronic payment at toll plazas as the waiting time decreased. A vehicle with the FASTag does not need to stop to pay the toll. The moment the vehicle enters the toll lane, the amount is deducted from the bank account linked to FASTag. Nationally, the share of FASTag transactions at toll plazas is 80%. In Bengal, 75% toll is collected electronically across 25 plazas under the Kolkata regional office. “We hope the figure will rise to 100% by the end of this month, with all the people using national highway adopting the convenience of electronic toll payment,” the official added. The system is, however, not without teething troubles. There were hours, when link failures led to slowing down or complete shutdown of the system. When that happened, the entire FASTag system needed to be disabled to return to manual mode, an official said, adding that toll plaza managers had to explain why the system could not be restored in the shortest possible time. But, NHAI officials said, system failure was part of the process. “We have made back-up arrangements so that the system continues online. Technical team rushes to the spot where error surfaces. Apart from seamless and pilferage-free toll collection, FASTag will generate a massive mobility data, which will help urban local bodies, along national highways, to strategize mobility planning,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rush-for-fastag-on-eve-of-e-toll-conversion/articleshow/80914372.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 15, 2021||Chennai||When PM Narendra Modi played to Chennai gallery||CHENNAI: With just two months to go for the Tamil Nadu assembly election, Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Chennai on Sunday to connect with voters by stirring Tamil pride and sentiments. He praised Chennai for its energy and enthusiasm, knowledge and creativity and profusely thanked its people for giving him a warm welcome. During his three-hour long visit, Modi sought to strike a chord by recalling Tamil Nadu’s “glorious past”. In his 20-minute address, the PM emhasised his government’s commitment and that of the AIADMK government to the welfare of the people. He then unveiled key infrastructure projects, including the phase I extension Chennai MetroRail. In a rare gesture, the event began with Modi paying floral tributes to huge portraits of AIADMK’s iconic leaders, former chief ministers M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa, placed on the podium. Modi then began his address in Tamil, saying, “Vanakkam Chennai and Vanakkam Tamil Nadu”, evoking loud applause from the audience in the packed indoor Jawaharlal Nehru stadium. “I am happy to be in Chennai today. I thank the people of this city for the warm welcome they have given me. This city is full of energy and enthusiasm. It is a city of knowledge and creativity. These projects are symbols of innovation and indigenous development. These projects will further the growth of Tamil Nadu,” Modi said. He made the announcements amidst chants of ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ and ‘Modi ji vazhga’. The stadium erupted in cheers when Modi flagged off the fourth line between Chennai Beach-Attipattu and electrification of a single line Villupuram-Cuddalore-Mayiladuthurai-Thanjavur and Mayiladuthurai-Tiruvarur section that would save Rs 14.61 lakh per day on fuel cost. “Improved connectivity brings convenience. It also helps commerce. The electrification will be a great boon to the delta districts,” the PM said. Laying the foundation stone to modernise 636km long Grand Anicut canal system, he invoked Tamil saint poet Avvaiyar’s poem, “Varappura neer uyarum.” Reciting in Tamil, Modi stressed the need to conserve every drop of water for future generations. Translating the Tamil verse himself, he said, “When water levels rise, cultivation rises, people prosper, and the state prospers. We have to do whatever we can to conserve water. This is not a national issue. It is a global subject.” While Tamil Nadu is already a leading automobile manufacturing hub of India, Modi said the state was evolving as the tank manufacturing hub of India too. “A tank made in Tamil Nadu will be used in our northern borders to keep the nation safe. This showcases India’s united spirit – Bharat’s Ekta Darshan,” he said, pointing to Arjun Main Battle Tank (MK-1A), the indigenously made vehicle. Earlier, Arjun (MK-1A) gave a gun salute to Modi in the stadium complex, just ahead of PM proudly handing over the vehicle to the Army. Modi said India had undertaken a massive effort to become self-reliant in the defence sector inspired by celebrated national poet, Subramania Bharathi’s vision. Quoting the poet’s famous verse “in the oldest language in the world, Tamil” -- Aayudham Seivom, Nalla Kakitham Seivom, the PM went on to translate it as, “Let us make weapons; let us make paper, let us make factories; let us make schools. Let us make vehicles that can move and fly. Let us make ships that can shake the world.” One of the two defence corridors is in Tamil Nadu and the corridor already received investment commitments of over Rs 8,100 crore, Modi said. He paid homage to the Pulwama martyrs on the anniversary of the attack that fell on Sunday. The ‘Discovery Campus’ of IITM will house world-class research centres and Modi hoped it would be a leading centre of discovery, drawing the best talents from India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/modi-strikes-tamil-chord-plays-to-the-chennai-gallery/articleshow/80914370.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 15, 2021||Ludhiana||City needs more ‘Vehra Dhiyaan Da’ for unattended girls||Ludhiana: The city needs more such creches where young unattended girls can stay the entire day while their parents are away at work. ‘Vehra Dhiyaan Da’ — a creche opened by the Ludhiana city police on December 25, 2020, with the help of an NGO, Do Good Foundation, is setting an example for others to follow. TOI visited the creche and found 21 young girls playing and studying in a disciplined manner. Importantly, this initiative was taken by the Ludhiana police after keeping in view the fact that in the city majority of the minor rape and molestation cases were reported from the labour quarters as children there remain unattended while their parents work in factories. In this creche minor children, especially girls of working parents, are being accommodated from 8am to 6pm. TOI also interacted with a few girls at the creche and with their parents as well to know how the creche facility had changed their lives. A girl, Aarti, who is 11 year old, said, “Earlier, we used to stay at home, do some household chores and play around in the streets. But now, we stay in the creche from morning till evening and get to do different activities. We play here and study also. Here, we are inspired to study well and become an officer.” A labourer, Sanjeet, father of a 14-year-old girl, said that, “My wife and I are factory workers. We had no other option but to leave our daughter alone at home. Definitely, we used to get worried for her safety at the labour quarter. But since the creche has started in our locality, we are completely free from the tension. Now, we know that there is someone who is taking care of our child and moreover, she is learning different things every day.” Additional deputy commissioner of police, crime, Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, who thought of starting such a project, shared, “I am glad that the creche is getting good response and appreciation too. We have managed to create a safe environment for the children of working parents, especially labourers. Now our focus is to open at least three more creches at different locations of the city. Some NGOs are ready to adopt the creche, however, we haven’t got space yet. If anyone is willing to give us a building, any dharamshala or community centre, the NGO will convert it into a creche.” Rajwinder Singh Gill, deputy director of Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said, “On Saturday, when Rajinder Singh, chairperson of the commission, visited Ludhiana, he came to know about the creche that was accommodating unattended children. More such creches are needed everywhere. The commission will write to Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma to tie up with the respective NGOs and arrange buildings for them to open more crèches.”  Importantly, to manage the creche the police have hired the women of the same area as they are familiar with the habits and temperament of the children as they all come from one close cultural group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-needs-more-vehra-dhiyaan-da-for-unattended-girls/articleshow/80913094.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Many corona beds to be put to sleep in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: With daily Covid-19 cases nosediving, both government and private hospitals have made plans to reduce the dedicated beds in phase-wise manner. Sources said that in Ahmedabad, the number of total beds could be around 1,500. As of Sunday evening, there were 95 Covid-19 patients in all private hospitals in Ahmedabad and overall 350-odd patients. “The number of non-requisitioned beds available in private hospitals was 2,645 at the end of January. The number is now 2,330. With only 4% of the beds occupied, other beds could be used for accommodating patients of other diseases,” said a senior member of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA). “A formal representation will soon be made to the authorities to allow hospitals to decide whether they wish to admit Covid-19 patients and number of beds they wish to earmark.” At Civil Hospital – Gujarat’s biggest single-campus Covid-19 treatment centre – the authorities said that the 1200-bed hospital will soon go back to admitting women and children patients for surgical and non-surgical procedures. “The dedicated Covid-19 wards will remain functional, but part of the building will now be used for other patients,” said an official. Experts pointed out that surge like post-Diwali period is not witnessed in past couple of months. “But we may never know when we will require the ramped-up facility. While converting the wards back to non-Covid will surely help other patients, the hospitals and administration must be ready for any contingency,” said a city-based pulmonologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/many-corona-beds-to-be-put-to-sleep/articleshow/80915812.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Scuffles break out during municipal council elections in Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur||Tarn Taran: Scuffles between supporters of Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), and independent candidates were reported during polling for municipal council elections in Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts on Sunday. In first incident, reported from Ward 7 of Patti town in Gurdaspur, supporters of AAP and Congress entered a scuffle, following which police had to resort to a lathi-charge to disperse them. AAP supporter Manbir Singh claimed to have been hit by a bullet shot by a Congress worker, but police rubbished his allegations. Talking to media, Manbir took the name of a person and alleged that a policemen instigated him to shoot. He said it was because he and other AAP supporters objected to the presence of a large number of Congress workers inside the booth. “I sustained head injuries in the lathicharge and was hit by a bullet shot by a rival party worker on my thigh,” he alleged, adding that he had come to Patti to support AAP’s candidate. Senior superintendent of police D H Nimble said did not see anyone firing near the booth and police had the CCTV footage. However, he said, police had to resort to a lathicharge to disperse the miscreants. He said police were also investigating allegations levelled by Manbir and was on the trail of a person whom he had specifically named. Two scuffles were reported from Wards 34 and 40 of Batala in Gurdaspur district too. Supporters of Congress and independent candidates clashed in the town, and the turban of a Congress worker was also tossed while. In the second incident, a former chairman of local improvement trust sustained injuries . Batala senior superintendent of police Rachpal Singh said police intervened in both incidents. “These were immediately brought under control by police,” said Rachpal. Reports of a scuffle were also received from Bhikhiwind, where prepoll violence had erupted between Congress and SAD workers at the time of filling of nomination papers . SAD ex-MLA booked Patti senior superintendent of police D H Nimble said police had registered a case under Section 188 of IPC against former Akali MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha his son Gauravdeep Singh Valtoha, and seven-eight persons for allegedly campaigning in the area in the past 48 hours, much after the model code of conduct came into force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/scuffles-break-out-during-municipal-council-elections-in-tarn-taran-gurdaspur/articleshow/80915345.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 15, 2021||Ludhiana||70.33% cast votes in civic body polls||Ludhiana: As many as 70.33% voters cast their vote in the civic body elections held at eight places, including six municipal councils, in Ludhiana district on Sunday. The municipal council general elections were held in Khanna, Jagraon, Samrala, Raikot, Doraha, Payal, by-election in ward 8 (general) of Mullanpur Dakha and ward 6 of Sahnewal.The election authorities said the polling was held from 8am to 4pm on Sunday, and 68.72% voters cast their vote in Khanna, 68.47% in Jagraon, 73.96% in Samrala, 73.86% in Raikot, 74.80% in Doraha, 83.09% in Payal. They added that the percentage of polling in byelections was 68.50% in Mullanpur and 61.16% in Sahnewal.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma thanked the voters and the political parties for the peaceful conduct of the elections. He also congratulated the election staff for the smooth conduct of the exercise. “The counting of votes will be done on Wednesday,” he added.However, sources said there were quarrels between candidates in a ward each of Raikot and Jagraon, but were settled with the intervention of senior leaders of their respective parties. They added that quarrels ensued after allegations of fake votes.Ludhiana (rural) SSP Charanjit Singh said polling went peacefully even in sensitive and hypersensitive stations.TURNOUT68.72% :Khanna 68.47% : Jagraon73.96% : Samrala 73.86% : Raikot 74.80% : Doraha 83.09% : Payal68.50% in Mullanpur ward 8 byelection61.16% in Sahnewal ward 6 byelection||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/70-33-cast-votes-in-civic-body-polls/articleshow/80913088.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 15, 2021||Bhopal||223 new Covid cases in Madhya Pradesh, positivity inches past 1.5%||BHOPAL: With 223 new Covid-19 positive cases, tally of patients reached 257646 on Sunday. Apart from the fresh cases, 5 deaths were also reported in the state on Sunday. With these new death cases, tally of Covid-19 cases reached 3834. On Sunday, new cases were reported only from 33 of the 52 districts of the state. The districts where no new cases were reported include Shivpuri, Vidisha, Morena, Shahdol, Raisen, Khandwa, Katni, Chhatarpur, Singrauli, Shajapur, Seoni, Guna, Bhind, Tikamgarh, Alirajpur, Mandla, Ashok Nagar, Burhanpur and Niwari districts. Of these 33 districts where new cases were reported, fresh cases were reported in double figures from 4 districts. The highest numbers of cases were reported from Indore where 73 tested positive, followed by Bhopal where 48 tested positive and Jabalpur where 16 tested positive. On the brighter side, 205 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, count of total people who have recovered so far in the state reached 251970. A total of 14798 samples were tested on Sunday and out of it, 194 tested positive, thus a positive rate — which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested — for Sunday stood at 1.5%. As on February 14, there were 1842 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/223-new-covid-cases-in-mp-positivity-rises-back-to-1-5/articleshow/80913095.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Education minister’s Janata Darbar in Worli on ‘Yuvraj’ orders: BJP||MUMBAI: Opposition BJP slammed higher and technical education minister Uday Samant’s decision to hold a ‘Janata Darbar’ in Worli and alleged that the venue has been fixed following instructions from the ‘Yuvraj’ (Aaditya Thackeray) and to gain publicity. BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar demanded that the Worli meeting be cancelled, and instead be held in a varsity hall. Shiv Sena MLA Aaditya represents Worli assembly constituency. The higher education directorate had written to Mumbai and SNDT universities to make arrangements and bear the cost of the Janata Darbar scheduled on February 22 in Worli, where Samant will meet students, teachers, parents and non-teaching staff to address their grievances. Alleging that the contractors have already been zeroed in on for the event, Bhatkhalkar said: “The minister has no right to interfere in the internal affairs of the university. If he wants to hear students, parents, teachers and non-teaching staff, he should hold the meeting with the varsity’s permission in its hall.” And when schools and colleges have not been permitted to reopen in Mumbai due to the pandemic, what will Samant achieve by holding this event, he asked. Samant did not respond to TOI’s calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-edu-mins-janata-darbar-in-worli-on-yuvraj-orders/articleshow/80915371.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 15, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Girl found hanging from tree in Gopalganj||PATNA: The body of a 16-year-old girl was found hanging from a tree on the outskirts of Mathia Sahdullahpur village under Town police station area of Gopalganj on Sunday morning. Police said it was not clear if she was killed and hanged or had committed suicide. Sub-inspector Vikash Kumar said the girl lived with her maternal grandmother and other family members for the last several years. “Pinki had gone to the market on Saturday evening. When she did not return home, family members started searching but failed to trace her. On Sunday morning they came to know that her body was hanging from a tree with a scarf on the village outskirts,” he said. Kumar said the body was handed over to one of her relatives, Anand Yadav, after conducting postmortem. He said no one from her family has either submitted a written complaint or recorded any statement to police. Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar said police were waiting for the postmortem report. “It was conducted by a medical board. Her viscera has been preserved for further investigation. Her skin tissues from neck would be sent for histopathological test,” he said. The SP said her family members could not be interrogated as they were in a shock. “Police will get the call detail record of the girl’s cellphone,” he said, adding further investigation was going on in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girl-found-hanging-from-tree-in-gopalganj/articleshow/80913097.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Weekend cleaning for Monday reopening||KOLKATA: Schools set to resume on-campus classes from Monday had a busy weekend with principals, coordinators and teachers meeting—physically or virtually—even on Sunday to ensure all classrooms were sanitized and locked up only to be re-opened just before students came in. Most teachers on Covid duty did the final drill on what time they should go before the students arrived. Schools that had re-opened on Friday called the teachers 40 minutes ahead so that they could ensure social distancing by students. La Martiniere schools, Don Bosco Park Circus, Loreto schools, Modern High, St Paul’s Mission, St Thomas’ Howrah and St Thomas’ Free School Street are among those that will re-open on Monday. Some, like St James’, will resume on February 18 after Saraswati Puja as re-opening and shutting for a day was not practical, they said. Support staff, monitored by the administration at La Martiniere for Boys, re-sanitized the campus on the weekend. Stickers have been put on the floor from the gate to classes. Touchless hand-sanitizing machines have been put up at various points, said principal John Rafi. Some schools had prepared for a Friday re-opening, like St Paul’s Mission School, but postponed it to Monday for the bandh. “We did all preparations on Thursday and locked the rooms. This is being re-done,” said principal Sanchita Biswas. Teachers at Modern High School will reach the campus by 8am on Monday before students came at 9am. Apart from cleaning over the weekend, there will be sanitization on Monday. “We are starting with practical classes for XII. Kids have been told there will be no borrowing and all should come with their kits,” said director Devi Kar. Don Bosco Park Circus is re-sanitizing and checking all the installations over the weekend. On Monday, Class XII boys will come in for computer practicals and thereafter, other labs will start. “Our computer labs are huge and we are dividing 40 boys into two labs. We are using large lecture halls for theory,” said principal Father Bikash Mondal. On Saturday, meetings were held at Loreto House and Loreto Convent Entally to fine-tune the drill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/busy-weekends-for-city-schools-that-are-re-opening-on-monday/articleshow/80914383.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 15, 2021||Ludhiana||3 snatchers arrested, bikes, phones recovered||Ludhiana: The CIA-II of Ludhiana commissionerate has arrested three snatchers and recovered 10 cellphones and three stolen motorcycles from their possession. Police said the accused had snatched these cellphones over the past four months. The arrested include Gora Randhawa, 26, of New Shimlapuri; Jasveer Singh, 32, of Lohara village; and Gurpreet Singh, 32, of Giaspura. Gora is an electrician, Gurpeeet is a factory worker and Jasveer is a painter. CIA-II in-charge inspector Parveen Randev said, “The accused were nabbed at a checkpost near Tirkoni Park of Jamalpur on Saturday. They were commuting on three bikes and had the snatched mobiles. When police stopped them, they could not produce documents of the vehicles. On questioning, they confessed to have stolen these bikes and used them for snatching cellphones.” Jasveer is facing trials in two snatching cases. He came out on bail in 2018. Gurpreet and Gora joined Jasveer recently to make easy money. All three are drug addicts. The gang was active in Daba, Shimlapuri, Sahnewal and Focal Point, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-snatchers-arrested-bikes-phones-recovered/articleshow/80913096.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Police seize banned gutkha worth Rs 6.3 lakh from shop||Hyderabad: Khammam Task force police raided a shop at Cheruvu Bazar in Khammam town and seized banned gutkha worth Rs 6.3 lakh from the shop. Later, the Khammam task force police identified that the 14 sacks of gutkha seized during the raid in the shop belonged to the accused, D Vasudeva Rao. The accused has been arrested. The accused Rao is a grocery store owner, according to the police. They said this was the first time he had been arrested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-seize-banned-gutkha-worth-rs-6-3-lakh-from-shop/articleshow/80914411.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Cong workers captured booths, roughed up candidates: SAD||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday criticised the Congress for “blatantly misusing civil and police machinery” to capture polling booths, besides unleashing violence against opposition parties to intimidate voters during municipal body elections. Former minister and SAD spokesman Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said the SAD had already cautioned the state election commission about how democracy had been subverted in the run-up to the zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections. He said they had warned that “Congress’s goons were expected to indulge in booth capturing and other unfair practices today.” “Despite this warning, no concrete steps were taken to control the situation and ensure free and fair elections,” he alleged. Dr Cheema said the SAD had filed a detailed complaint with the state election commission and had demanded countermanding of elections at all places where large-scale booth capturing and violent incidents had allegedly taken place. The SAD leader alleged that the Congress goons not only captured booths but also attacked opposition candidates and their supporters wherever they were opposed. Citing incidents, Dr Cheema said gun shots were fired at Patti in Tarn Taran district, SAD supporters were injured with sharp-edged weapons in Ropar and Fatehgarh Churian, polling booths were captured in Muktsar, Rajpura, Samana, Sultanpur Lodhi, Dinanagar, Ferozepur and Bhikhiwind. He said that an FIR was registered against SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha, his son Gauravdeep Singh Valtoha and five others in Tarn Taran district. Dr Cheema said police raided the house of SAD candidate Rajinder Singh Jeet from ward no 26 and his wife Jaswinder Kaur at ward number 25, Khanna and registered a case against 13 members of the family, including her husband. He said Tej Chand Batra, SAD candidate from ward number 18 in Muktsar, was booked in an abduction case. The SAD leader alleged that “Congress goons openly tossed turbans of SAD workers and let loose a reign of terror but cases were registered against the victims.” “Police also opposed permission for videography in polling booths and no one was allowed to depute videography teams. The state election commission also failed to ensure videography at sensitive places, which resulted in large-scale booth capturing,” he claimed. Dr Cheema said that the Congress repeated what it had done in the zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections because it knew it had lost the confidence of people after failing to fulfill any of the promises made to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-workers-captured-booths-roughed-up-candidates-sad/articleshow/80915346.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Meerut||Father dead, mom in hospital, boy ‘adopted by UP thana’||MEERUT: “Where would I go now?” The question from a 14-year-old boy froze a police officer. “His mother had been referred to a hospital in Agra for treatment,” the Meerut cop said. She was trying hard to cope with the sudden loss of her husband in a road accident for the last two years. “But she sank,” said Sagar, station house officer (SHO) of the city’s Kankerkhera area. Father dead, mother off to a hospital with no word on when she would be normal again, Anmol had no one now, not even relatives. SHO Sagar decided to take Anmol to his police station. “At that moment I decided to take his responsibility. Without guidance, such children often take to the world of crime. And if we motivate him, he can have a bright future,” Sagar said. “His mother had come with a complaint three months ago. That was the first time we came to know about her. She was in bad health. We later got her admitted to district hospital. She has now been referred to mental hospital in Agra,” he said. Anmol divides his time between his house and the ‘thana’ now. “Anmol has a desire to study and do good in his life. I have spoken about his admission in some schools in the city,” the officer said. “He spends most of his time with us. We have been taking care of him,” another policeman said. A recent video of Anmol cutting his birthday cake at the police station is winning the hearts of people on social media platforms. Meanwhile, the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) has also taken note of Anmol. It has asked the SHO to appear before it. “We learnt about the boy through media reports. We have sent two notices to the SHO to appear in person. He has been asked to appear before CWC on February 17 with all the information on the child,” said Anita Rana, a CWC member in Meerut. “A team of councillors will also visit the police station on Monday to meet the boy,” she said. Watch Meerut: Father dead, mom off to psychiatric hospital, boy, 14, 'adopted by a UP thana’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/father-dead-mom-off-to-psychiatric-hospital-boy-14-adopted-by-a-up-thana/articleshow/80912440.cms||Piyush Rai
February 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Polling in Malerkotla festive as 75% turn up to exercise franchise||MALERKOTLA: Polling for the municipal council of Punjab’s sleepy Muslim-majority town of Malerkotla resembled a festival as the town recorded a voter turnout of 76%. As voting in the council’s 33 wards started, people started lining up outside polling booths. Women comprised a large percentage of voters, and elderly and first-time voters too came out in droves. “No matter the type of elections, including parliamentary, state or civic body, voting day has always been a festival here as people in large number exercise their democratic right. I also voted today for better roads, sewerage and overall development of the town,” said Rani Zulfikar of Dooma Gali Mohalla. She indicated that roads in the town were not up to mark and there was a problem of waterlogging. A first-time voter from Kamal Cinema Road, Muhammad Usman, said he had been desperately waiting for voting day. “Since childhood, I had only seen people casting their vote,I hope my vote makes a change and things change for the better in our town,” said Usman (22). A 65-year-old voter from the town said it seemed development was being carried out in the town, but they would be happy only when the change would be visible. “In many areas, roads are not in a good shape and even garbage disposal is an issue. Waterlogging is a problem on the road from Sirhindi Gate to Jargroad area, on Kamal Cinema road, Hanuman Mandir road, and some areas in Maler. We have done our job; now it is up to those who would be elected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/polling-in-malerkotla-festive-as-75-turn-up-to-exercise-franchise/articleshow/80915361.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 15, 2021||Bareilly||Woman’s body found in Moradabad, police suspect rape, murder||Bareilly: An unidentified woman's body was found in a vacant plot in Moradabad’s Laakdi Chauki locality under Majhola police limits on Sunday morning. The woman, around 30 years old, was found without clothes and had a scarf around her neck. Police suspect that she was raped before being strangled to death. The body was spotted in the residential locality in Majhola early Sunday morning by passersby who informed police. Senior police officers, including Moradabad SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary, SP (city) Amit Kumar Anand and police teams rushed to the spot. SSP Chaudhary said the victim's identity is yet to be ascertained. “Prima facie, it appears that the woman was raped before being strangled to death. However, the post-mortem report will confirm if she was raped or not. It appears that some locals are involved in the killing as the spot where the body was found is in an interior part of the residential area.” A detailed probe has been ordered. Police are trying to see if there are any CCTVs installed in the nearby area which can be accessed, the SSP added. Rakesh Kumar, SHO of Majhola police station, said a murder case has been registered against unknown person. The case is being probed from all angles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/womans-body-found-in-moradabad-police-suspect-rape-murder/articleshow/80912442.cms||Maria Khan
February 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Work on Halwara airport likely to start by April end||Ludhiana: If all goes well, then the work of the civil terminal building of Halwara international airport may start from April end. Meanwhile, Public Works Department (PWD) officials have said that about one fourth of the boundary wall work of the airport has already been completed. On December 15 last year, foundation stone to construct the boundary wall of the airport was laid by Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh. That was little over a week after the work of carpeting the approach road for the new Halwara international airport got started. An AAI officer while asking not to be named said that they had shared the documents about the scope of work to be carried out for the construction of terminals with the PWD department about one and half months ago. He added that as there were some queries from the department concerned, they sent the revised scope of work documents to it about two week back. “We want that they should start work as early as possible, so that we can shift operations to Halwara as it has an edge over Sahnewal airport in many ways, including landing at less visibility, longer runway, etc. But it is up to the department concerned to get work done as soon as possible,” said the AAI officer. The PWD, roads and buildings (B&R) wing, authorities said that estimates and tender documents for the civil terminal were being made. “We have received the revised scope of work documents and accordingly, estimates and tender documents were being made. Hopefully, the documents will be ready in about a month after which the tender will be floated for construction of the civil terminal. I think work on the project may start in the next two and half months,” executive engineer, PWD (B&R) wing, Rakesh Garg said. The PWD officials said that work on the boundary wall construction is going on in full swing. They added that the construction of about 2,300m brick wall boundary, having a height of 10 feet and is 2 feet barbed wire on that, is being constructed at a cost of around Rs 3 crore. “About 20-25% of the work of the boundary wall has been carried out till now. The columns have been constructed and brick work has been already started,” the officer said. “Work of the boundary wall is expected to be completed in six months after it was started.” He added that they were trying their best to complete the construction of the civil terminal by this year end. AAI officials said that the airport building would have three terminals, including international, domestic and cargo terminals. They added that the airport terminal complex would be state of the art with the latest equipment, including cute (common user interface terminal) system, inland baggage, face recognition system for walk through identification facility for passengers, etc. Meanwhile, residents are eagerly waiting for start of the work of terminal buildings of the airport. “We want that the infrastructure of the Halwara airport should be completed soon as we expect this airport to help industry, professionals and other persons from Ludhiana and adjoining areas,” said Vijay Kumar, a city-based industrialist. He added that the coming up of the international airport would help area residents in many ways and many of them would be able to set up businesses in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/work-on-halwara-airport-likely-to-start-by-april-end/articleshow/80913099.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 15, 2021||Chandigarh||AAP alleges booth capturing, attack on workers||Chandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and the leader of opposition in Punjab legislative assembly Harpal Singh Cheema on Sunday alleged that people linked to the Congress captured polling booths and attacks its party workers during voting for local body elections in Punjab. Cheema said chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh failed to deliver on his promises to the people and was now murdering democracy. “Realising his personal responsibility, Amarinder should resign from the post of chief minister,” he added. The AAP leader said his party had already expressed suspicion that the Congress could go to any length to hijack the elections and also met the state election commission in this regard to seek deployment of paramilitary forces for elections. “But, as it was not taken seriously, today democracy is being killed in Punjab. AAP volunteers have been attacked by Congress goons at many places,” he added. Cheema said an Aam Aadmi Party volunteer was shot at in Patti, while a volunteer was illegally arrested by police. In Tarn Taran, Rajpura, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Abohar, Jalalabad, Samana, Dhuri, Bhikhiwind and at many other places, Congress “goons” tried to capture polling booths, he alleged. “Some officers, instead of doing their duty honestly, are working like Congress workers today. They would be dealt with on the formation of the AAP government in 2022,” claimed Cheema.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-alleges-booth-capturing-attack-on-workers/articleshow/80915347.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Goa||‘Sawant’s remarks on Swayampurna Goem demoralising’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant’s statements at a public function at Sindhudurg continued to attract flak with Goencho Avaaz on Sunday saying that Sawant’s remarks regarding the Swayampurna Goem programme are self-defeating, self-contradictory and demoralising. Goencho Avaaz claimed that Sawant has demeaned the post of the chief minister by making the statements. “The chief minister who talks about Swayampurna Goem goes to Sindhudurg and says that no matter how much effort Goa makes, Goa will never be self-reliant. Has he no belief in his own scheme?” said co-convener of Goencho Avaaz Swapnesh Sherlekar. Speaking at a fish festival organised at Sindhudurg, Sawant had said that no matter how much Goa tries to become self-reliant in dairy farming, agriculture and horticulture, the state would not “completely succeed”. Sawant also said that the greenfield international airport at Mopa will be a boon for tourism in the Sindhudurg region. “He made a few statements which reflect very badly on Goa. When the chief minister goes there and makes these statements, it is self-defeating, self-contradicting and demoralising. The youth believed that they will become swayampurna but then the head of the state goes and says it will not happen,” said co-convener Viriato Fernandes. The NGO urged voters to send a strong message to BJP and to Sawant during the upcoming municipal elections. Earlier Goa Forward Party (GFP) also hit out at the CM saying that his remarks betrayed the BJP government’s efforts towards Swayampurna Goem and proves that the programme is nothing but an election stunt. Sherlekar also urged Sawant to study and think before making off-the-cuff remarks in public as it reflects badly on the state and on the post of the chief minister. “The chief minister needs to at least respect the chair that he sits on when he makes statements,” said Sherlekar. The chief minister who talks about Swayampurna Goem goes to Sindhudurg and says that no matter how much effort Goa makes, Goa will never be self-reliant. Has he no belief in his own scheme?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawants-remarks-on-swayampurna-goem-demoralising/articleshow/80915373.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||BMC freezes Rs 350cr corporators’ funds over freebie distribution||Mumbai: The BMC has put on hold around Rs 350 crore of corporators’ funds that were part of a larger corpus given through the civic standing committee after a controversy broke out over their use to buy items like food trucks, jute bags, solar street lights, laptops and gym equipment. The amount is the unused part of Rs 750 crore given to corporators to spend on development work in their constituencies. “This is an interim status quo that has been imposed. It will be reviewed soon, at an appropriate time,” said P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects). The BJP last week filed a complaint with the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) against the BMC’s bid to buy freebies, including 30 food and vegetable trucks in Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav’s constituency (no. 209) in Byculla. The CAG complaint was filed by BJP corporator Vinod Mishra, who demanded an audit of the purchases, alleging that they were done in violation of Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) norms. Mishra also wrote to municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal, demanding that all ward-level tenders for giving out freebies in Jadhav’s constituency be scrapped. Chahal had asked additional municipal commissioner (City) Sanjeev Jaiswal to examine the issue. A senior civic official said it was likely that the unused funds would be scrapped. “For now, the funds can’t be used. They have been frozen. It seems that a large portion of these funds are being used to buy freebies and distribute them. If this is the case, there will be no accountability and there will be no creation of any civic amenities. The funds may have to be scrapped and their use will only be allowed for civil works,” said a senior civic official. Chahal said he would take a decision on the scrapping of the funds on Monday. Jadhav said the BJP was making baseless allegations about funds being used by him because the BJP did not get enough funds from the BMC. Jadhav alleged that it was BJP corporators and MLAs who were involved in the khichdi distribution scam during the early months of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-freezes-rs-350cr-corporators-funds-over-freebie-distribution/articleshow/80915419.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 15, 2021||Meerut||Chennai man caught selling Govardhanrocks on e-commerce website, arrested by Mathura Police||AGRA: Mathura police on Saturday arrested a Chennai-based businessman in connection with offering Govardhan rocks allegedly collected from the Hindu pilgrimage site in Mathura for sale on an e-commerce website. The accused, V Prem Kumar, who runs a shop in Rangaraja Puram locality of Kodambakkam area in Chennai, had allegedly published an advertisement offering sacred Govardhan Hill rocks for sale as a product. Kumar’s name was, however, not mentioned in an earlier FIR. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover told TOI that during investigations it was found that Kumar had posted the advertisement on the website and the people who were named in the earlier FIR had no role to play. The accused would be produced in the court on Monday, said the SSP. Last week, police had registered an FIR against three people, including IndiaMART founder-CEO Dinesh Agarwal, co-founder Brijesh Agrawal and Mathura-based rock supplier Ankur Agrawal under section 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class of persons) of the Indian Penal Code and appropriate sections of the Information Technology Act. The FIR was registered following a complaint lodged by Keshav Mukhia, a BJP worker, who runs a cable network business in Mathura, on February 7. In his complaint, Mukhia had stated that he noticed the advertisement on Facebook. As information reached the public domain, a large number of agitated locals and saints reached the police station, demanding immediate arrest and strict action against officials of the e-commerce website for hurting the sentiments of the Giriraj’s devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/chennai-man-caught-selling-govardhanrocks-on-e-commerce-website-arrested/articleshow/80912455.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Goa||Will reconstitute block committees from Mar 11: Cong||Saligao: AICC membership campaign observer Prakash Rathod on Sunday said that the party had not done any wrong, but it was the 10 MLAs who quit Congress to join BJP that have done wrong to the party. Congress will reconstitute all the bock-level Congress committees from March 11 to 25 in Goa, Rathod said. Rathod said that the people of Goa require a strong secular party to lead them and assured to rebuild the party in the state. He was speaking on the sidelines of the launch of the AICC’s digital membership drive at the North Goa Pradesh District Congress office at Mapusa. “It is not Congress but the MLAs who have made a mistake. It was BJP that lured them to join the party by offering them money,” said Rathod. “We have called for a meeting of all the office bearers to see that new blood is infused in the party. They can build the party,” Rathod said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-reconstitute-block-committees-from-mar-11-cong/articleshow/80915397.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Bareilly||Girl, 15, raped, murdered by boyfriend in UP’s Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 15-year-old Class VIII student was allegedly abducted, raped and murdered by her 21-year-old boyfriend she had gone to meet in a village under Nawabganj area in UP’s Bareilly district. The girl had been missing since February 9 and her boyfriend, who was also absconding, was found hiding at a relative’s place. Police detained him for questioning on Saturday night. Police said on Sunday, the accused admitted to having killed the girl and dumped her body in a field. Acting on the accused’s tip-off, police recovered the body and added sections of abduction, rape and murder and also appropriate sections of the Pocso Act to the existing FIR. Police said the girl had gone to the market along with her mother on February 9 but disappeared all of sudden. Her parents searched for her at many places and later lodged an FIR against the youth under section 363 (abduction) and 366 (abducting a woman to compel her marriage) of the IPC, said police. Police said the family thought that the girl had eloped with her boyfriend and they turned off their mobile phones. However, three days later, police found the mobile phone location of the youth and nabbed him. According to the youth, he had a physical relationship with the girl, but later he found her speaking with someone else, said police, suspecting that she was cheating on him, the accused in a fit of rage strangled her. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “The accused had dumped the body in a crop field and it was recovered and sent for autopsy on Sunday . We have added sections 376 (rape) and 302 (murder) and relevant sections of the Pocso Act to the existing FIR as making a physical relationship with a minor is considered rape in the law. The accused will be sent to jail.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-15-raped-murdered-by-boyfriend-in-ups-bareilly/articleshow/80912463.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Govt to adopt cluster approach for industry development||Ludhiana: With an aim to fastening the recovery from Covid induced stress and to bolster the industrialisation and create more job opportunities in the state, the Punjab government has decided to adopt the cluster development approach. It has identified 15 industrial clusters for setting up of common facilitation centres (CFC) for them under the Micro and Small Enterprises Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP) of the government of India. Majority of these clusters are based in Ludhiana. Stating this, industries minister Sunder Sham Arora said that these cluster proposals were at various stages of their implementation. In four clusters, the Union government has given the final approval to four DPRs, namely hitech metal cluster, Mohali, oil expeller and parts cluster, Ludhiana, garments cluster, Ludhiana, and foundry cluster, Kapurthala, for which the central government would provide a grant between 70-90% of the project cost of maximum Rs 15 crores, Arora added. The minister further said that hitech metal cluster, Mohali, and oil expeller & parts cluster, Ludhiana, had already been completed while the work on remaining ones was in full swing. Three more clusters, including auto tech cluster, Ludhiana, and sewing machine cluster, Ludhiana, and cutting tools cluster in Patiala have got an in-principle approval from the government and initial spade work for capacity building in other clusters was going on, the minister said. Besides, oil expeller & parts cluster, wire drawing cluster, tractor parts cluster, sheet metal cluster, garments cluster, auto parts cluster, sewing machine cluster and printing & stationery cluster of Ludhiana, Mohali hitech metal cluster and advanced machinery cluster of Mohali, surgical cluster, Jalandhar, foundry & general engineering cluster, Phagwara (Kapurthala), cutting tool cluster, Patiala, knitting cluster, Amritsar, and steel re-rolling mill cluster, Mandi Gobindgarh, (Fatehgarh Sahib) comprise the clusters identified under the plan. Under the cluster development scheme, the SPV gets an amount of Rs 15 crore to 20 crore for the construction of a common facilitation centres (CFC) with latest technology, which will be utilised by the members of the cluster at nominal rates. Hence, the cluster approach greatly helps in utilisation of the latest technology machines at nominal rates for the industry and hence improves their productivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/govt-to-adopt-cluster-approach-for-industry-development/articleshow/80913136.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal schools say no to online exams for IX, XI||KOLKATA: Schools have received emails and calls from parents, requesting to hold the class IX and XI annual exams online despite on-campus classes re-opening for them. But most schools said since physical classes had reopened for those classes, only offline exams would be held. Schools also felt many students took unfair means during online exams and kids had lost the habit of writing for two to three hours. As schools reopened on Friday, about 60 parents of classes IX and XI students at DPS Ruby Park staged a protest. “The school can hold the exams in both modes. We do not want to send our children,” said a parent. But the school pointed out that the majority of parents had agreed to send their kids to school for exams and that CBSE had sent a circular on Thursday, saying exams for IX and XI should be held at school. “We will not hold online exams for IX and XI,” said vice-principal Indrani Chattopadhyay. St Augustine Barrackpore and Shyamnagar have decided on physical exams for IX and XI, said the head of the institutions, Janet Gasper. Brother Richard Gasper, who heads St Augustine Kolkata school, agreed. . A meeting was held at Heritage School between parents and the administration, where similar requests were made. “We can’t have online exams for some and offline for others,” said principal Seema Sapru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-say-no-to-online-exams-for-ix-xi/articleshow/80917553.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata municipal corporation to take only e-application for building plan nod from April 1||KOLKATA: KMC will accept only online applications for building sanction plans from April 1. The system was rolled out in KMC borough VI and VII, covering central and south-east Kolkata, from February 1 and will be extended to entire Kolkata by March 31. The online shift was supposed to start on April 1, 2020, but the date had to be pushed back due to the pandemic. Aimed at offering a single-window, quick solution, the system under Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) scheme has so far received seven applications from south-east Kolkata. A KMC buildings department official said if an applicant submitted valid documents related to the land, the KMC would fetch NOCs from various state government departments within 10 days under the single-window system and issue a sanction by one month. Another buildings department official said the online sanction scheme would be opened in phases, borough-wise. The entire city will be brought under the online sanction scheme by March 31, following which no physical application will be entertained. “We will gradually roll out the scheme to the entire city, borough-wise. In the first phase, we have opened a single-window clearance for documents for people in central and south-east Kolkata. In the next phase, large areas of north Kolkata will be covered. The third and final phase will cover the entire south Kolkata and added areas, like Behala, Tollygunge Jadavpur and Tollygunge,” he said. Earlier, a developer constructing a project of over 15.5 m (51ft) height and built-up area exceeding 550 sqm, (5,400 sqft) had to obtain separate clearances from various departments, like fire services, environment and land (urban land ceiling), before applying to the KMC buildings department. This apart, the KMC’s own departments, like that of surveyor or water supply, had a role. Now all that an applicant needs to do is apply online with scanned copies of documents on the nature of the land and its ownership. “If no discrepancy is found, we will sanction the plan by a month,” a KMC buildings department official said, adding the civic body had trained licensed building surveyors (LBS) on the submission of documents under the new online scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-to-take-only-e-application-for-building-plan-nod-from-apr-1/articleshow/80914441.cms||Saikat Ray
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Defying odds, 4 women officers anchored rescue operations in Chamoli||DEHRADUN: The ongoing relief and rescue operations in Chamoli district are being anchored by four talented women – Chamoli district magistrate Swati Bhadoria, ITBP DIG Aparna Kumar, DIG Garhwal Range Neeru Garg and SDRF DIG Riddhim Aggarwal. Be it camping at the site, consoling the family members, setting up the control room, supervising the rescue operations or distribution of relief materials, these women have led from the front. They have ensured that the coordination between different agencies involved with the rescue and relief operations brought out positive results. For Chamoli DM Swati Bhadoria – a 2011 batch IAS officer – the February 7 glacier burst followed by a rescue operation involving a tunnel was a first-of-its-kind experience. “It was a big challenge. Coordinating things, setting up the control room, meeting and consoling the family members, carrying out the relief and rescue operations in coordination with other agencies, restoration of electricity supply, providing food packets and preparing the list of those missing was a big challenge,” she told TOI. For the first three days, she camped at Tapovan, while her three-year-old son stayed at her official residence in Gopeshwar. “After three days, I called him here and for the last four days, he, too, has been camping at the site. With this major responsibility, I cannot even think of staying anywhere else than here,” she said. A 2005 batch IPS officer, Garhwal range DIG Neeru Garg has been heading the police operations in Raini and Tapovan areas. “We are doing our best possible to save people and find those missing,” she said. She admits she hasn’t been able to give much attention to her 9-year-old daughter who is taking her exams in Haridwar. “But then, I have bigger responsibilities to take care of,” she said. While 2002-batch IPS officer Aparna Kumar was heading the ITBP team, 2005-batch IPS officer Riddhim Aggarwal led the SDRF team as its DIG. The SDRF team was first to reach the spot and its personnel also trekked and inspected the lake which has formed over Raini village. Ridhim Aggarwal said that the SDRF has played a crucial role in the entire rescue and relief operations. “The challenges were there on the personal front, but the focus was on saving lives and the rescue operations. Since the SDRF was first to reach the spot, my role was to strike a balance for smooth coordination with other agencies involved. In the past too, SDRF has played a crucial role in rescue operations, and in Chamoli too, our team put its best foot forward,” she said. Another woman, local SDM Kumkum Joshi, too, has been assisting the Chamoli DM in the rescue and relief operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/defying-odds-4-officers-all-women-have-anchored-rescue-ops-at-disaster-site-in-chamoli/articleshow/80913155.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||26-year-old mowed down by tractor in Siddipet district||Hyderabad: A 26-year-old private employee, R Praveen of Govardhangiri village in Mirdoddi mandal, died when his bike was hit by a tractor at Malyala village of Narayanraopet mandal in Siddipet on Sunday. Chinnakodur sub-inspector Sai Kumar said that the accident occurred due to the negligent driving on part of the tractor driver. Police registered a case under section 304-a of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused tractor driver and shifted the body to Siddipet hospital for postmortem. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/26-year-old-mowed-down-by-tractor-in-siddipet-district/articleshow/80914440.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Goa||Margao Carnival revellers stay away from Covid norms, crowd parade route||Margao: Notwithstanding the elaborate arrangements made by Margao Municipal Council (MMC) in ensuring all Covid-19 SOPs are followed by the public during the King Momo parade on Sunday, social distancing norms went for a toss as revellers crowded along the Carnival float parade route. As music rent the air, fun and frolic spilled onto the streets, as Margao played host to the carnival float parade organised by the Margao Carnival Committee headed by MMC chief officer Agnelo Fernandes. This year’s theme for the Carnival parade was ‘vaccine gheiat, jiv samballat’ (get vaccinated, protect life). Altogether 40 floats participated in the parade that took off from the near the district court, here, and culminated near Borkar’s super stores, Fatorda. Dignitaries joined the revellers in welcoming King Momo and his contingent as it led the float parade. Tourism minister Manohar Azgaonkar flagged off the rally. A mix of tradition and creativity marked the tableaux which were presented at the parade that consisted of various categories. The tableaux on the theme of environment conservation stood out from among the rest, while those carrying messages of social awareness and communal harmony also stole the limelight. Floats conveying the message to save forests and wildlife, as well as the one depicting the role played by frontline workers to save lives of coronavirus-infected people were noteworthy. The float depicting awareness message by the Reserve Bank of India about cyber fraud and fraudulent loan offers presented by the state department of information and publicity also evoked good response from the people. Fernandes, in his address, said that there is a need to dispel rumours and fears about getting vaccinated for Covid-19. Social distancing and wearing face masks were the shields for protecting oneself from Covid-19, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-carnival-revellers-stay-away-from-covid-norms-crowd-parade-route/articleshow/80915431.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Rain in parts of Maharashtra on cards, Mumbai temperature to stay on lower side||MUMBAI: With rain activity forecasted for interior parts of Maharashtra such as Akola, Amravati, Nagpur, and Wardha, maximum temperatures in Mumbai are expected to stay on the lower side. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted both maximum and minimum temperatures in the city to drop by 2-3C. On Sunday, minimum temperatures recorded in the city by the IMD Colaba and Santacruz observatories were 20.5C and 19.4C. Weathermen said that rainfall activity is likely to start over parts of interior Maharashtra from February 16 for three days. Under the influence of a trough in lower level easterlies, thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and light to moderate rainfall is expected over parts of Marathwada, Madhya Maharashtra and Vidarbha at a few places during the above period. "Mumbai is therefore expected to be cooler as both maximum and minimum temperatures will drop by 2 to 3 degrees,” said Shubhangi Bhute, scientist, IMD. Maximum temperatures recorded by IMD Santacruz and Colaba on Sunday was 31.4C and 29.5C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rain-in-parts-of-state-on-cards-city-temp-to-stay-on-lower-side/articleshow/80915424.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya mosque trust chief Zufar Farooqui to contest Sunni waqf board elections, vies for third stint as board chairman||Ayodhya: President of the Ayodhya Mosque Trust (Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation), Zufar Farooqui, will be contesting the March 6 elections for membership of UP Sunni Central Waqf Board, making him a strong contender to the waqf board chairman’s post for a third consecutive stint. The elections were necessitated by Allahabad High Court’s order, quashing the September 30, 2020, directive of the additional chief secretary minority welfare and waqf to extend the waqf board’s tenure. Farooqui, who was waqf board chairman before his term ended in April last year, confirmed to TOI that “he is contesting from the mutawalli quota as caretaker of Waqf Sayyad Mohammad Ismail, Sitapur”. The Waqf Board’s statute lays down broad contours for conduct of elections, which includes polling for eight members — two from Bar Council, two members of Parliament (Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha), two members of UP legislative assembly or council and two members from mutawalli quota of waqfs with a minimum annual income of Rs 1lakh. Another three members are nominated to the board by the state government and this includes an officer of special secretary rank, a religious scholar and a social worker. The Board chairman is then elected by these members, all of whom have to be Sunni Muslim, according to the rule book. Talking to TOI, Sayyad Shoeb, chief executive officer of Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board, said, “We are giving final shape to the voters’ list, which comprises over 600 voters representing different waqfs in the state. Members of waqfs with minimum annual income of Rs 1 lakh constitute the electoral college.” Besides Farooqui, Adnan Farrukh Shah will also be contesting for Board membership from the mutawalli quota representing Waqf Imambara, Gorakhpur. Both Farooqui and Shah were members of the Board in last two terms. Two members from Bar council, Abdul Razzaq Khan and Imran Mabood Khan, who were members in the last tenure are likely to get elected unopposed because there are only two Sunni Muslims in Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh. As per tradition, no contest is held for membership from MP/MLA quota. However, there could be a change in membership in this category this year as many former members are out of the race. There are 7 Sunni Muslim MPs from Uttar Pradesh (6 in Lok Sabha and 1 in Rajya Sabha), 24 Sunni Muslim MLAs and 7 Sunni Muslim MLCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-mosque-trust-chief-zufar-farooqui-to-contest-sunni-waqf-board-elections-vies-for-third-stint-as-board-chairman/articleshow/80915428.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Hydropower firms operational in Uttarakhand decide to challenge HC order||Nainital: A day after the Uttarakhand high court (HC) upheld the state’s right to tax the hydropower projects in the Himalayan state for using the state’s river waters for electricity generation, the firms operating these plants have said that they will challenge the order before the division bench of the HC. Counsels appearing for two of the 11 power projects told TOI that they will file a special appeal soon before the division bench. “I have spoken to our clients and there is a collective view that the order has several issues. Therefore, we will file a special appeal before the division bench of the HC as soon as the winter vacations are over,” said DS Patni, the counsel representing Alaknanda Hydro Power Company Limited (AHPCL). As reported by TOI, the single judge bench of Justice Lok Pal Singh on Saturday dismissed 11 petitions filed by the hydropower projects like THDC, AHPCL, National Hydro Power Corporation Limited (NHPCL) and many operating across the state and had upheld the Act passed by the state in 2012 that put an additional tax on them. The court rejected all the arguments ranging from unconstitutionality to double taxation as well as the challenge to the power of legislative assembly to frame laws for taxing generation of electricity. The court has also vacated its May 2015 order which stayed the recovery of this tax and said that it finds no fault in the provisional assessment of the tax owed by the firms and the notices of the demand sent for using the water from state’s rivers. “We had argued that the Act was clearly ultra vires of the Constitution and amounted to double taxation. Further, the government didn’t even install meters, yet notices were served upon us demanding the charges. However, the court rejected all the arguments. Therefore, it is imperative that we challenge the order,” said another counsel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hydropower-firms-operational-in-uttarakhand-decide-to-challenge-hc-order/articleshow/80913163.cms||Prashant Jha
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Sailing illegally, boat gets stuck under rly bridge||Mumbai: A boat sailing illegally in the Vasai creek got stuck beneath a railway bridge at Naigaon and Bhayander on Friday night. Portions of the bridge plaster were peeled off. It took several hours for the iron mast of the capsized barge to be removed from beneath up-direction bridge number 75. The pilot is suspected to have capsized the barge before fleeing. Manickpur police in Vasai (west) registered a case against the owner and pilot of the unidentified barge, which had sailed from the Ghodbunder creek in Thane. Western Railway (WR) spokesperson Sumit Thakur said the boat with a mast was illegally crossing under the bridge when it got stuck. It was only during low tide that the mast was pulled out. — Sandhya Nair||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sailing-illegally-boat-gets-stuck-under-rly-bridge/articleshow/80914479.cms||Sandhya Nair
February 15, 2021||Madurai||TN govt can table only interim budget, says Chidambaram||Madurai: The Edappadi K Palaniswami government should not violate tradition and table the complete annual budget before the elections, said former Union minister P Chidambaram. Speaking at a meeting of Congress booth agents at Sivaganga on Sunday, he said newspapers had reported that the Palaniswami government had decided to table the annual budget in the assembly soon. This is against tradition as this government has the right to table only an interim budget, he said. He said the AIADMK government which came to power in May 2016 had tabled five budgets, the last being the 2020-2021 budget, and a government could table only five annual budgets in a term. Presenting a complete budget without knowing who would come to power would amount to tying the hands of the successor. This budget would only be torn and thrown away, he said. In this regard, Chidambaram recalled that he had tabled an interim budget in 2014 before the elections in February that year. Chidambaram said only 60% to 70% of voters vote for a specific party and urged booth agents to go in large numbers to meet voters. In any election throughout the world, the remaining 35% to 40% usually vote for the person who has more chances of winning, he said. There would be two parties claiming right to the legacy of late J Jayalalithaa, and while they squabble, our victory would be assured, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-govt-can-table-only-interim-budget-says-chidambaram/articleshow/80915422.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Meerut||No State Advised Price for sugarcane this season so far, UP mills pay farmers on last year’s rate||BIJNOR: At least 97 of the 119 sugar mills of Uttar Pradesh have started making payments to farmers on the last year’s rate as the state government “failed” to announce State Advised Price (SAP) for this season. According to officials, over 48% of the total payment has already been made by the mills, which already owe Rs 9,000 crore to the growers. Talking to TOI, administrative officer in Bijnor sugar mills, AK Singh said, “There is a slump in sugar market. Government has not increased the minimum price for sugar this year. We are selling sugar at Rs 3,260 per quintal including all taxes. Mills are getting Rs 3,100 per quintal after paying taxes. It is the minimum price for sugar while cost of production of sugar is higher than the prices which mills get. That is why sugar industries have urged the government not to increase SAP for sugarcane in the current season.” According to Rajendra Singh, national president of Azad Kisan Union, “No price is being put on the receipts which farmers get after weighing their sugarcane crop at the purchasing centre of mills. Mills have started paying the dues of the current season as per last year’s SAP. Government should clear its stand on SAP for 2020-21 soon. Prices of diesel, fertilizers, pesticides along with the labourers’ wages have skyrocketed leading to higher sugarcane production cost. If SAP is not hiked, farmers will protest.” In addition to this, mills also owe Rs 966-crore for crushing season of 2019-20. Sources said that the SAP will not be hiked for the current crushing season 2020-21. As of now, over 40 lakh sugarcane growers have supplied the crop worth Rs 16,700 crore to mills in UP. For this, mills have paid Rs 8,164 crore to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-sap-for-sugarcane-this-season-so-far-up-mills-pay-farmers-on-last-years-rate/articleshow/80913158.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 15, 2021||Goa||Goa second state to launch Cong membership drive online: Observer||Saligao: AICC observer for Goa, Prakash Rathod, launched a digital membership drive of Congress in north Goa on Saturday, The party aims to enroll a minimum of 100 members at each booth level, he said. A committee of former Congress chief ministers has also been formed for this purpose. “I am proud to tell you that Goa is the first state in South India to launch the digital membership drive,” he said. Rathod, who chaired a meeting of the North Goa Congress co-ordination committee, said that the digital membership drive will take forward the technological revolution which was started in the country by Congressman and former Indian prime minister, Rajiv Gandhi. Elaborating on the digital drive, he said that it will be undertaken via a simple and easy to use app. Any person can become a member without having to pay any membership fee. Those interested in working for the Congress will be asked to enroll, Rathod said. “The party has appointed eight conveners who are vice presidents of the pradesh Congress committee. A team has also been created of former chief ministers from the party. Everyone will go out in the field and seek membership for the party. The digital details will then be uploaded on the AICC database and each new member enrolled will be issued an identity card signed by AICC president Sonia Gandhi,” he said. “Congress is functioning as an effective opposition party. Our leaders, like Rahul Gandhi, have pointed out the shortcomings of the NDA government and its devious policies,” Rathod said. Elaborating on the digital drive, Rathod said it will be undertaken via a simple and easy to use app. Any person can become a member without having to pay any membership fee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-second-state-to-launch-cong-membership-drive-online-observer/articleshow/80915426.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Fire at plastic factory, no injuries reported||Hyderabad: A fire broke out at a plastic factory in Bhuvanagiri town on Sunday evening. No casualties or injuries were reported in the fire, which broke out at around 7:30pm. “The reason for fire is short circuit said a staffer at the factory, but the reason from our end can be given only after the investigation is completed,” said A Sudhakar, circle inspector of Bhongir Town police station. “Firefighters and cops ensured the fire did not spread to adjacent factories,” he said. Three fire tenders were pressed into service and 15 cops assisted the firefighters. The firefighters were able to douse the fire in three hours. “As the factory has mostly plastic material stored, the fire spread easily. The structure has only ground floor, and the security guard who was outside the factory alerted us,” said an official from Telangana State Disaster Response & Fire Services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-at-plastic-factory-no-injuries-reported/articleshow/80914459.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Meerut||In a first, UP police celebrates sniffer dog's birthday||MUZAFFARNAGAR: In a first, police here celebrated the birthday of a member of the dog squad, Dikki, a sniffer dog who turned three on Saturday. Donning a coloured cap and a solemn expression , Dikki “cut” the birthday in the presence of her handler, Sunil Kumar, reserve inspector of the police line and other police personnel at the police line kennel here. The Labrador Retriever received a new coat and a leash as gifts from her colleagues. As a treat, she had boiled chicken along with her daily ration comprising boiled eggs, mutton, vegetables, bread (roti) and milk. The function was observed in keeping with Muzaffarnagar's SSP, Abhishek Yadav’s directive that the birthday of all police personnel be celebrated at his duty premises – the police station or outpost concerned or police line Abdul Raees Khan, police line in charge, said, “Dikki has been trained by Indo-Tibetan Border Police at Panchkula in Haryana. She was posted to Muzaffarnagar in August 2019. Since then, Dikki has been a part of operations to sniff out explosives at bus stands, railway stations, markets and other important places.” She was a part of the then US president Donald Trump’s security detail when he visited India in 2020, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-a-first-up-police-celebrates-sniffer-dogs-bday/articleshow/80913179.cms||Mohd Dilshad
February 15, 2021||Meerut||Anti-CAA clashes: UP grants prosecution sanction against 67 booked in Bijnor||BIJNOR: The Uttar Pradesh government has given its sanction for commencement of trial against 67 people booked in Bijnor district for allegedly taking part in clashes during protests against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) on December 20, 2019. Soon after the violent protests, local police had filed four FIRs in which 67 people including a former chairman of nagar palika were booked. The cases were filed under several sections of IPC, including 153-A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 295-A (Injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class). To begin trial against people booked under these IPC sections, a prior sanction of the state or the central government is mandatory. Police had filed a provisional charge sheet against the accused and was waiting for the prosecution sanction from the government which it got last week. Like Bijnor several other districts have also applied for the sanction. Bijnor’s superintendent of police (SP) Dharamveer Singh said, “After collecting evidence against the accused, we had sought permission for prosecution for 153-A of IPC from the regime. The government has granted permission.” Additional district government counsel said, “Police had submitted a provisional charge sheet in connection with the anti-CAA protests in the court. They had sought permission from the state for prosecution under section 295-A and 153-A. The court considers the above two sections only when the government gives its nod. Most of the accused are out on bail.” Massive protests and clashes were witnessed in Bijnor on December 20, 2019. Eight towns of the district including Bijnor, Nahtaur, Jalalabad, Nagina, Chandpur, Najibabad and Sherkot were affected. Protesters allegedly burnt vehicles and vandalized shops. Two of them were killed in Nahtaur. Administration had assessed damages to public properties worth Rs 21.7lakh. 61 protesters were also sent recovery notices. Over 1,000 protesters were booked. Of them 150 were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/anti-caa-clashes-up-grants-prosecution-sanction-against-67-booked-in-bijnor/articleshow/80912484.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Tough task for newly-elected GHMC corporators||HYDERABAD: The newly-elected GHMC corporators have a tough task ahead, with nearly 2,000 requisitions from the over 4,300 residential welfare associations (RWAs) piled up. Most of these are related to civic issues such as water, sanitation, stray dog menace and new CC roads. The reason for this pile up is that all these corporators gave assurances to RWAs during the election campaign to gain their support. The RWAs’ representatives also took notary assurances from the corporators to resolve their issues which have been pending for the several years. Issues such as the revamp of the sewerage network, water bodies encroachments, widening of nalas, laying of new roads, closure of civilian roads and the like, were brought to the corporators’ notice. Each corporator will have at least 10 major civic issues in their respective GHMC ward. The United Federation of RWAs (UFERWAS) urged all 4,300 RWAs to meet the civic body’s newly-elected corporators and put pressure on them to resolve the issues on priority, according to BT Srinivasan, general secretary, UFERWAS. “For instance, in Malkajgiri GHMC circle, the sanitation network is poor and most of the residential colonies are stinking due to overflowing sewage water. Another major issue is unscheduled water supply,” said Srinivasan. The corporators elected from AS Rao Nagar, Kapra and Malkajgiri will face an acid test when resolving the issue of closure of civilian roads by the Army. Here, corporators have assured through notary to resolve the issue on priority. For this, they have to meet the defence authorities. Apart from these issues, the removal of encroachments in water bodies is also a big issue, for which corporators have to deal with the state government. “All the civic issues are likely to be put forth in the GHMC’s first general body meeting for resolution,” a corporator said confidently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tough-task-for-newly-elected-ghmc-corporators/articleshow/80914460.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 15, 2021||Agra||Over 98% Covid patients cured of infection in Agra district||Agra: Over 98% of patients have been declared cured of Covid-19 and discharged in Agra, out of the 10,513 cases reported in the district.The number of active Covid cases has reduced to 18. All the active patients are in home isolation. The isolation ward at the SN Medical College had no patient on Sunday. Moreover, only two new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening and two patients were declared cured of the infection. On Sunday, chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.03%. So far 10,323 [98.19%] people have been cured of the infection."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-98-covid-patients-cured-of-infection-in-agra-district/articleshow/80912482.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||‘Water stored inside glacier may have led river to swell’, said Geologist Naresh Rana||DEHRADUN: Geologist Naresh Rana of Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University, who was among the first experts to notice the formation the new lake at the site of the floods, told TOI that while an avalanche may have acted as a trigger, water accumulated inside the glacier was the “real culprit”. “Everybody is pointing at the trigger point but it started much before that. Glaciers often have accumulated water inside their big crevasses or in small sub-glacial lakes. In this case, the water must have reached its saturation point. Any sort of avalanche or landslide may disturb the glacier’s process and break its reservoir, leading to a sudden increase in water outflow. Then it flows along with heavy sediments at a rapid speed along a steep slope.” He added that “had it been just an avalanche, it would have stayed confined to the valley.” “It was the accumulated water inside the glacier, punctured by an avalanche, that caused the river to swell, leading to flash floods,” Rana said. Meanwhile, scientists of Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) said that a chunk of hanging glacier, around 500m in length, had broken off and fallen into the Raunthi river, causing ‘an explosion like sound.’ This was around 2:30 am, as per villagers’ accounts. Over the next eight hours, a slurry of ice, water and boulders accumulated ended up in Rishiganga, triggering the flash flood between 10am and 10:30 am, they added. The team of WIHG had carried out ground and areal surveys of the area between February 9 and February 11. Director of WIHG Kalachand Sain told TOI, “The teams that interacted with local residents spoke of a ‘major explosion above their villages’ around 2:30am. Our initial findings, locals’ testimony and scientific research point to the fact that a glacier chunk broke off from a height of 5,600 metres and fell into the Raunthi river, which is at a height of 3,600 metres.” Meanwhile, Sain said that further studies are on. “Our teams have brought back samples and they are being studied. In the images we took of the area from where the glacier broke off, a scar is clearly visible. As for the timing of the collapse, we have so far gone by what local residents are saying but further studies are on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/water-stored-inside-glacier-may-have-led-river-to-swell/articleshow/80913184.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Pooja’s flatmate forest staffers missing from duty since Feb 2||Nagpur: Even as the mystery over Pooja Chavan suicide case deepens, it has come to light that two persons who were living with the girl in a rented flat in Pune have not been reporting to duty since February 2. Pooja, 22, was living with Arun Subhash Rathod and Vilas Chavan in a flat in Wanavdi area of Pune, where Pooja committed suicide on February 7. While Rathod is contractual employee of Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board (MSBB), having its headquarters in Nagpur, Chavan is peon in the social forestry department (SFD), Pune. Sources told TOI, Rathod and his friend Chavan, both from Parli in Beed district from where Pooja hailed, were appointed on contract basis purportedly at the insistence of a minister in MVA government. Being a graduate, Rathod was appointed as desk assistant from January 1, 2021, at MSBB’s Pune office, while HSSC pass Chavan was appointed as peon. Rathod was appointed on contract by a Nagpur agency and Chavan by a Pune agency. Since October last, the minister was reportedly verbally insisting PCCF & member-secretary of MSBB Jeet Singh to appoint the duo on contract basis. Singh, who also holds additional charge as PCCF of SFD, Pune, did not respond to TOI calls. The minister was also not reachable. The minister’s personal secretary said, “I know only what is being reported by the media.” In connection with Rathod, Jitendra Maheshkar, director of Black Belt Manpower Service, Laxmi Nagar, said, “I don’t know him. Being the lowest bidder, I’m service provider to MSBB for contractual employees. I issued a work order for Rathod’s appointment in December on the insistence of MSBB officials. I’m unaware of Chavan. I’ve received intimation from MSBB that Rathod is missing from duty.” MSBB officials had informed PCCF & member-secretary of the board that Rathod is missing from duty since February 2. Similarly, Chavan is also missing from the same day. “Now that the suicide case has become a political issue, we don’t think both will ever join office,” they say. According to sources, Rathod’s gross salary was Rs20,000, while Chavan’s Rs12,000. Even as the opposition BJP is baying for the minister’s blood, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a probe into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/poojas-flatmate-forest-staffers-missing-from-duty-since-feb-2/articleshow/80925755.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Humanitarian aid agencies, Good Samaritans help the disaster-hit in Chamoli||Tapovan: Along with the agencies involved in rescuing the stranded people inside the tunnel, Good Samaritans and social groups are also helping locals in the disaster-hit areas by ensuring regular supply of food, water, snacks, and tea. Shopkeepers from Joshimath and local youth groups have been regularly coming to Tapovan and Rishiganga rescue sites with food packets for nearly 200-to-300 people every day. Ranjeet Nagarkoti, a shop owner from Joshimath, has been distributing fruits, juice, and water to families awaiting the return of their loved ones at the Rishiganga hydropower project site. “The kin of those stuck inside the tunnel are awaiting the return of their loved ones in the area since the disaster. They do not have any arrangements for food or water. Thus, I decided to serve food to those people.” A group of local residents and a few social groups from Tapovan have also teamed up to provide lunch and dinner to at least 300 people every day. Vijay Rana, one of the volunteers, said, “Feeding people in the time of need is our responsibility.” In addition, groups like Khalsa Aid and Sewa International have also camped at the rescue site and besides providing food, are also catering to other needs of the villagers like solar lights. Talking to TOI, Darshdeep, member of Khalsa Aid, said, “Based on the findings of an assessment that we conducted in Tapovan and Rishiganga, we are distributing the required items — including utensils, warm clothes and even solar lights — to the distressed families. We are also trying to coordinate with the district administration to provide the essentials to the locals of those villages which have got cut off due to the flash floods.” “Some individuals and social groups are helping us in these tough times. They provide us with tea, lunch, and dinner and make sure that even the rescue teams don’t starve,” said Ravi Singh, a Saharanpur resident whose brother got caught in the floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/humanitarian-aid-agencies-good-samaritans-help-the-disaster-hit-in-chamoli/articleshow/80913201.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||EC to consider political parties’ request for polls in early April||Thiruvananthapuram: The election commission will consider all the sensitivities, local sentiments, and concerns raised by political parties while declaring the date for the state assembly elections, chief election commissioner Sunil Arora said on Sunday. After a two-day visit to the state for reviewing the preparations for the elections, Arora said here that the commission was trying to juxtapose all the concerns and requests made by political parties with the availability of the central forces for finalizing the date of elections. The political parties and the state government had requested the commission to hold the election in early April, considering Vishu and Ramzan festivals and students’ examinations. With the commission taking serious note of the concerns, elections are likely to be held in the state before the second week of April. Arora said that the commission decided that the deployment of state police forces and central armed police forces for the elections will be decided by a committee consisting of the chief electoral officer, commandant of CAPF, and the state police nodal officer, to ensure the effective and optimum utilization of the resources. The commission decided in the wake of several complaints from various political parties from several states, especially those in opposition that the deployment of the police forces is done by the local administration the way they like, which many times favour the ruling parties. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the commission will provide an opportunity for positive patients and the suspects to vote in the last hour of the election, and the voting hours will be extended by an hour. Polling officials will be given vaccination on a priority basis, and they would also be given Covid-19 kits. The commission expressed satisfaction over the presentation made by principal secretary (health and family welfare) Rajan Khobragade regarding the health department’s preparations for holding the elections. Arora said that political parties raised concerns over social media misuse to vitiate the atmosphere and the use of money power in the election. The commission warned that it has zero tolerance towards such matters, and said that it would initiate stringent actions on the lawbreakers. Some political parties also expressed concern about the security in the elections, for which the commission said that it was aware of the vulnerable zones, and the commission has already held discussions with the union home secretary regarding the matter. The commission on Sunday held discussions with chief secretary Vishwas Mehta and other senior secretaries and various law enforcement agencies. Other than the chief election commissioner, election commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar and other senior officials are also part of the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ec-to-consider-political-parties-request-for-polls-in-early-april/articleshow/80913269.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Delhi||At ‘Aadi Mahotsav’, tribal artists try to regain livelihood lost during lockdown||NEW DELHI: The famous ‘Pattachitra’ paintings depicting mythological narratives and folklore on cloth scrolls and palm leaves made by artists hailing from Odisha’s heritage crafts village Raghurajpur have been on display and sale at Dilli Haat for a fortnight now. Two men, Prakash Mohapatra and Anil Swain, can be seen putting finishing touches to some art work even as they patiently respond to queries of eager customers. Every sale matters and in those piles of art and craft rest aspirations of artists from their village whose livelihood was severely hit during the lockdown and they are still trying to recover. Sales have been brisk and have made these men hopeful that things may return to normal in the months ahead. Over 10 months after the pandemic induced lockdown was enforced, such stories of survival dominate the spirit of those steering the colourful displays for the last 14 days at ‘Aadi Mahotsav’ in Dilli Haat where since February 1, 225 stalls have been showcasing tribal art, forest produce and cuisine rooted in nature. Data collected till Saturday shows that more and more people are stepping out. According to Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of the ministry of tribal affairs, over 3.5 lakh people have visited Aadi Mahotsav over the last fortnight and the stalls have logged sales of over Rs 3.5 crore. With revival of tourism a work in progress, Odisha's Raghurajpur village with 120-odd homes is a classic example of artists who are still to return to their pre-pandemic state of livelihood. Mohapatra said that with very few buyers, he and others in his neighbourhood were forced to take up wage-based work like wall paintings at marriage functions or at temples to make a living. During a visit to Raghurajpur in January, the distress was evident as artists told TOI how their incomes diminished to less than half of what they were earning before the lockdown. Mohapatra and Swain said they got hundreds of paintings and art work made by various artists to Aadi Mahotsav and they will be returning home with hope as they have managed to sell a large chunk of the stocks. Mohapatra, however, cautioned that hand-holding measures by the government would be necessary till normalcy returns and the big buyers and foreign tourists return to explore Indian heritage. Far away from Odisha, in Jhabua, village women steering a self-help group, make “adivasi gudiyas” from scrap cloth. Currently displaying their toys at the tribal festival in Delhi, one of the members of the SHG from Dungra Dhanna village, Taru Parmar, said stocks of toys lay wasted during the lockdown. She sees the Aadi Mahotsav as an opportunity to gain lost ground. Radha Dawar from MP’s Maheshwar said “when the lockdown happened, all work stopped and stock piled up”. Showing the vibrant Maheshwari sarees, Radha said the pandemic had taught her much. “I have lifted the veil from my face for the first time in my life and joined my husband at the tribal festival this time. It is a new experience for me to talk about our work,” she said. On how some converted adversity into an opportunity, Reena Kujur from Khunti in Jharkhand said while her SHG worked on making lac products, during the lockdown when there was no demand for lac jewellery, they moved to value add to forest produce like “imli” and managed to find a market for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-aadi-mahotsav-tribal-artists-try-to-regain-livelihood-lost-during-lockdown/articleshow/80913257.cms||Ambika Pandit
February 15, 2021||Navi-mumbai||11 quarrying sites, 9 illegal, sealed in Panvel taluka areas||NAVI MUMBAI: A month-long investigation by government officers in Panvel has uncovered illegal quarrying at 11 sites. Tehsil staff have now shut down or sealed all of them: some for illegal quarrying—where the owners have no permission — and the rest for non-payment of royalty to authorities. A murky nexus between revenue officials and quarry owners also came to the fore when some tehsil staffers alleged that all talathis (accountant or revenue official in rural areas) in Panvel’s quarrying areas are women, who cannot visit sites after 6pm. This information helped the quarry owners to excavate more than the stipulated amount of stones and earth. “Measurement is done only when a complaint is received,” said one of the circle officers in Panvel. Following a meeting held between local complainants and the Panvel sub divisional officers on February 5, two squads were formed to check the status of quarries. Squads visited nine quarry sites and shut them down on February 10. Stone crusher plants have also been sealed and power supply cut off. “The two squads have sealed nine illegal quarries and crusher plants operating in Valwali and Tembhode villages under PCMC area last week,” said Panvel tehsildar Vijay Talekar.  Two more earth quarries have been shut down in Nevali village as the licence holders failed to pay royalty. “The revenue department officials are hand in glove with quarry owners and indulge in illegal quarrying causing loss to the exchequer,” alleged PCMC corporator Nilesh Baviskar. Local corporator Mahadev Madhe had earlier complained about pollution and cracks developing in houses in nearby areas due to blasting for quarrying .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/11-quarrying-sites-9-illegal-sealed-in-panvel-taluka-areas/articleshow/80915453.cms||Umesh K Parida
February 15, 2021||Agra||In a first, IAF inducts desi pups from Karnataka to curb bird-hit cases||AGRA: Indian Air Force (IAF) has for the first time inducted the Mudhol Hound, a purebred Indian breed of sight hound from Karnataka, to chase away birds and animals which stray on runways, hampering flights and causing risk of bird-hits. Four Mudhol hound puppies, including two females, were brought to the Agra airbase on Sunday. These were handed over to the IAF on Friday by deputy chief minister of Karnataka Govind M Karajol on behalf of the Canine Research and Information Centre (CRIC) in Bagalkot district of Karnataka. CRIC head Mahesh Akashi told TOI, “Mudhol hounds have earned the reputation of being fiercely loyal to their owners and are excellent hunting dogs. The breed is best known for its stamina, sharpness and agility. The services of the hounds are invaluable.” These agile all-weather dogs that enjoy good health and require minimum grooming have already been recruited by the Indian Army, CRPF, CISF, BSF, SSB, ITBP and the police departments of a few states. Known predominantly for their hunting and chasing skills, Mudhol hounds were bred by Ghorpade kings of Mudhol (now in Bagalkot in North Karnataka) in the 1920s, by crossing Persian and Turkish breeds with local dogs. The training of these Karnataka-origin hunting hounds first started in 2016 by the Army’s Remount and Veterinary Corps (RVC) centre in Meerut. Akashi said, “A few weeks ago, IAF officials wrote to us placing an order for seven puppies. After completing all the formalities, we have handed over four Mudhol hounds, aged around three months to the IAF officials of Agra Air Force station. Another three puppies will be handed over after six months as per an agreement.” He said bird-hits are a big problem at several airbases. These hounds will be trained by experts to scare away the birds. A senior IAF officer said, “To address the problem of ground-dwelling birds such as lapwings and larks, IAF planned dog walking module. IAF chose to use a domestic breed as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat. Taking a cue from PM’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ wherein he had praised this breed, we decided to try the Mudhol hound. The qualities and temperament of this native breed were found suitable for bird scaring. Air Force station here was selected as a pilot project. Depending on the success of the project, it will be extended to other stations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-a-first-indigenous-to-ktka-hounds-inducted-into-iaf/articleshow/80912495.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Amputated hand rejoined in surgery at Sir Ganga Ram hospital||NEW DELHI: An amputated hand was rejoined in a challenging surgery at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. On January 21, 36-year-old Inderpal was working at a factory in Prahladpur Industrial Area in north Delhi’s Badli when a heavy object from the machine suddenly fell on his hand, and his left forearm got crushed and amputated. Suffering from severe pain and loss of blood, Inderpal went into shock. His employer, Sharad, rushed the victim to a hospital. Sharad also showed his presence of mind and collected the amputated hand, well preserved in ice. Around 4pm, two hours after the accident, Inderpal was in the emergency ward of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. “Though the patient reached the hospital well within the golden time period (usually three to four hours over ice in forearm level injury), it was challenging as the forearm at the time of amputation had got badly pulled and crushed. This led to multiple level injuries to various structures (bone, muscles, nerves and vessels), necessitating a holistic approach requiring extensive shortening and graft usage from different parts of the body,” explained Dr Anubhav Gupta, senior consultant, department of plastic and reconstructive surgery at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. As time was of essence, doctors decided to take the patient for surgery immediately without waiting for his Covid result, which came negative later on. Due to the severity of the injury, it took the team of doctors over six hours to perform the implantation of Inderpal’s forearm using microvascular technique. Around midnight, the patient was wheeled out from the operation theatre. Doctors believe Inderpal’s hand has been successfully salvaged and he hopes to have functional recovery soon. Dr Gupta added that with the latest surgical techniques, it is now possible to rejoin even the worst amputated limbs if they are brought in time and well preserved in ice. “It is important to understand that the amputated part should not be in direct contact with ice. It should be kept in a clean polythene over the ice,” the doctor added. IANS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amputated-hand-rejoined-in-surgery-at-ganga-ram-hosp/articleshow/80913277.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||78% of those registered sit for GATE||MUMBAI: Around 78% of registered candidates appeared for the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) in the country. The attendance is similar to previous years, despite the pandemic. About 8.8 lakh candidates had registered for the test. GATE 2021 was held in 27 papers, including two new papers introduced by IIT-Bombay (the organising institute). GATE was successfully conducted on February 6, 7, 13 and 14, at 616 centres in 200 cities, by strictly adhering to the social distancing norms.  The results of GATE 2021 will be announced by March 22 and the score card will remain valid for three years from the date of issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/78-of-those-registered-sit-for-gate/articleshow/80914544.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||No new Covid case in 8 districts, no fatalities recorded||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 54 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 96,820 in the state. However, the state didn't record any new coronavirus-related fatality on the day and the toll of the virus remained static at 1,680. Among the new Covid-19 cases recorded, the maximum of 26 were found in Dehradun, followed by Nainital (12), Haridwar (9), Udham Singh Nagar (6), and Champawat (1). In some respite, no new infections were recorded in eight districts of Uttarakhand. Till Sunday, the state had 687 active Covid-19 cases. Among them, the maximum of 134 are in Dehradun, 101 in Nainital, and 81 in Almora. The state also recorded one case of recovery on Sunday, taking the total number of cured cases to 93,061. The Covid-19 test results of 6.092 samples were awaited. The state has so far been able to inoculate 1,15,648 people for Covid-19. Meanwhile, social activist Anoop Nautiyal has raised an alert regarding declining Covid-19 testing in the state. However, he appreciated that “There has been a drop in new Covid-19 cases and deaths in Uttarakhand. Also, the cases of recoveries are surpassing the number of new infections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-new-covid-case-in-8-districts-no-fatalities-recorded/articleshow/80913299.cms||Shivani Azad
February 15, 2021||Goa||Complaints of illegal construction, land grab, encroachments multiply||Panaji: Encroachments and illegal constructions in panchayat areas happen most of the time with the blessings of one or more panch members. Not surprisingly, appeals and complaints that come to be filed before the directorate of panchayats have only gone up over the years. North Goa additional director of panchayat has a list of about 1,200 appeals while its counterpart in South Goa is sitting with a list of about 600 appeals. Most of the illegal constructions are reported from coastal belts and few from other places where public spaces and comunidade lands remain neglected, an official said. “If you conduct a survey most of the illegal constructions will be found on comunidade and government lands which over the years have been hardly paid attention to,” he said. He said immediate action by the panchayat could stall any illegality in its jurisdiction, but most of the time concerned panch members chose to look the other way for obvious reasons. “Illegalities happen in connivance of the civic bodies and if any alert citizen makes noise, it is not necessary that he/she receives support,” he said. A panch member of a panchayat in North Goa said a new trend has surfaced in some village areas wherein goons and hooligans of the area may or not have an affiliation to a local leader or a party, have started playing a role. Their modus operandi is they keep track of who is doing what. “Suppose, they get a whiff that someone is having trouble in extension of a house or new construction despite having all papers in order, they approach the person to offer help in exchange for a certain amount,” he said. The panch member said they thrive because of illegalities. “The self-proclaimed guardians of the village or goons threatened people who add a little portion illegally or building a house on government land unlawfully, that they would be in trouble, if they(goons) are not paid,” he said. He said the trend may not be widely prevalent, but such things are indeed happening in some villages. At times, the comunidade people too delay in responding if its brought to their notice of any illegal construction being made on a property in their jurisdiction. Illegal constructions also take place, he said, at dilapidated houses or properties which are unattended or in cases a legal heirs are living abroad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/complaints-of-illegal-construction-land-grab-encroachments-multiply/articleshow/80915464.cms||Bindiya Chari
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Uttarakhand disaster: Silt in Delhi water, to hit supply||NEW DELHI: Following the disaster in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli, silt and mud have started reaching Delhi through the Upper Ganga Canal via Muradnagar. Delhi Jal Board has warned that water supply in parts of south, east and northeast Delhi could be impacted due to the unprecedented levels of turbidity in the raw water. On Sunday, the turbidity was 80 times the normal levels in the Upper Ganga Canal, which supplies over a quarter of Delhi’s daily raw water requirement. It supplies 248 million gallons per day (MGD) to two critical water treatment plants (WTP) — Sonia Vihar (140 MGD) and Bhagirathi (108 MGD). A senior DJB official said 40% to 70% of operations at these plants were hampered on Sunday and emergency measures were being adopted, along with rationalisation of water supply from different sources. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said, “Turbidity in raw water collected from the Upper Ganga Canal has increased to an unprecedented level of 8,000 nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) because of the recent Uttarakhand disaster. Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi WTPs are currently operating at reduced capacity due to this.” Turbidity, which is the measure of relative clarity in a liquid, can shoot up because of debris, silt, mud, algae, plant pieces, melting glaciers, sawdust, wood ashes or chemicals in water. “Under normal circumstances, the maximum level of turbidity is 90-100 NTU. The problem of high turbidity is usually faced in monsoon when the river carries mud and dirt along with rainwater. The Upper Ganga Canal usually remains much cleaner than Yamuna. We are deploying emergency measures,” the official said. Residents have been advised by DJB to use water judiciously. “Water tankers in adequate numbers are being deployed and all possible efforts are being made to reduce turbidity,” said Chadha. The impact of the Chamoli disaster was first felt in the raw water coming via Muradnagar early on Sunday when silt, organic and inorganic materials started reaching Bhagirathi and Sonia Vihar WTPs. “We have made arrangements to lift water from Yamuna through Sangam Vihar and Sonia Vihar pump houses. Our teams are deployed round the clock for improving the situation by backwashing of filters and flushing high ammonia raw water,” the official added. The capital’s total installed capacity of 930 MGD is met through the Yamuna, CLC and DSB canals bringing water from Haryana, Upper Ganga Canal and 100 MGD extracted from subsurface sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ukhand-disaster-silt-in-delhi-water-to-hit-supply/articleshow/80913478.cms||Paras Singh
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Wasim Jaffer row: CM says will order probe if complaint is received after meet with CAU delegation||Dehradun: Amidst the ongoing controversy revolving around the resignation of Wasim Jaffer, a delegation of the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) met chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday for a “routine” meeting. Sources pointed out that a delegation comprising CAU vice president Sanjay Rawat, treasurer Prithvi Singh Negi, joint secretary Avnish Verma and member Rohit Chauhan met the CM at his official residence. It is said that the issue related to Jaffer was discussed in length in the meeting. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat told TOI, “It was a routine meeting and few of the CAU members are close friends. I had not called or invited them but they had themselves come for a brief interaction.” The CM maintained that the issue of former Indian cricket Wasim Jaffer, who had recently resigned from the post of head coach of Uttarakhand Cricket team, was discussed in the meeting. “Some CAU members shared their views. However, it is not possible to say anything without knowing the facts. If we receive any complaint on the issue, the matter will be probed.” Meanwhile, cricket legend Anil Kumble has extended support to Jaffer, the leading run-scorer in Ranji Trophy (12,038 run). Irfan Pathan, Mohammad Kaif and Manoj Tiwari have also backed the former Indian cricketer on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wasim-jaffer-row-cm-says-will-order-probe-if-complaint-is-received-after-meet-with-cau-delegation/articleshow/80913313.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 15, 2021||Kochi||NSS: Withdraw cases related to ‘namajapa’ processions||Kottayam: The Nair Service Society (NSS) asked the state government to withdraw cases registered against devotees who took part in the ‘namajapa’ procession, demanding protection of the ritualistic customs and practices at Sabarimala. The processions were held in 2018 to protest against the Supreme Court verdict on Sabarimala, permitting women of all age groups to the hill shrine. NSS general secretary G Sukumaran Nair said that the government should withdraw these cases since it has unconditionally withdrawn several other cases which are more serious in nature. Non-withdrawal of cases against devotees will show the government’s vengeful attitude, he said. Several cases filed against devotees, including women and children, under various charges are still pending. A majority of them are unemployed and they cannot apply for government jobs or go abroad, he said. Several innocents who came to worship at the hill shrine are also included, he added.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nss-withdraw-cases-related-to-namajapa-processions/articleshow/80913315.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Couples run into no-entry zone on V Day||Hyderabad: Celebrations around Valentine’s Day were muted this year. Due to the pandemic, fewer events were planned. While city cafeterias and restaurants remained abuzz, public parks such as Sanjeevaiah Park and NTR Gardens closed their gates for visitors to avoid confrontations with groups against Valentine’s Day celebrations. Necklace Road and Indira Park were also shut for couples from morning hours. “We turned back several couples who were driving towards the Sanjeevaiah Park and People’s Plaza fearing violence. Only families were being allowed to enter,” said a cop who was patrolling near Necklace road. The cops had put up barricades as police was extra vigilant for the safety of couples. Many couples celebrated the day at home. “We decided to cook an Italian meal for lunch, baked our own cake and watched a movie that we both enjoy. Due to the pandemic, we have been spending a lot of time working from home. Despite that, we don’t really indulge in activities we enjoy doing,” said Samyukta K, who lives with her boyfriend in Banjara Hills. While business of gift shops was dull, bakers did a brisk business with novel ideas. “Instead of regular heart-shaped cakes, there was huge demand for heart-shaped Pinata cakes with heart-shaped hammers. Pinata cakes are made of a chocolate shell, which has to be broken open with a hammer to find surprises inside — gifts, brownies, chocolates,” said Payal Valera, a baker at an outlet in East Marredpally. Some bakers even received requests from customers asking for hand-written notes and rings inside the cake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couples-run-into-no-entry-zone-on-v-day/articleshow/80914526.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Agra||Rauf Shareef, accused of stirring unrest in Hathras, remanded to judicial custody in Mathura till Monday||Agra: Campus Front of India (CFI) leader Rauf Shareef, an accused of funding and stirring unrest in the wake of the gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old Hathras girl, was remanded to judicial custody for a day on Sunday. Remanding magistrate Swati Singh, a judicial magistrate in Chhata, remanded Shareef to judicial custody till Monday. He would be produced before additional district and sessions judge (first) Anil Kumar Pandey on Tuesday, said his counsel Madhuban Datt Chaturvedi. Shareef — lodged in a Kerala jail — was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in December last year in a money laundering case. A production warrant against him was earlier issued by a Mathura court at the request of UP’s Special Task Force (STF). According to the lawyer, in the remand report submitted in a Kerala court, the ED had alleged that Shareef, who was a leader of the Popular Front of India’s students’ wing, had funded the trip of a Delhi-based Kerala journalist, Siddique Kappan, and three other alleged PFI activists to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, where a Dalit woman died after she was allegedly gangraped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rauf-shareef-accused-of-stirring-unrest-in-hathras-remanded-to-judicial-custody-in-mathura-till-monday/articleshow/80912502.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: PMC ropes in post offices to distribute property tax bills||PUNE: The civic administration has decided to utilize the services of the postal department for accurate and timely distribution of property tax bills this year. Pune Municipal Corporation took this decision after previous years’ experience, in which private agencies appointed for the task made errors in distribution. Using Pune’s postal network, the civic body aims to distribute around 10.3 lakh at the earliest. A proposal to this effect has been approved by the civic standing committee. As per the proposal, the administration expects to spend around Rs36 lakh on the distribution. This translates to roughly Rs3.5 for each bill sent via India Post. The civic administration will spend around Rs36 lakh on this distribution. The civic administration has decided to give this work to the postal department. The standing committee has given approval to this proposal. PMC officials said they aim to complete disbursing bills at the earliest, giving citizens ample time to clear their dues by May. “PMC plans to provide bills to property owners on time so that they can pay taxes as early as possible. Both online and offline modes of payment will be available,” Vilas Kanade, head of the municipal property tax department, said. Property owners who clear their dues on or before May 31 will be eligible to avail themselves of various discount schemes floated by the civic body. Last year, because of the coronavirus pandemic, the civic administration had extended the scheme till June-end. The civic body, in a bid to collect outstanding dues, even floated an amnesty scheme for defaulters, offering up to 80% discount on the penalty. Through this initiative, PMC had recovered around Rs480 crore. For the 2021-22 fiscal, PMC has set a property tax target of Rs2,700 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-ropes-in-post-offices-to-distribute-property-tax-bills/articleshow/80914537.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||New weather systems to bring rain for Pune district this week, says IMD||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday forecast that the Madhya Maharashtra region, which includes Pune district, was likely to get light rainfall on Wednesday and Thursday, under the influence of a trough line in the lower level easterlies and the formation of upper air circulation over the region. There was also a chance of lightning and thunderstorms accompanied with rain on these days, the met officials said. “From Tuesday onwards, the city will experience partly cloudy conditions, particularly in the evening hours. On Wednesday and Thursday, the moisture incursion would take place over the Marathwada and Madhya Maharashtra regions, due to which the city will get very light rainfall, which will be less than 2.5mm. From Friday onwards, the weather conditions would cleared,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forest division of the IMD. Met officials said the night temperatures were expected to increase gradually over the week because of this weather condition. Both the Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded increase in day and night temperatures on Sunday. The day temperatures in Shivajinagar and Lohegaon were 32.3°C and 33°C, which were above normal by 0.5 degree Celsius and 1 degree Celsius, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-weather-systems-to-bring-rain-for-pune-district-this-week-says-imd/articleshow/80914558.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 15, 2021||Delhi||150 new Covid cases, two casualties in last 24 hours||New Delhi: The capital on Sunday reported two Covid casualties over the past 24 hours — the sixth time when the death toll was two in the past fortnight.In fact, last week there were two days when Delhi had recorded zero deaths by Covid-19. The first two weeks of February has seen the lowest average death count in the city since April 2020.A total of 150 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded over the past 24 hours, while the number of patients who recovered from the viral infection was 158, taking the number of active cases down to 1,031.Sunday’s cases came from 56,902 tests, which included 38,213 RT-PCR tests with a positivity rate of 0.2%, according to the health bulletin issued by Delhi government.The total number of Covid positive cases reached the figure of 6,36,946 on Sunday, while the total number of those who have recovered stood at 6,25,024 — a recovery rate of 98.1%. The number of containment zones in the city came down to 687, as compared to 969 a week ago.Of the total 1,031 active cases, most patients — 452 — are admitted in hospitals, while 394 are recuperating in home isolation, apart from 35 in Covid Care Centres. Of the 5,775 Covid beds reserved in hospitals, 5,323 remain vacant.The total death tally in the city reached 10,891 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/150-new-covid-cases-two-casualties-in-last-24-hours/articleshow/80913583.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Agra||Chennai man caught selling Govardhan rocks one-commerce website, arrested||AGRA: Mathura police on Saturday arrested a Chennai-based businessman in connection with offering Govardhan rocks allegedly collected from the Hindu pilgrimage site in Mathura for sale on an e-commerce website. The accused, V Prem Kumar, who runs a shop in Rangaraja Puram locality of Kodambakkam area in Chennai, had allegedly published an advertisement offering sacred Govardhan Hill rocks for sale as a product. Kumar’s name was, however, not mentioned in an earlier FIR. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover told TOI that during investigations it was found that Kumar had posted the advertisement on the website and the people who were named in the earlier FIR had no role to play. The accused would be produced in the court on Monday, said the SSP. Last week, police had registered an FIR against three people, including IndiaMART founder-CEO Dinesh Agarwal, co-founder Brijesh Agrawal and Mathura-based rock supplier Ankur Agrawal under section 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class of persons) of the Indian Penal Code and appropriate sections of the Information Technology Act. The FIR was registered following a complaint lodged by Keshav Mukhia, a BJP worker, who runs a cable network business in Mathura, on February 7. In his complaint, Mukhia had stated that he noticed the advertisement on Facebook. As information reached the public domain, a large number of agitated locals and saints reached the police station, demanding immediate arrest and strict action against officials of the e-commerce website for hurting the sentiments of the Giriraj’s devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/chennai-man-caught-selling-govardhan-rocks-one-commerce-website-arrested/articleshow/80912518.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: Two held on charge of murder||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Sunday arrested two youths in connection with the brutal murder of a 28-year-old man from Nighoje in Khed taluka. Sanket Gaikwad’s body was found under Talawade bridge early on Saturday. He was bludgeoned to death. As there was no clue to ascertain the victim’s identity, the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch fanned six teams for the probe. Sub-inspector Prasanna Jarhad of the crime branch received a tip-off that the victim was Sanket Gaikwad from Nighoje village. “We found that Gaikwad had a prior dispute with his relative over 16 gunthas of land,” senior inspector Shankar Babar of the crime branch said. “During the sustained questioning, Gaikwad’s relative Rohan Jagtap admitted to his involvement in the murder and also revealed the name of his accomplice, Vishal Chavan,” Chamle said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-held-on-charge-of-murder/articleshow/80914567.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Goa||With favourable harvest, growers get stronger prices for nutmeg||PANAJI: Farmers have seen a favourable outcome from growing and harvesting their nutmeg crop this season, commanding a price as much as Rs 650 per kg for the spice compared to Rs 450 the previous season. The freshly harvested crop consists of two components, the rind called javetri (pericarp) and the kernel which is called jaiphal (nutmeg). While the jaiphal is used as a prominent spice, the pericarp is used more in biomass compared to the spice product which makes up approximately 70% of the total fruit. The pericarp – with which nutmeg taffy, an edible candy is made – is selling at Rs 800 per kg and is getting farmers the buyers. Even the mace of the crop is selling at Rs1,900 per kg this year compared to Rs 1,100 in 2020. The trend of growing spice crops which had declined some years ago, picked up recently with the introduction of grafting which resulted in a steady rise in cultivation of spices like black pepper, turmeric and nutmeg among others. “Even though heavy rain over the last two years proved to be detrimental to arecanut, it has worked well for other crops like nutmeg and black pepper,” a farmer, Sachin Tendulkar said. The increased rain led to a fungal attack of the nutmeg crop but timely intervention by farmers by using organic bio-fungal measures resulted in salvaging of the crop. “There was a 20% increase in nutmeg production at my farm this season,” a farmer from Netravali, Chinmay Tanshikar said, adding that there is a drop in the fruits before maturity due to delay in controlling the plant disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-favourable-harvest-growers-get-stronger-prices-for-nutmeg/articleshow/80915499.cms||Nida Sayed
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Man found dead on road||Hyderabad: A man was found dead on the road with his head completely crushed near Khanapur Check Post in the early hours of Sunday. Narsingi police said that unknown man could be a victim of a hit-and-run case involving an unknown vehicle. The incident came to light after a passer-by informed police through dial-100 about the body lying on the road. The body of the victim was clad in white shirt and black trousers. A case has been registered under Section 304-a of the IPC, and the body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-found-dead-on-road/articleshow/80914571.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Chennai||Cancer institute to rope in women in need to make wigs||Chennai: The Adyar Cancer Institute will engage economically backward women across the city to make wigs for its patients. The project aims to meet the increasing demand for wigs at the institute and also help women, especially sole breadwinners, earn an income. “The women will be identified with the help of NGOs and our members who are regularly in the field and in contact with people from poor economic backgrounds” said an official from the institute. The institute will partner with a private organisation that manufactures wigs, where the women will be trained, employed and paid. Though the institute will be donating natural hair to the firm, the women will be trained to make both natural hair and synthetic fibre wigs. Institute officials said they are yet to finalise a partner organisation and will soon announce the name. The project will be handled by the department of psycho - oncology. In a year, the institute would provide more than 250 wigs to its patients. Over the last year, the demand for wigs has increased by 75%, mainly because people are more aware of the various options available. “This time we decided to take it to the next level by being directly involved in the wig making process and also help women from economically weak backgrounds. It is also a way to raise awareness on cancer prevention and treatment,” the official said. The institute has been providing wigs to their patients for several years through their tie-ups with salons and Rotaract clubs. Six years ago they began their new initiative with Raj Hair international where patients undergoing chemotherapy could get wigs made out of their own natural hair, donated before the sessions commenced. They also began a hair donation drive named ‘Tangled’. Often, hair loss is linked with development of low self-esteem and, in recent times, experts also want to focus on a wholesome improvement in the patients’ quality of life. K Hema, a breast cancer patient said she lost confidence to even look at herself in the mirror after losing her long tresses to chemotherapy. “And surprisingly, this changed my outlook on life,” she said pointing to her wig. “I am glad that the institute is coming up with various options because dealing with hair loss as a result of cancer is not easy and none of us wants to be treated differently outside,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cancer-institute-to-rope-in-women-in-need-to-make-wigs/articleshow/80914643.cms||Aditi R
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops recover lost jewellery||Hyderabad: Based on the complaint of a woman who lost her two tola gold jewellery, KPHB police team recovered the lost property and handed it over to her on Sunday. The complainant, Niveeditha, is a resident of Road Number 1 in KPHB Colony. On Thursday, she approached KPHB police mentioning that she lost her two tola gold bracelet at a supermarket in KPHB Colony. Police team immediately rushed to the supermarket and verified the CCTV camera footage. Using CCTV footage, police found the lost bracelet on the premises of the supermarket. The police returned the bracelet to Niveeditha, who expressed her gratitude towards the police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-recover-lost-jewellery/articleshow/80914615.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||PSC rank holders to launch hunger strike in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Last Grade Servant PSC rank holders, who are protesting against the state government, have decided to intensify their agitation by launching an indefinite hunger strike in front of secretariat from February 22 onwards. The decision was taken due to the apathy on the part of the government. On Sunday, Laya Rajesh and Babitha, two rank holders who had been at the forefront of the agitation, fainted in front of secretariat. They fainted while staging a ‘sayana pradakshinam’ protest on the MG Road in front of the state’s administrative headquarters. Both of them were immediately rushed to a hospital nearby and given medical care. Fellow agitators said that the health condition of most of the women protesters, who had been here since January 26, was deteriorating. Vinesh Chandran, a spokesperson of the agitators said that on Monday onwards the family members of the rank holders too will join them in a bid to strengthen the agitation. If the government does not take a favourable decision this week, they will launch a hunger strike. Meanwhile, Youth Congress leaders and MLAs Shafi Parambil and K S Sabarinathan started an indefinite hunger strike in solidarity with the PSC rank holders on Sunday. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran too joined the protesters for some time and addressed them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/psc-rank-holders-to-launch-hunger-strike/articleshow/80913412.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Lake being fed by glacier, may take time to flow out completely: Experts||Dehradun: A 17-member team of disaster response personnel that had trekked to the site of the lake above Raini village on Saturday said that they had spotted a 500-metre-long stretch of debris of mud and boulders ahead of the waterbody. SDRF commandant Navneet Bhullar, who led the team, said that the debris had not reached the lake and the water in the lake was clear and flowing out naturally through a 25-metre-wide opening. “The water of the lake is trickling down to Rishiganga river and the flow is a normal one. We can see the lake, which is 50 metres wide and 200 metres long but beyond that there is a turn and therefore telling the exact length of the lake is not possible. There is a strong possibility of the lake getting water from the glacier so it may take some time for it to clear,” said Bhullar. He said that it took around 30 minutes to walk through the debris to reach the lake. “The water of the lake is flowing into Rishiganga, which merges into Dhauliganga, a tributary of Alaknanda,” he said. When asked if there was a possibility to allow faster draining of the water, Bhullar said it was the prerogative of technical experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lake-being-fed-by-glacier-may-take-time-to-flow-out-completely-experts/articleshow/80913348.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 15, 2021||Pune||Foodgrain trader shot at in Dattanagar||Pune: A 34-year-old wholesale foodgrain dealer suffered a head injury after two men opened fire in his shop in Dattanagar, near Katraj, on Sunday night. The incident occurred at 9.50pm. The bullet grazed Vishal Punjabi’s head. He is being treated at a private hospital. The police have yet to establish a motive for the attack. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar and his team from Bharati Vidyapeeth police, and crime branch personnel, rushed to the spot. Police have recovered an empty cartridge from the site. Kalaskar said Punjabi tried to raise an alarm after the suspects tried to flee with some material from the store, when one of them pulled out a firearm and shot at him. Police are examining CCTV footage and working on other clues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/foodgrain-trader-shot-at-in-dattanagar/articleshow/80914607.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Maithili poet goes missing; kin, fans seek help online||KOLKATA: Celebrated Maithili poet Ramlochan Thakur — an Alzheimer’s patient — has been missing from his home since Friday morning. His family, friends and admirers have now started a social media campaign to find the 72-year-old litterateur. According to his family, Thakur was last seen having his morning tea at their Italgachha Road home in Dum Dum before he stepped out of their apartment and never returned. He was wearing a brown vest, brown sweater and a white pyjama at that time. “My father has been an Alzheimer’s patient for the last three years. We first came to know about his disease when he got lost while returning home from Howrah station three years ago. We had a tough time locating him. On Friday, he left home around 9.30am. He often goes for a walk outside and returns home after a few minutes, but he didn’t return on Friday. We are extremely worried about him. He has a speech problem as well and can’t even tell his name and address. He did not have any money or a cellphone with him when he left,” said Sabita Sah, Thakur’s daughter. Sah added that during the search on Sunday, a shopkeeper at Pramodnagar in Belgharia said he had seen a person of Thakur’s description wandering on the road on Saturday. Alzheimer’s is the most common form of dementia that gradually slows down memory and reasoning capability and, eventually, the ability to carry out the simplest of tasks. His family members had lodged a missing person report with Dum Dum police station on Friday, but he couldn’t be traced till late on Sunday. “We have sent his photographs and his description to all nearby police stations and are making all efforts to trace him at the earliest,” said a senior officer of the police station. A former income tax officer, Thakur is a pioneer poet of the Agnijivi cult of Maithili poetry and had published many short stories and essays in various journals under the pseudonym — ‘Agradoot’. He also translated many Bengali books to Maithili. These include writings of Manik Bandyopadhyay, Shakti Chattopadhyay and Humayun Ahmed. A recipient of the prestigious ‘Bhasha Bharti Samman’ and ‘Videha Samman’ for translation, Thakur has also edited important journals — the last one being ‘Mithila Darshan’. He has been an actor-director and a protagonist of the Maithili language movement. Since his disappearance, #Ramlochan has been trending on social media platforms with hundreds of admirers sharing his photograph and brief missing status seeking help from people to trace him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/maithili-poet-goes-missing-kin-fans-seek-help-online/articleshow/80913381.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 15, 2021||Nashik||It’s ‘open war’ between governor, Maharashtra govt: Sanjay Raut||NASHIK: Shiv Sena spokesman and MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said it was an “open war” between Raj Bhavan and the Maharashtra government and accused the BJP of using governor B S Koshyari to “pressurise” and “destabilise” the government. Raut alleged that many decisions taken by the government, which needed the approval of the governor, were stuck due to “political pressure”. The nomination of 12 members of the legislative council (MLCs) was just one of the many decisions that had been held up, he said. Raut, who was on a two-day tour of Nashik, was speaking to the media when he was asked about the “cold war” between the state government and the governor. “It is not a cold war. Cold war is carried out clandestinely. This is an open war. Raj Bhavan is being used for political purposes by the BJP,” he alleged. Elaborating on the BJP’s role, Raut said, “This war is not only between the governor and the state government. The BJP is using Raj Bhavan. A large number of decisions taken by the government are stuck in Raj Bhavan because of pressure tactics.” Raut said the nomination of 12 MLCs — appointments to be made by the governor on the recommendation of the state government — have still not been acted upon. “The MLCs’ terms come to an end in the sixth year. Valuable time of their tenure has been lost. Who is responsible for this delay?” he asked. Raut said the governor is bound to act on the advice of the council of ministers according to the Constitution. “If this is true, then is this not a case of violation of the Constitution? This means he is working under political pressure. Hence this is an open war, not a cold war,” he said. Asked whether denying an aircraft to the governor when he was to fly to Dehradun was part of this “war”, Raut said, “There are many weapons which are used in the war and this was one of them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/open-war-between-raj-bhavan-state-govt-raut/articleshow/80912556.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||MLCs to take up issues of ZPTCs, MPTCs||Hyderabad: Local Authorities MLCs of TRS have decided to approach chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao about the issues MPTCs and ZPTCs are facing, including release of funds. At a meeting held on Sunday, TRS MLCs, including Kavitha Kalvakuntla, after discussing the issues, also decided to give a memorandum to panchayat raj minister E Dayakar Rao on the discharge of responsibilities of MPTCs and ZPTCs and the resources they need. The meeting was attended by MLCs P Mahendar Reddy, Bhanu Prasad, Naradasu Laxman, Damodar Reddy, Pochampalli Srinivas Reddy, Sathish Kumar, T Chinnappa Reddy, Kasireddy Narayana Reddy, Shambhipur Raja and Balasani Laxmi Narayana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlcs-to-take-up-issues-of-zptcs-mptcs/articleshow/80914622.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||Badlapur MIDC industrialists start Ulhas clean-up||BADLAPUR: With pollution levels in Ulhas River remaining a constant source of concern, industrialists from Badlapur MIDC have come together to mitigate the situation. The industrialists have taken the initiative to treat five MLD (million litres per day) of residential drainage passing through the industrial area. A new technology called ecochip biosanitizer technology is being used to treat the water. This technology does away with the need for a sewage treatment plant. Instead, special chips installed at various spots in the nullah clean the water. The project was started on February 8.  Badlapur MIDC which came into existence in 1969 was earlier surrounded by various small villages with agricultural activity. It was the responsibility of the state government to maintain a buffer zone, but in the last 10 years the civic body has given permission to several townships which have come up adjacent to the MIDC. Ajay Sahoo, chairman of Badlapur CETP association who set up the technology, said a huge quantity of domestic sewage is generated in housing complexes in Shirgaon area, near the industrial hub. “The residential complexes do not have any drainage line connecting it to a sewage treatment facility and it passes through MIDC area through a nullah, eventually getting discharged in the Ulhas.” Industrialists said they feared they would be blamed for the pollution and, hence, decided to pay from their pockets to treat the water as a social welfare activity. “After we set up the technology, the drainage water is now pollution-free. In future, we will be able to see aquatic life too in this nullah,” project consultant, Gunvant Patil, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/badlapur-midc-industrialists-start-ulhas-clean-up/articleshow/80914639.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 15, 2021||Pune||Magistrate’s order on summons case against trio set aside||Pune: A sessions court here has quashed and set aside a Vadgaon Maval magisterial court’s order of July 31, 2019 issuing process for a summons case of cheating and other offences against Paul Hermelin, the then group chairman and CEO of Capgemini, and Ashwin Yardi and Shrinivas Kandula, the chief executive officer (CEO) and chairman of the IT multinational’s India arm, initiated by an employee of the firm.The IT multinational’s development centres are in Talawade, Chinchwad, Kalyaninagar, Hinjewadi, and Magarpatta areas of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The woman employee had filed a private complaint under Section 156 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) seeking the magistrate’s directions to the police to register an FIR of cheating and other offences against the three top officials and 17 other employees of the firm, alleging harassment, discrimination in promotion, increments, bonus, gender discrimination, among other charges.On May 5, 2019, the magisterial court rejected her plea for an first information report (FIR) but examined her complaint under Section 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and passed the impugned (under challenge) order issuing process for a summons case against Hermelin, Yardi and Kandula and dismissing the complaint against the 17 other employees of the company. “We had challenged this order before the sessions court on the grounds that it was bad in law,” said senior lawyer Harshad Nimbalkar, who along with lawyer Shivam Nimbalkar, represented the three officials.Sessions judge SM Agarkar held on February 8, “The learned magistrate in paragraph no 4 of the impugned order has observed that the complainant has made almost all the employees of the company as accused and the process was issued against the accused Nos. 1(A) to (C) [Hermelin and two others] observing they are prime representative of the company, without ascertaining if they in fact played any role touching the grievances raised in the complaint. It is necessary to state that, no specific allegations or contentions made in the complaint against this accused No. 1(A) to (C).” “As discussed to the above in the order dated 03/05/2019 the learned magistrate has recorded his conclusion that the allegations levelled in the complaint prima facie does not constitute any cognizable offence. Thus, while issuing process a careful scrutiny of the material was necessary to ascertain whether the facts narrated in the complaint attracts/discloses the ingredients of the offences. It appears from the impugned order that the learned Magistrate has not done this exercise. This shows that, the learned magistrate has not properly appreciated the material on record and has mechanically issued the process without observing the mandate of provisions of law and guiding principles for issuing of process. Thus, the impugned order is not sustainable and needs interference,” the judge ruled. The sessions court has referred the matter back to the magistrate to pass an order after considering afresh the entire complaint as mandated by the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/magistrates-order-on-summons-case-against-trio-set-aside/articleshow/80914671.cms||Vishwas Kothari
February 15, 2021||Madurai||Hindu outfits slam V-Day celebrations||Madurai: Hindu outfits distributed pamphlets to couples and the general public against the celebration of Valentine’s day on Sunday. Meanwhile, another outfit gave sweets to the couples. A group of members from Tamil Nadu Vishwa Hindu Parishad led by its president M Chandrasekar visited various parks in the city such as Rajaji Children’s Park, Sundaram Park, Thirumalai Nayakkar Mahal park and Eco Park in Thiruparankundram and advised young couples to not venture out of their houses together without permission of their parents. Members from Vishwa Hindu Parishad led by its district president K M Pandian also distributed pamphlets to the people. Meanwhile, members of Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam led by Madurai district secretary Mani Amudhan distributed sweets to young and unmarried couples. Members said that caste-based hierarchies in the societies can be abolished only if love marriages are encouraged. There should not be any moral policing in the society against men and women meeting in public places. A large number of police personnel were deployed in various places in the city including parks to ensure there were no untoward incidents on the day. Police sent away a few unmarried couples from parks before the Hindu outfits arrived there. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hindu-outfits-slam-v-day-celebrations/articleshow/80915479.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Agra||Yamuna to be clean by end of 2021: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||AGRA: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that the Delhi government has to first clean its stretch of river Yamuna and then making the rest pollution-free is the responsibility of his government, which will be completed by 2021. The CM also said that the time has come to celebrate festivals again as the war against the Covid-19 pandemic has entered its last leg amid a rigorous vaccination drive. Addressing the seers and public in Vrindavan after reviewing the arrangements of the pre-Kumbh Vaishnav meeting on Sunday, the CM said, “The UP government’s responsibility to clean up Yamuna would begin as soon as the Delhi government cleans its part." The Centre and the Haryana government had recently pinned the blame for severe pollution of Yamuna on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi. This came after the Supreme Court sought reply from the Centre, CPCB, Delhi government and states of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. The apex court had initiated suo motu proceedings on the steady decline in quality of Yamuna water. Praising the arrangements at Prayagraj’s Kumbh, the CM said, “It has set high standards of security, management and cleanliness, which was missing earlier. And that was the reason why the Unesco had recognised the Kumbh mela as India’s cultural heritage.” “I wish the local administration makes this event successful without compromising on security, cleanliness and management, so that they get the opportunity of organising this event again,” the CM said, adding that it should be presented in such a manner that people remember it for a lifetime. The CM also met the seers at an ashram and assured them of clean water in Yamuna by 2022. Sant Gyanand Maharaj told media persons, “The CM, categorically, told us that their target is to clean Yamuna ji as Ganga ji had almost been cleaned.” He added that the CM had given such an assurance a year ago, but work got delayed due to Covid-19 lockdown. Cleaning of Yamuna is also part of Namami Gange Mission and the Centre has been supplementing the efforts of the states for checking the rising level of pollution in Yamuna, a tributary of Ganga, by providing financial assistance to Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in a phased manner since 1993 under the Yamuna Action Plan (YAP). The total expenditure incurred on conservation of Yamuna in the first two phases of YAP is Rs 1,514.7 crore. The CM also inaugurated projects worth Rs 411 crore on Sunday. Yogi said that the cow protection programme in Braj region would make it economically more prosperous and give due reverence to Lord Krishna. “Cow conservation should be the identity of the Braj region,” he added. Meanwhile, Mathura police arrested several Samajwadi Party workers, including women activists, after they tried to show black flags to the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/delhi-govt-should-first-clean-its-part-of-yamuna-rest-our-responsibility-says-yogi/articleshow/80912571.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Water Supply affected in Srinagar Garhwal due to Chamoli Flash Flood||Srinagar: Over a week after the flash floods in Chamoli, the effect was still showing in the lower reaches of the Alaknanda river. Since the calamity, there has been a shortage of water in Srinagar (Garhwal), as most of the water supply of the region is dependent on the river, which is full of mud and debris. This has either choked water pumps in the region or threatens to damage them if started. Residents said that the Alaknanda Hydro Power project is gradually discharging water from the dam, but the water is not clean. The river stream could be seen full of floating debris whirling near river banks. The water has a foul smell and is viscous, flowing very slowly downstream, residents said. Across the region, many people were seen standing in long queues with empty vessels and drums for their turn to access hand pumps and natural springs. Though in some regions water supply is running for an hour, but it is so dirty people are afraid to use it for drinking purposes. “Earlier, water used to get delivered for four hours each in the morning and evening, but now it comes for a mere two hours a day,” said Hitesh Singh Pundir, a resident of Nursery Road in Srinagar. “The water is so muddy and concentrated with alum, we’re not using it for drinking purposes,” he added. “Our tenants from Uttar Pradesh, who are studying in HNBGU, have returned to their hometowns as their parents are worried about them after the flash floods,” said Aditya Bahughuna, another resident. “Earlier, water used to be supplied from the dam itself. But that is filled with excessive silt, so its pumps are not working. Therefore, water is now being supplied from the lower region of the river, where the silt is lesser. We’re using alum to filter the water and are trying to normalise the water demand in town by running supply alternatively in different wards,” said Sohan Singh Jethuri, additional assistant engineer, Jal Sansthan, Srinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/water-supply-affected-in-srinagar-garhwal-due-to-chamoli-flash-flood/articleshow/80913391.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Cong leaders train guns on TRS||Hyderabad: Gearing up for the upcoming elections, senior Congress leaders on Sunday attacked the ruling TRS and BJP. TPPC chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Sunday said that TRS cheated all sections of society by making false promises. Interacting with the media, he said that both TRS and BJP never focused on providing employment to youth. He came down heavily on BJP saying that the party doesn’t focus on real issues and just instigates religious sentiments. Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka said the state was witnessing feudal rule instead of democracy. Interacting with the farmers on Sunday, he said he would raise all issues related to farming in the assembly. On Sunday, Malkajgiri MP and TPCC working president A Revanth Reddy wrote a letter to chief minister K Chadrasekhar Rao seeking immediate implement pension for those who were 57 years old, as promised in the TRS manifesto. In the two-page letter to the CM , Revanth said the government should immediately issue directives reducing the eligibility age for old-age pension from 58 years to 57 years. He said that government should give pension to two elders in a home instead of limiting the pension benefit for one in a family. “If one dies, their spouse should get the benefit,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-leaders-train-guns-on-trs/articleshow/80914687.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||14 hurt after bus overturns on NH-44 in Kamareddy||Hyderabad: Fourteen passengers suffered injuries after a bus, which was moving between Nanded (Maharashtra) and Hyderabad, overturned on National Highway-44 near Tekriyal village in Kamareddy district on Sunday morning. Three of them suffered grievous injuries. All the injured were shifted to hospital for treatment. Kamareddy district police said Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation bus driver Vijay Kumar, who was allegedly plying the bus at high speed, lost control over the wheel after hitting the brake. The vehicle first hit the safety railing bar of the NH-44, flipped and rolled over thrice before coming to a halt in the abutting bushes along the road. The incident took place at 4 am when all passengers were fast asleep in the bus. The accident happened at a location on NH-44, where police said the road was wide and in perfect condition without any engineering defects. According to the bus conductor, there were 36 passengers in the bus, 14 of them suffered injuries, three among them suffered grievous injuries. The injured were immediately shifted to a local government hospital for treatment. The passengers said the bus driver was speeding despite he was warned. “We suspect that the driver could have dozed off for a second or he was driving under the influence of alcohol. We have collected his blood sample to know whether he was drunk at the time of the accident or not?’’ Kamareddy inspector Chandrasekhar Reddy said. Police said most passengers left the hospital after first-aid. A case was registered against the driver under Section 337 (rash and negligent driving to endanger human life) of the IPC. Based on the medical report, sections might be alerted in case if it proved that he was drunk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/14-hurt-after-bus-overturns-on-nh-44-in-kamareddy/articleshow/80914673.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Chennai||Curry leaves, drumstick cost still high in Chennai||CHENNAI: Cost of drumstick and curry leaves continued to remain high at the wholesale market in Koyambedu despite a marginal dip earlier this week. While a kilogram of drumstick at Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) costs Rs 120, curry leaves was sold at Rs 60 a kg. Traders attributed the unprecedented increase to a drop in arrivals to the market. V R Soundararajan, a former member of the market management committee of KWMC and a wholesale trader, said unseasonal rain damaged crops, resulting in short supply and price rise. Harvest and ,in turn, arrivals to Chennai, have reduced. “I haven’t seen such high prices sustain in the wholesale market in the past. Wholesale cost of curry leaves has never exceeded Rs 30 per kilogram,” he said. Curry leaves, which cost Rs 80/kg last week, will be sold for Rs 60 this week. The Rs 20 drop was due to a dip in sales, Soundararajan said. Koyambedu market sources curry leaves from Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district and parts of Andhra Pradesh. Cost of drumstick too has reduced by Rs 20 and will cost Rs 120 a kg this week. The market currently gets only 100 tonnes of drumstick a day, 50% of the daily average of 200 tonnes of drumstick supplied usually. The highest the vegetable cost all of last year was Rs 60/kg and at times, dropped to Rs 15/kg. Its cost is likely to stabilise in April, when fresh yield is expected to hit the market, he added. On the other hand, costs of other vegetables barring shallots continue to remain stable. Shallots cost Rs 80/kg this week, Rs 20 more than last week. While staples potato and tomato are expected to cost Rs 20-Rs 25, grade I onions will cost Rs 40/kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/curry-leaves-drumstick-cost-still-high-in-city/articleshow/80914696.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Drugs worth Rs 17.5 crore seized, 5 arrested||KOLKATA: The Special Task Force (STF) of Kolkata Police has nabbed a gang of five drug peddlers — two each from Murshidabad and Manipur and one from Assam — for allegedly selling heroin and party drugs worth Rs 17.5 crore. The gang was using a 72-year-old woman from Assam to distribute the drugs to avoid any suspicion. This WAS the second-biggest drug seizure this year in the city. Cops said the consignments were meant for parties this Valentine Day weekend. Some of the drugs were slated to be smuggled to Bangladesh The STF officers claimed they got a tip-off about the drugs being smuggled into the city in two vehicles early on Friday. “Around 6am, an STF team detained the five suspects from the Cossipore area. One of the accused was a woman who helped in the distribution of drugs. The accused have been identified as Piyarul Islam (40) and Sadikul Sk (31) from Murshidabad, Kartik Naidu (27) and Rakesh Thapa (26) from Manipur and Pravati Devi alias Pabitri Devi Jaiswal alias Chachi (72) from Assam,” said DC (STF) Aparajita Rai. Heroin, worth Rs 10 crore, and amphetamine (Yaba) tablets, worth Rs 7.5 crore were seized from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drugs-worth-rs-17-5cr-seized-5-arrested/articleshow/80913410.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 15, 2021||Madurai||Docs hold hunger strike against ‘mixopathy’||Madurai: As part of the 14-day nation-wide relay hunger strike announced by doctors of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to protest ‘mixopathy’, members from the south zone districts gathered in Virudhunagar for the strike on Sunday. The doctors are protesting against the Central Council of Indian Medicine’s (CCIM) notification approving MS General Surgery degree for ayurveda students. Around 50 doctors had gathered in Virudhunagar to hold the hunger strike and doctors from other south zone districts of IMA, including Madurai, had also gathered to offer support. Dr N Dhanapal, Dr R M Ravindranath, Dr V N Alagavenkatesan and other office bearers of IMA participated. The protesters expressed that the effect of such ‘mixopathy’ or mixing of allopathic and ayurvedic systems of medicine would be damaging to both systems of medicine and public health. “IMA has been undertaking this hunger strike since February 1 and it was completed on Sunday. The IMA will soon be deciding on the next course of action by holding a national-level meeting as the demands are yet to be met,” said Dr VN Alagavenkatesan, president-elect, IMA, Madurai. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/docs-hold-hunger-strike-against-mixopathy/articleshow/80915502.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Marginalised sections high on BJP agenda||HYDERABAD: Is the recent incident at Suryapet’s Mattampally mandal where BJP activists tried to destroy the fenced property of an alleged encroacher of 400 acres of tribal land an indication of the saffron party’s bigger plans of championing the cause of social justice in Telangana? It appears so, going by the aggressive posturing of the state leadership to lend the voice to the marginalised sections. Party chief Bandi Sanjay even went on to accuse some revenue officials in Mattampally of being in cahoots with land sharks and trying to grab land allotted to tribals. He said his party will stand by the tribals. A day after the high-voltage drama in Gurrambodu thanda leading to a lathicharge by police to bring the situation under control, Sanjay held a meeting with party OBC morcha leaders and activists and declared that the party will fight for the rights of tribals and other marginalised sections. The party leadership has recently completed the exercise of appointments for all morchas of marginalised sections, including minorities and asked the in-charges to actively raise the issues of these sections at various fora. “The idea is to tell people of Telangana that only one community gets all the opportunities if the TRS is at the helm. Whereas, the BJP will fight for every marginalised section and minority group in the state,” senior party leader Premender Reddy told TOI. It remains to be seen if the BJP will rake up CM K Chandrasekhar Rao’s vow to make a Dalit leader as chief minister, a promise he had made and broke in the 2014 elections. The saffron party is also making plans to question the TRS on its promises made to SC, ST and BC communities. “The TRS government has promised reservation for tribals which has not materialised so far. The double bedroom housing scheme is primarily meant for these marginalised classes but six years after it came to power, the TRS is yet to implement the scheme,” a party leader alleged. As part of its fight to corner the government, the BJP is also charting out an action plan. “Dharnas, protests, rallies and writing letters to officials concerned will form part of this action plan,” the leader said. Sources said the party has been knocking the doors of the national commissions for BCs, SCs and STs from time to time on issues concerning these sections. Sanjay has already announced that his party will approach the National Commission for STs on Sunday’s incident. During Dubbak bypolls, the party had approached the National Commission for BCs when Sanjay was stopped by police from canvassing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/marginalised-sections-high-on-bjp-agenda/articleshow/80914713.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 15, 2021||Chennai||Pulicat declared eco-sensitive zone||Chennai: The Pulicat bird sanctuary in Tiruvallur district has been declared an ecologically sensitive zone to ensure total protection. A senior Chennai wildlife official said the demarcated area, within a 500 metre radius, will include the villages of Elavur, Injur, Selliabedu, Uppanavoyal, Periaveppathur, Kolur, Poovami, Tirupalaivanam, Pralayambakkam, Andarmadam and Thangal Perumkulam. A map of the villages and the Pulicat lake, under the zone, will be sent to the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) for approval. Once the demarcation is notified by the state and the Centre, wildlife officials will come out with guidelines for residents of the 11 villages where several activities including shrimp farming are undertaken. On Tuesday last, wildlife officials held a meeting in Tiruvallur in which representatives from the revenue department, fisheries, elected panchayat heads and other stakeholders participated. A senior wildlife official said a map of the area is to be prepared before any sanctuary or tiger reserve is declared a protected area and sent to the MoEFCC for its nod. In case the Union ministry rejects the proposal, an area of 10m radius will become ESZ by default, the official said. In 2019, the authorities declared a ‘0’ kilometre of the Pulicat sanctuary ESZ, effectively meaning there would be no eco-sensitive zone, and sent it to the MoEFCC which rejected the proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pulicat-declared-eco-sensitive-zone/articleshow/80914721.cms||P Oppili
February 15, 2021||Kochi||Kappan in UDF camp, takes a dig at Jose K Mani||Kottayam: Mani C Kappan, who won from Pala as LDF candidate, formally joined UDF camp as Aiswarya Kerala Yatra led by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala reached Pala on Sunday. Kappan attacked Kerala Congress (Mani) leader Jose K Mani and praised chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in a carefully-scripted speech, seen as his campaign launch for the upcoming assembly elections. Kappan was welcomed by Chennithala, Oommen Chandy, P K Kunhalikutty, M M Hasan and P J Joseph. Kappan thanked all, including Vijayan, for helping him bring development to Pala constituency in a short time. He said that he had spent his sweat, blood, tears and money for LDF in the last 25 years. “Now they are demanding that I resign. They’re not seeking resignations of Thomas Chazhikadan, Roshy Augustine or N Jayaraj who had won with UDF votes,” he said. Taking a dig at Jose, Kappan said that if someone claims Pala as his Vatican he should realise that the Pope of Pala is different. He mocked Jose calling him “Junior Mandrake” and urged Vijayan to watch the movie by that name (In this Malayalam film, the bust of a man named Junior Mandrake brings misfortune to whoever possesses it). UDF handed over Jose to LDF happily and since then LDF started facing problems, he added. Jose and CPM district secretary V N Vasavan are torpedoing the development works in the constituency, Kappan alleged. “Jose K Mani is projecting IIIT as his major achievement. Is anyone from Pala studying there?” he asked. Pala was his heart and the people of Pala would stand by him, Kappan reiterated. After entry into UDF, the Kappan faction of NCP held a meeting to form a new party, expected to be an UDF constituent. It was decided to reconstitute all district committees before February 28. A 10-member committee comprising Kappan as chairman and Babu Karthikeyan as convener was formed to decide on the name, bylaw, flag and registration of the party. Kappan’s supporters, holding corporation chairman and board member posts, will resign from the posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kappan-in-udf-camp-takes-a-dig-at-jose-k-mani/articleshow/80913430.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Hope fades as 6 bodies recovered from inside Tapovan tunnel, 8 from other areas; death toll 52, 152 still missing||Dehradun: Exactly a week after almost non-stop rescue operations began to search over 30 people stranded inside the head race tunnel (HRT) at the NTPC hydropower plant site in Tapovan, multi-agency rescue teams drawn from the ITBP, NDRF, SDRF and Indian Army — for the first time — found six bodies inside the 1.6 km long slush-choked tunnel. The discovery led to the deflation of hopes of the relatives of many of those who were stuck inside who were praying that their family members could be found alive. “The bodies were recovered at a 125 mtr point inside the tunnel. Our team is continuing clearing the slush inside the tunnel in order to go deeper inside,” said Vivek Pandey, spokesperson, ITBP. Rescue agencies had estimated that the stranded persons would be at a point 180 mtr inside the tunnel. Till Sunday night, the rescue teams had reached 140 mtr inside, sources said. Efforts were ongoing to clear the muck from the main tunnel. Simultaneously, drilling operations at the auxiliary silt flushing tunnel were also ongoing in an attempt to breach the tunnel from that end, the sources added. In all, during the day, 14 bodies were recovered from different parts of flash-flood ravaged areas of Chamoli, taking the total death toll to 52, while 152 people are still reported to be missing, Nandkumar Joshi, district disaster management officer, Chamoli, told TOI. He added that besides the six bodies found in the tunnel, seven were found near Raini village — where the Rishiganga hydel project that was completely washed away was situated — and one body was found from Rudraprayag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hope-fades-as-6-bodies-recovered-from-inside-tapovan-tunnel-8-from-other-areas-death-toll-52-152-still-missing/articleshow/80913436.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Wasim Jaffer resignation row: Cricket Association of Uttarakhand begins probe on ‘bio-bubble breach’||Dehradun: The controversy surrounding Wasim Jaffer’s resignation from the post of the head coach of the senior men’s Uttarakhand cricket team refuses to melt down. In an apparent reference to the controversy, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to social media on Saturday saying, “In the last few years, hate has been normalised so much that our beloved sport cricket has been marred by it.” To recall, Jaffer’ resignation was embroiled in controversy after it was alleged by a few that he was “favouring Muslim players in the team”. It was also claimed that a “maulvi” (Muslim priest) was called by Jaffer in the dressing room for prayers. However, the prolific Mumbai batsman dismissed all allegations and said he resigned as he was not given “freedom” to build the team his own way. Later, Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) secretary Mahim Verma also said that there are “no religious overtones in the matter of the resignation and the move came purely due to cricketing differences over choice of players”. “My statement has been misinterpreted and the allegations of communal bias against Wasim Jaffer are baseless. We have many Muslim players and staffers in the CAU. Also, in 2019, we awarded a cricket scholarship to two young talents, one of them is a Muslim,” added Verma. He was quick to add that he never interfered in the matters of selection and gave Jaffer enough freedom. The matter has now been taken up by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), the governing body for cricket in India. BCCI vice-president Rajiv Shukla also visited Dehradun to meet the CAU officials over the matter. The state association has also begun a probe regarding the alleged breach of bio-bubble by Jaffer by bringing an outsider to the dressing room. Meanwhile, Iqbal Abdullah, who was Uttarakhand’s team captain in the recently-concluded Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy, has clarified that he had invited the Muslim priest in the dressing room only after taking due permission from the team manager Navneet Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wasim-jaffer-resignation-row-cricket-association-of-uttarakhand-begins-probe-on-bio-bubble-breach/articleshow/80913433.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Property tax to be linked to land fair value in urban areas||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Property tax assessment in urban local bodies in the state is set to be based on the fair value of the land. The local self-government department notified the reassessment through an order issued on Friday. As per the order, the property tax assessment based on fair value is being done to make the state eligible for additional borrowing of 2% of gross state domestic product (GSDP). The urban affairs department has prepared a list of basic tax rates and fair value for buildings of various categories like residential purpose, commercial purpose, industrial purpose, educational purpose, hospitals, theatres, assembly buildings, resorts, amusement parks, and mobile towers. Basic tax rate based on fair value has been fixed for buildings for commercial purposes in the range up to 100sq m, above 100 sq m, up to 200 sq m, and above 200 sq m. Officials with the urban affairs department said that the system will come into effect from July. “There will be a statewide survey to check all buildings in municipal areas, floor area, nature of utilization and occupancy. Once the survey is finished, the tax rate will be linked to fair value. The existing maximum and minimum cap of tax will not be changed. The actual impact will be evident from next year onwards,” said an official. LSGD is also in talks with the revenue department regarding apparent discrepancies in fixing the fair value of land in many places. “There are instances where two large areas happen to have similar fair value. Those kinds of deficiencies will have to be addressed. We have flagged these concerns to the department of revenue,” the official added. The state government had increased the existing fair value of land in the state by 50% in 2014, by 10% in 2018-19, and by another 10% in 2019-20. It is learned that the reassessment will not impact the tax arrears and it will not have a retrospective effect on those who owe dues to civic bodies. Kerala recently became the eighth state in the country to successfully undertake ‘Ease of Doing Business’ reform stipulated by the department of expenditure, ministry of finance. The state has become eligible to mobilize additional financial resources of Rs 2,261 crore through open market borrowings. The Union government had in May 2020, decided to link grant of additional borrowing permissions to states that undertake the reforms to facilitate ease of doing business. When the centre increased the borrowing limit of states by 2% of their GSDP as part of confronting challenges posed by Covid-19, it prescribed four citizen-centric areas for reforms, one of which was urban local body/utility reforms. Earlier, buildings were assessed based on annual rental value. Later, a new regime was introduced in which tax is collected based on plinth area in which a tax assessment form is distributed to the residents, which will cover various factors like basic tax rate, dimensions of the building, purpose of the building, type of roof, floors, the durability of the building, etc. The official then analyzes the self-assessment report submitted by the resident and the final tax rate is fixed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/property-tax-to-be-linked-to-land-fair-value-in-urban-areas/articleshow/80913467.cms||Aswin J Kumar
February 15, 2021||Pune||Vaccine a potent weapon to fight off coronavirus, everyone should take it||By: Vilas Gundecha PUNE: The year 2020 changed the way we live, all over the world. The Covid-19 pandemic took a huge toll on healthcare workers as treating Covid patients was totally different from treating those suffering from the other diseases. The treatment options kept on ‘evolving’ and doctors had to keep on updating themselves with new knowledge every day. Healthcare workers had a double responsibility — keeping themselves safe from Covid-19 and taking precautions that their families (especially the elderly) remain safe too. As was important, several doctors and nurses stayed on the hospital campus for several days. When the vaccine was made available, it instilled a feeling of victory. All hoped that the pandemic would shortly halt and the severity of the disease would be significantly curtailed. I took the first dose of the vaccine a week ago. Personally, it was a very smooth process. I continued to work without a break. I believe that Covid-mortality and severity will reduce as the vaccine takes over. At Inlaks & Budhrani Hospital, Pune, we treated about 5,000 infected patients. It was only because of the hard work of all the resident doctors, the strong team of consultant doctors, staff nurses, the dedicated ward boys, aayas, and support from the administration that such a mammoth task was possible. It is important that we should all get the shot. It is not just the recovery from the pandemic that matters, but equally important is to get the economy back on track. Vaccines work with the immune system so that the body will be ready to fight the virus, in case of exposure to it. Measures like masks and social distancing help reduce the chance of being exposed to the virus or spreading it to others. Even if one has recovered from Covid-19, s/he should take the shot. Many get muscle-ache or fever for a day. Fever after the vaccine actually means your body is preparing against the virus. One should not consider it a side-effect at all. We need to refrain from rumours on social media. (The writer is the chief intensivist at Inlaks and Budhrani hospital in Koregaon Park, Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccine-a-potent-weapon-to-fight-off-coronavirus-everyone-should-take-it/articleshow/80740192.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Western Ghats warming up by 1°C, finds study by NGRI||HYDERABAD: National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) analysis has revealed Koyna region of Maharashtra in the eco-sensitive Western Ghats has witnessed a significant warming of 0.6 to 1 degree Centigrade over the past 100 years. NGRI scientists and IIT Indore researchers have quantified the possible climate warming or cooling in the past 100 years in the Western Ghats using temperature-depth profiles of five boreholes at a depth of 140 to 198 metres in the Koyna region. A research paper titled ‘Assessment of Climate Warming in the Western Ghats of India in the Past Century Using Geothermal Records’ was recently published in ‘Theoretical and Applied Climatology’. Researchers said that Western Ghats, one of the ecologically-rich regions, plays a significant role in deciding the country’s climatological characteristics. Researchers Srinidhi Jha and Jew Das of IIT Indore, Birendra Bharti of the Central University of Jharkhand, Dontireddy Venkat Reddy of NGRI, Pragya Shahdeo of Vignan Institute of Technology and Science carried out the research. The researchers said, “Temperature-depth profiles of boreholes of a region can be analysed to estimate the past variations in climate. The inferred warming of 0.6 to 1° Centigrade is comparable with the trends of meteorological records of the area, which yield an increasing trend of 0.56°C in the surface air temperature. For further validation of results, a combined study of borehole temperature profiles and surface air temperature profiles was done. The combined study showed the period was warmer than the region’s earlier long-term temperature records by 0.8°C. The study provides a ‘true estimate’ of climate change and can be used as a robust technique to reconstruct the past climate warming.” Data at the boreholes in Koyna, Rasati, Chapher, Govare, and Nechal situated in Koyna region of Satara district in Maharashtra was analysed. As per surface air temperature data of the past century of Satara district, a rising trend of 0.56 °C was noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/western-ghats-warming-up-by-1c-finds-study-by-ngri/articleshow/80914723.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Tech Tadka: Soon you can 3D print food in your kitchen||HYDERABAD: It’s snack time and you are on a diet. You just can’t wait to munch on a cookie but want to go easy on carbs. Don’t worry, because in the future, the 3D food printer will satiate your cravings without compromising on taste or nutrition. While 3D printing in the food sector is being experimented the world over by research institutions, large corporates as well as startups, in India, it is Thanjavur-based Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT), that is working on making a 3D food printer affordable as well as conducive for the Indian market. IIFPT comes under the Union ministry of food processing industries. IIFPT director Dr Anandharamakrishnan pointed out that in the coming years, the demand for customised and personalised foods is set to rise. “One of the technologies to achieve this is through food 3D printing, which is an additive manufacturing technology. Among its various types, extrusion-based food 3D printing is by far the most widely used. The food gets deposited layer-by-layer and can be ready-to-eat or ready-to-cook or process,” he said, adding that food can be customised in terms of their appearance, texture and other sensory attributes with the help of this technology. He pointed out that at IIFPT, food 3D printing research is focusing on printability of various food materials, product applicability and post-processing stability. “We developed a food 3D printer -- CARK (Controlled Additive Manufacturing Robotic Kit) -- where printing conditions were optimised,” he said, adding that the institute has also been working on the software aspect to enable the automation of certain additional processes required to come up with a 3D printed snack. At IIFPT, three categories of foods have been studied -- natively printable foods (such as rice), non-printable foods (such as veggies and eggs, that require a suitable pre-processing step to make it printable), and alternative food sources (live vegetable peels/wastes). The team at IIFPT now aims to scale up the technology and make it feasible for industry-scale operations. It is also working on making the 3D food printer suitable for printing snack items that appeal to the Indian palate. Currently, a majority of the 3D food printers are suitable for chocolates, mousse or sauces but in the case of Indian snacks, food needs to be dried or fried after the first stage of processing, which are tasks that the current set of 3D printers cannot accomplish. IIFPT is now ensuring that its 3D food printer can easily print such snack items so that these printers can also be useful in the regular household settings in the future. He also added that food 3D printing should be viewed as an approach that can complement existing food manufacturing practices and in the next decade, one can hope to see the technology taking a prominent in mass customisation of foods. Interestingly, even food industry waste streams can get converted into value-added foods using 3D printing and it can contribute to sustainable food processing practices using resource recovery and waste utilisation. In addition, agro-processing wastes have been converted into biodegradable food package casings with customized designs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tech-tadka-soon-you-can-3d-print-food-in-your-kitchen/articleshow/80914732.cms||Swati Rathor
February 15, 2021||India||16 desi sailors stranded off China arrive in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The 16 Indian seafarers of MV Anastasia merchant ship, which was stuck at a Chinese port for more than six months, arrived in Mumbai on Sunday, reports V Narayan. National Union of Seafarers of India (NUSI) and Maritime Union of India (MUI) had pursued the issue of MV Jag Anand and Anastasia, the two merchant ships stuck at Chinese anchorage. NUSI PRO Sunil Nair said of the 16 crew members, three are from Mumbai and one from Pune. NUSI general secretary and treasurer, Abdulgani Y Serang, said the companies Great Eastern and MSC, the maritime administration as well as the ministries of shipping and external affairs coordinated the efforts to secure the release of the ships. “On the instructions of NUSI, thousands of seafarers and their families and the shipping associations wrote to the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) demanding strong action for a crew change of Jag Anand and Anastasia.” Despite several requests from the Indian government, China had cited Covid-19 restrictions and did not allow the ships to either dock or go for a crew change for months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/16-desi-sailors-stranded-off-china-arrive-in-mumbai/articleshow/80916063.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Heart-rending scenes outside Uttarakhand's Tapovan tunnel||TAPOVAN: For family members waiting outside the Tapovan tunnel on Sunday, their worst fears got confirmed when the rescue teams — after an excruciating and long-winded operation lasting over a week — were finally able to enter 125 mtr inside the 1.6 km long tunnel where they found the first few bodies under the debris. As they moved out with the bodies on Sunday morning around 5 am, the mood was sombre and heart-rending as family members anxiously scanned the tunnel’s entrance with sinking hearts to see if the next body coming out of the tunnel was that of their loved one. “I don’t know what to say. We lost our last hope when officials called us to identify what turned out to be my brother’s body. My brother has five daughters, the youngest one is just eight months old. What do I tell them?” said Suraj Pundir whose brother Alam Pundir was an electrician at the project site. Sharafat Ali, father of Sadiq Ali, an engineer hailing from Saharanpur, said that he was “living on hope for the past seven days, but when the bodies started coming out from the tunnel, my legs were trembling at the thought of coming to the mortuary for identification of a body that may be that of my son.” A temporary mortuary was created by rescue personnel where the bodies’ identification was being done. A police official on duty at the mortuary said, “We have been seeing the familiar faces of distressed family members since Sunday. They had a hope in their heart that they will reunite with their loved ones. Seeing their hopes getting shattered makes us fell sad as well.” Udhay Bhan, who came from Gorakhpur looking for two members from his family, Dhanur Dhari and Ved Prakash said. “For the last six days, every time I received a call from the family in Gorakhpur, I would say the teams are trying to rescue every one. But now, I have nothing to tell them, no hope to give.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heart-rending-scenes-as-bodies-brought-out-from-tapovan-tunnel-after-week-long-operation/articleshow/80913460.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 15, 2021||Bareilly||Declared ‘dead’ on paper, farmer runs from pillar to post to reclaim his ‘grabbed’ land||Pilibhit: Declared “dead” in official records, a 43-year-old marginal farmer of Dhakwara village under Bisalpur tehsil circle has been running from pillar to post giving proof of his life to revenue officials and police to reclaim the ownership of a smallholding that was allegedly grabbed by four people in nexus with officials. Ram Bharose, the victim, alleged that his land measuring four dismal (1,742 square feet) was transferred to the names of four people — Hari Shankar, Ganga Ram, Gangadhar and Shyama Charan — real brothers — of his native village on July 30, 2012 by area lekhpal and kanungo of Bisalpur tehsil after showing him dead on the paper. “I came to know about the forgery on November 14 last after receiving a copy of my land’s ‘khatauni’ (a khatauni is an abstract based on khasras of a village that lists out all holdings of an individual or family in that village) issued by the tehsil office,” said the victim. Ram Bharose said, “I immediately filed an application, urging the tehsildar and the sub-divisional magistrate of Bisalpur to scrap the names of the four brothers from the ownership of the land and re-enter my name as the legal owner. As no action was taken, I filed a written complaint with the Bisalpur kotwali SHO and the superintendent of police against the accused, but an FIR was not registered.” “Fed up with the officials and police, I knocked the court's door for justice. Six individuals, including the two revenue personnel, were booked for forgery, following the order of the additional chief judicial magistrate last year,” he said. On October 20, 2020, Bisalpur kotwali police booked the four brothers and then area lekhpal and kanungo under section 420 (cheating), 467 (forging a document), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code. Ram Bharose, however, rued, "None of the accused was arrested to date nor did the case make any stride forward. My request for justice has so far been ignored.” Asked about the matter, SHO Kamal Yadav said the investigation in this connection was still pending. SDM Rakesh Gupta, “After the matter was brought to my notice, I directed the tehsildar to rectify the official record. The matter will be resolved, at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/declared-dead-on-paper-farmer-runs-from-pillar-to-post-to-reclaim-his-grabbed-land/articleshow/80912618.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||140 Covid-19 cases, two deaths in state||Hyderabad: Telangana on Sunday recorded 146 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths. With this, the total count of cases so far in the pandemic has reached 2,96,574 and the death toll is 1,616. The number of active cases in the state stood at 1,748, of which just 749 were under hospitalized treatment. Also, a total of 2,93,210 patients in the state have so far recovered from the coronavirus infection. The recovery rate stood at 98.86% as against the country average of 97.3% while the case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 0.54%. The CFR is better than the country average of 1.4%. Meanwhile, 26,274 samples were tested for the virus on Sunday, taking the count of tests conducted in the state to 82.9 lakh so far. With this, Telangana has reached 2.22 lakh sample testing per million population. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 29 new cases on Sunday. This was followed by 11 cases in Rangareddy and 9 cases in Karimnagar, while most other districts recorded up to 9 new cases. Jangaon, Jogulamba Gadwal, Narayanpet and Wanaparthy districts did not record any new case on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/140-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-in-state/articleshow/80914745.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kochi||Man drags dog along road in Kerala, held||IDUKKI: In a shocking incident, a man tied up a dog and dragged it along the road around 3pm on Sunday at Kairali Junction at Kattappana in Idukki. The incident was noticed by Sidharth Sugathan, who captured the video and shared it on social media, and later the police intervened. According to local residents, the accused dragged the dog for over 20m on the road, thus injuring the canine. “A case was registered against Mandiyil Shabu, 51, a resident of ITI Junction in Kattappana, under Prevention of Cruelties Against Animals Act. We arrested the accused from the area. The accused first attacked the dog with a stick and tied it with a rope and dragged it along the road,” said Kattappana principal sub-inspector Arun J. “We reached the spot and found the dog from Kairali Junction. We shifted the dog to a veterinary hospital and provided primary treatment. We then handed it over two youths for temporary protection,” he said. “After the treatment, the health condition of the animal is fine. The accused alleged that the dog tried to attack him,” the police officer said. In December, a dog owner was arrested for dragging a pet dog for 500m behind a moving car at Athani in Ernakulam district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-drags-dog-along-road-held/articleshow/80913490.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||To protect Ganga from hydropower plants, Matri Sadan seers to sit on fast from Feb 23||Dehradun: In the backdrop of the Chamoli tragedy, the seers of Matri Sadan have decided to start their fast unto death from February 23 onwards unless the government decides to scrap all the hydropower plants on Ganga and Yamuna and their main tributaries. Swami Shivanand Saraswati, the 70-year-old Ganga activist and founder of the Haridwar-based Matri Sadan, will be sitting on protest fast. The activist has tagged his protest a 'tapasya’ to save the Ganga. The protest consists of four demands. Their three other demands include removal of stone crushers 5km away from the banks of Ganga, banning mining and quarrying on the Ganga riverbed from Raiwala to Raighat and formation of a 'Ganga Parishad'. “The Chamoli tragedy is a result of the Rishiganga and Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel plants which we had been asking to stop at the earliest, but the government failed to listen and we are seeing the results. I am deeply hurt by the indifferent attitude of the state and Centre regarding their attitude towards the ecology of our mythological rivers,” Shivanand Saraswati said. Saraswati sat on a protest in March 2020, too, after other seers of the organisation, including a woman seer, Sadhvi Padmavati, were allegedly forcibly taken by the cops to the hospital showcasing concern towards health. However, later in the wake of Covid-19 and following repeated requests of other activists from the country, Saraswati had to conclude the fast midway, only to restart it now. Three seers from the ashram - Gokulanand, Nigmanand and GD Agrawal (Swami Sanand) - had passed away while agitating for a free-flowing Ganga. The seers ever since had been alleging that neither state nor Centre is serious about saving the dying rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/to-protect-ganga-from-hydropower-plants-matri-sadan-seers-to-sit-on-fast-from-feb-23/articleshow/80913482.cms||Shivani Azad
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Jagdish Reddy attacks Cong’s Jana Reddy||Hyderabad: Senior Congress leader K Jana Reddy came under severe verbal attack by energy minister G Jagdish Reddy on Sunday. “Do not be under the illusion that you are a tall political personality and leader going by your age. How does age matter when you have not been able to address the issue of the public in the 35 years of your political life?” Jagdish Reddy asked, questioning Jana Reddy. “If you are a big leader as you assume, has it not sunk in that in the 2018 assembly elections you were defeated by the people who got vexed with you?” Jagdish Reddy said. He was inaugurating TRS’ membership drive in Halia in Nagarjunasagar constituency on Sunday. Jagdish Reddy also criticised BJP for the rise in prices of gas, diesel and petrol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagdish-reddy-attacks-congs-jana-reddy/articleshow/80914803.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 15, 2021||Kochi||Three brothers drown in pond in Kerala’s Palakkad||PALAKKAD: In a tragic incident, three children drowned in a pond barely 100m away from their house at Kuthirapara, Kunissery near Alathur on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as Jinshad, 12, Rinshad, 7, and Rihash, 3, children of Jazheer and Remla of Pallimettil house, Kuthirapara. Jazheer is an autorickshaw driver. The children, who were playing near their house, went to the pond for a wash before returning home but accidently fell into it. Another boy, who was playing with them, saw them drowning and raised an alarm. Though local residents, police and the fire and rescue department officials conducted rescue operations and rushed the children to a private hospital in Alathur, they could not be saved. The bodies are kept in the mortuary of the hospital for postmortem, the police said. Top district police officials visited the accident site and an inquest of the bodies was conducted. After the postmortem, the bodies will be handed over the family, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/3-brothers-drown-in-pond-in-plkd/articleshow/80913499.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Drunk cop scares locals in Warangal||WARANGAL: A constable, wielding a weapon, created a commotion at the Sri Venugopala Swamy temple near MGM Hospital in Warangal on Saturday night. It is learnt that the constable was heavily drunk. Police rushed to the spot after the locals informed them and recovered a 9mm pistol from the constable. The constable was shifted to the police station. The accused was identified as 53-year-old Kondaviti Vigneswara Balaprasad, a head constable with the Armed Reserve working as a Prisoner Escort at MGM Hospital. According to the police, the constable—who had consumed liquor—created commotion among locals by wielding the weapon. Mattewada sub-inspector P Srinivas Reddy said that a case has been registered under Arms Act against the constable. Meanwhile, the AR wing has issued orders for an inquiry into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-cop-scares-locals-in-warangal/articleshow/80914830.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Peddler arrested in Hyderabad with 4kg ganja||HYDERABAD: Balanagar police, along with Special Operations Team (SOT) sleuths arrested a peddler and seized 4 kg of ganja from his possession. The accused, J Praveen, 35, is a cable TV operator from Gowtham Nagar in Balanagar.  On Sunday, police received specific information about illegal activities of the accused and they kept a watch on his movements. Police caught Praveen red handed at Narsapur X roads when he was trying to sell the contraband to prospective customers. Police also seized a cell phone from Praveen’s possession. The accused was booked under NDPS Act, 1985.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/peddler-arrested-with-4kg-ganja/articleshow/80914843.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC asks contractors to set up grievance redressal mechanism||Hyderabad: After Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials, including IAS officers, were warned of pay cut if roads not maintained in good condition, the civic body has now made it mandatory for private agencies to set up a grievance redressal system to solve issues pertaining to main roads. Under the comprehensive road maintenance programme (CRMP), 401 stretches covering 709 km main roads have been handed over to private agencies for a period of five years at a cost of Rs 1,827 crore. The agencies now have an exclusive phone number (WhatsApp), email IDs and Twitter accounts as a part of the grievance redressal system. Signages have also been installed on pavements with phone number of the agencies so that citizens can complain about the condition of roads. Potholes, re-carpeting roads, eroded bitumen and road-related issues can be reported to the agencies. As per GHMC officials, the grievance should be fixed within a stipulated time. “Potholes should be fixed in a day, people can reach the agencies using WhatsApp or other means mentioned. If their grievance is not resolved, they can approach GHMC officials, we will penalise them,” GHMC (Chandanagar circle) executive engineer P Chinna Reddy said. As per the contract, the agencies need to take up road restoration work in a phased manner. GHMC records reveal of the 709-km road network , 335 km of road restoration has already been completed. The onus of sanitation on CRMP stretches lies with the agencies. The companies, handed over the contract, are also responsible for giving road-cutting permissions and maintaining greenery on the allocated stretches. Some commuters opined that the roads were in a better shape compared to previous years. “ The stretch connecting Madhapur (Metro station) to Jubilee Hills Check post was recarpetted soon after it got damaged, Syed Sameer Munna, a nightlife photographer who used the road frequently, said. After a denizen reported an issue pertaining to zebra crossing on Twitter, the issue was resolved in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-asks-contractors-to-set-up-grievance-redressal-mechanism/articleshow/80914806.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Pune||Bharat Forge shows signs of recovery||Pune: Bharat Forge posted losses of Rs210 crore for Q3 2020-21, but also showed signs of recovery with an improvement in revenue and its domestic and overseas vehicles business. The company attributed the losses to a settlement paid to German antitrust regulators in connection with investigations into three of its subsidiaries in Germany. The firm said its VRS settlement for employees at its Mundhwa and Satara facilities also contributed to the losses. The firm reported a growth in its vehicles business, which drove its quarter-on-quarter revenue by 18% to Rs1,030 crore. The numbers are marginally lower than the Rs1076 crore posted in Q3 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bharat-forge-shows-signs-of-recovery/articleshow/80914811.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||A dangerous precedent of surrendering land: Antony||NEW DELHI: Training his guns at the government over its alleged “surrender” of Indian territory to “appease” China, former defence minister A K Antony on Sunday said the government had set a “dangerous precedent” of surrendering land to China in the name of disengagement and creating “buffer zones”. Antony, who served as defence minister during the UPA government, said India was facing, for the first time, “a two-front, war-like situation” with Pakistan on one side and China on the other, and that defence minister Rajnath Singh’s statement about the recent disengagement at Pangong Tso showed India had surrendered land, and not disengaged. “We have lost rights to areas that are historically and traditionally controlled by India. If this pattern repeats itself in areas like Gogra Hot Springs and Arunachal Pradesh, I don’t know what will happen. This government doesn’t realise the dangers this precedent of disengagement and creating buffer zone sets,” he added. Choosing the second anniversary of the Pulwama attack to criticise the government, Antony said Indian soldiers had control of the strategically significant Kailash ranges, but agreed to vacate them following negotiations with China. “We agreed to withdraw from there (Kailash ranges). At Pangong Tso, we patrolled up to Finger 8, where our LAC is but after disengagement, we agreed to return to Finger 3, where we have a permanent base, even though India has a post at Finger 4. It is very clear, India surrendered and China gained,” he said. Antony also said the surrender of Kailash ranges meant India lost a crucial bargaining chip. “Galwan Valley was never adisputed area. Even in 1962, it was always a part and parcel of India. For the first time, they entered inside Indian territory and we lost 20 of our brave soldiers including Col Santhosh Babu,” he said. Antony also warned that India’s decision to withdraw from Patrol Point 14 could be strategically dangerous for India. “If China wants to create mischief, it can help Pakistan capture the Siachin Glacier,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-dangerous-precedent-of-surrendering-land-antony/articleshow/80916064.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Bareilly||One dead, 7 hurt as vehicles collide in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: In a collision involving a bike, car, tractor-trolley and a mini truck, one person was run over by the truck while seven commuters sustained serious injuries. The accident took place at 9.30 pm on Saturday on Pilibhit-Basti national highway 730 near Katna bridge over river Mala under Gajraula police station. The police have shifted the injured to the district hospital. Jai Prakash Singh, SHO of Gajraula police station, said a car coming from Pilibhit city and heading towards Puranpur hit a bike that was coming from Puranpur side. Biker, Dori Lal (50) and his 45 year old wife, Mamta Devi, were thrown off the vehicle. A tractor–trolley that was following the bike hit both bike and car. Before anyone could react, a mini truck coming from the Pilibhit side mowed down Dori Lal. He died on the spot while his wife was severely injured. Mamta Devi has been referred to a hospital in Bareilly. The injured car passengers include Nitin Mishra (35), Girish Tiwari (33), Kanika (3), Yaksh (7) and Jeevan Chand (40). The mini truck fled the spot after the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/one-dead-7-hurt-as-vehicles-collide-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80912650.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops raise their meme quotient for awareness of traffic rules||Hyderabad: With the ‘meme campaign’ gaining traction among the citizens, Cyberabad police are coming up with more such attractive stuff to create awareness about traffic rules and cyber crimes. Recently, Cyberbad police created a meme with the photo of popular Tollywood comedian Brahmanandam. Watching a man sitting on the top of a fully packed goods auto, Brahmanandam was seen saying ‘yoga is to be done in a home or a park but why this man is doing it on the top of a goods auto’. The meme was widely shared among people. In the last few months, Cyberabad police are creating memes with humorous captions, satires and popular dialogues from Tollywood films and Telugu proverbs. “After noticing traffic violations captured on CCTVs or by our police, we select a few of them. We then prepare a caption and other characters depending on the nature of the violation. Our aim is to educate the people about the importance of safety and also notify the fines for such violations. We want to drive home an important message in a light-hearted manner,’’ Kaja told TOI. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Vijay Kumar said, “We want to reach out to maximum people.We felt that by putting out the content in a creative manner through memes the message will reach more people,’’ Vijay told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-raise-their-meme-quotient-for-awareness-of-traffic-rules/articleshow/80914845.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Locals, experts feel new flyovers will add to chaos around Kasturchand Park: Nagpur||Nagpur: Sadar’s Y-shaped flyover has already created chaos at its landing near Kasturchand Park (KP). Now, the under construction Y-shaped Kingsway flyover will land on two main roads around KP. Also, the Kamptee Road double-decker flyover will land near LIC Square, thereby taking number of flyovers landing near KP to four. It will create more traffic trouble, feel locals and experts. In future the traffic police may likely make traffic around KP one-way. Authorities should ensure that the flyovers does not obstruct this plan. “Nagpur is fortunate to get so many infrastructure projects, however we must plan and execute such projects keeping future in mind. They shouldn’t result into functionally obsolete projects like the flyover in front of Nagpur Railway Station,” said Vidarbha Taxpayers’ Association secretary Tejindar Singh Renu. “As a result of the many projects in its vicinity, KP is surely to turn into traffic nucleus of Orange City, therefore such projects need thorough impact study,” he said. “The one arm of Kingsway flyover will land in front of a school. It will cause traffic hurdle during school timings. Likewise, some permanent solution is needed for chaos caused by landing of Sadar flyover near RBI Square,” Renu said. Civic activist and secretary of Parivartan The Citizens Forum, Dinesh Naidu said flyovers are being built without application of mind, forget proper traffic survey and engineering. “One arm of Kingsway flyover will land near the Military Battalion and another right in front of a school. This shows no politician is bothered about the mess it will cause,” he said and added it creates serious doubts about the capability and intention of MahaMetro. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari had also recently said that views and suggestions of NGOs should also be considered on projects. “We the citizens are actual stakeholders and have better knowledge of the road and traffic behaviour. So it’s important that collective traffic study is done,” said Renu. Rajya Sabha MP and vice-president of Member of Parliament Road Safety Committee Dr Vikas Mahatme admitted that futuristic vision is lacking while designing infrastructure projects. He said help of experts like VNIT should be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/locals-experts-feel-new-flyovers-will-add-to-chaos-around-kasturchand-park/articleshow/80914911.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Nursing student sedates couple with ‘Covid vaccine’, steals gold||HYDERABAD: A nursing student sedated an old couple by injecting them with an unknown chemical, saying it was Covid-19 vaccine and stole eight tola gold jewelry. Police reportedly took the student into custody and recovered the stolen ornaments from her possession. The incident happened at Lalitha Nagar in Meerpet on Saturday evening. The victims were identified as K Laxman, 80, and his wife Kasturi, 70. Laxman is a retired state election commission employee and Kasturi is a housewife. According to Meerpet police, the accused, Anusha, 21, a resident of Meerpet, is currently studying auxiliary nurse midwifery (ANM) course at a private medical college in the city. Anusha also worked as a nurse at a private hospital in Meerpet until recently. Anusha, along with her husband, used to stay in Laxman’s house as a tenant. On Saturday, Anusha came to Laxman’s house and met Kasturi. “She asked me if I was interested in taking Covid-19 vaccine. She said she could get it as she worked as a nurse. I agreed and she came home at 3pm. Anusha injected two doses of the vaccine to me and one dose to my husband. She said we will feel a bit drowsy when the vaccine takes effect,” Kasturi said. “We fell asleep and I woke up at 6.30pm. My mangalsutra was missing and later, I realised that even my gold ring, ear rings and toe rings, all weighing about eight tolas, were missing,” Kasturi added. The victims had lodged a complaint with Meerpet police on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nursing-student-sedates-couple-with-covid-vaccine-steals-gold/articleshow/80914848.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: In two years, violators run up Rs 130 crore unpaid traffic fines||PUNE: Motorists in the city who were fined for violating various traffic rules over the past two years have run up unpaid dues to the tune of Rs130 crore. A special recovery drive undertaken by the city traffic police from the end of December has yielded meagre returns so far. Sample this: in 2020, the traffic police collectively imposed Rs80.47 crore in fines on 20.92 lakh vehicle users. So far, they have received only Rs18.66 crore, including Rs9 crore collected through the ongoing recovery drive. Police have yet to recover Rs61.81 crore outstanding dues. The situation was slightly better in 2019, when the police imposed Rs109 crore in fines on 25.03 lakh vehicle users, and received Rs40.51 crore of that amount. About Rs68.5 crore remains unpaid. “On an average, only 23% of the vehicle users end up paying the fine; the rest do not despite receiving alerts via SMS on their cellphones,” deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rahul Shrirame told TOI. “The collective amount of fine imposed in 2020 is less compared to 2019 because there was reduced vehicular movement on the city roads during the lockdown months. Even today, only 70% vehicular movement has resumed,” Shrirame explained. Shrirame said their priority for the moment is to relentlessly hold recovery drives. “We are also thinking about filing court cases against those motorists who have huge amounts of fine against their vehicles,” he said. He said the primary duty of the traffic department was to regulate traffic and vehicular movement on the city roads and to discipline errant motorists. “Thus, in the morning and evening peak hours, the traffic police on the road manage the traffic and try to avert traffic jams on the city roads,” he said. Shrirame said the special drive is conducted daily between noon and 5pm. “Our policemen randomly check the registration numbers of the vehicles waiting at traffic signals and, if there are pending fines on any vehicles, the motorist is asked to pay up,” he said. “Apart from the physical action, the police also try to send notices to the vehicle owners, but there is a limited response to such initiatives,” he added. The deputy commissioner said most traffic offences stem from a basic lack of respect for the law. “Awareness drives carried out by the police and government machinery too have proved ineffective. It had become apparent in 2020 and the previous year, when we fined over 20 lakh and more than 25 lakh motorists, respectively,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-2-yrs-violators-run-up-rs-130cr-unpaid-traffic-fines/articleshow/80914877.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: First shots for all medics only by March-end, say officials||PUNE: Health officials on Sunday said they would be able to finish administering the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to all 1.13 lakh registered healthcare workers (HCWs) in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) only by the end of next month. So far, 51% of registered health workers have received first shots in the PMR. The Centre had asked all states and regions to finish giving the first dose to HCWs by February 20. Pune is now set to miss this deadline. Among the PMR’s three administrative segments, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has achieved the highest — 61% — coverage of healthcare workers. That’s followed by the Pune rural administration, which is at 54%. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), which also has the highest number of registered health workers (56,000), has covered only 47% of the target. “Going by the current pace of the vaccination, we will be able to finish giving the first dose to all registered healthcare workers by March-end,” said Ashish Bharati, chief of the PMC’s health department. More private hospitals in PMC limits are now being roped in as vaccination sites to expand the inoculation programme. “We plan to add at least four more hospitals from Monday (February 15). We are doing our best to vaccinate a large number of healthcare workers daily. But we cannot force people to turn up. There are still a lot of people who’re on wait-and-watch mode,” Bharati said. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services, Pune region, said, “The deadline that was set by the Centre is not really an order, but a guideline laid to help officials avoid confusion while simultaneously vaccinating frontline and healthcare workers.” According to the guideline, the state has to finish giving the first dose to all its 8 lakh registered healthcare workers by February 20 and the second dose by March-end. First dosing of frontline workers has to be completed by March 15. “The vaccination programme is voluntary, but we can’t wait endlessly for people to shun their hesitancy,” Deshmukh said. There will also be two mop-up rounds from February 25. All healthcare workers can simply walk in for the first dose. “If they don’t, their names will be moved into the general public category, Deshmukh added. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of Pune Zilla Parishad, held a meeting on Sunday with district officials to find ways to boost the pace of vaccinations in the rural parts. “So far, response to the vaccine drive in rural Pune has been positive. The rest of the target HCWs will be vaccinated in the coming days,” Prasad said. Abhay Tidke, district surveillance officer, Zilla Parishad, said, “As per our records, a majority of government HCWs have received their jabs. Many in the private sector are yet to come forward. We have now asked members of the Indian Medical Association to intervene and encourage their colleagues to accept the vaccine. We expect a positive response from them.” The current timeline also requires states to start vaccinating those aged 50 and above from March. Health ministry officials had earlier said the CoWIN app will soon have a self-registration feature that’ll allow citizens in this category to sign up for Covid vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-shots-for-all-medics-only-by-march-end-officials/articleshow/80914863.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||India trails smaller Asian countries in scientists/million ratio||Hyderabad: While Covid-19 vaccine research has been the focus for the past one year around the globe including India, the research scenario in general in the country does not present a bright picture. India has just 253 scientists/researchers per million population, way behind smaller Asian countries like Qatar, Kuwait, Oman and Vietnam. According to a reply given in parliament, India is far behind Asian countries like Republic of Korea (7,980 scientists per million), Singapore (6,803), Japan (5,331), UAE (2,379), Malaysia (2,397) and Iran (1,475). Cambodia (30) has the least number of scientists per million population in Asia, followed by Sri Lanka (106). Small countries like Qatar (577), Kuwait (514), Oman (281), Vietnam (708) and even the neighbouring Pakistan (336) have better presence of scientists in their nations. The reply given in parliament revealed that expenditure on research & development activities in the country is $68.2 billion. Responding to the data, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) director Rakesh Mishra said the funding for research activities in the country is much less than needed. “There has been thinking that research activities should be given 2% of the GDP but that never happens. We are not given even 0.5% of the GDP,” he said. A vast country like India needs more funds in proportion to population, he added. He suggested that science and technology departments of the state governments, which are currently inactive, should also allocate funds and grants whenever needed for research. Dr Kiran Madala, a certified researcher with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said that there is a need to increase funding and focus on health research. “Research needs to be focused on what society needs. Many district level and big government hospitals have patients in bigger numbers than private hospitals. Even at such hospitals, research should be encouraged,” he said. Experts also said that there is a need for increased funding from private sector for research like in USA. “Now, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds are allowed to be used for research projects. That will improve the situation but private sector has to allocate more money,” Mishra observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/india-trails-smaller-asian-countries-in-scientists/million-ratio/articleshow/80914880.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Police launch probe in sale of 1-year-old||Hyderabad: With a WhatsApp message about the sale of baby going viral, Vikarabad police have started an investigation to trace the boy and the persons who bought the child. Tandur Rural police said a couple — Ramulu and Bheemamma, pavement dwellers — sold their nearly one-year-old son for Rs 70,000. On learning about the incident, police reached out to the couple, who confirmed that they sold their baby for want of money. “The baby was sold to unknown persons three or four months ago. Since mediators were also involved in the case, we need to first locate them before knowing to whom the boy was sold,” Tandur police said. According to police, they were yet to register the FIR and it would be done shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-launch-probe-in-sale-of-1-year-old/articleshow/80914886.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||635 new cases in PMR, 482 people discharged||Pune: Four people succumbed to Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Sunday. This took the overall toll in the region to 9,142. Pune Municipal Corporation reported three fatalities, while one person died in the rural areas. In the 24 hours till 8pm on Sunday, 635 people tested positive in the region. This took PMR’s progressive caseload — the overall number of positive cases so far — to 3,92,835. In the same window, the region recorded 482 discharges. This took the total number of recoveries in the region to 3,79,072. Of the fresh cases reported on Sunday, PMC limits accounted for 354. Pimpri Chinchwad had 150 new cases, while rural areas (95), municipal councils (32) and cantonments (4) made up the rest. PMC had the largest share of recoveries too, with 248 patients getting discharged. As many as 171 people were discharged in the rural areas, while Pimpri Chinchwad reported 25 recoveries. Municipal councils (31) and cantonments (7) accounted for the rest. As of Sunday, there were 4,972 active cases in PMR — 1,875 patients were being treated in hospitals, while 2,917 people were under home quarantine. As per data released by PMC, the areas under its jurisdiction had 245 patients being treated with oxygen support. The report further stated that 142 patients admitted in various hospitals were in a critical condition. More than 7,500 samples were tested in PMR on Sunday, taking the overall tests to nearly 21.9 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/635-new-cases-in-pmr-482-people-discharged/articleshow/80914884.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: Petrol crosses Rs 95/litre as fuel prices rise for seventh day straight||PUNE: Fuel prices have shot up for the seventh consecutive day in the city. On Monday, a litre of petrol in Pune was priced at Rs95.10, a new record, while diesel too touched an all-time high of Rs84.68 per litre. “The price of a litre of petrol was Rs. 94.85 on Sunday, while diesel sold for Rs. 84.38 per litre,” said Ali Daruwalla, national spokesperson for All India Petrol Dealers Association. On Sunday, petrol price breached the Rs95-mark (Rs95.21 per litre) in Mumbai, while Parbhani had the highest rate in the state at Rs97.38. Fuel prices have been steadily climbing since February 9. Many dealers said they had no idea when the prices would stabilize or go down. “We demanded that fuel be brought under the ambit of Value-Added Tax, which would have helped. Tax on fuel is very high,” a dealer said. Citizens said they were feeling the burden of ever-increasing fuel prices. “Prices of many commodities, including vegetables, have gone up as a result. How are we going to sustain ourselves?” Kothrud resident Rajesh Kamble said. Transporters said a meeting has been convened in Delhi and that a 15-day notice would be given to the Centre on Monday, followed by a nationwide chakka jam. “The All-India Motor Transport Congress will issue the notice. Once 14 days are up, we will hold another meeting and then, a nationwide chakka jam would be announced,” Baba Shinde, president of the Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/petrol-crosses-rs-95/litre-as-fuel-prices-rise-for-7th-day-straight/articleshow/80914885.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: 1.5 crore doses of Covishield now ready for dispatch||PUNE: Nearly 1.5 crore doses of the Covishield vaccine, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, will be dispatched from Pune to other parts of the country next week. A senior staffer with Kool-Ex, the logistics company involved with the transportation of the vaccine, said the new batch of doses is for frontline workers. “Most of the consignment will be moved by road. Last week, we delivered 1.1 crore doses as part of the second order by the Centre. The new doses are meant for frontline workers and they will all be delivered by the end of next week,” the employee said. Sources from the company said the closure of Pune airport — from April 26 to May 9 due to runway re-carpeting — will have no impact on vaccine dispatch from the city. “Almost all major consignments are now being transported via roads,” the Kool-Ex staffer said. He added that the doses being dispatched next week will be delivered to state depots from where they will be sent to sites administering the vaccine. “The vaccines will be delivered to the same locations as last time — including Karnal, Surat, Mumbai, Pune, Belagavi, Jhansi and other centres. There are at least 48 small depots that receive delivery first.” Maharashtra has already started vaccinating its frontline workers — including members of police units and municipality staff — as part of phase 2 of Covid inoculation. Nationwide data showed that by Saturday evening, Covid vaccines had been administered to over 80 lakh healthcare and frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-5cr-doses-of-covishield-now-ready-for-dispatch/articleshow/80914881.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 15, 2021||Hyderabad||Final batch of LRSAM flagged off||Hyderabad: The final batch of Long Range Surface to Air Missiles (LRSAM), designed and developed by DRDO in collaboration with various industry partners and integrated by Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL), were flagged off on Sunday at Defence Research and Development Laboratory (DRDL), APJ Abdul Kalam Missile Complex, in the city. The missiles are meant for the Navy. G Satheesh Reddy, secretary, DDR&D (Department of Defence R&D) and chairman, DRDO and Rear Admiral V Rajasekhar, director, Defence Machine Design Establishment (DMDE) were present at the flagging off ceremony. “This state-of-the-art weapon system is designed with active radio frequency (RF) seeker to identify, track, engage and destroy the target with high kill probability,” defence officials said. The LRSAM system’s end-to-end performance has been successfully demonstrated through a number of user flight trials from Indian Naval ships. This weapon system has been successfully productionised and has been delivered to Indian Navy. Satheesh Reddy highlighted the importance of indigenous production efforts and complemented the industries that established the manufacturing facilities and successfully executed the production orders in achieving the goal towards ‘Make in India’. Satheesh Reddy also commended the efforts of Missile System Quality Assurance Agency (MSQAA), DG (NAI) in streamlining the production activities at various industries across India, leading to delivery of missiles with aerospace quality standards. Rear Admiral V Rajasekhar, VSM of Indian Navy appreciated the efforts of DRDO for successfully completing the production order and strengthening air defence capability of Indian Navy. He also urged DRDO to design and develop similar advanced weapon systems meeting futuristic warfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/final-batch-of-lrsam-flagged-off/articleshow/80914892.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||‘I was apprehensive about vaccine but excited about the next round’||Pune: After I got a message that the vaccine was being administered to doctors at Cantonment hospital, I got the first dose of the vaccine a week ago. My arm was sore for a few days but I did not experience any fever, body ache, or malaise. I was apprehensive about the first shot but I’m excited about the second shot. The fact that I am safe and I can keep my family safe after the vaccination while being an example to my friends, who are still in the ‘wait and watch’ mindset, gives me a great sense of fulfilling my role as a family physician.When the first few cases of Covid-19 were diagnosed in India, the medical fraternity was in a dilemma. Diagnosing, investigating, and treating a new disease is always a challenge. But this time the fear was palpable. As frontline caregivers, we were most susceptible to the contagion. Many of us, especially family physicians/general practitioners, had our families requesting us not to continue working. Missing out on a diagnosis, contracting Covid-19 from the patients, and endangering our families, especially the elderly and disabled gave us sleepless nights. I was one of the doctors, who on behalf of the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Pune branch, conducted various Covid-19 detection camps all over Pune. Soon the diagnosis got easier and ICU admissions tapered down, strict enforcement on wearing masks helped to a great extent. Every time I got a little body pain or cough I would get scared, but still carried out my work. I lost a few patients in the battle but saved many more.When the vaccine was rolled out, I was in double mind. Examining patients on a daily basis at the Xaviers Church clinic in Camp, I always feared passing on the infection to my elder sister, a cardiac and diabetic patient. The vaccination has almost set me free of that fear.Covid 19 has taught all of us so many important lessons, the most important being ‘value your life and of your family’. (The writer is a senior family physician and former president of IMA, Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/i-was-apprehensive-about-vaccine-but-excited-about-the-next-round/articleshow/80914890.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Above 50? Here’s what you need to know before your first shot of Covid vaccine||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has started gearing up for the next and biggest phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, which will see inoculation of more than 42.5 lakh people who are more than 50 years old and those younger but with comorbidities. The next phase of vaccination may begin in the first half of March. The Aarogya Setu app would play a major role in bringing beneficiaries on board the Co-WIN digital platform. The process would be made simpler and beneficiaries may be allowed to pick a vaccination centre of their choice, sources said. The state government plans to complete the vaccination of healthcare workers by February 20, with a last chance being given to those left out till February 25. The process of inoculation of frontline workers will end by March 1, after which those aged above 50 and younger people with comorbidities would get the jab. The list of Delhiites aged above 50 years is being finalised on the basis of the latest electoral rolls. While the earlier plan was to get beneficiaries registered on the Centre’s official Co-WIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network) app, now it has been decided that Aarogya Setu would be used for the purpose. “Aarogya Setu has been in use for a longer period, while the Co-WIN application is yet to be launched for the general public. The two apps are being linked to make the process of registration, when it starts, easier,” said a Delhi government official. The official added that Aarogya Setu application would act as a bridge to get people registered on the platform. “A meeting of all district magistrates and chief district medical officers is scheduled for Tuesday, where the preparations for the next phase will be discussed, including registration of beneficiaries,” said the official. Dr Suneela Garg, director and professor in the department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and a public health expert who is a part of the government’s vaccination programme, said that IT modifications were being carried out for interlinking Aarogya Setu and Co-WIN. “After the Aarogya Setu application is linked with Co-WIN app and when a user says that he or she is 50 years old, the app will tell the user to press a button. This will take the user to Co-WIN, which will ask for address and geographical location. After knowing the address and location, a centre in the nearby area will be allocated. However, there will be flexibility as each user will have a unique ID,” said Garg. Garg said though the electoral platform would be used to prepare the list, someone employed in Delhi with their name registered in another state’s electoral roll would be allowed to upload their employer’s certificate on Co-WIN or even seek help from their nearby healthcare facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/above-50-heres-what-you-need-to-know-before-your-first-shot-of-c-vax/articleshow/80913578.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi’s oldest library to open with new cover||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation has set the first week of March as the deadline for completing the restoration work at the city’s oldest library — Hardayal Municipal Public Library — at Chandni Chowk. The revamped library may be inaugurated in mid-March. Though the project was announced in September 2019, work on the renovation started as late as June 2020. “The restoration had been planned long back, but due to one reason or the other, it kept getting delayed. The books are very old here and we can’t move them easily. In February, three rooms were earmarked in the Town Hall for shifting books, but that couldn’t happen. Finally we decided to keep all the books on one side of the library, and carry out repair work on the other end,” said Rekha Sinha, local councillor and member-secretary of the library. According to the councillor, around 65% of the restoration work has been completed. “North corporation mayor visited the library recently and he was told that work would be completed by the first week of March. After the inauguration in March, staff can continue to sit. Though Delhi government has issued an order for opening libraries from February 1, we will not be able to allow visitors till February end due to ongoing renovation work,” Sinha added. Hardayal Municipal Public Library was set up in 1862 when it was a part of Lawrence Institute, named after the then Viceroy of India. It currently has a collection of over 1.7 lakh books, of which 8,000 are rare manuscripts that need to be digitised. “We are taking all precautions during the repair work and making sure that the original heritage appeal is not affected. The interior design will be changed, but the outer structure and architecture will not be altered with,” an official said. Meanwhile, the process for preservation and digitisation of books, especially around 350 handwritten books, has started. The municipality has asked a team from Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts to continue the preservation and digitisation of books at the library as work at the conference hall is completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/citys-oldest-library-to-open-with-new-cover/articleshow/80913584.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: Man booked for extortion tries to end life at police HQ||PUNE: A man from Ranjani village in Ambegaon taluka, booked in an extortion case by the Manchar police, allegedly tried to end his life on the premises of the Pune rural police headquarters in Pashan by consuming an unknown poison on Saturday afternoon. He was rushed to Sassoon General Hospital where his condition was reported as out of danger, following treatment. The Chatushrungi police, later on Saturday evening, registered a case of attempt to commit suicide against the man. They are yet to record his statement as he is still in the hospital. Pune rural superintendent of police (SP) Abhinav Deshmukh told TOI, “Recently, a case of extortion was registered against this man by the Manchar police. He is not the main accused in the case but he was an accomplice to the primary suspect. He came to Pashan and consumed the poison before interacting with any policemen. A chit found in his pocket mentions that he did not have any role to play in the case.” Senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police said, “We have recovered the bottle from which the man consumed the harmful substance and have sent it to the forensic experts. A report is awaited.” Preliminary investigation revealed that the man wanted to meet the senior officers at the Pune rural police headquarters for clarifying his stand in the extortion case filed against him. However, after waiting for some time, he proceeded to consume poison, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-booked-for-extortion-tries-to-end-life-at-police-hq/articleshow/80914887.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||BCCL notice to BARC: Times Now TRP was reduced for new channel||MUMBAI: Media house Bennett Coleman & Company Ltd (BCCL) has sent a legal notice to Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) alleging “shocking illegal and fraudulent viewership manipulation and tampering of Television Audience Measurement and Television Rating Points”, particularly of its channel Times Now, to seek over Rs 430 crore compensation. The notice cited forensic reports of July 24, 2020 and December 1, 2020 and a press conference held by Mumbai Police on December 25, 2020 to detail the investigation conducted into activities of BARC to say that “Times Now’s viewership numbers/TRP were clearly fudged and manipulated by BARC from 2017 onwards’’. BARC is an industry body founded by stakeholders who represent broadcasters, advertisers and advertising agencies. The notice alleges that Times Now’s viewership numbers were “deliberately and in a concerted manner, reduced for giving benefit” to “another newly launched English news channel” and that this has “considerably and adversely impacted the revenue, growth, reputation, goodwill and image of Times Now channel and the Times Group at the national and international level.’’ The notice has relied on the chargesheet filed by Mumbai police in the TRP manipulation case as well as a forensic report, which cites internal mails between various officials of BARC. Former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta has been in custody since his arrest on December 24, 2020. The notice said a press conference by Mumbai police and a forensic report revealed BARC had conducted a forensic audit in July 2020 “which revealed that TRPs of various channels were manipulated, rigged, tampered and at times pre-decided by the erstwhile upper echelon of BARC’’ and the TRPs of Times Now, which was leading in the number one position till May 2017, was allegedly “suspiciously reduced’’ to the second position. It alleged that “this gross misreporting of an entire Genre for a protracted period’’ caused “significant financial loss’’ to Times Now. Despite the findings of the audit, BARC chose to suppress the matter and not report it to the authorities, it added. The BCCL notice said the alleged tampered data from BARC “constitutes moral turpitude and criminal breach of trust, cheating and fabrication and manipulation of records…gross abuse of its position being the sole rating agency.’’ The BCCL notice dated February 11, has asked BARC to “release a Press Statement’’ on its website to clarify that Times Now was the number one channel as per its own data and the “undisputed leader in English News Genre from 2017-2019.” It also asked BARC to publicize and publish, at its own cost, the statement in top publications across India.  The notice added BARC must “initiate Disciplinary Action against the errant broadcasters” who are/were allegedly involved in the fraudulent activities and “impose appropriate penalties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bccl-notice-to-barc-times-now-trp-was-reduced-for-new-channel/articleshow/80914900.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||Biker dies in head-on collision with PMPML bus||Pune: A motorcyclist (35) died after colliding head on with a PMPML bus in front of Sanjay Park on the New Airport Road on Friday night. The motorcyclist, Shreesail Nagnath Dhotre of Tingrenagar, was a casual worker, police said. Some eyewitnesses told the police the motorcyclist emerged on the New Airport Road from a lane near Sanjay Park at a speed and collided with the bus head on. The bus was moving towards the airport from Kalyaninagar with a few passengers , they said. Senior inspector Gajanan Pawar of the Airport police said, “After the collision, the bus driver kept driving the vehicle for a little distance before stopping it. He then ran away. We have impounded the bus and have sought details of the vehicle from the PMPML. We have established the identity of the driver and will soon take him into custody.” A PMPML traffic and accident department official said, “The bus is not owned by PMPML, but belongs to one of the hired contractors. We have been told the accident occurred late evening and at a spot that is close to the Pune airport. The motorcyclist suddenly came in front of the bus, which resulted in the collision. The information we have is that the bus driver did not abandon the vehicle.” On Saturday, the police registered a case of rash and negligent driving against the PMPML bus driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biker-dies-in-head-on-collision-with-pmpml-bus/articleshow/80914895.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kochi||From wooden boats, Kochi to cruise into era of catamarans||KOCHI: Passenger ferry service in Ernakulam is set to witness the beginning of a new era with the water transport department all set to launch two fibre catamarans on Monday. Water travel had earlier undergone a similar transition when wooden country boats, which used to be the sole mode of transportation for people living in islands dotted in Vembanad lake and West Kochi to reach mainland, were replaced by steel boats. Before the state water transport department (SWTD) started ferry services in Ernakulam, Kerala state road transport corporation used to operate the wooden boats. “Like today’s private bus operators, ferry services were operated by private people then before KSRTC ventured into the business. With SWTD taking over ferry services from KSRTC in the early 90’s, services were expanded to more destinations. However, the Kumarakom boat tragedy in 2002, that claimed the lives of 29 people, led to the slow exit of wooden country boats, paving way for steel boats,” says Sujith M, SWTD traffic superintendent. However, many retired sailors reminisced how wooden boats helped them manage strong currents posed in the estuary. “High quality teak wood was used to construct wooden boats and the bottom of the vessel were wide and the strudy construction style helped withstand the currents. I used to operate the largest wooden boat, Kerala Kumari, on Ernakulam Vypin route. Around 600 passengers used to board the 90-feet-long boat. The challenge was during monsoon as rain used hamper vision,” remembered Augustine Paia, a retired srank (driver). Local residents remember a double-decker wooden boat that used to operate between Kotappuram and Ernakulam before KSRTC started ferry service in Ernakulam. “Some large boats even had tea stalls. Public opinions over holding protests in Vypinkara were formed in the boats which were the sole source of transportation then. The voyage in wooden boats were beautiful and memorable ones,” recollected Francis Chammany, president of Vypin-Fort Kochi ferry passengers association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/from-wooden-boats-kochi-to-cruise-into-era-of-catamarans/articleshow/80912698.cms||T C Sreemol
February 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: Onion price falls in retail market, slump in produce expected soon||PUNE: The price of onions has dropped from Rs75-85, per kg, to Rs55-65, per kg, in the retail market over the last few days. Nevertheless, traders at Gultekdi Market Yard anticipate a price rise soon since lesser produce is expected to arrive at the wholesale market. As against an average daily onion arrival of 25,000 ton from Pune, Solapur and Ahmednagar, the number has dropped in the range of 14,000 to 11,000 ton, per day, due to less plantation and untimely rain affecting overall onion yield. Babasaheb Bibwe, head of onion and potato section of the market yard, told TOI on Sunday, “There is a slight fall in wholesale rates of onion today. From Rs42-Rs45, per kg, wholesale rate last week, the amount reduced to Rs35-38, per kg, on Sunday. This led to a price dip in retail markets. This won’t last for a long time as overall fewer onions have arrived this year.” Commission agent BS Dighe said, “The area of onion plantation is very little as compared to last year. So, its wholesale price has remained stable over Rs35-45, per kg, for the last three to four weeks. The price reduced when the government had imported onion from West Asian countries to control rates. That effect lasted only for a few weeks. Currently, there is high demand for onions in the market as hotel and restaurant business is functioning at full capacity. However, supply is very limited. So this price scenario will remain at least for next few weeks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/onion-price-falls-in-retail-market-slump-in-produce-expected-soon/articleshow/80914893.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 15, 2021||India||Shringla headed to Moscow as India re-engages old ally Russia||NEW DELHI: With Russia under pressure from the US and Europe, India plans to re-engage with its oldest strategic partner this week, as foreign secretary Harsh Shringla prepares for a series of high level meetings in Moscow on Wednesday. Shringla is expected to hold discussions with his counterpart Igor Morgulov. This being the first major visit to Russia, the two sides say they have a lot to talk about. Shringla is expected to brief the Russian side on the India-China disengagement understanding. Both sides will exchange their perceptions of the new Biden administration as well as China and Myanmar. India is engaging with Europe deeply just at a time when the Russia-Europe ties is in shreds. Both sides are expected to get a measure of their differing perceptions. Russia has been a vocal opponent of the Indo-Pacific and Quad, which has put it at odds with New Delhi. But in a perceptible step back, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov told a press conference in January, “I know that India is not going to move this Indo-Pacific cooperation in a way which would be not positive and constructive,” unusually stating that Russia did not want a “misunderstanding” with India on this issue. This was seen as significant in New Delhi. Describing India as “very close, very strategic, very special, and very privileged partner”, Lavrov said, “Take the spheres of economy, innovation, military-technical and high-tech cooperation. India is one of our closest partners on all these issues.” India is expected to be manufacturing the Russian Covid vaccine Sputnik. India also wants to step up its engagement with Russia in the Far East as well as cooperation in the Arctic region, where Russia is the primary player but China has been seen to be muscling in of late. Shringla will address the Diplomatic Academy in Moscow for a big canvas view of the India-Russia relationship. Lavrov is expected to visit India later this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shringla-headed-to-moscow-as-india-re-engages-old-ally-russia/articleshow/80916065.cms||Indrani Bagchi
February 15, 2021||Kochi||Transport department to launch 2 catamaran ferries today in Ernakulam||KOCHI: The state water transport department (SWTD) will launch two catamaran ferries in Ernakulam on Monday. The catamarans, constructed at a cost of Rs 1.9 crore each, will soon operate between Ernakulam and Fort Kochi by replacing the existing steel boats. Though the official launch of the catamarans is on Monday, their service will start only after securing permission from the Cochin Port. A private agency at Aroor is currently constructing five more similar catamarans to be operated in the route. The agency is expected to release one boat each every one-and-a-half month this year. Each fibre catamaran, with double hulls and double engines, has 100 seats. The vessels will also have two bio-toilets. Since the catamarans will be able to travel faster than the existing boats, the crew will get enough time for breaks between two trips. “The catamaran runs on battery and has a generator. If any ship or other obstruction comes in front of it, the catamaran can be stopped suddenly and turn around without reversing. The existing boats have only single engine and single hull. If anything gets caught in the engine of the boat, it comes to a standstill and a rescue boat is used to tug it to the jetty,” said a SWTD official in Ernakulam A trial run of the new vessel was conducted on Saturday by the SWTD. Each vessel is 20-m-long and 7-m-wide, which can gain speed up to seven nautical miles. The existing ticket fare will continue in the catamarans too. Currently, ferry service to Mattancherry has been discontinued due to sludge in the river bed near the jetty. PWD irrigation department is yet to start drudging in the area marked. Five boats of SWTD operate in Ernakulam alone. On busy days during the pre-Covid period, additional boats used to conduct service. One boat used to operate along the Mulavukadu, Varapuzha and Vyttila-Kakkanad stretch. However, service to Varapuzha was suspended due to shortage of passengers following the Covid pandemic. This service is now conducted only for school students during exam time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/transport-dept-to-launch-2-catamaran-ferries-today/articleshow/80912702.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Satara-Deolai awaits funds for drainage line||Aurangabad: Despite the Satara-Deolai area merged into the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) limits four years ago, the area still does not have a drainage line network, which poses health issues. The AMC had submitted a necessary proposal to the government in January 2019, seeking the release of funds but things failed to move at official level in more than two years. Satara-Deolai houses a considerable chunk of the city population. Manoj Sakhare, a resident of Satara-Deoali area, said the merged area still use soak-pits for disposal of sewage water in absence of drainage line. This leads to wastewater flowing onto the roads during monsoon. Satara-Deolai area officially came in the AMC limits on January 18, 2016. In 2019, AMC had submitted a detailed project report for laying down a network of the drainage line. Civic activist Rajendra Datey-Patil said rules mandate that the state government has to bear the 80% of total expenditure towards providing basic civic amenities of any area merged into the municipal limits. “The local civic body or any public representative cannot bear the expenses for the development of any newly merged area. As per rules, the state government should have released the funds for the necessary civic amenity for Satara-Deolai in the past two years,” he said. In the latest proposal, AMC administration has sought Rs 375 crore from the state government to lay down a drainage line in Satara-Deolai area and the Gunthewari area. “In a formal presentation made before urban development minister Eknath Shinde on Saturday, we have reminded him about non-release of funds for Satara-Deoali,”said Shiv Sena corporator Raju Vaidya. MLA Sanjay Shirsath, in whose constituency Satara-Deoali falls, could not be reached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/satara-deolai-awaits-funds-for-drainage-line/articleshow/80912124.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Dehradun||Almora: Disabled man falls into ditch, dies||Almora: A 50-year-old disabled man, Kishan Singh, died after falling into a ditch about 50 meters ahead of the Jamrani Dam in Almora on Sunday. The man was rushed to the primary health centre in Dhaulchhina where he succumbed to his injuries. The victim Singh was returning home after attending the cremation of his cousin Nain Singh Mehra in Dhaulchhina. Notably, Nain (32) breathed his last on Saturday. He was fighting an illness for some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/almora-disabled-man-falls-into-ditch-dies/articleshow/80913606.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Controversy over ‘Higher Education Department@university’ programme||Aurangabad: The ‘Higher Education Department @university’, an initiative by Higher Education Minister Uday Samant to reach out to every state university with the entire Mantralaya staff to address issues of different stakeholders, has evoked controversy. While the initiative covered Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada (SRTM) University, Nanded, on Saturday, student union ABVP has lodged a complaint with the district administration alleging violation of Covid prevention norms during the event. ABVP has also alleged that state universities have been asked to bear the expenses towards holding the event and carrying out its publicity despite reeling under financial crisis during the current pandemic. ABVP leader Swapnil Begde said that the state government cannot have different yardsticks while implementing Covid prevention norms. “While on one hand the government has put restrictions on public celebrations for Shiv Jayanti, on the other hand the Covid prevention norms go for toss during the events organised by Higher Education minister. The district administration should take note of such violations and take necessary action,” he said. Begde also said that it was wrong to hold public event involving the cabinet minister at the expense of the state university. Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Sena (ABVS), a student union associated with Shiv Sena, has trashed allegations levelled by ABVP. ABVS leader Tukaram Saraf said that the guidelines for ‘Higher Education Department @university’ clearly mandates following all Covid prevention norms. “Many stakeholders who were afraid to travel to Mumbai during the current pandemic benefited from the initiative of ‘Higher Education Department @university’. The programme saw successful redressal of 322 cases on the spot which is a big achievement,” he said. On expenditure part of the programme, Saraf said that the state government only funds universities as and when needed. “The initiative is getting held by spending minimum resources using available facilities. It is wrong to raise hue and cry over expenditure aspect,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/controversy-over-higher-education-departmentuniversity-programme/articleshow/80912118.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: Colleges reopen from today, but students’ attendance a worry||PUNE: As the colleges get ready to reopen from Monday, managements of several institutes are doubtful about the attendance of students in class even at 50% strength. With students now finding their comfort with online classes and having the option of both online and offline, many are already showing disinterest in joining offline classes. Some said attending the practical sessions offline would be enough while theory sessions are either available live or on the college’s YouTube channels and inhouse platforms. Shubham Atre, a third-year engineering student, said, “In our student groups, discussion is ripe regarding attending college lectures face-to-face. I am confused about attending offline classes, so I will not be going in the initial few days at least.” A second-year student, Maitreyi Soman, said, “Our online lectures are going on so there is no reason to attend offline classes as yet. The college has also given us the option of attending online or offline so most of us have chosen online since we don’t have any practical subjects.” A bachelor in business administration student, Shweta Purohit, said, “We have now got used to the online mode of lecturing. The lectures are also put up on our in-house college channel, so we catch up with the recorded videos when we miss the session. For now, we will not be attending the offline classes.” Fergusson College has decided to continue with the online mode of teaching till further notice while many other colleges have begun preparations to welcome the students. Principal of AISSMS College of Hotel Management and Catering Technology, Sonali Jadhav, said, "It is mandatory for students and staff to report any symptoms or cases around them in and off campus and such students will be monitored. The classes and practical will operate with only 50% students and in batches. Placements and internships will also be a priority and the placement cell is lining up campus recruitment drives.” Vice Principal of Ness Wadia College of Commerce, Prakash Chaudhary, said, "We have requested all teachers to get RT-PCR tests done at the earliest. For our degree college, we have planned to call a batch of 40 students on each day as we have 120 students in each division. So, every student will get a chance to attend two days a week. For optional subjects with less than 40 students, we have planned classes on a regular basis. Lectures will be recorded and made available to students not attending in offline mode."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/colleges-reopen-from-today-but-students-attendance-a-worry/articleshow/80914898.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 15, 2021||Pune||Realty firm, partners accused of cheating||Pune: A sessions court here has passed an order directing the city police to register a case of cheating, criminal breach of trust, and conspiracy as well as relevant sections under the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act against four partners of a city realty company and the firm in relation to an investment/deposit scheme. Last year, Aundh businessman Subhash Shaligram Gupta (64) filed a private complaint through lawyers Monish Jain and Gaurav Nashikkar, alleging that Bhimashankar Developers on FC Road and partners of the firm Rajnish Maneklal Bhandari (56), Anuj Maneklal Bhandari (53), Shreyans Anuj Bhandari (26) and Yash Rajnish Bhandari (25), duped him of Rs89.27 lakh. They had promised to pay the complainant the amount as a return on investment. When contacted, Rajnish Bhandari told TOI, “We have nothing to comment on the issue for now as the matter is sub judice.” Gupta had complained that the deal was for giving Rs89.27 lakh on maturity of a two-year deposit of Rs11.29 lakh he made in October 2017 in a plot scheme by the firm at Amberwadi in Khandala taluka of Satara district. Alternatively, the firm offered him the option of retaining five plots, totally admeasuring 933 sq m, upon payment of Rs8.93 lakh at the time of handing over possession. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed on October 9, 2017, and notarized on October 24, 2017. The firm gave Gupta 12 post-dated cheques (PDCs) of Rs7.43 lakh each for the period between October 9, 2019, and September 9, 2020. Gupta alleged the scheme did not take off even after two years and had no sanctions from the town planning authorities nor was it registered with MahaRERA, he alleged. Gupta stated that when he deposited three of the 12 PDCs for claiming back a part of his promised money, the bank returned the same saying ‘Payment stopped by drawer’. Additional sessions judge SS Gosavi referred to the complaint and the citations in detail and held on February 12, “This is a fit case to give direction to the Chatushringi police station under 156 (3) Code of Criminal Procedure to register an offence under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 and 409 (both relating to criminal breach of trust), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 3 and 4 of the MPID Act.” The judge prima facie observed, “Since beginning there was dishonest intention to cheat the complainant. The above stated factual and legal position prima facie shows that accused no. 2 & 3 (Rajnish and Anuj) made false representation and inducement to the complainant to make investment in the scheme floated by accused no. 1 partnership firm. Accused no. 4 & 5 (Shreyans and Yash) are partners of that firm and all of them have cheated and committed criminal breach of trust and offence under section 3 & 4 of MPID Act.” The court also held that a single individual’s complaint was maintainable under Section 3 of the MPID act and noted, “Before filing this complaint, the complainant filed a complaint with Commissioner of Police, Pune and Deputy Commissioner of Police EOW and Cyber Cell and Senior PI Chaturshringi police station but they did not take any action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/realty-firm-partners-accused-of-cheating/articleshow/80914902.cms||Vishwas Kothari
February 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: Assault & molestation plaint against daily wager||PUNE: The Khadki police on Saturday registered a case of molestation and assault against a man after the mother of a 16-year-old girl, with impaired hearing and speech, accused him of slapping and touching her daughter inappropriately. The woman (40) stated in the FIR that her daughter was cleaning the area in front of their house when the man, who is a daily wager residing in a neighbouring lane, approached and slapped the girl, besides touching her inappropriately. He then ran away from the spot, the complainant said. Senior inspector Datta Chavan of the Khadki police station said, “We are searching for the man and have established his identity. Prima facie investigation revealed that the man was unhappy with the girl as she was sweeping the area and there was dust.” “The man, in a fit of rage, slapped the girl and then molested her. The girl started crying and narrated the entire incident to her mother through sign language and then her mother approached police,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/assault-molestation-plaint-against-daily-wager/articleshow/80914912.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Tutor held for giving injections to students to improve memory||NEW DELHI: A 20-year-old tutor has been arrested ice for administering normal saline injections to his students to improve their memory. The accused, Sandeep, is a BA second year student and gives free classes to students of classes VI to IX in east Delhi’s Mandawali. Police said the matter came to light after one of the students’ parents saw their child taking injection at home and informed police. “Sandeep said that he saw on YouTube that memory of children improves if normal saline solution is administered to them. An FIR has been registered at Mandawali police station,” said Deepak Yadav, DCP, east Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tutor-held-for-giving-injections-to-students-to-improve-memory/articleshow/80913614.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Gurgaon||In plastic-free push, residents to get 50k cloth bags||Gurgaon: To make the new sectors — falling under the new municipal corporation Manesar — a plastic-free zone, a residents’group by the name of United Association of New Gururgam (UANG), started a campaign on Sunday under its community connect 2.0 initiative. Dheeraj Kumar, joint commissioner of MCG and MCM launched the campaign at Dadi Sati Chowk in Sector 86. Residents of several societies, including DLF societies in sectors 86, 90, 91, Vatika India Next in Sector 82, Sare Homes in Sector 92, Spaze Privy in Sector 93, Mapsko Paradise in Sector 83, Supertech Araville in Sector 79, Tulip Petal in Sector89, Vipul Lavanya in Sector81 and Orris Carnation in Sector85, joined the campaign launch and took a pledge to stop the use of single-use plastic. “MCG and MCM is putting in efforts to stop the use of polythene and single-use plastic and this cannot be achieved without the cooperation of the residents and civic authorities. We are glad that people are taking the initiative to tackle this menace,” Dheeraj said. Praveen Malik, vice-president and spokesperson of UANG said, “As a society we are all aware about the ill effects of plastic on the environment, ecology and human being. We will start a door-to-door awareness drive in 50 societies and 29 villages falling under the MCM and will distribute 50,000 cloth bags as part of this initiative. Also, we will encourage people to reduce their dependence on plastics and will honour those societies and villages that will become free of plastic.” Ashish Ahlawat, a resident of Supertech Araville, said, “This initiative is a great step towards plastic-free environment. Things cannot change overnight, but if we educate our children today, they will bring the change tomorrow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-plastic-free-push-residents-to-get-50k-cloth-bags/articleshow/80915581.cms||Akanksha Gupta
February 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: PMPML director bats for prioritizing passenger safety||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) director Shankar Pawar has maintained that the passenger safety cannot be compromised and having automatic doors at bus stops along the Swargate-Katraj BRTS route was a major requirement for safety of commuters. The PMPML will be raising this issue at the meeting of its board of directors (BoD) on February 23, he told TOI on Sunday. The municipal commissioners and the mayors of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad are part of the 10-member BoD. The meet holds significance as Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and top Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials have so far maintained silence over the matter. The TOI sent detailed WhatsApp messages to PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, as well as Mohol, on Saturday and Sunday but there was no response from either of them till the time of going to the press. Shankar Pawar said the matter would be discussed in depth at the BoD meeting for an amicable solution. “We are aware about the matter and the safety of passengers cannot be compromised with. We will make every attempt to resolve the matter.” Civic activists have already written to Kumar on the need for automated gates at bus stops along the BRTS corridor and have described the PMC’s stand, regarding the inability to do so, as “shocking”. Prashant Inamdar, the convener of Pedestrians FIRST, told TOI, “It is highly regrettable that this sort of situation exists in Pune, which has the distinction of being the first city in the country to commission the BRTS in December 2006 and also takes pride in being an award-winning Smart City.” “The bus lane is located immediately beyond the station platform as the bus is required to dock closely at the stop. In case the platform has permanently open doorways, commuters are likely to wait in clusters at the edge of the boarding platform. Some commuters may even bend outwards to check for an approaching bus. There could also be a rush among commuters to reach the front. There is every possibility that a commuter may lose balance or get pushed and s/he may fall in the bus lane from a height and suffer serious injury. If the bus is already near the bus station, the fallen commuter could also come under the wheels of the bus, causing a fatal accident,” Inamdar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-director-bats-for-prioritizing-passenger-safety/articleshow/80914946.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 15, 2021||Kolhapur||Bhide’s outfit on verge of split, faction supporting expelled in-charge calls meeting on Feb 21||Kolhapur: The Shri Shiv Pratishthan Hindustan -- largest Hindu outfit of the region led by controversial Sambhaji Bhide -- is on verge of split after the outfit expelled its executive in-charge (karyavahak) Nitin Chougule from the organisation for unknown reasons. Since Chougule’s expulsion, many workers have poured their support for him on the social media. President of the outift Raosaheb Desai, in a short video message issued earlier this month, had announced that Chougule was expelled from the outfit and no worker should keep any sort of relations with him. Chougule sought the reason for his expulsion from the outfit, but said he has not been provided with the reason for expulsion nor was he given any chance to put up his view before the top leaders, including Bhide who has thousands of followers in the region. The Sangli-based outfit is known for its extreme Hindutva ideology and alleged role in the Miraj and Koregaon-Bhima riots. Bhide is accused of hatching the conspiracy and involvement in Koregaon-Bhima riots. Chougule said, “As suggested by my friends and well-wishers, we are going to hold a meeting in Sangli on February 21 to discuss our fate in the organisation for which I personally devoted more than two decades. Many suggestions are being made by my friends regarding the movement, but I have not finalised anything.” Speculations are rife that Chougule will launch separate movement to take forward the cause of Hindutva. Always a close confidante of Bhide, Chougule has remained the communicator between Bhide and other political leaders. Bhide was not available for his comments, but his close supporters claims he will make a statement over the issue in coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bhides-outfit-on-verge-of-split-faction-supporting-expelled-in-charge-calls-meeting-on-feb-21/articleshow/80912131.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: Armed men rob old couple of valuables worth Rs 4.7 lakh||PUNE: Four armed men broke into a bungalow in Talegaon Dabhade early on Saturday, looted cash and gold ornaments — collectively worth Rs4.7 lakh — after tying the 74-year-old owner and his wife with bedsheets. The robbers had to flee from the bungalow when a youth from the neighbouring house raised an alarm after hearing commotion inside Arjun Shete’s bungalow in Vanashrinagar near Talegaon railway station. The youth entered the bungalow and freed Shete and his wife Meera after the robbers fled, subsequently alerting the police. Sub-inspector Dattajirao Mohite told TOI, “Shete sustained minor injuries in the incident. The suspects robbed gold ornaments worth Rs2.7 lakh and a sum of Rs2 lakh, which Shete had withdrawn recently to pay for his knee operation.” Mohite said, “The society where the robbery happened is one of the plush societies in Talegaon Dabhade but we hardly found any CCTV cameras in the area.” Mohite said the suspects cut the grille on the living room window and entered the bungalow. “Shete and his wife were sleeping at the time and could not sense the perpetrators’ presence in their house,” the officer said. He said, when the suspects entered Shete’s room, his wife woke up. “She tried raising an alarm on seeing the perpetrators brandishing sharp weapons. The suspects threatened her and tied her with the bedsheet. As Shete could not get up front the bed, the suspects forcibly got him up, due to which he sustainable a minor injury on his hand,” Mohite said. The officer said the robbers then tied Shete too and robbed gold ornaments and cash, cumulatively worth Rs4.7 lakh. “Shete’s neighbour, on hearing a scuffle, started raising an alarm, which is when the suspects fled,” Mohite said. Sheet is a retired teacher. His son is the US while his daughter-in-law stays in Sangvi. “Shete and his wife too were staying with their daughter-in-law, but had returned to Talegaon Dabhade around five days ago,” Mohite said. The officer said the police have registered the offence under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt while committing robbery) and 452 (house-trespass, having made preparation for causing hurt to any person or for assaulting any person, or for wrongfully restraining any person) of the Indian Penal Code, as well as the relevant sections of the Indian Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/armed-men-rob-old-couple-of-valuables-worth-rs-4-7l/articleshow/80914917.cms||Mihir Tanksale
February 15, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: ‘Educate stakeholders to enhance road safety’||KOCHI: All the issues associated with pedestrian safety and rights stem out of lack of awareness on the part of various agencies involved in road construction. There should be an agency to create awareness among the owners of roads, drivers and pedestrians regarding the safety and rights of wayfarers. According to experts in road safety and traffic, lack of awareness regarding pedestrian issues starts right from designing the road. “There should be design engineers. Unfortunately, no road designing agencies in the state or Kochi has design engineers. In the absence of design engineers, key issues like pedestrian safety take a back seat while designing roads,” said Indian Institute of Road Safety director Upendranarayan. “There should be engineers having scientific knowledge regarding road safety with the owners of roads. Similarly, police, officials with motor vehicles department, etc also should have awareness on road safety,” he said. “Road safety issues should be taught while giving training for driving. Trainers at driving schools also should have thorough knowledge regarding road safety and pedestrian issues. They should impart such knowledge while training people,” Upendranarayan said. There isn’t any space for walkways or footpaths on many of the roads, bridges and flyovers in the city. “There is no footpath on the recently-constructed Ponnurunni railway overbridge. Moreover, the railways closed the borders preventing the pedestrians from crossing the railway line on their foot. Now, pedestrians need to cross the railway line by walking through the carriageway of the railway overbridge. It is very dangerous,” said RTI activist T N Prathapan. “Similarly, the zebra crossing under the recently-constructed Vyttila flyover remains closed even weeks after the opening of the flyover. This indicates the care given by the authorities to pedestrian issues,” Prathapan said. Many of the agencies which are engaged in improving infrastructure development in the city focus more on constructing joggers’ path rather than constructing walkways for pedestrians. Such joggers’ paths are being constructed by reducing the width of the carriageway of the roads. This can be visible in places like Panampilly Nagar.  “The minimum width of carriageway should be 3.5m. It is because of the lack of awareness regarding traffic issues that the road agencies themselves reduce the width of roads,” Upendranarayan said. Many of the footpaths are being constructed at a height of around two feet from the road.  “Besides this, access for vehicles to various offices, shops etc from road is being given by making a cutting on the footpath. Elderly, sick, children etc face difficulty walking on such dips on footpaths. There would be such dips in front of every shop or office,” Prathapan said. “Many roads and bridges are being designed without provision for footpath,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/educate-stakeholders-to-enhance-road-safety/articleshow/80912707.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
February 15, 2021||Kochi||Circular asks priests to ‘sprinkle’ ash on heads||Kochi: Churches are readying to observe Ash Wednesday and Ash Monday, which marks the beginning of Lent, adhering to Covid-19 protocol. Ernakulam Angamaly archdiocese has issued a circular informing priests about the Vatican guidelines for administering the sacraments and offering Mass during the holy day. As per the circular, priests may sprinkle ashes on each person’s head, rather than using them to make a cross on people’s foreheads. The circular states that the day can be observed adhering to Covid-19 restrictions. It also instructs priests to bless the ash and give it to believers so that they can take it home. The Syro Malabar Church, except for a few dioceses, follows Ash Monday instead of Ash Wednesday, which is followed in parishes of the Latin rite. Hence, it would be observed on Monday and the Church has directed its bishops to give directions to priests in their respective dioceses. “The bishops concerned would direct priests to either give the ash in a spoon or a spatula to believers so that they can mark the cross themselves or sprinkle the ash,” said Fr Alex Onampally, secretary of the Syro Malabar Church’s media commission. Meanwhile, a senior priest with the Verapoly archdiocese of the Latin Church said that almost all churches following the Latin rite would follow the practice of sprinkling ashes this year. Archbishop of Verapoly Mar Joseph Kalathiparambil would lead the prayers at St Francis Assisi Cathedral in the city on Ash Wednesday, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/circular-asks-priests-to-sprinkle-ash-on-heads/articleshow/80912710.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolhapur||Satara identifies 108 fresh Covid-19 cases, Kolhapur 14||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district on Sunday registered 14 fresh Covid-19 cases, of which, eight were from the city. With this, the total number of patients in the district rose to 50,099. At present, the district has 141 active cases after four patients were discharged on Sunday. So far, 1,729 patients have succumbed to the contagion while 48,229 have been treated. In Sangli district, 13 new cases were identified, of which, eight are from the limits of the Sangli Municipal Corporation area. As of now, there are 126 active patients in Sangli district. So far, Sangli has reported 48,278 Covid cases, of which, 1,753 have succumbed to the infection. In Satara district, reported 108 fresh cases along with two deaths. The district has 940 active patients as of now. So far, Satara district has reported 57,472 cases, of which, 1,839 have succumbed. Meanwhile, Solapur city reported eight new cases and one death while the rural district reported 18 cases along with two deaths. The active cases stand at 426 in the city and 248 in the rural district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-identifies-108-fresh-covid-19-cases-kolhapur-14/articleshow/80912149.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Delhi||Min temp 2 degrees below normal in city||New Delhi: A blanket of fog covered Delhi on Sunday morning, with the city recording a minimum 8.6 degrees Celsius, MeT officials said. The minimum temperature was two notches below the season’s average. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 28.7 degrees Celsius, five notches above the season’s average. The Met department has forecast dense fog on Monday morning. Meanwhile, the air quality in the national capital was in “very poor” category, with AQI recording 342 at 7pm, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/min-temp-2-degrees-below-normal-in-city/articleshow/80913645.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Pune||PMC tells bulk generators to set up waste disposal units on premises||Pune: The civic body has started penalizing housing societies and commercial establishments not processing their garbage at source. The penalty amount ranges from Rs5,000 to Rs15,000. The civic administration has urged owners and building management committees to approach empanelled experts for help with completing the projects speedily. Residential or commercial properties that generate over 100kg garbage daily should process the garbage on their the premises, officials said.In January, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had declared that it would stop collecting garbage from bulk garbage generators, who do not process the waste. The bulk garbage generators are expected to dispose wet garbage on their premises and give dry waste to the civic administration. However, many housing societies are not following these norms. The PMC has given the societies two months’ time to set up the processing facility. If they do not comply with the norms by March-end, garbage collection will be stopped, said officials. “Although the March 31 deadline remains, we haven’t stopped taking action. It is the responsibility of garbage generators to dispose the trash at their premises,” said Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner.He added that PMC has approached consultants on its empanelled list, who will interact with housing societies and help them set up disposal units. Civic officials observed that some societies fraudulently take benefit of discounts offered for green buildings but don’t undertake proper disposal methods.PMC data shows that nearly 2,100 tonnes of garbage is generated in the municipal area, of which around 800 tonnes is wet garbage, 700 tonnes is dry garbage, and 600 tonnes is mixed trash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-tells-bulk-generators-to-set-up-waste-disposal-units-on-premises/articleshow/80914955.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Rajkot||17 S’rashtra fishermen in Pak custody||Rajkot: Three India fishing boats along with 17 fishermen were apprehended by Pakistan Maritime Security Agency (PMSA) from Arabian Sea on Saturday. Secretary of National Fishworkers’ Forum, Manish Lodhari said that the boats from Porbandar and Gir Somnath districts had set sail more than a week ago carrying 17 fishermen onboard. But on Saturday, he received a message that they have been apprehended as boats allegedly trespassed into Pakistani waters. “Nearly 400 fishermen from Porbandar and Gir Somnath districts have been languishing in Pakistani jails for the past two years. There were talks that 271 of them will be released but there has been no concrete development towards that. Instead, more of our men are being taken away,” alleged Lodhari. “Pakistan has 1,100 Indian fishing boats in their possession which they are not ready to release. We tried for a delegation visit, but no breakthrough so far,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/17-srashtra-fishermen-in-pak-custody/articleshow/80912771.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ranchi||IMA campaigns against mixopathy in Ramgarh, Jharkhand||RAMGARH: The district unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Sunday began its campaign against allowing Ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries. As per a Central Council of Indian Medicine notification, Ayurveda doctors have been allowed to perform as many as 58 types of surgeries which the allopathy practitioners have said is threat to patients’ lives. As part of its campaign, an interactive programme was organised here which was attended by intellectuals, doctors, traders where the IMA office-bearers urged everyone to oppose the move. Dr Santvana Sharan, who is the national secretary of IMA’s ‘mission pink health’ programme, said, “We should say no to mixopathy as mixing of different medical practices would be a threat to the patients. We will reach out to various sections of people and outfits through similar programmes to seek support as this puts the health of millions of people at risk. The move will give rise to quackery.” IMA’s district president Dr S P Singh said that allowing post graduate practitioners of Ayurveda to do 58 types of critical surgeries is like giving a knife to a child. “We are not against traditional Ayurveda but against the mix-up of modern allopathy with it,” he said, adding that the government should instead focus on improving the doctor- patient ratio. “Currently, there is one doctor for every10,000 patient, which is needs to be changed,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ima-campaigns-against-mixopathy-in-ramgarh/articleshow/80914966.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Vadodara||Man held for making top cop’s fake FB account||Vadodara: The cybercrime sleuths caught a man from Delhi for allegedly creating a face Facebook account of city police commissioner Shamsher Singh.  “He was tracked down on the basis of the fake FB account he had started. Search for the other persons involved in the crime is still on,” said a police official. Singh had on Saturday kept a post on FB account stating that someone had created a fake FB account in his name by using his photograph. Singh had requested everyone to not accept friend request from that account.  Singh is another prominent person from the city to have been targeted by the cyber frauds after Gujarat assembly speaker, Rajendra Trivedi. The crime branch some days ago had arrested two men from Haryana for making bogus FB page of Trivedi. The accused duo had demanded money from FB users by posing as Trivedi or his supporter.  The frauds had also targeted Congress leader Narendra Ravat and BJP Akota MLA Seema Mohile by making bogus social media accounts in their name. “It’s an organized gang that is making such bogus accounts of prominent persons and siphoning money from their friends or acquaintances,” the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-for-making-top-cops-fake-fb-account/articleshow/80912840.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ranchi||NHAI sets up counters at all toll plazas in Jharkhand for FASTag stickers||RANCHI: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) made arrangements to make FASTags compulsory across all toll plazas in the state from Tuesday (12am). As per the new rules, there would be no cash transactions at any of the eight toll plazas in state. “All possible arrangements have been made to ensure that people can adopt to the new system without any difficulty,” NHAI’s regional officer S K Mishra said on Sunday. “All the lanes on the highways have been converted into FASTag lanes now and from 00hrs on February 16, there would be no lane for cash,” Sinha said, adding, “If any vehicle is found without a FASTag sticker, the driver will be charged double the toll tax amount.” In case of any technical glitch or reluctance of the vehicle owners in complying with the order, they would be charged double the amount of the actual toll fee. The ministry of road transport and highways had ordered to make FASTags compulsory from January 1 but it was extended till February 15 at the eleventh hour to ensure that more and more vehicles get themselves equipped with the fast and easy mode of paying toll taxes. Mishra said that a large number of counters have been set up by private parties across all eight toll plazas where one can buy the FASTag sticker for Rs 100 and pay another Rs 100 as security deposit to install the facility on vehicles which do not have FASTags yet. “All vehicles manufactured after January 1, 2021 are coming with factory-installed FASTag and by now around 80% vehicles in the country are using the system. Though in case of Jharkhand the figure is low, around 65%, but we hope to increase it soon,” he added. Around two dozen officials from the department along with policeman and marshals have been deployed at the toll plazas to ensure that the vehicles are provided with FASTag when they approach the toll. “We are not going to refuse passage to the vehicles, instead the agencies providing FASTag services would be available to do the formalities and in case there is some difficulty the vehicles would be allowed to pass after paying double charge,” Mishra said. Seeking cooperation from the people the NHAI has appealed to the officials and policemen at the toll Plazas to be polite and firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nhai-sets-up-counters-at-all-toll-plazas-in-jharkhand-for-fastag-stickers/articleshow/80914964.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
February 15, 2021||Ranchi||33 new Covid-19 cases, 24 recoveries in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported 33 fresh cases and 24 recoveries. Meanwhile, there were no deaths with the toll staying at 1,081.  A total of five districts of the 24 reported fresh infections on Sunday, of which four reported cases in single digits. Barring state capital Ranchi which reported 14 cases, all others reported fresh infections in single digits. As per government data, as many as 1,19,316 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,17,773 have recovered, taking the recovery rate up at 98.70%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03% against the national average of 0.07%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 2215.67 days against the national figure of 926.66 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.90%. Meanwhile, a total of 8,063 beneficiaries were inoculated on Sunday across over 200 session sites in Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/33-new-cov-cases-24-recoveries-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80914957.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ranchi||Farm bodies in Jharkhand to support rail rokko on February 18||RANCHI: The Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanway Samiti (JRKSSS), an umbrella organization of farmers’ bodies in the state, on Sunday paid tribute to the farmers who lost lives recently while protesting against the three new farm laws on the second anniversary of the Pulwama terror attack. JRKSSS also announced that it will join the nationwide rail rokko stir called by farm unions across the country on February 18. Earlier on Saturday, the samiti held its maiden mahapanchayat at the Rahe block here on the lines of the congregations held in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to mobilise farmers against the farm laws. The samiti’s convener, Sufal Mahto, said many more mahapanchayats will be held in all districts and blocks of Jharkhand in the coming months to create awareness among the farmers on why the new laws are not in their favour. He said, “On January 16, we will announce our future course of actions and schedules of our upcoming mahapanchayats after a meeting with all stakeholders. Farmers in Jharkhand are now waking up to the effects of the new farm laws too.” Stressing that JRKSSS is readying teams to make the February 18 rail roko stir success in Jharkhand, Mahto said, “From 12pm to 4pm, we will block the trains by sitting on the tracks across the state. We are currently in the process of identifying places to stage the protests but the blockade will be statewide.” JRKSSS is a group of over 5,000 farmers comprising different big and small farm unions in the state. Some of the unions of the samiti are Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha, Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, Kisan Mahasabha and Kisan Sangram Samiti. On why they chose to pay tributes to farmers on the anniversary of the Pulwama terror attack, Mahto said, “Farmers and jawans are the two sides of the same coin. One protects the nation and other feeds it. However, the Union government is now trying to create a rift between the two after what we saw after the Republic Day fiasco on Delhi. We want strict action for the trouble mongers but we oppose the lathicharge on farmers, who are protesting peacefully to get their demands. Hence, we chose to pay tributes to over 70 farmers who died so far during the protests against the farm laws by holding programmes across the state along with remembering the martyred jawans.” On its demand for MSP, Mahto said. “PM Narendra Modi said MSP is here to stay but all that we are demanding is a law on it. The situation of farmers have hardly changed over the years in both BJP and non-BJP ruled states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/farm-bodies-in-jharkhand-to-support-rail-rokko-on-feb-18/articleshow/80914938.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Goa||Dirty water: PWD begins replacing Calangute pipeline||Calangute: The PWD has started replacing the old pipelines supplying water to Umtawaddo and Cobrawaddo areas of Calangute after contaminated water started entering them. Consumers in these areas had recently been getting foul smelling and dirty water through the PWD pipeline network, suspected to be due to sewage seeping into the pipes. Following this, water supply to the affected areas was stopped to prevent a health hazard. The contaminated water was first detected almost one month ago, according to Calangute Constituency Forum president Premanand Divkar, who lives in the area. Though the PWD surveyed the area for nearly a month to identify the exact spot where the seepage was happening, they were unable to do so, according to Calangute panchayat members. Last Friday, minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo held a meeting with PWD officials and Calangute panchayat members where it was decided to replace the old pipes. The work has already started, Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martin said. “All the pipes in the bylanes and interior areas are being replaced,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dirty-water-pwd-begins-replacing-calangute-pipeline/articleshow/80915640.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Phase-II results strengthen YSRC in gram panchayats||VIJAYAWADA: YSRC supporters on Sunday claimed that they have won majority of the seats in the second phase of gram panchayat elections. Out of 3,328 panchayats notified in the second phase, 538 panchayats have chosen their representatives unanimously and polling was held for 2,757 panchayats on Saturday. YSRC sources said that the party’s supporters won 2,639 seats, including unanimous seats across the state. The party said the poll results should be considered as a referendum on the two years of YSRC government. “The second phase results have showcased the public’s love towards chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. Welfare schemes introduced by the government have received huge response from voters, leading to huge success for YSRC in panchayat elections. These results have increased our responsibility and we promise to continue good governance,” said municipal minister Botcha Satyanarayana. Incidentally, many rebel candidates from YSRC have won the elections. Meanwhile, the candidates supported by TDP have managed to win 536 seats in the second phase. TDP leaders alleged that the elections were not held in a transparent manner. They said officials were acting in favor of YSRC and many of their candidates were threatened when they tried to file nominations. A candidate backed by TDP won Yelamarru panchayat, the native place of civil supplies minister Kodali Nani. Kolluru Anusha, supported by TDP defeated YSRC candidate Devamani with a majority of 271 votes. Meanwhile, Jana Sena and BJP expressed satisfaction over the results and said they have managed to win around 150 panchayats, including sarpanch and deputy sarpanch posts. Jana Sena PAC chairman Nadendla Manohar said: “This victory has given hope and courage to our party at village level. We have increased our voting share considerably in rural areas in these panchayats. Our candidates didn’t spend money to influence voters. The ruling party is troubling opposition or else the results would have been much better.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/phase-ii-results-strengthen-ysrc-in-gram-panchayats/articleshow/80912798.cms||Venu Lanka
February 15, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Phase-II results strengthen YSRC in gram panchayats||VIJAYAWADA: YSRC supporters on Sunday claimed that they have won majority of the seats in the second phase of gram panchayat elections. Out of 3,328 panchayats notified in the second phase, 538 panchayats have chosen their representatives unanimously and polling was held for 2,757 panchayats on Saturday. YSRC sources said that the party’s supporters won 2,639 seats, including unanimous seats across the state. The party said the poll results should be considered as a referendum on the two years of YSRC government. “The second phase results have showcased the public’s love towards chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. Welfare schemes introduced by the government have received huge response from voters, leading to huge success for YSRC in panchayat elections. These results have increased our responsibility and we promise to continue good governance,” said municipal minister Botcha Satyanarayana. Incidentally, many rebel candidates from YSRC have won the elections. Meanwhile, the candidates supported by TDP have managed to win 536 seats in the second phase. TDP leaders alleged that the elections were not held in a transparent manner. They said officials were acting in favor of YSRC and many of their candidates were threatened when they tried to file nominations. A candidate backed by TDP won Yelamarru panchayat, the native place of civil supplies minister Kodali Nani. Kolluru Anusha, supported by TDP defeated YSRC candidate Devamani with a majority of 271 votes. Meanwhile, Jana Sena and BJP expressed satisfaction over the results and said they have managed to win around 150 panchayats, including sarpanch and deputy sarpanch posts. Jana Sena PAC chairman Nadendla Manohar said: “This victory has given hope and courage to our party at village level. We have increased our voting share considerably in rural areas in these panchayats. Our candidates didn’t spend money to influence voters. The ruling party is troubling opposition or else the results would have been much better.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/phase-ii-results-strengthen-ysrc-in-gram-panchayats/articleshow/80916647.cms||Venu Lanka
February 15, 2021||Goa||Goa Housing Board to offer around 200 flats soon||PANAJI: While Goa Housing Board (GHB) isn’t an ideal option to those hunting for housing with a thin budget, it does have a few projects that are either on the verge of completion or completed. About 200 flats at five places will be auctioned in a few months. Goa Housing Board chairman Subhash Shirodkar told TOI on Tuesday that their projects at Sancoale, Curti-Ponda, Rumdamol, Farmagudi and Madel-Tivim are set to be completed shortly and will be opened for auction. “The applicant needs to produce a residence certificate of 30 years besides meeting other criteria to be an eligible candidate for housing with the board,” Shirodkar said. Besides flats, the Goa Housing Board will also throw open its plots at Canacona, Xeldem and Dhargal for auction this year. In the last several years, Goa Housing Board has not acquired any land. Shriodkar, however, said they still have land that was acquired many years ago where they plan to have projects with private investments. He was unable to spell out when these projects will take off. The idea to invite private investors for Goa Housing Board projects was floated somewhere in 2017 soon after the BJP-led government was formed and Goa Forward Party (GFP) MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar was made minister of the housing department. An official admitted that the projects planned as part of the private investments have not been pursued with required zeal, though it is one of the few options for Goa Housing Board to cater to the rising need of housing in the state. “It will be difficult for the government to acquire fresh land with land prices going up. Also, the government cannot pay meagre compensation to acquire land from people like it used to decades ago,” an officer aware of government’s land acquisition said. In 2016, Goa government notified a new land acquisition policy to acquire land for public projects on a priority basis. Notified as the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, it provides for procurement of land by way of a deed of conveyance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/housing-board-to-offer-around-200-flats-soon/articleshow/80915588.cms||Bindiya Chari
February 15, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Over-speeding to blame for most road mishaps in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The recent fatal road accidents in Andhra Pradesh have once again exposed the dangerous consequences of over-speeding. On the other hand however, police and road transport departments are still ill-equipped in terms of manpower and technology to check over-speeding on various road stretches. More than 70 per cent of all road accidents in Andhra Pradesh can be attributed to over-speeding. According to the report on road accidents compiled by the Union ministry of road transport and highways, over-speeding claims more lives than accidents of any other nature. As many as 7,984 persons were killed and 24,619 injured in 21,992 road accidents in Andhra Pradesh in 2019. Over-speeding was the reason for 15,883 accidents and is said to have claimed 5,530 lives and injured 16,840 people in 2019. Even as fatal road accidents continue to unfold and most of them are reported either at night or in the wee hours of the morning, speed guns deployed by the police are unable to enforce speed restrictions at night. Speaking to TOI, ADCP (traffic) Visakhapatnam, Ch Adinarayana said that low ambient light and high luminance from vehicle headlamps don’t allow speed guns to identify over-speeding vehicles. The police department is planning to buy some new speed guns with night vision capabilities, Adinarayana added. Apart from police, RTA officials monitor vehicle speeds. The RTA currently uses 13 speed laser guns (one in each district). RTA requires at least 20 more upgraded laser guns to book violators. The absence of speed-limit signage on some roads is another cause of over-speeding, say RTA officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-speeding-to-blame-for-most-road-mishaps/articleshow/80912834.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 15, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: YSRC has won 80% seats, says Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, dismisses TDP’s claims||VIJAYAWADA: Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, advisor to the state government on public affairs and YSRC general secretary, told reporters on Sunday that YSRC supporters have won more than 80% of the seats in the second phase of panchayat polls. He asked former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu to come for a debate in the presence of media with the list of all candidates. “We have announced the list of winners with photographs on a website which is open to all. We do not have anything to prove and if Naidu wanted to dispute the same, he is welcome to do that in the presence of media,” he said. He said Naidu was resorting to cheap stunts with fake numbers to confuse people. “They have even created a fake website of YSRC in which they put that TDP won 40 per cent of the seats. We have lodged a complaint with CID against the creators of that website,” he said. Naidu’s claims are contradictory, he said. Naidu said democracy was murdered in the state but he claims YSRC’s downfall has started as TDP supporters have won more seats, he said. Ramakrishna Reddy said that they would correct the mistakes on the website if Naidu can come up with proof. He said the results are a vindication of good governance in the state. “In view of the upcoming municipal elections Naidu is now trying to put his party men under delusions to win a few seats but there will no escape in municipal elections, which will be fought on party symbols,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-has-won-80-seats-says-sajjala-dismisses-tdps-claims/articleshow/80912851.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 15, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Power cuts drop by 35% in Andhra Pradesh, 2.5 lakh outages in 2020-21||VISAKHAPATNAM: Power cuts in Andhra Pradesh dropped by nearly 35 per cent, 1.4 lakh, in the 2020–21 financial year compared to the 2019–20 fiscal. A total of 2.5 lakh power outages were reported in 2020–21, a steep fall from 3.91 lakh in 2019–20. In a bit to reduce interruptions in power supply, power utilities have laid special focus on augmenting the power infrastructure in the state. Among such augmentation attempts are upgrading electricity substations, strengthening distribution networks and providing additional infrastructure for agricultural requirements during the day. According to a top APTransco official, achieving 100% excellence in uninterrupted power supply at par with international standards is the ultimate objective of the state government. “24x7 power supply is considered one of the important factors behind reviving economic growth. In view of this, the government wants to take continuous feedback from consumers to strengthen uninterrupted power supply,” the official said. The state government has released Rs 17,904 crore in 2019–20 towards clearing subsidy arrears of discoms. The government has also released Rs 20,384 crore to these discoms to clear pending power generator bills pending as on March 31, 2019. Total bills cleared by discoms was pegged at Rs 34,384 crore in 2019–20. The state government has released Rs 7,200 crore till December 2020. These measures are expected to improve the finances of discoms and strengthen utilities. The government is also providing Rs 8,353 crore for the free power scheme. For the first time, the government has allocated Rs 1,707 crore towards domestic subsidy. Meanwhile, APTransco has recently deployed a day-ahead electricity forecast model which uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to forecast the next day’s electricity consumption in units. This enables officials make decisions on electricity demand and supply, grid management and minimising power purchase costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/power-cuts-drop-by-35-in-ap-2-5l-outages-in-2020-21/articleshow/80912867.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||Two years on, unkept promises haunt kin of Pulwama martyr||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: Two years after the Pulwama terrorist attack, the family of Ashwini Kumar Kacchhi (30) — one of the 40 CRPF personnel martyred when a suicide bomber rammed a vehicle wired with over 100kg of explosives into a CRPF bus on February 14, 2019 —is left staring at a handful of unkept promises. “The government had promised a lot of things, including Rs 1 crore assistance, installing an idol of the martyr, making a park in his name, a job for a family member and naming a school after him,” Sumanth Kacchhi, Ashwini’s elder brother, told TOI on Saturday. “We got the money and a bunch of unfilled promises. No job was given, no school named after him or a park created,” he rued. “I will come wrapped in the Tricolour one day,” Ashwini would tell friends and family in Khudawal village, about 50km from Jabalpur city. The village, which counts 40 men in uniform and three martyrs, now has a statue of Ashwini, but it was set up by his family. “We collected some funds on our own and got his statue installed in the village park. It cost us around Rs 6.5 lakh,” Sumanth told TOI. “Now, no one even visits the martyr’s house. After the first few days, there was no appropriate response from the government,” he added. Sadly, other martyr families have similar stories to tell. “Except for financial assistance, not a single promise was fulfilled. We used our own money to build a boundary wall for the park, but the government hasn’t installed the statue till now,” said CRPF martyr Jitendra Singh’s brother Surendra in Bhind. Jitendra and eight others were martyred in a Maoist blast in Chhattisgarh on March 13, 2018. In Bhopal, the family of martyr Harish Chandra Pal is still waiting for promises to be fulfilled. Pal was slain in a Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh’s Dhamtari district on April 5, 2019. It was only after eight months of running from pillar to post that they received cash relief of Rs 1 crore on August 15, 2019, his kin said. “We have made several rounds of offices but to no avail. Officers give some excuse or another. Neither was a job provided, nor anything else,” said his brother Chandra Pal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-years-on-unkept-promises-haunt-kin-of-pulwama-martyr/articleshow/80916087.cms||Amarjeet Singh
February 15, 2021||Goa||Goa crosses 100 relief flights since lockdown||PANAJI: Goa International Airport has crossed the century mark for relief flights, while notching up a half-century for Vande Bharat flights since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. The airport, which has emerged as one of busiest terminals in the west zone, has come full circle from flights being grounded to becoming a hub for the Covid-19vaccine, director Gagan Malik said. While the terminal catered to 5.8 lakh arriving passengers in January, the airport has handled 103 relief flights, 72 repatriation flights and 54 VandeBharat flights. Relief flights are those that help foreigners and non-resident Indians return to foreign nations in the absence of scheduled international flights. Vande Bharat and repatriation flights are those that have been organised to bring back Goans and Indians stranded abroad because of the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns. Domestic flights have also shown a steady increase, with 144 flights being handled on February 6 and 7. The daily passenger footfall has crossed the 22,000-mark. This weekend, when Valentine’s Day coincided with Carnival, saw domestic flights flying at full capacity even though airfares shot up significantly. “The pandemic has not stopped any activity here at the airport, and in fact, we have increased the pace of upgradation at the terminal,” said Malik. From improving the aesthetics of the airport to bringing in infrastructure changes, the Airports Authority of India has pumped in additional funds to improve the passenger experience, he said. As on February 14, Goa International Airport handled a total of 103 relief flights for stranded foreign nationals and Indians by sending 17,616 adults and children to destinations all around the world — Israel, Russia, Finland,Germany, France, Poland, UK, USA, Italy, Armenia, Belarus, Ukraine,Mongolia, Switzerland, UAE and Qatar. Most of these flights are being operated under the air bubble agreement that India has with select nations. As on February 14, the airport also handled 72 repatriation flights from destinations such as UAE, Qatar, Kuwait, Barbados, Italy, UK, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Brazil, Mongolia, Netherlands, and Egypt, and a total of 11,120 passengers have been brought back to Goa and India since the lockdown. Malik said that the airport has also played a role in the Vande Bharat mission, India’s biggest evacuation exercise. A total of 54 Vande Bharat flights with 8,490 passengers have landed in Goa, largely from the UK and gulf countries. “All protocols have been followed, and assistance by team Goa ensured an expeditious exit of all passengers. It is a matter of great pride and satisfaction for us that we played a role in bringing back our fellow Indians,” said Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-crosses-100-relief-flights-since-lockdown/articleshow/80915027.cms||Newton Sequeira
February 15, 2021||Mumbai||4,000+ Covid cases in Maharashtra after 39 days, 600+ in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The state on Sunday reported more than 4,000 Covid cases after a span of 39 days, while Mumbai reported over 600 cases after over a month. The state last recorded 4,000-plus cases (4,382) on January 6 and the city recorded (607) daily cases on January 14, exactly a month ago. Owing to the surge, Mumbai's doubling time that was nearing 600 days has now dropped to 479 days. Maharashtra on Sunday reported 4,092 new cases taking the overall caseload to 20,64,278. The city registered 645 cases, pushing the city's total to 3,14,076. State officials attributed the rise to higher testing over the weekend. However, while an average of 54,000 tests were carried out last week, it dropped to 48,000 during the weekend. The state Covid-19 task force as well as the central team that visited recently have recommended more testing in 14 districts with a higher positivity rate. Almost 36k active cases in state now, 4.2k in cityThis is the fifth consecutive day cases have risen in both the state and city. Apart from Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad, Amravati, Nagpur and Nashik are mainly contributing to the daily addition in cases. The state also reported 40 deaths which took the state’s toll to 51,529. Mumbai reported four deaths, which took the toll to 11,419. Of the 40 deaths, 15 occurred in the last 48 hours and seven in the last week. The remaining 18 deaths were reported over a period of one week. MMR reported 13 deaths from two cities, Mumbai (4) and Raigad (9). Cases in Pune circle also saw a rise with 750 registered in the last 24 hours and six deaths from Satara. The active cases in the state have increased by over 2,600, while the city recorded a marginal rise in a day. The active cases in the state are now 35,965, including Mumbai’s 4,193. State’s health bulletin said currently 1.7 lakh people are under quarantine while 1,747 are in institutional quarantine. A state official said the number of patients discharged has crossed 19.7 lakh. Within MMR, Kalyan Dombivli added the second highest cases (118) after Mumbai. However, Raigad reported the highest deaths (9) from MMR, more than double that of Mumbai. State officials, however, said all the Raigad deaths occurred in previous weeks and not in the last 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4000-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-after-39-days-600-in-mumbai/articleshow/80916090.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||Will oppose CAA, Rahul vows at first election rally in Assam||GUWAHATI: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi began his campaign for the upcoming Assam assembly election on Valentine’s Day on Sunday by appealing to Assamese sentiments and promising to the large gathering in upper Assam’s historic Sivasagar town that the party would defend the Assam Accord and resist the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at any cost. Boarding Field, which was brimming with supporters, reverberated with the popular slogan of the Assam Agitation of the 1980s — ‘ Ahoi Aah Olai Aah, Khedoi Khed Bideshik Khed’ (appealing to locals to come out of their homes and drive out illegal migrants) — as Rahul, wearing an indigenous red-and-white woven scarf, popularly called gamosa, addressed the rally. Interestingly, the gamosa, often seen round PM Modi’s neck, was used as a protest symbol here with supporters putting a cross mark on them saying no to CAA. “The Assam Accord brought peace to the state. The principles of the accord will be defended by me and the Congress party. We won’t step back even an inch.” said Rahul. Unlike in West Bengal, BJP has gone almost silent on CAA in Assam, where violent protests rocked the state over the new law. Rahul said the Congress would teach a lesson to those who have attempted to breach the 1985 accord by bringing in CAA. The legislation, protesting organizations feel, will turn Assam into a land of illegal ‘foreigners’ as it will regularize the entry of illegal non-Muslim Bangladeshis, who sneaked into Assam post 1971, the cut-off year for the detection and deportation of illegal foreigners from the state as endorsed in the accord.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-oppose-caa-rahul-vows-at-first-election-rally-in-assam/articleshow/80916091.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Joint survey ordered on mismatch of trees in Akola-Washim section||Nagpur: The Akola deputy conservator of forests (DyCF), Arjuna KR, has ordered a joint survey into the mismatch of 3,000 trees in the 100km section from Akola-Medshi-Washim to Hingoli border, which is being expanded to four-lane.Taking cognisance of a TOI report published on February 12, Arjuna said a joint survey by National Highway Authority India (NHAI), PWD and forest officials will be done on February 16. Both RFO of Akola and Patur will coordinate the survey. The NGOs alleging flaws have also been invited.Green activist Jaydeep Das, who voiced concern over large-scale tree felling, said, “How will it be possible now to establish the mismatch of trees in the section when most of them have been already felled?”Arjuna said, “We will establish facts from the enumeration of trees and details of hammer granted to a number of trees. The permission granted to NHAI to fell trees had lapsed on February 4. Prima facie it looks only two additional trees were felled after the permission expired. For this, we will take action as per Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection & Preservation of Trees Act, 1975, against the agency.”On Akola RFO granting permission to fell trees in the municipal limit, Arjuna said, “This happened as the boundary of municipal limit was not known.”According to information received from NHAI under a RTI query filed by Das, the 100km section had 7,402 trees.On the contrary, the Arboriculture register maintained by the public works department (PWD) makes a mention of over 10,000 trees in the said section. Arboriculture is the record of cultivation, management, and study of individual trees, shrubs, vines, etc. The state highway was handed over to NHAI a couple of years ago.Sheikh Mohammed Sheikh Makbul aka Munna, founder of Sarpamitra Nisarga Samvardhan Bahuuddeshia Sanstha, Akola, had lodged a complaint with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and top authorities for various flaws in the counting of a number of trees in the said stretch. The state government has already ordered an inquiry.Munna says their allegations are true as NHAI project director Rakesh Jawade on December 17 had lodged a complaint with Akola SP about the theft of 11 trees. “The complaint was just a formality and no efforts were taken by the NHAI to register an FIR against the theft,” says Munna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/joint-survey-ordered-on-mismatch-of-trees-in-akola-washim-section/articleshow/80914180.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 15, 2021||World||Prince Harry, Meghan Markle expecting second child||LONDON: Britain's Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle are expecting their second child, their spokesman said in a Valentine's Day announcement on Sunday. The couple released a black and white image of them under a tree, all smiles, with Markle, 39, showing signs of pregnancy. "We can confirm that Archie is going to be a big brother," the spokesman said, referring to the couple's son. "The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are overjoyed to be expecting their second child." Meghan and Harry, 36, who is Queen Elizabeth II's grandson, quit frontline royal duties in March last year and now live in California. The news follows Markle's disclosure in The New York Times in November that she had suffered a miscarriage in July. A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: "Her Majesty, Duke of Edinburgh, Prince of Wales and the entire family are delighted and wish them well." Misan Harriman, a friend of the couple who took the photograph they released, wrote on Twitter: "Meg, I was there at your wedding to witness this love story begin, and my friend, I am honoured to capture it grow." The couple's departure last year -- dubbed "Megxit" by the British press -- was a far cry from 2018, when they married in a ceremony at Windsor Castle watched around the world. The mood soured as reports circulated about a rift between Harry and his brother Prince William, second in line to the throne. Since leaving, they have launched several legal cases against news outlets alleging invasion of privacy -- including one that ended on Thursday with a victory against Associated Newspapers in the UK. The cases have attracted criticism from some, as the couple are also launching themselves into the public eye with high-profile commercial projects. Last year they launched a non-profit organisation, Archewell, after giving up a "Sussex Royal" brand as part of the terms of their departure from frontline royal duties. They have started other ventures, including signing a deal with Spotify to produce podcasts that tell "uplifting and entertaining stories". The couple also signed a contract, reportedly worth tens of millions of dollars with streaming giant Netflix to produce "impactful" films and series. As well complaining about invasion of her privacy, Meghan, a former television actor, has also described past trolling of her as "almost unsurvivable". In 2016, Harry issued an unprecedented statement denouncing "the racial undertones of comment pieces" and "the sexism and racism of social media trolls". Pressure from tabloids has dogged Harry throughout his life, and he blames them for the death of his mother Princess Diana. Harry and Meghan's announcement came days after Princess Eugenie, a granddaughter of the queen, gave birth to a baby boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/prince-harry-meghan-markle-expecting-second-child/articleshow/80916098.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Left parties building base in Vidarbha hinterland||NAGPUR: Left parties that have been at the forefront in the farmers’ protest in New Delhi are slowly trying to build a base in Vidarbha to get local farmers’ support. The Left did not have any significant presence in Vidarbha. Even farmers of the region were indifferent during the initial days of the protests. Parties are claiming to be steadily getting support from farmers in general. An umbrella organization of over 40 outfits has been formed to raise the issue among local farmers. The All India Kisan Sabha (AKS), the farmers’ wing of CPM, which is at the forefront, has been holding village-level meetings across the region. Wardha has emerged as one of its upcoming bases. Sources say the outfits already had a strong base in northern Maharashtra. Last month, AKS took a group of farm widows from Marathwada to Delhi to join the protests. There was none from Vidarbha in that group. Leaders said they could garner women from districts in other regions due to the organization’s good presence. Later, another group was taken by Kishore Tiwari, the farm activist from Yavatmal, who now heads the Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalaban Mission (VNSSM), a state government task force on farm crisis. “There was hardly any response during the initial days of the protests in Delhi. However, now we see that the farmers of Vidarbha are also getting convinced,” said Yashwant Zade of AIKS in Wardha. “Meetings are being held in every village to explain our stance. In Wardha, a group of farmers have been holding protests since at least a month. There is a plan to take out a motorcycle rally too,” he said. Zade said over 25,000 pamphlets have also been distributed in rural areas. Rakesh Tikait, leader of the Bharitya Kisan Union from Uttar Pradesh and core committee member of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, will be vesting Vidarbha on February 20. This is the second visit of the farm leader to Nagpur in two months. Sources said the purpose of the visit is to show that the farmers’ protests is not just limited to northern states. Tikait, who will be landing in Nagpur, will also tour Wardha, Akola and Yavatmal. He will be meeting farmers right in their villages apart from addressing rallies in towns. Calls will be made to local farmers to be ready to join the struggle in Delhi. “It would be an attempt to send across a message that farmers from Maharashtra would be the first to benefit from the struggle. The focus will be on the demand for law on MSP. Farmers here will be told that those from Maharashtra will be among the first to benefit if the law is enacted,” said Sandeep Gidde-Patil from the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/left-parties-building-base-in-vidarbha-hinterland/articleshow/80914274.cms||Shishir Arya
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||Calls discontinued, only visits for kin of Elgar Parishad accused||Nagpur: Kin of two Elgar Parishad accused lodged in Taloja and Byculla jails in Mumbai say the facility to call inmates has been discontinued abruptly from this month. Phone calling that was allowed since July as a post Covid measure came as a small luxury. At times, even video calls could be made. Visits were stopped due to the pandemic. TOI talked to Tushar Bhattacharya, husband of Shoma Sen and Surendra Gadling’s wife Minal. Both said they got a call from Sen and Gadling early this month in which they said it was the last phone as the facility will no longer be available. They would be allowed physical visits to the jail. The abrupt disconnection of the phone calls has left them worried, especially in times when there is a risk of getting infected in jail and even travelling to meet them is risky, they said. “I haven’t been able to meet him for one year. Initially, they allowed weekly calls, which was reduced to once a fortnight. Finally, before it was stopped, only one phone a month was allowed,” said Minal Gadling. The occasional phone call helped the family to know about his well-being. During these days, Gadling lost his mother due to Covid and the family has not come out of the trauma, she said. Minal said even she was worried about her husband’s health. “In one of the calls made in July, he had complained of chronic cough. We are worried if it would be Covid, and wanted his tests to be done,” she said. “Travelling has its own risks. My mother-in-law died of Covid, and we haven’t come out of the trauma. It’s not easy to travel within Mumbai city also. I certainly plan to meet him as it has been a year but again frequent visits are not possible, at least a phone call used to give some solace,” she said. Bhattacharya, who is 65 years old, lives alone and has a similar story. “The last call came to my daughter when my wife told that she would not be able to make any more calls. This was abrupt,” he said. “Even I am not in a condition to travel to Mumbai. Fares of the special trains are too much for me. It’s not easy to get reservations too,” said Bhattacharya. “The jail authorities allowed us to talk for five minutes. Sometimes even video call could be made and we could at least see each other which gave some relief,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/calls-discontinued-only-visits-for-kin-of-elgar-parishad-accused/articleshow/80914321.cms||Shishir Arya
February 15, 2021||Goa||Carnival philatelic cancellation||Panaji: Stamp cancellations on the recently released Philatelic Passport with the Goa Carnival stamp were done by philatelists at the Head Post Office Permanent Pictorial Cancellation. The philatelic passport, which was launched last year as a collector’s item, features various Goan festivals on each page. Here, philatelists can save the stamp corresponding to the festival to serve as a philatelic memorabilia along with the cancellation and date stamp on the festival day. The Goa Carnival stamp, which was released in 2007, was used on the passport. Some philatelists also made a similar cancellation on a picture post card with the Goa Carnival stamp to commemorate the float parade. “This is a wonderful philatelic collectible from the philatelists’ point of view. These cancellations are only possible today (festival day),” president, Goa Philatelic and Numismatics Society (GPNS), M R Ramesh Kumar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/carnival-philatelic-cancellation/articleshow/80915336.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Nagpur||No thermal power plant in Maharashtra has installed FGDs: Study||CHANDRAPUR: None of the thermal power plants (TPPs) in Maharashtra has installed flue-gas desulfurization (FGD), a system used to remove sulphur dioxide (SO2 ) from emissions, claimed Sunil Dahiya, a research analyst working with independent organization Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA). Addressing a convention of NGOs working for control of pollution in Chandrapur, Dahiya said state owned and private sector TPPs lag behind even the plants of National Thermal Power Corporation, which has at least awarded contracts for phasing of FGD facility in its units in Maharashtra. NTPC-owned TPPs at Mouda and Solapur, having capacity of 2980MW, have awarded contracts for installation of FGDs. However, no contracts have been awarded for entire capacity of 9250MW of Mahagenco TPP and 7140MW capacity of private sector TPPs in Maharashtra, he said. The data gathered by CREA suggests that bids have been opened for installation of FGD at five units of Chandrapur super thermal power station, three units at Koradi TPS and two units of Bhusawal TPS. All the TPPs in Maharashtra have the deadline of installing FGD units ranging from March 31, 2021 to December 31, 2022. With the time frame of nearly three years needed for installation of the FGD units, all the TPPs in the state are likely to miss their deadline, he said. The ministry of environment, forest and climate change had, on December 7, 2015, brought out new norms for coal-based power stations to cut down emission of particulate matter (PM10), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) to improve air quality around power plants. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had previously set December, 2017, as the deadline for meeting the emission standards by installing FGD units in the TPPs. However, the deadline was extended by two years as the country adopted a phased approach for thermal power plants to comply with emission norms, which involve installing FGD units that cut emission of sulphur dioxides. Based on recommendations by CPCB and Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority and Supreme Court intervention, the phasing plan was realigned to meet the December, 2022, timeline. The ministry of power, however, has proposed a new timeline to MoEF&CC with a two-year extension running till 2024 for all coal-based power plants, which is yet to be approved. Dahiya informed that FGD installation compliance status at national level clearly suggests reluctance of state-owned and private sector TPPs towards the issue. Only little over 1% capacity considered under the phasing plan have commissioned their FGDs till December, 2020. However, bids have been awarded for another 68,660MW (39%) capacity out of total 169.7GW under FGD implementation plan, he told referring to data gathered till December, 2020. Dahiya said centrally-owned TTPs are far ahead of state and private sector in compliance. While the Centre-owned TPPs having capacity of 47,740MW ( 86% of total under central sector) have awarded contracts for FGD installation, state owned TPPs have awarded contracts for 4320 MW (8% of total state sector) and private sector has awarded bids for 16,660MW (27% of total private sector) in national scenario, he said. For 1,01,062MW (59%) capacity of TPPs have not even awarded the contracts for FGD installation, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-thermal-power-plant-in-maha-has-installed-fgds-study/articleshow/80914353.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 15, 2021||Vadodara||Couple’s dream to settle in the UK crashes||Vadodara: A farmer couple’s London dreams came tumbling down when the visa consultant took away their money and did not help them get visa. Paresh Patel, a farmer in Anand, lodged a complaint of cheating at Sayajigunj police station on Saturday alleging that consultant Bhavesh Valand defrauded him and seven other visa aspirants of Rs 9.5 lakh. Patel told the police that wanting to move to the United Kingdom, he contacted his friend Ravi Barot in Vadodara in June 2019 for a reference of a visa consultant. Barot called Patel to meet at his office at Alankar Tower in Sayajigunj where he introduced Patel to Valand and also told Patel that Valand is a trustworthy and that he will take a guarantee for the latter. On Barot’s word, Patel later deposited Rs 1.5 lakh in Valand’s bank account. During the meeting Valand told Patel to pay the remaining amount of Rs 16.5 lakh upon reaching London. But four days later, Valand asked Patel to meet him in Delhi with his passport and asked him to deposit Rs 2.5 lakh. After making the payment, Valand asked the victim to stay in Delhi for a couple of days as their visa and flight tickets will arrive by then. Two days later when Patel called Valand, the latter did not answer his call, so he called Barot. Barot asked Patel to come back to Vadodara and check at Valand’s house in Sokhda. Patel went to Valand’s house, but he was not found there. However, he received voice messages from him saying that if he approaches police he will have to do away with his money. Patel waited for a year and also investigated privately during which he learnt that there were seven other victims besides him who were promised visas for Singapore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/couples-dream-to-settle-in-the-uk-crashes/articleshow/80912863.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Chennai||PM Narendra Modi holds on to Edappadi K Palaniswami, O Panneerselvam, rides Tamil wave in poll-bound state||CHENNAI: Affirming the AIADMK-BJP alliance in a symbolic gesture, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday held up the hands of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam, throwing his weight behind the EPS government. The PM, who was in Chennai to dedicate the indigenously designed and manufactured 'Main Battle Tank Arjun Mark 1A' to the nation and unveil a slew of projects for the state, praised Tamil culture and backed the aspirations of Sri Lankan Tamils. "It is our honour to work towards preserving and celebrating the culture of Tamil Nadu. It is popular globally," the PM said, quoting Tamil poets Bharathiar and Avvaiyar. His visit comes two months ahead of a crucial assembly election and days after J Jayalalithaa aide V K Sasikala's return to the city. After accepting a salute by the new war machine on the sprawling Nehru Stadium in Chennai, the PM handed over a miniature tank model to Army chief General M M Naravane, marking the handover of the tank to the Indian Army. With caste bound to be a key issue this election, Modi said his government accepted the long-standing demand to group the seven sub-sects of the Scheduled Castes under devendrakula vellalars, who account for a sizeable vote share in southern constituencies of TN. "They will now be known by their heritage and not the six to seven names listed in the Constitution. The draft gazette to amend the Constitutional schedule to correct their name as 'devendrakula vellalar' has been approved by the Centre. It will be placed before Parliament before the start of the next session," he said, thanking the state government for a detailed study on the demand. The Union ministry of social justice introduced Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021 on Saturday, to group the sub-sects. The bill, however, did not talk about removing them from the list of SCs. Narendra Modi recites verses in TamilRecalling meeting the representatives of the devendrakula vellalars in 2015 in New Delhi, Modi said their sadness over colonial rulers taking away their pride and dignity was evident. “I told them their name devender rhymes with my own name, Narendra. I understand their emotions,” he said, adding that the decision was more than just a change of name, but about justice, dignity and opportunity. “It is our honour to work towards preserving and celebrating the culture of Tamil Nadu. The culture of Tamil Nadu is popular globally,” Modi said. In his 20-minute speech after launching multicrore state and central government projects, Modi recited verses in Tamil and was all praise for people of Chennai. Leaders of potential allies, the PMK, the DMDK and the TMC, were special invitees of the state government. There have been complaints of delay in alliance talks and posturing by allies. The PM greeted the leaders with a ‘namaste’ after the end of the event. Modi later held a one-on-one meeting with the chief minister for 15 minutes in the stadium complex that may have included discussions on Sasikala and election. Modi said he was the only Indian PM to have visited Jaffna in Sri Lanka. The Centre would ensure the welfare of Sri Lanka’s Tamil community and always protect the interests of Tamil fishermen. He detailed how the Centre ensured early release of fishermen from Lankan custody. Profusely thanking the PM for the launch of projects, chief minister Palaniswami urged Modi to facilitate sanction for Chennai metro rail phase II under 50:50 joint venture partnership between the central and state governments, as was done for phase-I.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pm-narendra-modi-holds-on-to-edappadi-k-palaniswami-o-panneerselvam-rides-tamil-wave-in-poll-bound-state/articleshow/80916131.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 15, 2021||India||Open war between Maharashtra govt & governor, says Sanjay Raut||NASHIK: Shiv Sena spokesman and MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said it was an “open war” between Raj Bhavan and the Maharashtra government and accused BJP of using governor BS Koshyari to “pressurise” and “destabilise” the state government. Raut alleged that many decisions taken by the government, which needed the governor’s approval, were stuck due to “political pressure”. Raut, who was on a two-day tour of Nashik, was speaking to the media when he was asked about the “cold war” between the state government and the governor. “It’s not a cold war. Cold war is carried out clandestinely. This is an open war. Raj Bhavan is being used for political purposes by BJP,” he alleged. Elaborating on BJP’s role, Raut said,“This war is not only between the governor and the state government. BJP is using Raj Bhavan.” Raut said the nomination of 12 MLCs — appointments to be made by the governor on recommendation of state government — have still not been acted upon. “Their terms come to an end in the sixth year. Valuable time of their tenure has been lost. Who is responsible for this delay because of political pressure?” he asked. Raut said the governor is bound to act on the advice of the council of ministers according to the Constitution. “If this is true, then is this not a case of violation of the Constitution? This means he (governor) is working under political pressure. Hence this is an open war, not a cold war,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/open-war-between-maharashtra-govt-governor-says-sanjay-raut/articleshow/80916114.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 15, 2021||Agartala||Amit Shah said we will form governments in Nepal, Sri Lanka: Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb||AGARTALA: Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb sparked a fresh controversy on Saturday evening when he revealed BJP’s alleged ambition to form a governments in neighbouring Nepal and Sri Lanka. He was addressing a gathering during a thanksgiving to the Centre for the Budget at Rabindra Shatabarshiki Bhawan. “Amit Shah, who was then the BJP national president, had told us that the party was planning to expand its footprint and establish it’s rule in Nepal and Sri Lanka during a close interaction with several leaders at the state guesthouse here,” Biplab claimed. Lauding the Union Budget of the next financial year, Biplab said: “It is a step towards the making of an ‘Atmanirbhar South Asia’. The policies and actions of India have been able to make Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal self-reliant. The Narendra Modi-led-government wants ‘Sab Ka Sath, Sab Ka Vikas’ (inclusive development for all).” “After the formation of the NDA government in 2014, Modi had convened a meeting of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) countries, including the Prime Minister of Pakistan, because India wanted to grow with the neighbours,” the Tripura CM said, calling the gesture by PM Modi exceptional. Talking of poll-bound West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, Biplab said: “The people of West Bengal will bid goodbye to Mamata didi as Modi and Shah have reached Bengal. The flip-flop of CPM and Congress in Kerala will be over this time because BJP is all set to come to power there. The government in Tamil Nadu would not have formed without BJP. The lotus will bloom across the country.” The opposition CPM and Congress demanded immediate action against Biplab for his “most undemocratic speech” against sovereign countries like Nepal and Sri Lanka and called for an investigation into his claim about Shah planning to capture power in the neighbouring countries. “If Shah had indeed said what Biplab claims and a democratically elected chief minister reveals it in public, it exposes the mindset of the Narendra Modi government. This will not only amount to an interference in the internal politics of other countries, but will also hurt India’s foreign policy,” Badal Chowdhury, a veteran Communist and former minister, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agartala/bjp-will-form-govts-in-nepal-sri-lanka-says-biplab-triggers-row/articleshow/80916142.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Goa||Immunised healthcare staff get certificates||Panaji: Healthcare workers, who were administered their booster dose on Saturday, received hard and soft copies of their ‘Final Certificate for Covid-19 vaccination’ issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The certificate carries all the details, including name of the vaccine, date of the second dose, name of the vaccinator and place of vaccination and a QR code that can be scanned for all the information. Details about the beneficiary are also printed on the certificate, including the document by which their identity was verified. The certificate also carries a picture and quote of Prime Minister Narendra Modi ‘Together, India will defeat Covid-19’ along with the helpline number to contact in case of any adverse events following immunisation. The next round of healthcare workers are due for their second dose on Saturday. Vaccination of frontline workers will continue right through the week while the healthcare workers who are registered on the portal, but haven’t received their first jab, have been given time till Saturday to receive the shot. Only around half of the 18,000-odd healthcare workers — 9,932 — have received the first dose of the Covishield vaccine out of which 350 were administered the second dose on Saturday. Frontline workers have also got off to a slow start with around 60% showing up to take their first dose of the vaccine. A government official said the frontline workers haven’t been prepared enough and had several doubts about taking the vaccine if they had diabetes and were on insulin, had other comorbidities and simple allergies. “As long as the allergies are not life threatening, which required hospital admission in the past, there is no problem. Those with comorbidities should be encouraged all the more to take the vaccine as they will be the ones to suffer complications from Covid,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/immunised-healthcare-staff-get-certificates/articleshow/80915461.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 15, 2021||Chennai||Tomorrow last day to apply for TANCET||CHENNAI: The number of candidates applying for Tamil Nadu Common Entrance Test (TANCET) 2021 to pursue MBA has gone up this year. While there were 33,416 candidates for TANCET last year, 34,082 have applied so far this year. While applications for ME, MTech, MArch and MPlan tests are down, applications for the MBA test has increased. "Due to the surge in applications in the past few days, we have extended the deadline from February 12 to 16," officials from the university said. The entrance test for MBA and MCA courses will be held on March 20 while ME, MTech MArch and MPlan entrance tests will be on March 21. Candidates seeking admissions to MBA, MCA, ME, MTech, MArch and MPlan in the next academic year need to write TANCET 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tomorrow-last-day-to-apply-for-tancet/articleshow/80916151.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Goa||Sunday sees 1 Covid death, 42 new cases||Panaji: A 34-year-old man from Dharbandora died of Covid on Sunday after nine days of hospitalisation at GMC. The man was suffering from bilateral pneumonia. He also had an underlying condition of hypertension as well as chronic kidney disease and hepatitis C. This death has taken the state’s cumulative Covid death toll to 780. On the positive side, active cases dropped to 546, the lowest in seven months. The tally of active cases now stands at just 10 percent of the active cases the state had reported at its peak in September. However, instances of people still being brought dead to hospital with Covid indicates that there are undetected cases as well as untested people in the community. A total of 42 new infections were reported on Sunday. Twenty-one people were hospitalised while10 opted for home isolation. Only 1,064 samples were tested indicating a positivity rate of 4 percent. A total of 79 persons recovered over the past 24 hours taking the recovery rate to 97.5percent. The health centres of Margao, Panaji and Porvorim with 59, 40 and 34 cases respectively continue to have the highest active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sunday-sees-1-covid-death-42-new-cases/articleshow/80915465.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||Investigate how Trivedi could resign in Rajya Sabha, TMC asks Naidu||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress on Sunday urged Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu to probe how Dinesh Trivedi was allowed to announce his resignation in the House on February 12. TMC chief whip in the RS Sukhendu Sekhar Ray urged Naidu to form an inquiry committee to find out “the reasons behind such unprecedented illegality committed through the deplorable action or inaction”. Ray alleged that there might have been a “connivance or conspiracy to malign TMC in the RS”. In his letter, Ray said during the discussion on Union Budget 2021, TMC had nominated two MPs as speakers. One was he himself and the other was Abir Biswas. “However, on February 12, before the reply of the Union finance minister on the Budget, Dinesh Trivedi was allowed to speak for four minutes though he was not recommended by AITC (All India Trinamool Congress) as a speaker,” Ray said. He said Trivedi’s seat was allotted in RS gallery. “But Trivedi came down inside the Council Chamber and spoke from a seat of his choice, rambling on his personal motives. The Chair did not take any action to stop such unauthorised intervention in Budget discussion,” he wrote. Trivedi said Ray’s letter revealed how he was humiliated by TMC — as he was allotted a seat in the gallery. “I happened to be the senior-most MP as I was elected an MP of the RS in 1990. Moreover, the Chair has all the authority and can allow any MP to speak if it is urgent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/investigate-how-trivedi-could-resign-in-rajya-sabha-tmc-asks-naidu/articleshow/80916148.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Goa||Correa foundation suggests mobility plan for Panaji KTC bus stand area||Panaji: In an inspection of the Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) Panaji bus stand area that threw focus on traffic mobility, road safety and pedestrian issues, a mobility plan is being mooted by the Charles Correa Foundation (CFF) after taking inputs from various stakeholders. Held on February 11, the inspection was a consequence of a meeting that the Goa Consumer Action Network (Goacan) held with the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) to highlight various issues at the Kadamba bus stand in Panaji. “We had a traffic related review with all stakeholders as part of the road safety month. Various points have been earmarked for improvement,” CCP commissioner Sanjith Rodrigues . The inspection included representatives from the Goa police traffic cell, enforcement section of the transport department, Charles Correa Foundation (CCF) and Goacan, besides a municipal engineer from CCP. They traversed the area from Hotel Rego till end of the KTC bus stand. Some of the issues highlighted during the inspection were that of elevated footpaths, obstructions in the city bus lane, lack of signage, etc. “We identified these issues that can be resolved. The CCP has taken a keen interest to address the road safety issues, which we have highlighted to them and which come in their jurisdiction around the bus stand,” Goacan convener Roland Martins said. Urban planner and architect, Tahir Noronha from CCF, was called to share technical inputs on the movement of vehicles according to the ideal turning radius, dimension of the bus stand and other parameters. “The junction near the Heera Petrol pump was destroyed when the flyover was put in place and, ever since, it has not been restored. Inside the terminus, there is no safe passage for someone who wants to go past the road because the buses take a sharp turn and enter,” Noronha said. “There will be a mobility plan to identify dedicated bus lanes, in-and-out points and will slow down the traffic inside the terminus. We will take the opinion of KTC and a few other stakeholders before we can take this forward,” he said. The plan is expected to be submitted at one of the upcoming meetings of the North Goa district road safety committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/correa-foundation-suggests-mobility-plan-for-panaji-ktc-bus-stand-area/articleshow/80915484.cms||Nida Sayed
February 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Friends & strangers speak up for Disha Ravi||BENGALURU: Disha Ravi is a familiar face among Bengaluru’s climate activists involved in lake clean-up drives, tree plantation campaigns and climate talks for the past two years. She did her BBA from Mount Carmel College in 2019 and has been an inspirational figure thanks to her passion and zeal. Her college remembers her as an academically bright student and a regular winner in inter-college competitions that required managerial, leadership and communication skills. “In school and college, Disha enjoyed doing what most of us do — vibe to the latest Bollywood songs, keep up with You-Tubers who talk about skincare and fashion, watch Netflix, cycle and chill with friends or her dog Sammy,” her friends said. “She loves baking and cooking and especially experimenting with vegan recipes. She is determined to make the world’s best hummus.” Disha lives in a low-lying area in a Bengaluru suburb and her house is flooded every time it rains, her friends said. “She has experienced the impact of the climate crisis first hand,” they added. “Her grandparents were farmers and she has seen them struggle through droughts and floods and battle changes in soil and other problems. She has struggled a lot and, at 22, is the breadwinner of her family.” Disha’s role model is Jane Goodall, the primatologist who spent her life in the jungles of Asia and Africa studying chimpanzees for 25 years. They say she dreams of working with turtles and marine life and hopes to pursue a career in ecological conservation and restoration. Her primary interests are in climate finance, water crisis, environmental policy, intersectionality in environment movement and creating a platform for those affected by climate catastrophes. Many fellow-activists have known her since she was 19, when she began participating in environmental-related activities. They admired her for her zeal to the climate crisis cause. “She is one of the most selfless activists I have interacted with,” said Mukund Gowda, 25, a citizen activist. “She understood nuances of waste segregation, climate change and even issues in the Atlantic Ocean.” Gowda said Disha shunned the limelight. “She would do most of the groundwork, yet would choose to stand on the sidelines,” he said, adding that her arrest “is unfair and a tactic to induce fear in the minds of youngsters”. Another activist, who did not want to be named, said: “In my last interaction with her, she was looking for an additional job.” He added that she is a vegan and a proponent of animal rights. Fellow activists, who hoped she would be acquitted soon, said: “Even while others wavered about the movement, she stuck around, giving voice to the voiceless.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/friends-strangers-speak-up-for-disha-ravi/articleshow/80916156.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Goa||GCZMA to study applicability of beach carrying capacity for private shacks||Panaji: The question has arisen before the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) as to whether beach carrying capacity set by the state is applicable for temporary shacks located on private properties. The matter arose after the owner of a private property on the coast at Sernabatim applied for permission to set up a temporary shack on their land. The GCZMA is now going to carry out consultation with the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai, over the matter. Based on the request by the private owners to set up temporary shacks in their property in Sernabatim, the GCZMA discussed the matter at its meeting in January. The expert member of GCZMA, Flaviano Miranda, who had carried out a site inspection, told the authority that the shacks are proposed to be erected in a property with sand dunes. “Expert member Savio Correia pointed out that for the village of Sernabatim no more huts can be granted as the limit of beach carrying capacity is already exhausted. Savio Correia, while concurring that the site is on a sand dune and hence CRZ-I, added that the beach carrying capacity report does not permit more shacks/huts at Sernabatim beach,” the GCZMA noted at its meeting. The lawyer for the owners of the property, however, told the GCZMA that beach carrying capacity only concerns with public beaches. “The authority decided to defer the matter as in previous meeting the authority has already decided to do consultation with the NCSCM over beach carrying capacity,” the GCZMA stated, following its meeting held on January 25. Recently, a project of the Goa State Biodiversity Board to set up sand dune parks in the state has been approved by the World Bank for funds of Rs 3 crore. The sand dune ecosystem, so far neglected, is set to get a new lease of life in parts of Goa. These will be India’s first sand dune parks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gczma-to-study-applicability-of-beach-carrying-capacity-for-private-shacks/articleshow/80915559.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
February 15, 2021||Chennai||What this new IIT-Madras campus will help simulate||CHENNAI: Aspiring sea captains may no longer have to travel abroad to train as IIT Madras will open a 360 degree bridge simulator at its satellite campus at Thaiyur by 2021-end. It will also have one of the largest shallow water basins in the world to study the effects of modification of ports, waterways, sedimentation, water currents and cyclones on ship navigation. The 163-acre sprawling 'discovery campus' was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. It will have 2 lakh square metres of built-up space with research facilities, academic blocks and hostels to be built at a cost of 1,000 crore in the first phase. The bridge simulator will be housed in the National Technology Centre for Ports, Waterways and Coasts, which is being built with the support of the Union ministry of shipping, ports and waterways. "We can simulate various scenarios to study the behaviour of ships while entering or leaving harbour or berthing in a critical facility. We can also investigate accidents such as that of an oil tanker at Ennore port by simulating similar conditions to find out what went wrong and suggest improvements," said professor K Murali, head, department of ocean engineering, IIT Madras. The bridge simulator will help train officers in coastal navigation and approaching and berthing at harbours in different conditions - poor visibility, night time, strong winds and currents. It will have a 95mX65m shallow water basin, which will be one of the largest in the world. "Before carrying out a modification at ports and harbours, we can test whether they will work or not in the lab," said K Murali said.  For example, the researchers can simulate the entire Gulf of Kutch or river mouth of Hoogly river. The second research centre to come up on the campus would be the 'solid propellant combustion modelling facility' of the Centre of Propulsion Technology, which is funded by Defence Research and Development Organisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/what-this-new-iit-madras-campus-will-help-simulate/articleshow/80916175.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||First mop-up round: Jab for 15,000 health workers today in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Around 14,900 healthcare workers, who missed their first shot of vaccine against Covid-19 earlier, will be vaccinated in the first mop-up round on Monday. Simultaneously, 842 beneficiaries, who received their first dose on January 16, will get the second one during the drive. The drive will be carried out at 119 booths in 25 vaccination centres housed in various hospitals and medical education institutes across the city. In 76 booths, beneficiaries coming for the first dose will get Covishield shots, while Covaxin will be administered in the remaining 43. Of 59,000 healthcare workers in the Lucknow district being vaccinated in Phase I, about 33,427 have got their first dose in the six rounds held so far. The Phase-I was to end on February 5, but as 25,573 beneficiaries could not receive their first doses in the six rounds due to various reasons, a mop-up round was added in the drive. However, since all the left out beneficiaries cannot be covered in a single round, another mop-up is expected to be held on February 19. District immunization officer, Dr MK Singh, said, “The vials will be delivered to the centres on Monday morning.” “Besides, health workers who are on the list for Monday, out of turn shots will also be given in case anybody turns up. For this purpose, an add-on feature in the CoWIN app will be used,” he added. The Phase-II of the vaccination drive for frontline workers was also launched in which three rounds — on February 5, 11 and 12 — have been held so far. The fourth rounds will be held on February 18 and mop-up round on 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/first-mop-up-round-jab-for-15000-health-workers-today-in-uttar-pradesh/articleshow/80916166.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Colleges begin offline classes, but online option kept open||LUCKNOW: Most of the universities and colleges in the city will start full-fledged regular classes on the campus from Monday in sync with the state government’s directive, but will continue with the online option for students who are still wary of Covid-19 situation. In November, the state government had allowed higher education institutes to start offline classes by calling 50% students on alternate days. Now, as Covid-19 cases have come down drastically, the latest directives allow institutes to run regular classes with full strength, but after ensuring that there is adequate physical distance in the seating plan in the classroom and making all arrangements necessary as per Covid-19 protocol like sanitisation of classrooms, mandatory face cover and sanitisers. Accordingly, LU has issued an order to all its 180 affiliated colleges to resume classes. Most of the college managements TOI spoke to said that they will start classes, but also continue with online options and gradually shift to complete offline mode. Colleges where examinations are underway said that they will resume classes after papers are over. Officiating principal, Lucknow Christian College, Pranoti Singh said, "We will continue to offer online options because many outstation students have not been able to find a rented room in the city due to the pandemic situation”. National PG College principal Nirja Singh said, "We will start regular classes, but on the request of some students will continue with online options.” The same pattern will be followed by Avadh Girls PG College and Isabella Thoburn PG College. Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University and Dr APJ Kalam Technical University authorities also said that they will gradually adopt the full offline mode. Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University spokesperson Alka Singh said, "We have a number of outstation students, hence we have to make arrangements in the hostels before resume offline classes, preparations for which are underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-colleges-begin-offline-classes-but-online-option-kept-open/articleshow/80916172.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||Disha Ravi’s Fridays For Future is an international movement on climate crisis||BENGALURU: Disha Ravi is one of the early members of the Bengaluru chapter of Fridays For Future (FFF), a global movement for climate justice. A leaderless collaborative, it was in Bengaluru that FFF’s first chapter was launched in India. Supported by Greta Thunberg, FFF has more than 30 chapters across the country. “We are a non-violent movement and use peaceful, considered and thoughtful actions to fight the climate crisis,” FFF volunteers say. “We work by reflecting on our actions and experiences. We learn from each other and other movements.” An inclusive and egalitarian, non-partisan, autonomous and decentralised movement, FFF claims that it strives to be a safe and positive environment movement. The FFF movement also claims to strive to amplify voices of indigenous, marginalised communities. (Source: FFF volunteers/ website)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disha-ravis-fridays-for-future-is-an-international-movement-on-climate-crisis/articleshow/80916177.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||India on shaky foundations if 22-year-old a threat: PC||NEW DELHI: Several Opposition politicians and activists criticised the arrest of climate justice activist Disha Ravi on social media on Sunday. Ravi, a 22-year-old college student from Bengaluru, had started Fridays For Future India to rally support for environmental causes. FFF was originally started by Greta Thunberg and has several chapters across the world. The India chapter had landed in controversy last July, when the organisation was drumming up awareness around the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification 2020. Its website was briefly blocked by Delhi Police after receiving a complaint from Union IT minister Prakash Javadekar, whose email was flooded by thousands using a template created by FFF. AGAINST ARREST:P Chidambaram (Cong ress): The Indian state must be standing on very shaky foundations if Disha Ravi, a 22 year old student of Mount Carmel college and a climate activist, has become a threat to the nation. Akhilesh Yadav (SP chief): The question is when will those be arrested who keep issuing ‘toolkits’ to incite hatred and division among the masses and to break the national and social unity of India every single day. The BJP government should tell why they do not take action on these ‘toolkit creators’ even after complaining? Shashi Tharoor (Cong ress): (while sharing screenshots of Disha’s arrest and Jammu & Kashmir suspended police officer Davinder Singh) Activists in jail while accused terrorists are on bail. Wondering how our authorities would commemorate this case on the anniversary of Pulwama Attacks? You have the answer in this pair of headlines. Kavita Krishnan (CPIML): As I had warned, the FIR against the toolkit shared by @GretaThunberg is no joke, it is the latest flimsy pretext for a witch-hunt of activists in India. A 21-year-old student & #FridaysForFuture activist in Bangalore has been picked up for questioning on this pretext. Dipankar (CPIML): #GretaThunberg couldn’t have imagined that her tweet in support of India’s fighting farmers would rattle the Modi regime so badly. The #GretaThunbergToolkit case has now led to an arrest! The world must be laughing! Release activist #DishaRavi. Rajeev Gowda( Congress): An activist who stands up for farmers, fights for our planet, is arrested on flimsy grounds. Has the govt lost its balance? Will not such trumped-up charges, seeing conspiracy in regular social media mobilisation, do more damage to democracy? Jignesh Mevani (Politician): This spineless government is threatened by tweets for peaceful protests but fully protects vigilantes roaming around with sticks on Valentine's Day! Full solidarity to Disha Ravi PRO-ARREST:Priti Gandhi (BJP): Hizb-ul-Mujahideen commander, Militant Burhan Wani joined the Hizbul at the age of 15 and was encountered at the age of 21. So we should have let him continue with his terror activities until a suitable age?? PC Mohan (BJP MP): Burhan Wani was a 21-year-old. Ajmal Kasab was a 21-yearold. Age is just a number! No one is above the law. Law will take its own course. A Crime is a crime is a crime is a crime. #DishaRavi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-on-shaky-foundations-if-22-year-old-a-threat-pc/articleshow/80916183.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||UP nod to prosecute 67 booked for anti-CAA stir||BIJNOR: The Uttar Pradesh government has given its sanction for commencement of trial against 67 people booked in Bijnor district for allegedly taking part in clashes during protests against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) on December 20, 2019. Soon after the violent protests, local police had filed four FIRs in which 67 people including a former chairman of nagar palika were booked. The cases were filed under several sections of IPC, including 153-A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 295-A (Injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class). To begin trial against people booked under these IPC sections, a prior sanction of the state or the central government is mandatory. Police had filed a provisional charge sheet against the accused and was waiting for the prosecution sanction from the government which it got last week. Like Bijnor several other districts have also applied for the sanction. Bijnor’s SP Dharamveer Singh said, “After collecting evidence against the accused, we had sought permission for prosecution for 153-A of IPC from the regime. The government has granted permission.” Additional district government counsel said, “Police had submitted a provisional chargesheet in connection with the anti-CAA protests in the court. They had sought permission from the state for prosecution under section 295-A and 153-A. The court considers the above two sections only when the government gives its nod. Most of the accused are out on bail.” Massive protests and clashes were witnessed in Bijnor on December 20, 2019. Eight towns of the district including Bijnor, Nahtaur, Jalalabad, Nagina, Chandpur, Najibabad and Sherkot were affected. Protesters allegedly burnt vehicles and vandalized shops. Two of them were killed in Nahtaur. Administration had assessed damages to public properties worth Rs 21.7lakh. 61 protesters were also sent recovery notices. Over 1,000 protesters were booked. Of them 150 were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-nod-to-prosecute-67-booked-for-anti-caa-stir/articleshow/80916187.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 15, 2021||Goa||Coastal body wants action plan to demolish club in Vagator||Panaji: Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has asked the owners of Sunburn club in Vagator to submit an action plan for demolition of the unauthorised structure. The owner of the structure had sought four weeks’ time to carry out the demolition. In December 2020, GCZMA had asked the deputy collector to seal a two-storey structure named ‘Sunburn’ at Vagator. The structure had been found to be illegal prima facie and a showcause notice was slapped on the owner. At a meeting last month, the owner of the structure himself agreed to demolish it. But while the owner sought four weeks’ time, GCZMA had asked for the building to be brought down within a week’s time. GCZMA expert members had carried out an inspection and found the hotel to be in violation of coastal regulation zone (CRZ) norms. The structure was then sealed and the party involved called for a hearing. The GCZMA expert member had found the construction to be within the no development zone of CRZ. It was a permanent two-storey structure . As per the GCZMA, no records were found of any permissions having been issued for construction of such a structure. The owner was asked to produce documents available with him, which led him to go ahead with constructing the structure. But the owner failed to produce any valid documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coastal-body-wants-action-plan-to-demolish-club-in-vagator/articleshow/80915608.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Goa||Vasco man dies in car accident||Vasco: Jerito Fernandes, 35, a New Vaddem resident, died in a fatal accident at Sancoale on Saturday. Verna police said Fernandes was driving from Vasco towards Verna, when he lost control of his vehicle and crashed it into a concrete electricity pole. Police said the driver was tossed out of the car by the impact as he was not wearing the seat-belt. Fernandes was shifted to the sub-district hospital at Chicalim, where he was declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-man-dies-in-car-accident/articleshow/80915607.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Jab 2.0 dates clouded by round-1 CoWIN glitches||KOLKATA: Even though it’s time for the first batch of vaccine recipients in the city to get their second — booster — dose, essential for developing proper immunity against the Covid-19 virus, most of them are in the dark about it. Administrators blame CoWIN glitches, even from the first round of vaccination. The software, which is supposed to send texts to intended recipients, had failed to function properly during the first few days of the countrywide vaccination drive that began on January 16. As a result, the very first batch, for whom it is about time to receive the follow-up, do not figure in the online database, and have not received any alert for the second dose. The health department has informed sites that had started on January 16 that they could begin administering the booster doses from Saturday (February 13). A few private hospitals, along with the state-run SSKM Hospital, started that day, even as most sites are planning to start Monday. “CoWIN is often not functioning properly. We started our second-dose vaccination programme on Saturday with 60 recipients. Most of them had to be called in manually since CoWIN had not,” said Raghunath Misra, MSVP at IPGMER. Microbiologist Pratip Kundu, a former director of School of Tropical Medicine Kolkata, said he hadn’t received any message, although he had taken the first jab on day one. But he also said that a few days’ delay would not be detrimental. “The booster dose can be taken anytime between four to six weeks. I am sure I will get it in this period,” he said. Health department sources said that healthcare workers who got their first doses on the first few days were uploaded in the system two days later, because of CoWIN glitches. But the department has informed all vaccination sites that started functioning on January 16 that they could begin the second dose from Saturday (February 13). It is important to take the second dose since it increases the chances of developing immunity, said Rahul Jain, internal medicine consultant, Belle Vue Clinic. “Without a second dose, the vaccine may not trigger adequate immune response, which negates the purpose. Everyone, especially the elderly, must take it,” he stressed. “Since CoWIN has not started sending text messages for the second dose, we will start from Monday using the ‘allot beneficiary’ option on the app,” said community medicine specialist Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, vaccination site supervisor at the Beliaghata ID Hospital. “I will myself take the second jab on Monday using this option.” Hospitals have, however, not been informed yet whether they need to create different session sites for the second dose or utilize the ones being used for the first dose. Several private hospitals will start giving the booster dose from Monday. At RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 108 will receive the second shot on Monday, apart from 150 who will receive the first shot. Peerless Hospital started the second round on Saturday with seven recipients. Belle Vue Clinic will flag off the second-dose programme on February 22. “I have been informed by my hospital that my second jab is due on Monday. I didn’t have any problem after the first dose and am looking forward to the second one,” said a senior Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jab-2-0-dates-clouded-by-round-1-cowin-glitches/articleshow/80915824.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 15, 2021||Ranchi||‘Beyond comprehension why Didi is against JMM’, says Supriyo Bhattacharya||RANCHI: JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya, who has been appointed by JMM as the party’s in-charge for the upcoming West Bengal assembly polls, speaks to TOI’s Dhritiman Ray over the phone from Shilda in Jhargram district of the neighbouring state on the party's ambitions, its chances and Mamata Banerjee’s aggressive posturing against JMM’s efforts to make inroads into her state. Excerpts... Why does JMM seem to be more driven to make its mark in the upcoming West Bengal polls than the one in Bihar last year?Our party has an emotional connect with West Bengal and its people. The tribal community of the state were actively involved in our separate Jharkhand movement. Many of our political workers who laid down their lives for the movement are from West Bengal. The party's leadership still keeps in touch with their families. Though Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar in 2000, the culture, tradition, dialect and other aspects of the lives of Jharkhand's rural people resemble their counterparts in West Bengal. This is the reason why we are more driven in the upcoming West Bengal polls. Why do you think you can make a mark this time? There are several reasons. First, the formation of our government in Jharkhand in 2019 has put us in a confident position. We had fought the Left front government in West Bengal for many years. Then, the Trinamool Congress took power promising the Santhals and Mahtos of better days, which never came. The Mamata Banerjee government constituted a separate council for the development of tribals living in Jangal Mahal areas, but it turned out to be a puppet controlled by Nabanna. This is a fight for our tribal brothers which BJP cannot. In fact, Didi wooed the tribal voters to consolidate her victory in 2011 and topple the three-decade-long Left government. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP fielded candidates like John Barla and Rajesh Kujur, whom we had handpicked as leaders from the tea estates in Dooars. They tasted victory and are MPs now. How many seats do you plan to contest? We cannot announce it immediately. But as per our assessment, our chances are very high this time in at least 40 seats. But that alone cannot be a determinant as we have to look into our resources before taking the plunge. How does the party see TMC chief and chief minister Mamata Banerjee's posturing against your executive president her counterpart Hemant Soren after his rally at Jhargram in January? It is beyond comprehension why Didi has a problem with our rally and political ambition for West Bengal. We are empowered as a party to contest in West Bengal. As far as her party’s equation in Jharkhand is concerned, TMC fielded candidates in Lok Sabha election in 2014 and 2019. Chandrashekhar (Dadai) Dubey was fielded by the TMC from Dhanbad and Bandhu Tirkey was fielded from Ranchi. TMC even fielded a candidate against Hemant ji in Dumka. So why can’t we contest in West Bengal? Did we stop the TMC then? Hemant Soren, in his Jhargram rally, advocated for Vrihat Jharkhand, which has been one of JMM's long-standing demands. Does the party really think such a greater state comprising tribal pockets of West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand is possible at this juncture? In 1995, everyone joked when JMM demanded a separate state of Jharkhand. Subsequently, an autonomous council was created with its contours, which is now modern-day Jharkhand. If Jharkhand was born, why cannot the dream of Vrihat Jharkhand be fulfilled? Will JMM contest in Assam? It is for our party’s leadership to take a call on that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/beyond-comprehension-why-didi-is-against-jmm/articleshow/80913159.cms||Dhritiman Ray
February 15, 2021||Vadodara||Cong leader ‘stopped’ from campaigning||Vadodara: Congress leaders on Sunday lodged a complaint with election officials against the policemen in the city after the party spokesman Rutvij Joshi alleged that they cops prevented him from leaving his house for poll campaigning in the morning. “The cops came knocking in the morning and said that I can’t leave my house. I told them that I have to visit different areas for poll campaigning to which they said that they will accompany me everywhere I go,” Joshi alleged.  “CM Vijay Rupani was to address public meetings in the city on Sunday. The cops were sent in as the ruling BJP feared that we may stage protests near Rupani’s meeting venues. I told them that Rupani was in the city as a star campaigner and not for attending any public programme. I can’t be detained or let out of my home conditionally during poll campaigning,” Joshi told TOI. “Also, we are all busy campaigning for the polls. The cops followed me up to the district collector’s office and later left,” Joshi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cong-leader-stopped-from-campaigning/articleshow/80912869.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||TMC writes to RS Chair over Trivedi’s resignation||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress on Sunday urged Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu to probe how Dinesh Trivedi was allowed to announce his resignation in the House on February 12. TMC chief whip in the RS, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, urged Naidu to form an inquiry committee to find out “the reasons behind such unprecedented illegality committed through the deplorable action or inaction”. Ray alleged that there might have been a “connivance or conspiracy to malign Trinamool in the Rajya Sabha”. In his letter, Ray said during the discussion on Union Budget 2021, TMC had nominated two MPs as speakers. One was Ray himself, the other was Abir Biswas. “However, on February 12, around 1.25 pm, before the reply of the Union finance minister on the Budget, Dinesh Trivedi was allowed to speak for four minutes though he was not recommended by AITC as a speaker,” he said. Ray added that Trivedi’s seat was allotted in the RS gallery. “But Trivedi came down inside the Council Chamber and spoke from a seat of his choice, rambling on his personal motives. The Chair did not take any action to stop such unauthorised intervention in the Budget discussion,” he wrote. “Trivedi grossly misutilised the floor of RS for his devious political ends and was allowed to take the RS for a ride, which is unprecedented, unwarranted and is against the decorum and etiquette of RS and is also against all rules, norms and tradition of this august House,” he wrote, adding that there are specific norms for resignation of an MP, but there is no rule to announce resignation in RS. Trivedi said Ray’s letter revealed how he was humiliated by Trinamool — as he was allotted a seat in the gallery. “I happened to be the seniormost MP as I was elected an MP of RS in 1990. Moreover, the chair has all the authority and can allow any MP to speak if it is urgent. I had mentioned earlier in 1990 when Mamata Banerjee was attacked at Hazra,” he said. “Not allowing me, a senior MP, to speak in the Budget discussion was a great insult. I announced my resignation as I felt hurt. No attempt of reconciliation was made. Even when a cook leaves our home, we try to stop them. No one from Kalighat contacted me. It was due to my introspection I left, not that I am aiming to be an RS MP from another party. Then I could have continued as a Trinamool MP,” Trivedi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-writes-to-rs-chair-over-trivedis-resignation/articleshow/80915524.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||GRSE to deliver advanced vessel to the Seychelles||Kolkata: Zoroaster, the Iranian prophet and founder of Zoroastrianism, will soon be honoured by the Seychelles government, thanks to the efforts of Kolkata-based shipyard Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Ltd (GRSE). An agreement has been signed between them for the supply of a fast patrol vessel (FPV) to the coast guard of the island nation. Seychelles plans to christen the ship SCGS Zoroaster. “We shall be delivering the FPV soon. We already have the vessel ready. It will be the second ship to be exported by GRSE. Earlier, the company exported a multipurpose offshore patrol vessel, the CGS Barracuda, to the Mauritius coast guard. That was the first warship to be exported by any Indian shipyard. Once the SCGS Zoroaster is delivered, we expect more orders from friendly maritime nations. Recently, a contract was signed by GRSE for supply of a passenger-cum-cargo carrying ocean going ferry to Guyana,” a senior GRSE official said. The SCGS Zoroaster is an advanced, powerful and fuel-efficient vessel, capable of carrying out anti-smuggling and anti-poaching operations apart from routine patrols. It has a top speed of 34 knots and an endurance of over 1,500 nautical miles. It has a water jet propulsion system with advanced controls. The ship is fitted with a 40/60 gun and has modular air-conditioned accommodation for 35 personnel. GRSE, which has built 787 platforms since its inception, including 106 for the maritime forces, also has a dedicated ship-repair facility. With more ships being exported, the shipyard is hopeful of their return after designated periods of time for repairs and refits like those of the Indian Navy and Coast Guard. This would help in augmentation of revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/grse-to-deliver-advanced-vessel-to-the-seychelles/articleshow/80915551.cms||Jayanta Gupta
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||BJP neta in hosp after bullet-bomb attack, no arrests||Minakha: A former Trinamool leader who joined BJP is in serious condition at a private hospital off EM Bypass after being attacked by miscreants on bikes on Saturday. Firoz Kamal Gazi alias Babu Master had bullets fired and bombs hurled at his vehicle near Minakhan in North 24 Parganas while on his way back from a public meeting in Basirhat. According to hospital sources, he was recovering slowly from severe splinter injuries on his left side and was under observation in the HDCU (high dependency care unit). The car driver, who managed to get to Laugachi police outpost despite getting injured, is undergoing treatment at a Barasat hospital. He was interviewed by police, but no arrests have been made so far. “We suspect 10 to 12 people were involved in the attack. The motive is yet to be ascertained. A raid is on and surrounding police stations have been alerted,” a senior district police officer said. BJP supporters on Sunday hit the streets in protest. They put up road blocks on Basanti highway at Minakha and Taki Road at Deganga. The agitators gheraoed Minakha and Deganga police stations demanding immediate arrest of the culprits. Blaming TMC for the attack, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said: “After joining BJP, Babu Master was being targeted by Trinamool-backed goons. He also feared an attempt on his life ahead of the upcoming assembly polls.” Trinamool district chief and state food minister Jyotipriya Mallick, however, said: “Gazi has a criminal past. There is no political connection to the attack. He had developed a rivalry with several people over illegal trades. No Trinamool supporters were involved.” Gazi, once a CPM strongman in Basirhat areas, had joined Trinamool after it came to power in 2011. He was a senior member of the executive committee of the North 24 Parganas Trinamool Congress and zila parishad. Considered close to Suvendu Adhikari, he left Trinamool and joined BJP on December 18 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-neta-in-hosp-after-bullet-bomb-attack-no-arrests/articleshow/80915567.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Caught at IB by BSF, trafficked B’desh women narrate ordeal||Kolkata: Two Bangladeshi women were apprehended by BSF’s South Bengal Frontier close to Tarali BOP in North 24 Parganas while attempting to cross the International Border illegally on Saturday. The duo narrated heart-rending stories of how they had left poverty-ridden homes and were trafficked to India with the promise of respectable employment, only to end up as sex workers. “I am a divorcee and turned into a financial burden for my family. My grandmother is a cancer patient and money is required for her treatment. I approached an ‘agent’ in Dhaka who promised me a job with a good salary as a housekeeping staffer or caretaker in India. Nearly a year ago, I was brought across the border and handed over to a person who took me to Grant Road in Mumbai. For the next four months, I was confined there and raped by several people,” said Aisha (name changed) of Mymensingh. “I escaped and started living in Malad. I also visited Bangladesh once. I realised that my family needed money and this time, took to sex work. I travelled to Gujarat and worked at a spa in Surat and a hotel in Ahmedabad. I was trying to return home for a short trip with the help of touts but was caught by BSF,” the 23-year-old added. Sania (name changed) is a teenager and left her home in Kurigram about nine months ago with a friend to work as a hairdresser. Once across the border, a tout sold her into a sex work racket in Mumbai. Since then, she has travelled to cities like Visakhapatnam, Bengaluru, Udaipur and Kolkata. She was always escorted and was too afraid to raise her voice, fearing Indian authorities would throw her behind bars. On hearing her mother had fallen ill, Sania paid touts to make it back to Bangladesh but got caught. The women underwent counselling by an NGO and the anti-human trafficking unit before being handed over to Swarupnagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/caught-at-ib-by-bsf-trafficked-bdesh-women-narrate-ordeal/articleshow/80915590.cms||Jayanta Gupta
February 15, 2021||Kolkata||Truck kills 4 labourers in Burdwan||Burdwan: Four labourers were run over by a truck while they were walking down NH-19 (formerly NH-2) near Alisha in East Burdwan around 4.15am on Sunday. Three of them belonged to the same family. The truck fled after the accident. The deceased were identified as Champa Ruidas (42), Jharna Ruidas (33), Bistu Ruidas (55) and Saraswati Sen (55), all residents of Daspara. They were going for work to Bankura More when the accident happened. Locals rushed to the spot on hearing a loud sound and found the four lying on the road. They were taken to Burdwan Medical College and Hospital, where doctors declared all of them dead. Cops have launched a search for the vehicle and sent the bodies for a postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/truck-kills-4-labourers-in-burdwan/articleshow/80915506.cms||Mohammad Asif
February 15, 2021||Ranchi||Nawada: Shop owner shot dead inside moving bus, jewellery worth lakhs looted||SINDRI: Gold worth lakhs of rupees were looted and a jewellery shop owner of Bihar’s Nawada was shot dead inside a bus on the GT road in the wee hours of Sunday under Topchanchi police station area of Dhanbad on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Abhay Kumar who had boarded the bus from Kolkata. According to the statement given to the police by Manish Kumar, who had gone to buy clothes and jewellery to Kolkata along with the deceased, they had boarded the Bihar Sharif-bound bus at Mohammed Ali Park in Kolkata. “Around 4am when I woke up due to commotion, I saw two masked persons trying to snatch the bag containing the jewellery from Abhay and two others pointing pistols at the driver and his assistant in the bus. When Abhay kept resisting, the criminals shot at him from point blank range in his chest and snatched the bag. They made the bus stop near Satkira and alighted from the bus,” Manish told police. The driver took the bus to a private hospital in Dumri under Giridih district where Abhay was declared brought dead. The bus then went ahead to Bihar Sharif with the other passengers. Inspector in-charge of Topchanchi police station Suresh Munda said since the incident took place on a running bus, it is difficult to identify the exact spot where it happened. “But inquiry so far has revealed that the perpetrators had boarded the bus from Kolkata as passengers. The cost of looted gold and clothes are yet to be ascertained,” he said, adding police will lodge a case of loot and murder in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/shop-owner-shot-dead-inside-moving-bus-jewellery-worth-lakhs-looted/articleshow/80913187.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi Municipal Corporation to get 500 city buses from Centre||RANCHI: The Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) is all set to receive 500 new buses from the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) as part of Union government’s special scheme which aims at strengthening the public transport system across all urban centres. Talking to TOI on Sunday, RMC municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “As per our discussion with the MoHUA secretary (Durga Shankar Mishra), who recently visited Ranchi, the ministry has promised to allot at least 500 city buses for the state capital in order to improve last mile connectivity. We have been asked to draft a proposal in consultation with the state urban development authority and submit it to MoHUA. We will send the proposal next month.” He added, “The new buses will help us in providing timely connectivity on arterial routes in the city. Currently, we do not have enough buses which can cover the entire city and provide timely connectivity from one end to the other. For example, if a person has to travel from Kathal More to Booty More, he/she has to make a stop near Kuchery Chowk and take a connecting bus from there, which is time-consuming and problematic, especially if you are in a hurry,” he said. Asked about the mode of operation of the new buses, Kumar said it’ll depend on the final proposal. Earlier, the city buses used to be maintained and operated by cooperatives, comprising tribal people, set up by the civic body. Earlier this month, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget had announced a scheme which will be launched at the cost of Rs 18,000 crore to support augmentation of public bus transport services across various urban centres. The move is likely to boost the sale of new buses, a segment of the auto sector which was decimated during the Covid-induced lockdown, and provide employment opportunities to many.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rmc-to-get-500-city-buses-from-centre/articleshow/80913153.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 15, 2021||Ranchi||Platform ticket prices hiked by 300% in Ranchi, Tata and Hatia railway stations||RANCHI: The South Eastern Railways (SER) has directed its railway divisions in Jharkhand and West Bengal to raise the price of platform tickets in all its busy railway stations by 300% to regulate the footfall as part of Covid-19 safety regulations. A circular in this regard issued by SER late last month directed Ranchi, Chakradharpur, Adra and Kharagpur railway divisions and the platform ticket prices were raised last week. The circular came weeks after a January 5 order issued to the divisions, which allowed the sale of platform tickets on its premises. Since partial railway services began in June after 90 days of lockdown, only passengers with confirmed tickets were being allowed to enter till the January 5 order was issued. According to the new rate, visitors entering Ranchi and Hatia railway stations will have to shell out Rs 30 for a platform ticket, which is three times the amount levied before the lockdown came into effect in March last year. Platform ticket at Tatanagar railway station in Jamshedpur has been priced at Rs 40 alongside Kharagpur in West Bengal. Likewise, visitors who want to see off their kin in Muri and Chakradharpur railway stations will have to pay Rs 20. Satish Sahu, the father of one Bihar-bound student, Rajesh, rued, “Firstly, they did not reinstate the service of the regular trains stopped but introduced special trains, which are levying 1.3 times more than the original fare. And now, the railways has raised the platform tickets arbitrarily without giving a thought about its bearings on the passengers or their kin." A senior Ranchi division official said, “It is a decision made by the SER to limit the footfall on railway stations to prevent a surge in Covid-19 cases. The circular came a couple of weeks ago, but it was implemented last week.” a senior Ranchi division official said, on anonymity. SER officials in its headquarters in Kolkata did not respond when contacted. Meanwhile, the Jharkhand Passengers’ Association (JPA) reacted strongly to the hike. "Despite Covid-19 cases being on the wane, the railways is not resuming the operations of its regular trains. Now, they are charging very high for platform tickets. The Union government has stopped thinking about common people," JPA secretary Prem Kataruka said. Notably, only 39 pairs of festival special trains are currently operating from the Ranchi division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/platform-ticket-prices-hiked-by-300-in-ranchi-tata-and-hatia-rly-stations/articleshow/80913133.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Rajkot||Kidnapped teen, abductor found 5 years later in Bhopal||RAJKOT: The parole furlough squad of Rajkot police nabbed a kidnapper of a minor girl from Bhopal five years after they went missing. The girl was also found and brought back to Rajkot. Police said that they had received information about the accused Bhupendra alias Danga Kohle hiding in Bhopal along with the 16-year-old girl. A team of cops reached Bhopal and brought the duo back to Rajkot. “We had contacted the father of the accused who confirmed that his son was in Bhopal along with the girl ever since they eloped in 2016,” said a police official. After they eloped, the girl’s father lodged a complaint of abduction at Kuvadava Road police station as she was a minor. According to police, Kohle had met the girl while he was working at a biscuit factory on Rajkot-Ahmedabad highway. The girl’s father also used to work in the same factory. The duo used to meet often. During one of those meetings Kohle lured the girl of marrying him and asked her to elope with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kidnapped-teen-abductor-found-5-years-later-in-bhopal/articleshow/80912941.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi yet to receive guidelines for Phase III of Covid vaccination drive||RANCHI: Although the Union health ministry had on February 7 announced to soon open the Co-WIN application for public in general so that the beneficiaries of the third phase, which includes people above 50 years, can get themselves inoculated after prior registration, the state health department says they are yet to finalise the guidelines for the third phase. Officials in health department say they are yet to get a confirmation regarding Co-WIN application going public and once they are intimated, necessary changes will be implemented. Talking to TOI, nodal officer for the vaccination drive in state Dr Ajit Prasad said, “We haven’t been directed any specifics about the proposed vaccination drive for people above 50 years of age. However, we are hopeful that it will be done in the next two days.” Meanwhile, people aged 50 years and above welcomed the move and said that they are happy about the decision to inoculate the vulnerable population as maximum number of casualties due to Covid in the state was among people aged 51 to 70 years. TOI spoke to people above 50 years of age with co-morbidities as well as those who do not have co-morbid conditions and they said they will be more than happy to take the vaccine. “Three members from my family were infected last month, but I was lucky as I had isolated myself. I am diabetic and have heart ailments. I am happy that the government starting vaccinations for us as it will provide the much-needed mental peace,” said 64-year-old Priyadarshi Ashok. Harkishan Rai, a government contractor in his mid-fifties, said, “I was at home during the lockdown, but due to my work, I have to go on sites, meet labourers and visit offices to meet officials. I have been taking all precautions, but I will definitely go for the vaccine shots as I do not wish to get infected at this point and become a risk for others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-yet-to-receive-guidelines-for-phase-iii-of-vax-drive/articleshow/80913069.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Each vaccine dose given to states, UTs costs Rs 447||BENGALURU: On average, each dose of vaccine supplied to states costs about Rs 446.7, with the Centre having spent Rs 961 crore for the supply of nearly 2.2 crore doses to 37 states and UTs so far. Further, states and UTs have collectively received Rs 123 crore for operational costs, while another Rs 357 crore earmarked for the purpose will be disbursed in phases. According to data made public by the Union health ministry, the Centre will, including the operational costs, incur nearly Rs 1,500 crore for vaccinating the three crore healthcare and frontline workers, which gives an indication of the magnitude of funds required in the next phase of vaccination that is hoping to cover 27 crore more people across the country. However, the per dose cost is not uniform across states. For example, Delhi has received 7.1 lakh doses of the vaccine at a cost of Rs 41.3 crore, compared to 17.2 lakh doses that Karnataka was given, which has cost the Centre only Rs 59.7 crore. Details of vaccine doses supplied and the statewise cost incurred were shared on different dates by the ministry in Lok Sabha and no immediate explanation was available for the difference in cost. Of the 2.1 crore doses of vaccine supplied to the states, nearly 1.9 crore are the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covishield, produced by Serum Institute of India, and the remaining 25.7 lakh doses are Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Eighteen of the 37 states/UTs have not been supplied with Covaxin. While populous Uttar Pradesh has received the maximum doses of vaccines, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, which have a high percentage of India’s healthcare workers, and Rajasthan are among other states to receive large quantities of the vaccines. Naturally, these five states are also the ones to have got the highest money as part of “operational costs” funds released by the Centre. While the Centre has earmarked Rs 480 crore under its operational costs budget for the inoculation drive, it has so far disbursed Rs 123 crore to states/UTs. Of the Rs 123 crore, the aforementioned states together have got Rs 48.2 crore, while the remaining 32 states/UTs together have got Rs75.2 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/each-vaccine-dose-given-to-states-uts-costs-rs-447/articleshow/80916200.cms||Chethan Kumar
February 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Arrest a clear violation of SC norms, allege green groups||BENGALURU: Many eco-groups condemned the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi on Sunday. Delhi police had picked up the 22-year-old from her home on Saturday. “This action against an individual without following due process of law and in clear violation of norms for arrests and detentions laid down by the Supreme Court reflects absolute contempt for constitutional principles.” In another statement, 10 youth-based environmental groups who did not want to be named urged the government to treat citizens with respect. “We demand that this young activist be immediately released, her records expunged and she be escorted safely back to her home,” they said, adding that Disha, an avid animal lover, was the sole earning member of her family. The implication that toolkits are conspiracy gizmos used by foreign forces to destabilise India was “stupid”, the groups said. “To imply climate change activists are a danger to the peace and harmony of this country in a political climate that is highly polarised is to play fast and loose with their safety and security, especially when there is absolutely no proof to back this claim. If anything, the recent Uttarakhand disaster makes it clear how important the work groups like ours are doing.” Arguing that terms like “international conspiracy”, “defame the country” and “waging social, cultural and economic war against India” to describe young environmental groups is highly unbecoming of authorities in the highest corridors of power, the statement urged the government to stop viewing everyone who disagrees with its policies as enemies. The government should learn to work with the people who have elected them to office, they said. “Seeing the kind of treatment being meted out to some of the youngest members of our collectives, there is no doubt in our minds that the intent of the government is to target and silence voices of dissent amongst the youth of this country,” the statement read. The groups said they know Disha as a person of immense integrity who has nothing but the country’s best interests at heart. Like themselves, she is invested in this work because she knows and understands the severity and seriousness of the climate crisis, they said. “We are sure that her social media and personal equipment that have been confiscated will reflect nothing other than the immense concern that she, like us, has for this world. We are therefore extremely worried about her safety and wellbeing,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-arrest-a-clear-violation-of-sc-norms-allege-green-groups/articleshow/80916258.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Archaeology serves Buddhist platter that is two millenia old||AHMEDABAD: Archaeological light has been shed on the diet of Buddhist monks at Vadnagar, the hometown of PM Narendra Modi — findings suggest that two millennia ago, monastic cuisine consisted of rice and legumes (peas, pulses, and beans). A team of researchers have authored a paper titled ‘Rice, beans and pulses at Vadnagar: An early historical site with a Buddhist monastery in Gujarat, western India’. The paper was recently accepted by Elsevier’s journal Geobios. The authors include Anil Pokharia from Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences (BSIP); Shalini Sharma and P C Pande from Kumaun University; Y S Rawat from the directorate of archaeology, Gujarat; Alka Srivastava from DG College, Kanpur; and Bhushan Dighe from National Museum. “The archaeobotanical samples were collected from two sites near an excavated monastery in Vadnagar after going through hundreds of kilograms of excavated earth,” said Dr Rawat. “The sites were of the same age as the monastery, and thus there’s enough reason to believe that they represent the circumstances prevailing from 1st century Before the Common Era to 4th Century Common Era (2,100 to 1,600 years before the present time).” Digging for recipes of asceticsThe findings showed a diverse diet. While rice consisted of 83% of the grains found from the sites, other grains included barley, wheat, cowpea, green gram, black gram, and horse gram. Other remains pointed at the presence of linseed, cotton, tamarind, and jujube. Pokharia, Scientist ‘E’ at BSIP, said that the findings are important in more than one way. “It’s the first instance of archaeobotany being deployed at a known Buddhist site to decode diet. We are yet to link the findings to other known Buddhist sites on the Indian subcontinent,” he said. “But it will be interesting to see whether rice came from Gangetic plains to the western region.” He went on to say: “Rice, as we know, also holds religious significance and is used in rituals even today.” Another aspect of the discovery is a peek into climatic conditions and farming practices of that era. “We have found a few remains of grains from Harappan sites in Gujarat,” Pokharia said. “After that, it’s the first continuation of crops after a gap of several hundred years. The dominance of summer crops hints at warm and humid climate conditions with good precipitation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-archaeology-serves-buddhist-platter-that-is-two-millenia-old/articleshow/80916270.cms||Parth Shastri
February 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Disha Ravi case: Bengaluru police didn’t know Delhi cops were in town||BENGALURU: Delhi police had kept a close eye on Disha Ravi, the Benglauru-based climate activist who was arrested on charges of sedition on Saturday, and had come fully prepared to make the arrest. Local police were not informed until well after Disha was on a flight to Delhi. City police sources say a five-member team, including two women personnel, arrived in Bengaluru around 12pm on Saturday. The team headed straight for Abbigere, Chikkabanavara area, north Bengaluru, where Disha lives, but did not enter her house immediately. They first checked if she was at home by tracking the youngster’s mobile phone. Read AlsoWe know what’s happening, don’t want to talk now: Disha Ravi’s motherDisha Ravi’s family refused to speak when TOI visited her house in Abbigere locality in Chikkabanavara suburb of Bengaluru on Sunday. The family’s German Shepherd is coming in handy to keep mediapersons at bay. When contacted over phone, Disha’s mother Manjula Ravi said: “We know what’s happening.“First, three men in a car visited the area and made a note of the house and surroundings before leaving,” sources said. “The three then returned with two women police. The three men stood outside while the women police knocked on the door and entered the house. A little later, two of the men entered the house and completed the arrest by 5pm.” Read AlsoFriends &amp; strangers speak up for Disha RaviBENGALURU: Disha Ravi is a familiar face among Bengaluru’s climate activists involved in lake clean-up drives, tree plantation campaigns and climate talks for the past two years. She did her BBA from Mount Carmel College in 2019 and has been an inspirational figure thanks to her passion and zeal.Sources say Disha and her mother let the cops in only after they showed their ID cards and a copy of the arrest warrant, which was issued by a local court in Delhi. Read AlsoAcademically bright, Disha Ravi an inspiration, say fellow activistsDisha Ravi is a familiar face among Bengaluru climate activists involved in lake clean-up drives, tree plantation campaigns and climate talks for the past two years.After detaining Disha, two of the team went through her laptop and mobile phones. Another cop recorded the entire proceedings. Cops got Disha’s mother, Manjula, to sign a document which said her daughter was being arrested by Delhi cybercrime police and that she was aware of the case as well as the charges against Disha. Around 5.30pm, Disha and the police team left for the airport. “The women police asked Disha’s mother to pack some of her daughter’s clothes. They also packed some fruits, eye drops and other medicines which Disha uses,” local police said. The team split into two with one set — with Disha in custody — heading for Kempegowda International Airport and the other branching off to meet jurisdictional police in Soladevanahalli station and officially inform them of the arrest. When word reached senior officers, a Hoysala patrol team was sent near Disha’s house to monitor the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-police-didnt-know-delhi-cops-were-in-town/articleshow/80916284.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
February 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Academically bright, Disha Ravi an inspiration, say fellow activists||BENGALURU: Disha Ravi is a familiar face among Bengaluru climate activists involved in lake clean-up drives, tree plantation campaigns and climate talks for the past two years. She graduated in BBA from Mount Carmel College in 2019 and has been an inspirational figure thanks to her passion and zeal. Her teachers remember her as an academically bright student and a regular winner in intercollege competitions that required managerial, leadership and communication skills. “In school and college, Disha enjoyed doing what most of us do — vibe to the latest Bollywood songs, keep up with YouTubers who talk about skincare and fashion, watch Netflix, cycle and chill with friends or her dog Sammy,” her friends said. “She loves baking and cooking and especially experimenting with vegan recipes. She is determined to make the world’s best hummus.” Disha lives in a low-lying area in Bengaluru and her house is flooded every time it rains, her friends say. “She has experienced the impact of the climate crisis first hand,” they said. “Her grandparents were farmers and she has seen them struggle through droughts and floods and battle changes in soil and other problems. She has struggled a lot and, at 22, is the breadwinner of her family.” Disha’s role model is Jane Goodall, the primatologist who spent her life in the jungles of Asia and Africa studying chimpanzees for 25 years. They say she dreams of working with turtles and marine life and hopes to pursue a career in ecological conservation and restoration. Her primary interests are in climate finance, water crisis, environmental policy, intersectionality in environment movement and creating a platform for those affected by climate catastrophes. Many fellow-activists have known her since she was 19, when she began participating in environmental-related activities. They admired her for her zeal and passion to the climate crisis cause. “She is one of the most self-less activists I have interacted with,” said Mukund Gowda, 25, a citizen activist. “She understood nuances of waste segregation, climate change and even issues in the Atlantic Ocean.” Gowda says Disha shunned the limelight. “She would do most of the groundwork, yet would choose to stand on the sidelines and stay away from the media,” he said, adding that her arrest “is unfair and a tactic to induce fear in the minds of youngsters”. Another activist, who did not want to be named, said: “In my last interaction with her, she was looking for an additional job. She is the breadwinner of the family. She’s a vegan and a proponent of animal rights.” Fellow activists, who hoped she would be acquitted soon, said: “Even while others wavered about the movement, she stuck around, giving voice to the voiceless.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/academically-bright-disha-ravi-an-inspiration-say-fellow-activists/articleshow/80916310.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||Uttarakhand: Hopes fade as 6 bodies found in Tapovan tunnel||DEHRADUN: Exactly a week after almost non-stop rescue operations began to search for more than 30 people stranded inside the head race tunnel at the NTPC hydropower plant site in Tapovan, rescuers for the first time found six bodies inside the 1.6km long slush-filled tunnel. The discovery deflated the hopes of the families of the trapped workers who have been praying for a miracle. “The bodies were found 125 metres inside the tunnel. Our team is continuing clearing slush in order to go deeper in,” said Vivek Pandey, spokesperson, ITBP. Rescuers believed the stranded men would be at a point 180m into the tunnel. Till Sunday night, rescue teams had reached 140m inside, sources said. During the day, 14 bodies were recovered from various sites of flood-ravaged Chamoli, taking the toll to 52, while 152 people are still reported missing, Chamoli’s district disaster management officer Nandkumar Joshi told TOI.\||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-hopes-fade-as-6-bodies-found-in-tapovan-tunnel/articleshow/80916329.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 15, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara sees gradual decline in Covid-19||VADODARA: With the number of daily positive cases is gradually coming down, Vadodara seems to be getting some relief from Covid-19. In the beginning of this month,Vadodara city and district used to register 50 plus cases on a daily basis. This has started coming down to 40 plus on an average basis. On February 1, for instance,Vadodara had registered 53 Covid-19 positive cases as per medical bulletin released by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). On Sunday, the number of positive cases stood at 41. With addition of 41 new cases,the total number of Covid-19 cases during the pandemic has reached 24,104. The official death toll has remained stagnant at 241 for a while now. On Sunday, the daily discharges were also higher than the fresh cases that Vadodara registered. With 49 patients seven from private hospitals and 42 from home isolation getting discharged, the total number of discharges have reached 23,266 during the pandemic. Currently, there are 597 active cases. Of these, condition of 512 patients is said to be stable. While 59 are being treated with oxygen support, 26 are under ventilator or BI-PAP machine. A total of 806 individuals are under home quarantine. Of the total 24,104 cases that Vadodara city and district have registered so far, Vadodara rural counts for 7,466 cases, while the rest are from east, west, north and south zones of VMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-sees-gradual-decline-in-covid-19/articleshow/80912892.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||Covid cases rise again in Maharashtra, top 4,000 on Sunday||Maharashtra on Sunday added more than 4,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, the first time in 39 days that the daily tally has topped 4,000, amid signs of another surge in India’s worst-hit state. Weekly cases and deaths in India registered a minor decline. Maharashtra reported 4,092 new cases on Sunday, the highest single-day count since 4,382 were recorded on January 6, which was also the last time the count had exceeded 4,000 in the state. The spike in infections in Maharashtra has been visible through the week. The state logged 22,816 fresh cases in the week (February 8-14), a 29% rise from the previous week. At 92, Covid toll remains below 100 for second day in a row Nationally, 77,284 cases of Covid-19 were recorded in the country, a marginal drop of 4% from the previous week. The weekly death toll from the virus too appears to be plateauing, with 650 fatalities recorded as opposed to 680 in the previous week — a drop of 4.4%. More than a third of these deaths were recorded in Maharashtra (219). While Maharashtra’s numbers have been rising, Kerala registered a dip in the number of fresh cases this week. The state logged 35,697 cases in the week, a 9% drop from the previous week’s count of 39,260. However, Kerala continues to register the highest number of new cases in the country. On Sunday, 11,711 fresh cases of the coronavirus were reported in India, a slight drop from the previous day’s count of 12,169. At 92, the death toll remained below 100 for the second day running.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-cases-rise-again-in-maharashtra-top-4000-on-sunday/articleshow/80916333.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||More freed than convicted of ‘offences against state’ in 4 years||NEW DELHI: The number of people discharged and acquitted in cases relating to ‘offences against the state’ grew from 1,887 in 2016 to 3,237 in ’17, 3,490 in ’18 and 3,538 in ’19, data compiled by National Crime Records Bureau shows, reports Bharti Jain. Convictions for such offences — they include cases under Sections 121-123 and 124A of IPC, Section 153B (imputation and assertion prejudicial to national integration), Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and Official Secrets Act — decreased from 2,269 in 2018 to 1,739 in 2019. UP topped list on arrests for offences against state in 2016-19: NCRB data More people were acquitted or discharged in cases relating to ‘offences against the state’, particularly under UAPA and sedition law, between 2016 and 2019. In addition, a large number of cases are in trial. A senior IPS officer said this was on the pattern of overall crimes in the country, with acquittals outnumbering convictions. A total 55,870 people were arrested under various categories of offences against the state over four years from 2016 to 2019, while 48,422 were chargesheeted. In the same period, only 6,511 people arrested for offences against the state were convicted, 11,828 were acquitted and 324 discharged by the courts. The number of convictions or acquittals in a given year may relate to cases pending trial from earlier years. Alternatively, cases in which chargesheet was filed in a particular year may be at different stages of trial in subsequent years. Incidentally, the number of people arrested for offences against the state declined to 12,140 in 2019 from 13,160 in 2018, though it was much higher at 16,210 in 2017. However, the number of people discharged and acquitted has grown steadily from 1,887 in 2016 to 3,237 in 2017, 3,490 in 2018 and 3,538 in 2019. The number of people convicted for offences against the state fell to 1,739 in 2019 from 2,269 in 2018, though it was lower at 1,734 in 2017 and 769 in 2016. The state with the highest arrests for offences against the state between 2016 and 2019 was UP, though its rate of such offences was only 0.9 (as per population). Interestingly, states that showed a high rate were Manipur (10.1), Delhi (8.8), Arunachal (2.2), J&K (2.1), Haryana (2), and Tamil Nadu (1.7).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/more-freed-than-convicted-of-offences-against-state-in-4-years/articleshow/80916355.cms||Bharti Jain
February 15, 2021||Business||Amazon wanted $40 million to drop its 'right of first refusal': Future||NEW DELHI: US e-tail giant Amazon had asked for $40 million to forego its “right of first refusal” to buy Future Group’s assets in Future Retail, the Indian retailer has alleged in documents submitted with the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). In its submission to the emergency arbitrator, the homegrown retailer claimed that Abhijeet Mazumdar, head of corporate development and private investments at Amazon, had made a verbal offer to Future Group promoter Kishore Biyani on behalf of the e-tailer, asking for “$40 million as compensation in exchange for the Future Group and Reliance proceeding with the disputed transaction”. The Future Group further claimed that according to messages exchanged between Biyani and Amit Agarwal, global senior VP and country head at Amazon India, the e-tailer was kept in the know about the progress of the deal between Reliance Industries (RIL) and the Future Group. SIAC, however, had noted in its interim award against the proposed RIL-Future deal, which it granted to Amazon, that — despite the e-tailer actively seeking to invest more into the debt-laden Future Group along with other investors — it was not apprised of the finer details of the RIL-Future arrangement. While TOI has reviewed copies of the documents, questionnaires emailed to Amazon and the Future Group did not elicit any replies till the time of going to the press. Both Amazon and the Future Group are currently locked in a bitter legal battle over the latter’s Rs 24,713-crore proposed deal with RIL announced in August. Future Group, which operates India’s largest grocery chain Big Bazaar, along with other retail chains, had announced the sale of its retail, logistics and warehousing assets to Reliance Retail, the retail arm of the Mukesh Ambani-led conglomerate. Amazon, which in 2019 had bought a 49% stake in Future Coupons, an unlisted company of the Future Group with a right to buy into flagship Future Retail after a period of three-to-five years, went to SIAC in October, pleading the deal be cancelled as it had the right of first refusal. The row saw both companies battling it out in the Delhi high court about the viability of the emergency arbitrator’s award in India. After a division bench of the Delhi high court lifted a “status quo” order on the deal, revoking a previous court decision that had effectively blocked it, Amazon last week moved the Supreme Court, challenging it. On Monday, an Amazon spokesperson said, "Amazon denies the false and misleading claims being made by the Future Group on a purported request for compensation to forego the right of first refusal. This is a questionable and an ill-timed attempt to mislead the public at large more particularly when Amazon has filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court. Amazon has consistently offered to assist FRL during the economic downturn caused by Covid and reiterated our openness for a dialogue even during the Delhi High Court hearings, which was declined by Future Group."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-wanted-40million-to-drop-its-right-of-first-refusal-future/articleshow/80916380.cms||John Sarkar
February 15, 2021||Business||‘Investors are back to ‘save & spend’ mode’||NEW DELHI: SBI Mutual Fund has seen some of its costs going down and digital adoption by customers growing. MD Vinay Tonse shares with TOI some experiences of the largest fund house in India in terms of assets managed… What type of challenges you faced soon after the lockdown and how did you overcome those?The challenges were both internal and external. Essentially, the challenge was how do we carry on with the processes. Fortunately, we had put the needed processes in place much before the actual lockdown started. And we could move on as if nothing had happened outside. For us, our customers are the most important stakeholder and, once we could keep our customers in comfort, all other things fell into place. Keeping the communication channels open was vital, which we did. We had to reach out to all our stakeholders and communicate how we were working under the changed circumstances. Since our teams kept in regular touch with our customers and distributors, there was no disruption. Another challenge was moving from the practice of face-to-face interaction — which gives more credibility to our line of business — to digital interaction. When it comes to dealing with money and investments, face-to-face interaction lent a lot more credibility. However, given our brand and continuous communication, we could overcome whatever little challenges we faced. How much of normalcy have you achieved?We have achieved almost complete normalcy. As people have accepted the new normal, our AUM (assets under management) has been growing continuously. We don’t have any Covid-related challenges. Has there been any marked change in investors’ habits since the pandemic started?Over the last few years, the investment behaviour had changed from ‘save & spend’ to ‘spend & pay’. The uncertainties of the time are again reversing the habit back to the ‘save & spend’ mode. This, we feel, is a change for the better. People are again realising the importance of saving and investing. Another welcome change is that investors are again considering the importance of asset allocation: Some investments in equity, some in debt, some in gold and so on. Did adjusting to the new normal push up your costs?It’s the other way round. With the move from physical to digital, our overall expenses have come down as travel and some other costs have fallen drastically, while digital assets, which were built and had excess capacity, are now being used more. What have been the most important learnings from the pandemic?We have to stick to the basics. We have to be correct about the three Ps: Processes, people and products. The processes have to be robust and in place. We should have an extremely committed workforce. And our products have to be good. If these three are in place, challenges can be overcome easily. Also, during those challenging times, as an organisation, we had to have an extra focus on taking care of the physical and emotional wellbeing of our people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/investors-are-back-to-save-spend-mode/articleshow/80916423.cms||Partha Sinha
February 15, 2021||World||Armoured vehicles in Myanmar cities, internet outage reported||Security forces in Myanmar opened fire to disperse protesters at a power plant on Sunday and armoured vehicles rolled into major cities as the new army rulers faced a ninth day of anti-coup demonstrations that saw thousands on the streets. As well as mass protests, the military rulers were facing a strike by government workers, part of a civil disobedience movement against the coup. Soldiers were deployed to power plants in the northern state of Kachin, leading to a confrontation with demonstrators, some of whom said they believed the army intended to cut off the electricity. The security forces fired to disperse protesters outside one plant in Kachin’s state capital Myitkyina, footage broadcast live on Facebook showed, although it was not clear if they were using rubber bullets or live fire. Two journalists from 74 Media, which was broadcasting live from the site of the confrontation, were arrested along with three other journalists, the news outlet said. As evening fell, armoured vehicles appeared in the commercial capital of Yangon, Myitkyina and Sittwe, the capital of Rakhine state, live footage broadcast online by local media showed, the first large-scale rollout of such vehicles since the coup. The government and army could not be reached for comment. Shortly after midnight, residents in Myanmar reported an internet outage. All four telecommunications networks were inaccessible from about 1am on Monday (midnight IST), they said. In the early days after the coup, the internet was cut across the country. Western embassies — from the European Union, the US, Canada and 11 other nations — issued a statement calling on security forces to “refrain from violence against demonstrators and civilians, who are protesting the overthrow of their legitimate government”. The US embassy in Myanmar urged American citizens to “shelter in place”, citing reports of the military movements and internet shutdown. Meanwhile, a UN rights envoy said that Myanmar’s generals will be “held accountable” for any suppression of the burgeoning civil disobedience campaign. “It’s as if the generals have declared war on the people of Myanmar,” Tom Andrews, the UN special rapporteur for Myanmar, wrote on Twitter. “These are signs of desperation. Attention generals: You WILL be held accountable.” In the latest sign of disruption by workers, the department of civil aviation said many staff had stopped coming to work since February 8, causing delays to international flights. It added that on Thursday four air traffic controllers had been detained, and had not been heard from since. A pilot, who asked not to be named for fear of retribution, said hundreds of staff from the department were striking. Soldiers were surrounding the international airport in Yangon on Sunday night, he said. Hundreds of railway workers also joined demonstrations in Yangon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/armoured-vehicles-in-myanmar-cities-internet-outage-reported/articleshow/80916428.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Kochi||Union government dedicated to Kerala’s development: PM Modi||KOCHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Union government was dedicated to the development of Kerala. Inaugurating five major development projects at Ambalamugal in Kochi, he said this year’s Union Budget has devoted significant resources and schemes to benefit the state. The projects inaugurated included the Rs 6,100-crore Propylene Derivative Petrochemical Complex at BPCL Kochi Refinery; the Sagarika cruise terminal and construction of South Coal Berth in Cochin Port; Vignan Sagar, the knowledge and training centre at Cochin Shipyard and Ro-Ro vessels service in Willingdon Island and Vallarpadam. Calling on people to work together for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, Modi said: “Today we have gathered here to celebrate development — the development of Kerala and India.” He cited the budget allocation for the next phase of Kochi Metro as an example of Centre’s interest in Kerala. “This metro network has come up successfully and has set a good example of progressive work practices and professionalism,” he said. Modi said his government had always been sensitive to the needs of the Indian diaspora, especially in the Gulf. “India is proud of our diaspora in the Gulf. It has been my honour to spend time with them during my previous visits to Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the UAE and Bahrain. As part of the Vande Bharat Mission, over 50 lakh Indians came back home. Many of them were from Kerala,” he said. PM promises infra boost to tourismThe Prime Minister said the commissioning of Sagarika cruise terminal would increase the footfall of cruise tourists in Kochi. “Tourists come to Kochi not only to go to other parts of Kerala. The culture, food, beaches, market places, historical places and spiritual places here are widely known. The Government of India is undertaking many efforts to improve tourism-related infrastructure here. The Sagarika cruise terminal will cater to over a lakh cruise guests,” he said. Modi called upon youngsters in the start-up sector to come up with innovative tourism-related products. “India has been growing well in the last five years. In the World Tourism Index ranking, India moved from 65th to 34th position. There is a lot more to be done and I am confident we will improve even more,” he said. Capacity building and modernising infrastructure for future needs are two important factors for economic development. ”Vigyan Sagar is the new knowledge campus of Cochin Shipyard. The South Coal Berth will bring down the cost of logistics and improve cargo capacity. Both are vital for businesses to prosper,” Modi said. The Prime Minister said India was giving utmost importance to developing the blue economy. “The Pradhan Mantri Matsaya Sampada Yojana is a one-of-its-kind scheme. It has provisions to ensure more credit. Fishermen have been linked with Kisan Credit Cards. Similarly, work is underway to make India a hub for seafood exports,” he said. Governor Arif Mohammad Khan, CM Pinarayi Vijayan and Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Mansukh L Mandaviya and V Muraleedharan attended the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/union-government-dedicated-to-keralas-development-pm-modi/articleshow/80916365.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||Timber mafia attack MP forest guards with axes, injure three||BHOPAL: Three forest department personnel were critically injured after timber mafia goons attacked them with axes in a jungle near Panna National Park on Saturday. One of them is battling for life. This comes less than 10 days after a forest guard was shot dead in Dewas by alleged poachers. On Saturday night, forest guards Chatrapal Lodhi, Swamideen Kushwah and Govind Singh Yadav were patrolling their beat when they heard the sound of axe striking wood. They followed the noise and found a dozen men cutting down trees in a patch of the forest in Vishramganj range of North Panna division. Although unarmed and outnumbered, the guards challenged the gang but the goons rushed at them with axes. All three were hacked brutally but Govind managed to slip out of the melee and hide in a bush. It was he who staggered out of the forest three hours later to get help for his comrades who lay bleeding. SDO (forest) Dinesh Singh Gaur said Lodhi is the most critically injured. Three suspects were rounded up from a nearby village notorious for felling trees. Many villagers are part of a mafia chain involved in smuggling timber from forests, he said.Considering the risk to forest guards, revenue and police personnel will now join them in patrolling the forests, said Gaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/timber-mafia-attack-mp-forest-guards-with-axes-injure-three/articleshow/80916463.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||Two thrashed over cow-killing rumour; 5 held||INDORE: Two men who were skinning a cow carcass in Kishanganj near Indore as part of their traditional occupation were beaten brutally by vigilantes who accused them of killing the cow. Mahendra Balai and Jaykishan were saved in time by police and are in hospital. Ten suspects have been arrested for assault and under SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. “They (the victims) have been disposing of animal carcasses for generations,” said Kishanganj police station incharge Shashikant Chourasia. They were working on a cow carcass on Saturday when rumours spread that they had killed it. A mob surrounded them and began beating them. “A case of violence and verbal abuse was registered against 10 people,” said Chourasia, adding that five of them have been arrested and remanded in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-thrashed-over-cow-killing-rumour-5-held/articleshow/80916468.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||Water in glacier was the real culprit behind flood: Geologist||DEHRADUN: Geologist Naresh Rana of Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University, who was among the first experts to notice the new lake formation at the site of the floods, told TOI that while an avalanche may have acted as a trigger, water accumulated inside the glacier was the “real culprit”. “Glaciers often have accumulated water inside their crevasses or in small sub-glacial lakes. In this case, the water must have reached its saturation point. Any avalanche or landslide may disturb the glacier’s process and break its reservoir, leading to a sudden increase in water outflow. Then it flows along with heavy sediments at a rapid speed along a steep slope.” He added that “had it been just an avalanche, it would have stayed confined to the valley.” “It was the accumulated water inside the glacier, punctured by an avalanche, that caused the river to swell, leading to flash floods.” Meanwhile, scientists of Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology said a chunk of hanging glacier, around 500m in length, had broken off and fallen into the Raunthi river, causing ‘an explosion like sound.’ This was at 2:30am. Over the next eight hours, a slurry of ice, water and boulders ended up in Rishiganga, triggering the flash flood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/water-in-glacier-was-the-real-culprit-behind-flood-geologist/articleshow/80916480.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 15, 2021||Vadodara||This contest in Godhra is for communal harmony||Vadodara: In the western parts of Godhra municipality, the polls have been dominated by the minority community as there are hardly any votes of the majority community there and it is the other way around in four wards of the eastern parts dominated by the majority community. But probably for the first time in the town that is also labelled as the Ground Zero of 2002 Gujarat riots, members of both communities have come together and fielded a Hindu woman from a ward where there are hardly any votes of the community. The step has been taken to spread communal harmony and is no political move, but a gesture by friends who thought that it was the right thing to do. Apexa Soni decided to file nomination as an independent after her husband Nainesh Soni was approached by friends in ward six of Godhra asking if Nainesh or Apexa could contest the polls. It was eventually decided that Apexa would contest the polls. “Our aim was only to send a message to people that communal harmony can prevail. Residents of the minority community are also supporting her wholeheartedly. They even join us for canvassing,” said Nainesh. Apexa said that she did not hesitate when her husband asked her to contest the polls. “My husband has friends in the area since years. They also complain that there has been no development in the area. If I win, I will try to understand the problems of people there and try to resolve them,” said Apexa. Mohammed Bhatuk, a resident of the area who is supporting Apexa, said that they thought friends should come together and promote communal harmony. “Hence we took this decision. We hope we win the polls,” he said. Another resident Abdulsalam Kamali pointed out that elected representatives were not able to do much for the area. “We thought someone from outside may come and do some work here,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/this-contest-in-godhra-is-for-communal-harmony/articleshow/80912909.cms||Sachin Sharma
February 15, 2021||Kochi||Popularize govt’s welfare schemes in Kerala: BJP leaders told||KOCHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asked BJP’s state core committee leadership to build awareness of the central government’s welfare schemes in Kerala. In a short interaction, Modi asked leaders to work on building the party from the grassroots. Party membership should be more democratic and represent all sections of society, he said. Though the M was expected to spend half an hour with the leadership, the entire meeting was over in around 10 minutes as his arrival from Chennai was delayed. He assured them of the active participation of central leaders in the run up to the assembly election. Several senior leaders are expected to join Amit Shah at the culmination of K Surendran’s ‘Vijay Yatra’, scheduled to begin from Kasaragod on February 21. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate the yatra. Modi was expected to assess the political situation in Kerala with the party’s state leadership which was present in full strength. He is said to have expressed satisfaction at the work being done. Among the leaders present were Surendran, O Rajagopal, V Muralidharan, Kummanam Rajashekaran, M T Ramesh, P K Krishnadas, A N Radhakrishnan, C K Padmanabhan, etc. BJP state vice president Shoba Surendran, who has been staying away from party meetings, was present at the airport to greet the PM. BDJS president Thushar Vellappally was also present at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/popularize-govts-welfare-schemes-in-kerala-bjp-leaders-told/articleshow/80916470.cms||---
February 15, 2021||India||‘Govt needs to be proactive to weed out rogue lending apps’||NEW DELHI: Fintech experts believe that the Union government needs to be more proactive in rooting out the menace of predatory digital lending apps. This includes taking a firmer stand against such apps of Chinese origin. “Ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY) has carried out multiple rounds of app bans. However, it has never banned any lending app based out of China. They are sometimes even more dangerous for an individual’s privacy than gaming apps. RBI too has not acted beyond giving advisories,” said Srikanth L of Cashless Consumer, a citizen-led collective that raises awareness around digital transactions. On the other hand, People’s Bank of China fined a leading Chinese credit agency, Pengyuan Credit, with 620,000 yuan for “engaging in personal credit operations independently and without approval,” he further said. The RBI has received 1,019 complaints regarding unregulated and unregistered online lending apps, said Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur in a written reply in Lok Sabha on February 8. He also said the central bank has issued a warning to customers in December to generate awareness around the issue, and it has also set up a working group to study “all aspects of digital lending”. “Regional directors of regional offices of the RBI are also in touch with the state police,” the reply added. Rogue lending apps, many hosted on Chinese servers, became increasingly common during the 2020 lockdown, when many who lost their livelihoods because of the pandemic were on the lookout for cash. The apps offered users short-term credit at very high interest rates and then, in some cases, harassed or abused borrowers for money. Google took down at least 100 such apps in January, after the Telangana police wrote to the technology giant about their misuse. According to law, any organisation lending money to the public must be approved by the RBI. These ‘rogue’ online lending modules, however, do not have such approval and therefore operate in a policy vacuum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-needs-to-be-proactive-to-weed-out-rogue-lending-apps/articleshow/80916494.cms||Anam Ajmal
February 15, 2021||India||Private players don’t want trains on same route for one hour in 50-km radius||NEW DELHI: Private players keen to operate passenger trains have asked the railways not to allow any similar train on the same route within one hour from any station within 50km from where their trains depart. The Indian Railways is looking into several suggestions, including this, and is likely to respond to the bidders this week. Earlier, in the bid document, the railways had proposed that no new similar train would be scheduled within 60 minutes from any station from where private trains will start. But private players have cited that there are a number of cities, including Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Bengaluru which have several stations within the city and their suburbs. Hence, there is a need to extend this norm to more stations within and around the identified cities.  function triggerMessage(t){window.addEventListener("message",function(e){e.data.id===t.id&&(t.width=e.data.width,t.height=e.data.height,t.style.height=e.data.height+"px")}),t.contentWindow.postMessage({width:t.parentElement.offsetWidth,height:t.parentElement.offsetHeight,id:t.id},"*")} “We have made several suggestions to the railways for consideration after carrying out our assessment. Private players will bring investment only when they are confident of good business. You may not get enough passengers to run more than one such train in quick succession. The objective should not be to have cut throat competition, but to coexist,” said one of the bidders.  function triggerMessage(t){window.addEventListener("message",function(e){e.data.id===t.id&&(t.width=e.data.width,t.height=e.data.height,t.style.height=e.data.height+"px")}),t.contentWindow.postMessage({width:t.parentElement.offsetWidth,height:t.parentElement.offsetHeight,id:t.id},"*")} Sources said the railways will make its position clear before inviting financial bids for running 151 trains on 109 pairs of routes. “It’s true that private players would have to make huge investments, to the tune of Rs 30,000 crore and they will decide their fares, which is likely to be higher as they will bring modern rolling stock and provide more facilities. Now, only serious players are in the fray,” said a government source. In the bid document, the railways had specified that the restriction on scheduling new trains within one hour won’t apply only if the capacity utilisation of the train by a private player is more than 80% in three consecutive months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/private-players-dont-want-trains-on-same-route-for-one-hour-in-50-km-radius/articleshow/80916509.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 15, 2021||Kochi||Focus on both public, private sectors: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||KOCHI: Speaking at the commissioning of the Propylene Derivatives Petrochemical Project (PDPP) complex, here, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state government has been adopting a strategy of strengthening and reviving the public-sector units, besides luring private-sector investment. This statement assumes significance in the wake of reports the central government is planning to privatise BPCL’s Kochi Refinery. Workers affiliated to the CITU and INTUC stayed away from the programme to register their protest over the move to privatise the refinery. Vijayan added that the state government is cooperating with the Union government to realize various development projects. The Centre also plays its part. This is an example of cooperative federalism, Vijayan said. The chief minister said Kochi is a hub of tourism in the state. Cruise tourism in the state registered a growth of 42% in 2017-20, Vijayan said. In the past four and a half years, the state government has tried to usher in industrial development in the city, the chief minister added. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan also spoke on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/focus-on-both-public-private-sectors-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan/articleshow/80916495.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh HC asks SEC to submit video footage of Kodali speech||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Sunday asked the State Election Commission (SEC) to submit video footage, along with its transcription, of the speech of civil supplies minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani). The SEC directed Nani not to speak to media till elections are completed. It has also directed the Krishna district SP to register a case against him under sections 504, 505(1)(c) and 506 of IPC for his alleged derogatory comments against SEC. Challenging the order of SEC, Nani moved the high court with a house motion petition. VRN Prashant, the counsel for Nani, argued that the proceedings issued by the SEC against Nani are without any material and substance. He said that there is no need for such drastic action as the minister himself clarified to the SEC that his comments were never intended to criticise the election commission and he has the highest regard for constitutional bodies. He sought the interference of the high court and requested to set aside the gag order issued by the SEC. Arguing on behalf of the SEC, advocate N Ashwani Kumar requested the court to examine the footage of Nani's speech and hear his language before taking any decision on the SEC's order. Considering the arguments of the SEC, Justice D V S S Somayajulu asked whether the video footage is available to examine. He said the case will be heard on Monday at 2:15 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-hc-asks-sec-to-submit-video-footage-of-kodali-speech/articleshow/80916597.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 15, 2021||Kochi||Nun found dead in quarry pond in Kerala||KOCHI: A 45-year-old nun was found dead in an abandoned quarry pond near her convent at Vazhakkala on Sunday evening. The body of Sr Jaseena Thomas, who belonged to the Daughters of St Thomas congregation, was recovered by the Thrikkakara police. The nun hailed from Idukki. Police said that they haven’t found any evidence that could raise suspicion. “The nun was undergoing treatment for mental health issues since 2011,” said a senior city cop. “She was visibly depressed after breakfast and when she didn’t turn up for lunch the other nuns looked for her and filed a police complaint later in the day.” The officials said that the body has been moved to medical college. “Covid test results are awaited. An inquest, most probably under the supervision of an executive magistrate, will be held on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nun-found-dead-in-quarry-pond-in-kerala/articleshow/80916523.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Vijayawada||14 killed and 4 injured in road mishap in Kurnool district||TIRUPATI: Fourteen people including eight women and a child were killed and four others severely injured in a ghastly road accident on Hyderabad-Bangalore national highway 44 near Madarpuram village of Veldurthi mandal in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh on Sunday morning. The mishap occurred when the driver of the mini van in which they were travelling lost control and hit the road divider. Under the impact, the mini van jumped off the divider and fell on the opposite lane. A lorry coming on the opposite lane hit the mini van killing 14 of the 18 occupants on the spot. The road was strewn with blood as some of the bodies lay scattered. The victims belong to three families from Madanapalle town of Chittoor district and they were proceeding to the dargah of Hazrat Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti in Ajmer. Over speeding is said to be the cause of the mishap. The mini van driver and cleaner also died. A pall of gloom descended on Madanapalle town as the news of the mishap reached. Aadhaar cards used to identify victimsThe mini van turned into mangled metal and rescue teams had to use a crane and cutters to retrieve some of the bodies trapped inside. Traffic on the busy highway came to a standstill as teams struggled to remove the bodies and shift the injured to government hospital in Kurnool city. The state government announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of the victims. It also said Rs 1 lakh will be paid to each of the four injured. This is the second major road mishap in Andhra Pradesh in the last three days. Earlier, a tourist bus fell from the ghat road in Araku valley and fell into a 80 feet deep gorge, killing four people and injuring 24 others. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and AP Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock over the gory road mishap. Jagan directed officials to provide better medicare to the injured. Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian told reporters that a joint family of 18 members belonging to Madanapalle in Chittoor district started for Ajmer on Saturday night. "Early Sunday morning when the vehicle reached Madarpuram village, the driver lost control and rammed into the road divider. The vehicle toppled over and hit a truck on the other side of the road about 40 feet away. Except four all the other occupants died on the spot," he said. He said the victims were identified based on the Aadhaar cards they were carrying with them. After the post mortem, the bodies will be sent to Madanapalle in special ambulances. Kurnool district superintendent of police Dr Kaginelli Fakeerappa said the mini van driver may have dozed off and lost control of the vehicle. The deceased are identified as Shaik Dastagiri (50), Shaik Ammajan (35), Shaik Shameera (16), Shaik Ameeroon (15), Shaik Rafi (36), Shaik Jaffer Vali (30), Shaik Nazirabi (65), Shaik Rohini (29), Shaik Mohammed Rihan (one year old), Shaik Naziya (34), Shaik Amir Jaan (63), Mastani (30), Shafi (35) and Nazir (55). Later, the bodies of the 14 deceased were taken to Madanapalle in Chittoor district in vehicles arranged by the Kurnool district administration. The four survivors, Shaik Shafi (38), Shaik Khasif (14), Shaik Yasmin (5), and Shaik Asma, are admitted to government general hospital in Kurnool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/14-killed-and-4-injured-in-road-mishap-in-kurnool-district/articleshow/80916561.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Over 71% voting in Punjab amid sporadic violence||CHANDIGARH: Over 71% voters in Punjab exercised their franchise on Sunday, amid incidents of violence at few places and allegations of rigging as well as booth capturing, to elect 400 members for eight municipal corporations and 1,902 for 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats. The counting of votes polled in 4,102 polling booths of total 2,302 wards across 22 districts of the state would be held on February 17. The fate of a total number of 9,222 candidates in the fray was sealed in nearly 7,000 EVMs, with Mansa district recording the highest 82.99% polling, followed by Bathinda (79%) and Sangrur (77.39%). Mohali district recorded the lowest polling at 60.08%. Total 39,15,280 voters, including 20,49,777 males, 18,65,354 females, and 149 transgenders were eligible for voting in municipal bodies elections. Opposition parties — AAP, SAD and BJP — accused the ruling Congress party in the state of misusing official machinery and backing goons who indulged in violence and capturing of voting booths. At the same time, the opposition parties condemned the state election commission headed by IAS officer Jagpal Singh Sandhu of failing to ensure free and fair polls despite various representations submitted in advance for deployment of paramilitary forces. The state police also came under sharp criticism from the opposition parties for allegedly dancing to the tune of the ruling party. Amid some incidents of violence, an AAP worker was injured in Patti of Tarn Taran district when a gunshot was fired during a clash between AAP and Congress workers. An FIR was registered against SAD leader and former minister Virsa Singh Valtoha, his son Gauravdeep Singh and five others. Clashes were also reported between the Congress and the SAD workers in different parts of the state. BJP leaders continued to face protest from locals even on the polling day and in one such incident Hoshiarpur district (rural) president Sanjiv Minhas was gheraoed by people in Garhdiwala and his car was damaged but the police managed to save him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/over-71-voting-in-punjab-amid-sporadic-violence/articleshow/80916557.cms||---
February 15, 2021||Gurgaon||A land registry that stirred up a hornet’s nest in the state||Gurgaon: In December last year, two individuals sought permission from then deputy commissioner (DC) Amit Khatri for manual registry of a plot they wanted to sell to four Delhi-based companies. A manual registry needs permission in Haryana because the state government moved the entire process online to make it tamper-proof after a scam in tehsil offices came to light last year. Khatri gave permission on December 16 and the registry was completed on December 24. The registered value of the land was a little over Rs 55 crore. But in the days that followed, the registry kicked up a controversy, with the state rushing to cancel it as well as ordering a probe, amid questions on both its valuation and ownership. An amendment was also brought to the state’s registry rules. The land in question — a sprawling 24 acres in Silokhera — was once an airstrip, owned since the 1980s by Aparna Ashram founder Dhirendra Brahmachari, yoga instructor and trusted confidant of Indira Gandhi. Following his death in a plane crash in June 1994, a dispute broke out between ashram society members over his assets, leading to a legal tussle that remains unresolved till date. The government ordered an investigation into the registry after Laxman Chaudhary, who claims to be president of the Aparna Ashram society, filed a complaint. “Chaudhary also attached the judgment of a Gurgaon court that says the two people involved in the land deal are not authorised to do so,” said Surya Prakash, the legal representative of Laxman Chaudhary. However, KS Pathania (74), who had approached Khatri to get the registry done along with Subhash Dutt, claimed they were “members of the recognised Aparna Ashram society whose president is Subhash Dutt”. “We are authorised to sell this land. We have done everything as per the resolution passed by the society,” said Pathania. Dutt refused to comment. Khatri said on December 23, a day before the registry was done, he had sent a letter to the sub-registrar of Wazirabad tehsil, informing him he had withdrawn permission. “The DRO informed the concerned revenue official the same day not to carry out the registry. We also have a recording of the conversation. The cancellation letter was issued thereafter. Moreover, the permission was just to ascertain documents and that too was withdrawn later,” said Khatri. The registry, however, was completed on December 24. On December 26, the government ordered a probe. A preliminary report was submitted on December 30 by additional deputy commissioner Prashant Panwar. Asked about its findings, Panwar refused to comment. On December 29, meanwhile, the public relations department of the government issued a press release stating the government had on December 23 issued a notification amending the Haryana Registration Manual by inserting Para 159-A. The amendment, the department said, had been made to ensure that ‘persons with valid titles would not have to seek legal recourse to get the deed of a fraudulent sale cancelled and may continue to have the liberty to enjoy their property’. It empowered officials to accept cancellation of sale deeds in cases where a person ‘was not entitled to transfer such property’. Officials said Khatri used this amendment to set aside the registry on December 27. Khatri’s order has now been challenged by the buyers of the land in the Punjab and Haryana high court, where the matter is listed for hearing on February 15. Dr Yash Garg, Gurgaon’s present deputy commissioner who took charge on January 6 this year after Khatri went on study leave, said the registry had been cancelled by his predecessor and stood revoked. “The government has told us to assess whether a law and order situation could arise over the Silokhera land and to check whether CrPC Section 145 could be imposed since there is a legal tussle going on,” he added. Asked about the status of the probe, Sanjeev Kaushal, additional chief secretary and financial commissioner, revenue and disaster management department, Haryana, told TOI, “The inquiry was conducted by our revenue consultant and the divisional commissioner. We have communicated to the divisional commissioner and deputy commissioner about the steps that need to be taken. The DC is the district’s revenue head and instructions have been given to him.” According to documents accessed by TOI, the sale deed of the land was registered for Rs 55.06 crore, for which a stamp duty of Rs 3.85 crore and a registration fee of Rs 50,010 was paid. The type of land mentioned is uncultivable. However, Khatri’s December 27 order setting aside the registry, raised a question on the valuation. “Concerns have also been highlighted on the stamp duty paid for the deed and whether it was inadequate based on prevailing collector rates and the registration policy,” it reads. If one takes into account the circle rate for FY 2020-21, cost of commercial land in Silokhera is Rs 44,000 per sq yard while cost of residential land is Rs 18,000 per sq yard. Going by this, the land would cost Rs 510.95 crore if sold as commercial and Rs 209.03 crore if sold as residential. According to a letter sent by the revenue department to Garg on January 19 this year, the land in question is “undoubtedly undervalued”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/a-land-registry-that-stirred-up-a-hornets-nest-in-the-state/articleshow/80915564.cms||Vishakha Chaman
February 15, 2021||Gurgaon||Haryana exam 2021: Online exams for government schools to begin today||GURGAON: The Haryana education department said online examinations for government schools from Classes III-IX and XI will start from Monday. The exams, which were scheduled to begin on February 1, was postponed due to the ongoing farmer protests and internet suspension in multiple districts across the state. The Directorate of School Education, in a letter, directed its officials to appraise the school heads of the new schedule via the Avsar app. The department said with it is an appropriate time for the exams to start. “This is to inform you that the department has released a fresh schedule for the online assessment of students of Classes III-IX and XI via the Avsar app. You need to ensure that all the teachers and students are informed about the same and that the exams are conducted in a seamless manner,” read the order. The education department has also told its officials to direct school heads and teachers to tell the students that the test will be of the entire syllabus taught till December 2020 and will only comprise objective type of questions. It has asked the schools to ensure full participation of students and those finding difficulties in accessing the app should be either helped by the teachers or education volunteers, who were trained by the department last month. “Schools are yet to open for the primary section and we don’t want that to in any way impact our assessment schedules. Thus, we want to have a common assessment test across the state. Students of Class X and XII will have offline exams. The assessment will not only help us in assessing the learning levels of students via online classes but also evaluate their comfort in taking exams on digital platforms,” said an official. The department will allow the students to choose a time slot at their convenience. The question papers will be available on the link provided by the teachers for 24 hours. “We understand that many students use mobile phones of their parents or elders at home and thus, they all may have very different time slots. Moreover, many don’t get the required atmosphere at their homes all the time. So, we have given them the liberty to pick any time during 24 hours to take the test.,” the official added. In December last, TOI had reported that the education department was contemplating the idea of holding a common online assessment test. In January, school teachers and education volunteers were trained in using the app.“Most of the students are already trained in using the app. The teachers would be closely monitoring the tests to ensure that no child is left out,” said Jacobpura government school principal Sunil Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/online-exams-for-haryana-government-schools-to-begin-today/articleshow/80917425.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
