February 16, 2021||Business||RBI to conduct simultaneous sale-purchase of govt securities next week||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday announced it will conduct simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities under Open Market Operations (OMO) for Rs 10,000 crore each on February 25, 2021. The decision was taken after a review of current liquidity and financial conditions, the RBI said in a statement. Simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities under OMOs, popularly known as Operation Twist, involves purchasing G-Sec of longer maturities and selling equal amount of G-Sec of shorter maturities. On February 25, the RBI will purchase three government securities of different maturity dates aggregating to Rs 10,000 crore and sell two securities aggregating to the same amount using the multiple price auction method. The RBI further said it reserves the right to decide on the quantum of purchase/sale of the securities. The result of the auctions will be announced on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-to-conduct-simultaneous-sale-purchase-of-govt-securities-next-week/articleshow/80934538.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Bengaluru||Touts, outdated systems mar property registration: Study||BENGALURU: Outdated systems, crashing servers and middlemen mafia ensure that people visiting sub-registrar offices wait for hours to get their documents registered, undermining a simplification process announced by the Karnataka government. Though the simplification of services, including pre-data entry system (PDES), at sub-registrar offices, was announced a year ago, many of them have not started working on the ground, a study of the working of sub-registrar offices by the Right to Information Study Centre has revealed. PDES provides for online booking of time slots for registration of properties. “The computers and accessories installed are more than a decade old and not compatible with the latest technology. The Kaveri software is being continuously upgraded, by providing patches, to cater to the advanced requirement. However, since computers and accessories are of lower configuration it is resulting in frequent technical failures. Frequent breakdown is ultimately resulting in server problems and thereby the general public are facing abnormal delays in getting timely services due to frequent shutdown of operations of the offices of sub-registrars. During the past one year, the department is unable to provide satisfactory services to the general public due to frequent breakdown in the central server,” the centre’s complaint to Karnataka Lokayukta reads. The stamps and registration department has developed Kaveri or the Karnataka valuation and e-registration to enable online property registration. The government is upgrading Kaveri online service, a web-based platform, by installing a new patch (6.8 version). The aim is to simplify land registration, documentation and other processes at sub-registrar offices, prevent middlemen and curb corruption. But the entire process is hanging fire, resulting in more graft, said a source. Forget registration of sites or executing sale agreements, getting an encumbrance certificate (EC) is also taking a lot of time, allowing touts to offer speedy services for a price, an officer at a Jayanagar sub-registrar office said. KP Mohanraj, inspector general of registration and commissioner of stamps, admitted there are issues and they are making efforts to solve the same. “There are several softwares integrated with Kaveri interface, including e-Swathu and Bhoomi. The servers have not been able to perform as expected. There is a delay. An upgraded interface, Kaveri 2.0, will be unveiled and these problems will be addressed soon.” Last Wednesday, the sub-registrar offices stopped receiving Record of Rights, Tenancy and Crops (RTC) for works like land use conversion as their systems crashed. An officer said PDES will eliminate middlemen and has become a cause for concern for employees, especially data entry operators (DEOs), who call the shots in these offices. DEOs are outsourced employees, but are crucial for the registration process. Currently, all registration related works are being performed by DEOs in the offices of the sub-registrars. It is also observed that a majority of DEOs are being continued in the same offices beyond ten years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/touts-outdated-systems-mar-property-registration-study/articleshow/80934905.cms||Kiran Parashar
February 16, 2021||Mysuru||Karnataka: Daughter says no to marriage proposal, parents end life||HASSAN: Shattered by the decision of their daughter to back out of a marriage proposal a day before her engagement, a couple hanged themselves in their house in Ballurupura village of Hassan district’s Alur taluk early Monday. Police sources said the deceased have been identified as Puttaraju, 58, and Kanthamma, 52. The childless farmer-couple had adopted their nephew and niece nearly two decades ago. According to police, after performing the marriage of their son, the parents were looking for an alliance for their daughter, who is doing an undergraduate course in Holenarsipur taluk of Hassan district. When they found a groom from neighbouring Arkalgud taluk, the date for engagement was set for Sunday. Family sources said the bride-to-be reportedly expressed unwillingness about getting married and conveyed decision to her parents. An officer said the parents, their son Siddegowda, 36, and daughter-in-law tried to convince her, but she stood her ground. During arguments, the girl in her early 20s reportedly walked out of the house on Saturday and stayed at her friend’s place. By evening, she was brought home. Siddegowda said his parents tried to talk her out of the decision and the discussiosn went on till 2am on Monday with no resolution. “When I woke up in the morning, I found my parents hanging from the roof of the cattleshed attached to our building,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/daughter-says-no-to-marriage-proposal-parents-end-life/articleshow/80934911.cms||Darshan B H
February 16, 2021||Bengaluru||Youth kills brother-in-law in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 24-year-old welder allegedly bludgeoned his brother-in-law to death in Kanteeravanagar late Sunday night. The deceased is Haji Malanga, a resident of Jaimaruthi Nagar and labourer at a lorry stand in RMC Yard. Nandini Layout police detained Khader Khan, 24, the younger brother of Malanga’s wife Shahena. At 11.30pm, Khan was informed about Malanga assaulting Shahena and rushed to her rescue. He took a cement brick and smashed Malanga’s head. Malanga and Shahena got married 10 years ago and had three children. Malanga used to harass her for money. Shahena filed a domestic violence case against Malanga on January 1, 2019 with Nandini Layout police. Shahena learnt that Malanga was at his mother’s residence in Kanteeravanagar on Sunday. She rushed there with her children from Jaimaruthi Nagar. Malanga demanded money for alcohol and other expenditures in the evening. The couple had a fight and Khan intervened. Khan warned Malanga not to harass or harm his sister and returned to his residence. Khan received a call from Shahena’s son at 11pm. Khan rushed to the spot and killed Malanga. Nandini Layout police have detained Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/youth-kills-brother-in-law/articleshow/80934913.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Business||Jet Airways reports Rs 2,841 crore loss for 2019-20||NEW DELHI: Jet Airways, which has been grounded for nearly two years, on Monday reported a standalone loss of Rs 2,841.45 crore for the year ended March 2020. During the 2019-20 financial year, the airline had a total income of Rs 354.2 crore, the company said in a filing to the BSE. In 2018-19, the airlne had posted a loss of Rs 5,535.75 crore. The once-storied full service airline, which shuttered operations on April 18, 2019, is undergoing insolvency resolution process. As per the filing, the resolution professional -- Ashish Chhawchharia -- and employees who were part of the asset preservation team have made all practical and reasonable efforts from time to time to gather details to prepare the financial statements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jet-airways-reports-rs-2841-crore-loss-for-2019-20/articleshow/80934956.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Motorists see no respite from handling charges||BENGALURU: An increasing number of prospective vehicle owners in the city are complaining about illegal ‘handling and logistics charges’ imposed by car and two-wheeler dealers. Many dealers in the city have been imposing additional fees, including handling/logistics charges, for new vehicles even though the Supreme Court has termed it illegal. These handling charges are between Rs 5,000-50,000 for four-wheelers, depending on the make and cost, and Rs 1,500-10,000 for two-wheelers. In Bengaluru alone, around 1,750 new vehicles are registered every day. Motorists say some dealers in the city and a section of transport department staff are hand in glove when it comes to collecting these charges as there has been no action despite several complaints. Some allege that a share goes to transport department officials as a bribe. Waseem Memon of Drive Without Borders, an NGO, said: “Many car dealers in the city are charging an additional amount (between Rs 6,000 and Rs 50,000) for illegal handling and logistics charges. A share of this amount goes to corrupt transport officials on a monthly basis. I had approached the National Consumer Commission and also written to all car manufacturers to instruct all dealers not to collect this amount, but only one manufacturer responded so far. There should be an end to this menace. For instance, Delhi has succeeded in stopping this collection, but there has been no action in Karnataka despite several complaints.” Abhishek A, a resident of Whitefield, said: “A dealer tried to extort Rs 11,000 as ‘logistics and handling charges’, but these charges are illegal and cannot be demanded from customers. Vehicle cost in Karnataka is much higher than other states due to high MV taxes and other charges. People are being fleeced.” ‘Not received any complaint so far’In Kerala, the transport department had conducted state-wide raids on vehicle dealers’ offices after complaints of exorbitant handling charges. However, no such raids have happened in Karnataka so far. Additional commissioner of transport (enforcement) L Narendra Holkar said: “It’s illegal to collect handling charges and dealers are not authorised to do so.” Asked if the department took any action against errant dealers, he said: “We have not received any complaint so far. Customers can also inform police if dealers demand extra.” An automobile dealer in the Central Business District said: “There are several components above the ex-showroom price of a vehicle, which includes registration charges, road tax and insurance. We also fill fuel for the new vehicle. Handling and logistics charges is an open secret. Otherwise the vehicles won’t get registered. Many customers also don’t want the hassle of going to RTOs.” TOI, however, found that many vehicle owners have already approached the transport department on this issue on Twitter. P Balachandran, a netizen, tagged the transport department’s Twitter handle (@tdkarnataka) and wrote: “I have been asking your support to confirm if it’s legal for car dealers to include additional handling charges over & above ex-showroom price for several weeks but there is no response. Does it mean they are bribing RTO to be silent? (sic)”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/motorists-see-no-respite-from-handling-charges/articleshow/80934985.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
February 16, 2021||Bengaluru||Tune into Bengalurean’s radio museum with 110 rare sets||BENGALURU: Saturday, February 13 was a joyous occasion for Bengalurean Uday Kalburgi, not just because it was World Radio Day, but also because it saw his decade-long dream of a Radio Museum turn into reality. If you are a history lover, 2nd Street in the bylanes of KHB Colony, 6th Main, Basaveshwaranagar, will interest you as it houses the radio museum, the first in Bengaluru and possibly the only one in the state. Electronics and telecommunications engineer Uday Kalburgi is the man behind this marvel christened Short Wave Radio Museum and Knowledge Centre. Inaugurated on Saturday, it has a praiseworthy collection of 110 radios, including some classic, vintage and rare pieces dating back to over a century. “This is the big day of my life,” said the 56-year-old radio enthusiast from Basaveshwaranagar, standing amid his newly unveiled 900- sqft museum. Kalburgi had been dreaming of a museum for a while and a collection of radio sets towards the project took him to all corners of the country. His collection dates back to the late 1960s, when he was a young boy and moved to Bengaluru. “My love for radios started during my school days in Hubballi and it only grew when my father gifted me a Telefunken, a German-made personal radio set in 1980,” says Kalburgi, who still has the set and on which he honed his radio restoration skills. However, the oldest piece on display in Kalburgi’s collection is the 1914 Westinghouse radio, which he sourced from a relative’s house in a mangled state. The museum also flaunts a 1924 model Mullard, a 1930 model Pye, a 1940 model Philips Holland and a 1940 Graetz, which Kalburgi collected over the last five decades. A 1935 model Pilot X85BA, a 1948 RCAQ 122 and a 1950 HMV 5112 are some of the rare sets he sourced in a year’s time for the museum. Indian radio models also form prime pieces among the Bengalurean’s rare collections. “A 1966 model Remco, which was made in Bangalore by BHEL on Mysore Road, is a set I’m really proud of as it is our own. I also have a 1962 model Airvoice radio made in Bombay and 1965 model Philips India radio made in Calcutta,” says Kalburgi, who is also a restorer and one of the rare technicians capable of working on vintage radio sets. A set used during WW IIThe most exceptional among Kalburgi’s collection is a 1940 Marconi R1155 military radio, which was used in bomber plane cockpits in World War II and was sourced from Britain.  The piece, however, is not on display as he is restoring it by sourcing original parts from different corners of the globe. It is among 20 more rare radio sets he has collected over the years and is restoring. The museum is open for visitors from Tuesday to Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tune-into-blureans-radio-museum-with-110-rare-sets/articleshow/80935090.cms||Petlee Peter
February 16, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Bikers on clean mission hit the road with trash bags||BENGALURU: While many biker groups ride for pleasure, this one is doing it for a cause too. They are over 30 riders — both men and women — who carry trash bags during their road trips. Bikers Troop Bengaluru is a city-based biker ensemble who go on pleasure rides outside Bengaluru on weekends. But what makes the group different is the fact that they choose their destinations where members can take part in a clean-up drive. On Sunday, the riders collected five big bags of trash from Thottikallu Falls, off Kanakapura Road. The members, who are from different professions, came together to spread awareness on hygiene and a clean environment. Formed in October 2020, the group was the brainchild of Kalyan Nagar resident Harshith BK, who along with his partner and brother, went on a road trip and saw more friends joining them, inspired by their message of cleanliness. “We didn’t want to be the usual bikers’ group just exploring places, but a team of social warriors who could do our bit to save the spots we visit,” added Harshith. He started a Facebook group which saw a good following, and many soon came forward to join him for rides. The bikers halt at a tourist location outside the city and clear the place of trash, including bottles, plastic and paper littered by those visiting it. Their maiden trip was to Skandagiri, over 60km from Bengaluru, last November where they halted for a few hours to clean the place. The group’s latest trip was on Sunday when over 20 members rode to the famed Thottikallu Falls. “We reached their around 7.30am and spent two hours cleaning the place. There was so much trash, including bottles, plastic, paper and even baby diapers just thrown off with no concern for the beauty of the falls,” said Santosh Goutham, a travel influencer and member of citizens’ group The Ugly Indians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bikers-on-clean-mission-hit-the-road-with-trash-bags/articleshow/80935153.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Bengaluru||Skeleton found in drain on Karnataka's Magadi Road||BENGALURU: A skeleton — that of a male adult — was found in a drain near Kamakshipalya traffic police station, Magadi Road, on Monday. Vijayanagar police said while desilting a drain in front of HVR Kalyana Mantapa, labourers removed the slabs and were shocked to find the skeleton. “Samples from the skeleton have been sent for forensic exam. BBMP officials said they had covered the drain with slabs four years ago. So we suspect the victim died after that. We are checking details of missing persons to trace his identity,” said Sanjeev M Patil, deputy commissioner of police (west). Vijayanagar police suspect the deceased could have fallen into the drain during the rainy season or had been washed away||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/skeleton-found-in-drain-on-magadi-rd/articleshow/80935158.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Goa||Bengaluru outsmart Mumbai, stay in the race for playoff spot||Mumbai City FC lost their hold on the top position in the Indian Super League after suffering a 2-4 defeat against Bengaluru FC at the GMC Athletic Stadium, Bambolim, on Monday. There were three players with a brace each. Cleiton Silva and Sunil Chhetri were on target for Bengaluru while Adam Le Fondre provided Mumbai with a glimmer of hope. Bengaluru avenged their 1-3 defeat in the first leg and it will hurt Mumbai a lot. The third defeat for Sergio Lobera’s side in 17 matches means they now have 34 points, two less than leaders ATK Mohun Bagan. Struggling for most part of the season, Bengaluru kept their chances alive of making it to the playoffs. They moved to sixth place with 22 points from 18 games. Bengaluru looked a transformed side and started aggressively. Cleiton had missed the last game due to injury, but made a strong comeback and it took him under a minute to score the fastest goal of the season. Mumbai had failed to keep a clean sheet in their last four games, and it took Bengaluru not even a minute to breach the defence. Udanta Singh’s cross from the right found Cleiton in the box and the Brazilian shot past keeper Amrinder Singh to leave Mumbai stunned. There were defensive worries for Bengaluru with Rahul Bheke and Pratik Chaudhari missing due to suspensions. Fran Gonzalez and Harmanjot Khabra, however, did well to keep a check on Le Fondre initially. Raynier Fernandes and Le Fondre should have done better when they had opportunities, but couldn’t keep their shots on target. Bengaluru did fancy their chances through captain Chhetri and Eric Paartalu but keeper Amrinder was up to the task. The former champions extended their lead through a set piece in the 22nd minute as Cleiton headed after a delivery from Xisco Hernandez. Mumbai were not only trailing by two goals but finding it difficult to create chances. Their fight back started five minutes after the restart when Le Fondre was quicker than Khabra to meet a low cross from Cy Goddard. Soon, it looked like Chhetri had won his team a penalty after going down to a challenge from Hernan Santana. Instead, the India captain was booked for simulation. Chhetri, though, redeemed himself with a neat finish after picking up goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu’s long ball. Bengaluru couldn’t reorganise in defence and Goddard turned provider for Le Fondre once again as the England forward’s header beat Sandhu, who had stepped out of his line. Mumbai were pressing hard and Sandhu got an important touch with five minutes left to deny Le Fondre his hat-trick. Bengaluru were on the edge when six minutes of added time was shown. They defended in numbers and scored on the counter with Chhetri finishing clinically on his 200th appearance for the club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bengaluru-outsmart-mumbai-stay-in-the-race-for-playoff-spot/articleshow/80936226.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
February 16, 2021||Goa||Romeo returns to FC Goa, now on trial for AFC Champions League squad||Panaji:Romeo Fernandes has returned to FC Goa and is now on a mission to make it to the AFC Champions League 2021 squad. Not too long ago, Romeo was the darling of Goan football. Alongside Mandar Rao Desai, he was the poster boy for FC Goa and helped the club to a final appearance in 2015. Since 2017, though, when he moved to Delhi Dynamos, things have not been quite the same. Having remained without a club this season, Romeo is now attempting to not just save his professional career, but also rekindle the love affair with Goa. According to sources, the 28-year-old has started training with the FC Goa developmental side that play in the Goa Professional League. Romeo has even been registered for the local league, a move that is aimed at improving his match fitness. “He is looking good in training,” a source told TOI on Monday. “Romeo is being considered by FC Goa for a place in the team for the AFC Champions League (in April). It’s too late to make any changes to ISL squad with strict quarantine rules in place.” Romeo was always ready to attend trial with Goa and prove himself all over again. At the start of the season, though, there was little time for coach Juan Ferrando to have a look at the winger. During the January transfer window, Goa had another opportunity to complete the move. However, the club felt there were enough attacking options, while doubts over Romeo’s fitness remained. “Having been out, nobody knew whether he would have been match fit. ISL games come thick and fast,” said another source. It’s also true that Goa have found themselves short of options on the wing. While Alexander Romario has surprised many by fighting his way to first choice on the right ahead of new signing Redeem Tlang, Ishan Pandita, Phrangki Buam and Seiminlen Doungel – now at Jamshedpur FC – the injury to Brandon Fernandes has left the league champions handicapped. Goa will become the first team to debut in the AFC Champions League group stage. They have been clubbed with Persepolis FC (Iran), Al-Rayyan (Qatar) and the winner of the play-off between Al-Wahda FC (UAE) and Al-Zawraa SC (Iraq). Persepolis, who won the Persian Pro League 2019-20, made it to the ACL final in December and will be the favourites to qualify from this group. Al Rayyan finished second in the Qatar Stars League. The ACL group stage (West zone) will be played between April 14-30||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/romeo-returns-to-fc-goa-now-on-trial-for-afc-champions-league-squad/articleshow/80936710.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 16, 2021||Goa||India bids to host AFC Champions League and AFC Cup group stage games||Panaji: The All India Football Federation has submitted an expression of interest to host the AFC Champions League and AFC Cup group stage games in India. While two stadiums – Nehru Stadium in Fatorda and GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim -- have been identified in Goa to host the group E games involving FC Goa for the first time, the Vivekananda Yuba Bharati Krirangan in Kolkata has been shortlisted to host AFC Cup matches involving ATK Mohun Bagan. Five training venues have also been identified for each competition. Bengaluru FC are the other Indian side which will be involved in the AFC Cup, Asian football’s second-tier club competition, and the club has been tasked with the responsibility of organising the playoffs. “Indian club is making its debut at the AFC Champions League this season and it will be good for the fans if the games are played at home,” a senior official told TOI on Monday. FC Goa have been clubbed with Persepolis FC (Iran), Al-Rayyan (Qatar) and the winner of the play-off between Al-Wahda FC (UAE) and Al-Zawraa SC (Iraq). The group stage matches will be played between April 14-30. This year all AFC club competitions will be held at a centralised venue. The group stage matches of the AFC Cup (south zone) will kick off on May 14 with ATK Mohun Bagan eager to make a big impression. ATK Mohun Bagan are grouped with Basundhara Kings (Bangladesh), Maziya (Maldives) and winner of the play-off round, which could turn out to be Bengaluru. Bengaluru will first face the winner of the preliminary playoff round between Nepal Army Club and Sri Lanka Police. Should they clear that hurdle, up next will be the winner of Abahani Dhaka and Club Eagles/Thimphu City. Since they are the higher ranked side, Bengaluru will play their playoffs in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/india-bids-to-host-afc-champions-league-and-afc-cup-group-stage-games/articleshow/80937303.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 16, 2021||Bengaluru||31% frontline, 51% healthcare workers got vaccine in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Vaccine coverage among healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) continues to be low in Karnataka at with 51% and 31%, respectively. While Chikkaballapura district leads the coverage among HCWs at 81%, Gadag district tops the list for FLWs with 74% as of Monday. Vaccine safety and other fears are attributed for the poor turnout elsewhere. According to senior officers in the state health and family welfare department, vaccine hesitancy among both beneficiary groups has affected the coverage. “We can try to convince them to take the vaccine, but can’t impose any restriction as it is voluntary. Wherever the team leaders, higher officers and heads of the institutions have taken the vaccine, the coverage has been good,” said an officer. In Gadag, the vaccination for healthcare workers is above the state average, as the district has covered 60% of its healthcare workers in the first dose of vaccination. “Among healthcare workers there is a feeling that they are healthy and Covid is not so rampant and many have already recovered from it. The coverage has not crossed 60% among healthcare workers. But it is better with frontline workers in our district,” says Dr Satish C Basarigidad, district health officer, Gadag. Dr Basarigidad said that frontline workers, too, had apprehensions and they watched the healthcare workers getting inoculated. “They gained confidence from the healthcare workers. Also, the deputy commissioner, heads of the revenue, RDPR and police have all taken the vaccine motivating the other staffers. Planning of the sessions systematically has also played a role,” says Dr Basarigidad. In Chikkaballapura, to achieve highest coverage (78%) in vaccination, the district team has not depended only on the Co-WIN portal, but made calls to scheduled beneficiaries. “To crosscheck whether the person concerned has been reminded about the vaccination by the health department, the district war room makes random calls to the beneficiaries. That way, we have been able to achieve highest coverage in vaccination among healthcare workers,” said Dr Y Ramesh Babu, district surveillance officer, Chikkaballapura. The same is being followed for the frontline workers’ vaccination too. According to Dr Arundhathi Chandrashekar, mission director, National Health Mission, Karnataka, vaccine hesitancy is more among healthcare workers in the private sector than those in the government. “In Bengaluru, as we have analysed, there are more private healthcare establishments and many nursing and paramedical colleges. Many students have not returned to classes. And some of the medical college students are concerned about exams and are postponing vaccination,” Dr Arundhathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/31-frontline-51-healthcare-workers-got-vaccine-in-state/articleshow/80937653.cms||Sunitha Rao R
February 16, 2021||India||'LAC disengagement in India’s favour, China will vacate most prickly parts'||NEW DELHI: Once concluded, the disengagement at Pangong Tso will work well for India as it means vacation of the most prickly part of Chinese intrusions along the Line of Actual Control that defied resolution during the long military stand off since May last year. Top government sources said concerns that India was giving up hard-won tactical gains of control of the heights along the south bank of the lake were misplaced as the Chinese were now removing the considerable infrastructure, including a helipad, they had set up in the ‘Finger’ area. The Indian positions on the strategic heights on the south bank had nullified the Chinese positions and were a key factor in the PLA agreeing to withdraw from the area. In the past, the Chinese side had called on Indian forces to wind down its presence before reciprocating while now the disengagement is graded and mutual. The Indian presence on heights is clearly a change in status quo that would need to be wound down as part of any agreed withdrawal. It was being ensured that PLA troops are well east of Finger 8, sources said. The decision not to have any patrolling in the Finger areas under discussion was being incorrectly read as ceding of Indian rights, the sources said. The measure was temporary and it was important to note that a future agreement would be concluded by military and foreign ministry officials to their satisfaction. It was pointed out that while Indian patrols did go till Finger 8, this had become more contentious with run-ins with Chinese troops since the Kargil war when PLA, taking advan tage of India’s preoccupation with Pakistan’s aggression, fortified its positions by building a motorable road. The next round of military talks will see a discussion on Patrolling Point 17 and the Gogra-Hot Springs areas where the number of troops involved is less and where Indian soldiers have taken positions that will be seen as “intrusions” by the Chinese. A bigger discussion awaits on the Depsang Plains where Indian patrols are being obstructed. The argument that no relaxation should have been permitted at Pangong without Depsang being resolved failed to see the cruciality of the PLA getting out of the Finger area. Watch Ladakh standoff: ‘Disengagement at LAC slightly ahead of schedule on some positions’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-disengagement-in-indias-favour-china-will-vacate-most-prickly-parts/articleshow/80942382.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
February 16, 2021||India||Disha Ravi panicked when Greta Thunberg leaked toolkit, say police||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Monday claimed that arrested climate activist Disha Ravi had panicked when Greta Thunberg accidentally leaked the toolkit on the farm protests and asked her to refrain from saying anything on it. Disha wanted to consult a lawyer fearing that the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act could be used against them, claimed the cops, citing retrieved WhatsApp chats. Police added that Disha’s associates, Nikita Jacob and Shantanu, were also on their radar, claiming that the three were connected to each other through a woman associate of Khalistani sympathiser, Mo Dhaliwal, who runs an organisation called Poetic Justice Foundation. Disha, 22, was arrested by Delhi Police at her Bengaluru home on Saturday. She has been charged with crimi nal conspiracy and sedition besides other offences and remanded in police custody for five days. The cops claimed to have retrieved crucial WhatsApp chats from Disha’s phone. Read AlsoSeveral legal eagles question sedition charge against Disha RaviMUMBAI/ DELHI: Legal experts on Monday questioned the invoking of the sedition law in the Disha Ravi case, saying Delhi Police had ‘over-reacted’ and the 22-year-old climate activist’s arrest was ‘unwarranted’. Former chief justice of Bombay high court Pradeep Nandrajogsaid the purpose of using"I am really sorry, we are all panicking here… But we will make sure you are in the clear,” read one of her messages to climate activist Greta Thunberg. Disha also asked Thunberg after the leak if they could refrain from saying anything at all for a while. "I am gonna talk to lawyers… I am sorry but our names are on it… We can literally get UAPA against us,” read an alleged message by her to Thunberg. Delhi Police claimed it was Disha who had sent the toolkit document to Thunberg on Telegram and also coaxed her to act on it. She also deleted a WhatsApp group and chats which had discussions about the toolkit, the cops said, adding that these prompted the decision to place her under arrest. Read AlsoOpposition slams action against Disha, Nikita as ‘atrocious’NEW DELHI: Following the arrest of Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi, Delhi Police’s non-bailable warrant against Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob triggered condemnation from political leaders, who slammed the action as “atrocious” and “absurd”. Congress member Jairam Ramesh said Delhi“Her arrest was made in the presence of her mother and local police. Her lawyer was informed and she was produced before the court as per established procedure. In the court, she was represented by a lawyer and the same finds mention in the court order,” said joint commissioner Prem Nath. Addressing a press conference, Delhi Police said its first stop was the house of suspect Nikita, who is now on the run. “Her questioning and examination of her devices revealed that a woman named Puneet, who is based in Canada, connected Disha, Nikita and Shantanu with each other and to the pro-Khalistan Poet,” said the joint CP. Based on the information gathered from searches at Nikita’s house, separate teams were sent to Beed district to question Shantanu and to Bengaluru for investigating Disha. Read AlsoDismay, anger at rallies to protest 22-year-old’s arrestBENGALURU/MUMBAI: Demonstrations and online protests raged in many parts of the country on Monday after Delhi Police arrested Disha Ravi from her Bengaluru residence on Saturday. In Bengaluru, activists affiliated to various organisations staged a demonstration. Historian Ramachandra Guha, who“The team in Bengaluru was able to extract highly incriminating information from Disha’s phone. This information made it clear that Disha, along with her colleagues, Shantanu and Nikita , created and sent the toolkit Google document to others,” said Prem Nath. According to Delhi Police, the main aim of the toolkit was to create misinformation and disaffection against the lawfully elected government. “The toolkit sought to artificially amplify fake news and other falsehoods and precipitate action on January 26,” said the joint CP. Police said after the violence on January 26, a large number of instances of fake news, manipulated/edited videos instigating disaffection and misleading propaganda posts spreading discontent were observed on social media. “On February 4, while monitoring social media, we came across a Google document titled Toolkit on Twitter. Read AlsoToolkit row: Delhi Police teams in Maharashtra to arrest lawyer, activist; both move HC for bailA day after Disha Ravi was taken into police custody, a Delhi court issued non-bailable warrants against Nikita Jacob (29), a Mumbai-based lawyer, and Shantanu Muluk (31), an engineer from Beed in Marathwada — prompting them to immediately approach the Bombay high court on Monday for protection fromAn initial investigation of this toolkit revealed that it was created by a pro-Khalistan group, Poetic Justice Foundation, and people associated with it," said DCP Anyesh Roy. According to police, one section of this toolkit document mentioned action points, under the title, "Prior Action", such as a digital strike through hashtags on January 26 and earlier and a tweet storm from January 23. There was mention of physical action on January 26 and entering Delhi for the kisan rally and returning to the border. “...Keeping in mind all these facts, Delhi Police registered a case under Sections 124-A, 153, 153-A and 120-B of IPC pertaining to sedition etc on February 4, 2021, and started investigations," the joint commissioner said. Delhi Police also spoke about one Peter Friedrich mentioned in the toolkit document, saying they are probing why he was mentioned and how he was connected to the suspects in their case. “The suspect has been running psy ops against India at ISI's behest. He has been on the radar of the Indian security establishment since 2006. He first figured as an associate of Khalistani supporter Bhajan Singh Bhinder, alias Iqbal Chaudhary,” DCP said DCP Manishi Chandra. Bhinder, police said, came on the radar of US authorities after he attempted to purchase military-grade weapons for Khalistan groups. Watch Toolkit case: Nikita, Disha, Shantanu created Toolkit, shared with others, police say||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disha-ravi-panicked-when-greta-thunberg-leaked-toolkit-say-police/articleshow/80943144.cms||Raj Shekhar
February 16, 2021||Business||I-T department in hunt for small evaders as deadline looms||NEW DELHI: Suddenly, there has been a surge in reopening of returns of small-time tax evaders, with income tax authorities deploying investigation units to search and survey suspect cases of tax evasion of up to Rs 50 lakh. Cases are being reopened for assessment years 2015-16, 2016-17 and 2017-18 as no action will be possible beyond March 31 for these three years. Changes proposed in the budget confined reopening of tax assessment to three years from the earlier six years. However, assessment can be re-opened for up to 10 years if there is concrete evidence of concealed income of Rs 50 lakh and above. The amendments are yet to be notified. Tax officials, however, say the burden of reopening smaller tax evasion cases may lead to lack of focus on bigger evasions. Instructions have been issued to in vestigation units across the country to collate and disseminate all information related to suspect tax evasion cases flagged by assessing officers, particularly those getting time barred by March 31. From the next financial year, starting April 1, assessing officers will only be allowed to reopen cases for assessment year 2018-19 for any tax evasion of up to Rs 50 lakh. Authorities in the finance ministry are worried about losing significant revenue coming from search and seizure cases on account of the new ‘amnesty’ granted to those evading tax up to Rs 50 lakh. Sources said central authorities have sought a compliance report by March 2 where data of reopening of cases of small-time evaders are to be furnished by field formations. Investigation units have also been looking at all suspicious transactions data shared by the Financial Intelligence Unit, besides ongoing investigation into the Panama and Paradise papers leak and HSBC list of Indians having deposits in Swiss accounts. In the budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had proposed “to completely remove discretion in reopening and henceforth reopening shall be made only in cases flagged by the system on the basis of data analytics, objection of CAG and in search and survey cases”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/i-t-department-in-hunt-for-small-evaders-as-deadline-looms/articleshow/80944442.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 16, 2021||India||Uttarakhand: No trace of missing sons, relatives ‘cremate’ effigies||DEHRADUN: The hope that they had made it alive was never there. But Budaari Devi did wish she could see her sons Sandeep and Jeevan one last time before they were laid to rest. A week after the Uttarakhand floods, with no word on whether their bodies had been found, their effigies were cremated by the banks of the Yamuna in Haripur village on Sunday. “We waited for a week and then gave up. They were working right in front of the dam — they could not have survived, we know. The only thing we wished for was that we would get their bodies. But that didn’t happen either and time was running out,” said Guddu, their elder brother. Among the Jaunsari community, if someone is believed to be dead and the body cannot be found, an effigy must be cremated within 14 days. “It is dressed in the clothes of the deceased and cremated just the way the body would be,” said Balbir Chauhan, their uncle and gram pradhan of the Panjiya village. Jeevan, 21, had left Jaunsar’s Panjiya for Tapovan months ago. There was work to be found at the hydel project, he had heard. Money was not too bad, either. He called his brother, Sandeep, 24, to join him. On January 8, Sandeep did. He was to get married on May 16. “I spoke to them on February 6 over the phone. They were happy I had called,” said Guddu. When news of the flood came, he left for Tapovan. But nothing turned up. So, they decided it was time. Guddu got back home on Sunday, got the effigies ready and cremated his brothers. Watch Uttarakhand glacier burst: Death toll rises||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-no-trace-of-missing-sons-relatives-cremate-effigies/articleshow/80945161.cms||Shivani Azad
February 16, 2021||India||Govt makes fresh bid to rein in pesky callers, phone frauds||NEW DELHI: With not much success in controlling pesky calls and financial frauds over mobile networks, the government is seeking to get stricter on the menace and has decided to impose penalty on the tele-marketers, while disconnecting resources in case of repeat violations. The government is also setting up a Digital Intelligence Unit (DIU) to coordinate with various stakeholders when investigating fraudulent activities that are conducted using telecom resources, communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Monday. Concerned over the rising instances of unwanted calls, messages and frauds perpe trated through mobile networks, even for those who have registered for the Do Not Disturb (DND) service, Prasad chaired a high-level meeting to tackle the issue which has been difficult to control so far. Prasad directed his team to take stern steps against erring telemarketers and individuals involved in harassment of telecom subscribers. In the meeting, it was also pointed out that even unregistered tele-marketers were sending commercial communication to the subscribers. This is the government’s latest attempt to regulate unwanted calls and messages, something it has failed to enforce along with the regulator for years. The minister directed telecom ministry officials to conduct a meeting with mobile operators and telemarketers to ensure their compliance with the laiddown rules and procedures. For effective handling of Unsolicited Commercial Communication (UCC) and also tackle financial frauds, it was decided to develop a web/mobile application and SMS-based system for redressal mechanism. “This will enable telecom subscribers to lodge their complaints related to matters in volving UCC,” the government said. Apart from the DIU, the government will also establish a Telecom Analytics for Fraud Management and Consumer Protection (TAFCOP) system in mobile service areas to tackle the problem. As the country worked from home and businesses and offices conducted operations out of office, the cases of phishing attacks have been on the rise. Apart from pesky calls, there have been growing instances of mobile/internet subscribers being duped in the name of job portals, online shopping, digital banking, and coronavirus updates. The government recently informed the Parliament that over 2.9 lakh cyber security incidents related to digital banking were reported in 2020. The cases grew from nearly 1.6 lakh incidents in 2018, to about 2.5 lakh in 2019, and thereafter to 2.9 lakh last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-makes-fresh-bid-to-rein-in-pesky-callers-phone-frauds/articleshow/80945677.cms||---
February 16, 2021||India||Covid-19: Technical glitch hits Round 2 of vaccination drive||MUMBAI: The rollout of the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday was marred by a CoWIN glitch making the app not reflect the ‘partially vaccinated’ status of those who took first shot on January 16. Only 25% of the recipients eligible for the second dose could get the shot in Maharashtra while hundreds had to be turned away without vaccination. In Mumbai, only 4% got the second dose of the 1,926 eligible. Officials said the software didn’t recognise that beneficiaries eligible for the second dose had already taken the first shot. In a few centres, the software crashed in the beginning of the day and remained sluggish. For many who took the vaccine on January 16, the software flashed that they had not completed 28 days. Even for many who got the second dose on Monday, the software generated a provisional certificate saying this was their first dose. In Mumbai, only five centres could even administer the second dose, while in most others, the software did not support even the creation of vaccine sessions. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said healthcare workers should visit vaccination centres only after receiving text messages or calls from the local ward office. “CoWIN was mainly responsible for the failure to vaccinate individuals with the second dose,” he said. In Maharash tra, 4,679 got the second dose out of 18,582 who received the first dose. Pune district vaccinated the highest (525), followed by Nagpur (346) and Thane (341) in the state. A state official said they had anticipated this problem and are hoping for it to get resolved soon. Meanwhile, routine vaccination turnout in Mumbai plummeted to 50% in the city as only 5,203 of the intended 10,400 came to get vaccinated. Similarly, in the state, 29,884 people came to take the vaccine.Covid-19: Technical glitch hits Round 2 of vaccination drive Watch Covid-19: Technical glitch in CoWin app hits Round 2 of vaccination drive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-technical-glitch-hits-round-2-of-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80946735.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata to be dry and warm today: Met||KOLKATA: The city is set to remain moderately warm and dry on Tuesday with the maximum temperature remaining at 30°C. But the minimum temperature — which was 20.8°C on Monday — could drop by a notch. With the northwesterly wind having weakened, chances of the mercury plunging further have been ruled out. “The icy winds are gone and easterly winds are flowing in from the Bay of Bengal, which have pulled the mercury up. While we don’t expect a sharp rise in temperature, it will remain moderately warm during the day and the evenings and early mornings will be pleasant,” said RMC director G K Das. The wind direction, according to Das, started altering last week. “The northwesterly wind is now weak and will have no major impact on the weather. The minimum temperature will not drop below 15°C this season and the chill won’t return,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-to-be-dry-and-warm-today-met/articleshow/80934078.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Early diagnosis can help deal with childhood cancer||VISAKHAPATNAM: Paediatric cancer, though not common, comes with its own set of challenges compared to cancer in adults. The survival rate, especially in developing or under-developed countries, is low due to a lack of awareness and late diagnosis, said oncologists on International Childhood Cancer Day. Speaking about paediatric cancer, Dr Manoj Kumar, consultant paediatrician at Kims Icon Hospital said, “The parts of the body where cancer usually occurs are different for children and adults. Over 50% of childhood cancers are those of leukaemia, brain and other central nervous system tumours and lymphoma, which is uncommon in adults. A few types of cancers are due to genetic abnormalities, but causes of most childhood cancers are unknown. The early symptoms of childhood cancer may include fever, fatigue, swollen glands or weight loss. Others, such as bruising of tender joints or bones, do not heal easily. Nowadays, more than 80% of children and adolescents (under the age of 20) who are diagnosed with cancer survive for at least five years after their diagnosis.” Chief medical oncologist and managing director, Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital and Research Institute, Dr Murali Krishna Voonna said, “We have just launched a comprehensive paediatric cancer survivorship programme comprising around 100 children and also created a childhood cancer support group to be run by parents of cancer survivors. These will be helmed by parents who have overcome cancer in their children, to form a support system to any parent who has to see through his/her child’s journey through cancer.” “Lack of financial support was a big hurdle in cancer treatment but now the government has added most cancer treatments in children and bone marrow transplantation in Aarogyasri health scheme besides support from various NGOs. To improve outcomes for children with cancer, it requires early and accurate diagnosis followed by effective treatment and follow-up. In the last four years, we have treated 120 cases of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, 18 cases of Acute Myeloid Leukemia 40 cases of lymphoma, 65 cases of paediatric solid tumors and bone sarcomas and also treated seven children with Autologous and Allogenic stem cell (bone marrow) transplants,” added Dr Voonna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/early-diagnosis-can-help-deal-with-childhood-cancer/articleshow/80931698.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Patna||Create self-help fund for families of forest officers in Bihar: Minister||PATNA: The minister for environment, forests and climate change, Neeraj Kumar Singh ‘Bablu’, on Monday asked the department officials to create a ‘self-help’ fund from voluntary contributions to help the kin of those colleagues, who die while discharging duties. He was speaking at the ‘Van Veerta Diwas’ programme, which is organized every year in the memory of Sanjay Singh, who was a DFO and killed by the mafia involved in illegal stone mining in Rohtas on February 15, 2002. Paying tribute to the late forest officer, the minister said Sanjay lost his life in his efforts to protect and conserve the natural resources and became an example of fearless commitment to duty. The minister said the forest officials were exposed to threats from criminals as well as the wildlife animals. Beside Sanjay, eight other officials of the forest department have died in the last three decades while performing duties. “We will start a personal fund for martyrs and working forest heroes in which we would collect the amount given voluntarily by officers and employees of the EFCC department. The fund will be used for immediate support to their family members,” Neeraj said. Principal secretary (forests) Dipak Kumar Singh also paid tribute to late Sanjay and said his sacrifice as well as of others for conservation of natural resources could not be forgotten.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/create-self-help-fund-for-kin-of-forest-officers/articleshow/80933836.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Patna||60 forest officials on trail of ‘killer’ tigeress in Valmiki Nagar Tiger Reserve||PATNA: Altogether 60 forest department personnel are on the hunt to track and trap a tigress in the Valmiki Nagar Tiger Reserve (VTR) in West Champaran, which has killed a couple and injured two more in Manguraha range of the reserve in the past one week. Principal secretary, environment, forests and climate change department, Dipak Kumar Singh, told TOI on Monday that the tigress is likely to have returned to the core forest area, but the search is still on. “We have formed seven teams for tracking the tigress and two teams for tranquilising it. It is most likely to have returned to the forest, but the search is on and we are going to tranquilise it to prevent further attacks on human settlements,” Singh said. Asked about the attack on humans, Singh said, “As per the information available so far, the age of the tigress is believed to be 14 years, which is quite old for the feline. It is probably due to its old age that she is unable to hunt wild animals for food and came out to hunt domestic animals.” The principal secretary added that villages in and around Manguraha range have been asked to be on alert. Last Friday, the tigress had killed Akalu Mahto (55) and his wife Rikha Devi (50) of Surajpur Parsauna village under Manguraha range late on Friday evening, when they had gone to their red lentil field to guard the crop at night. The big cat first mauled Rikha to death, while Akalu died on the way to the hospital. The tigress also injured Sukha Manjhi(54) from the neighbouring field, who is undergoing treatment at a local hospital. On Saturday, the tigress again attacked a member of the forest department tracking team. Forest officials claimed that the team had surrounded a sugarcane field to trap the tigress. Ambrish Kumar Mall, district forest officer, VTR Divison-1 said the tigress has not been seen since Saturday. “We are tracking the tigress, named T-3, using footages from camera traps as well as pug marks. A team of tiger-trackers have come from Patna as well. We are using tranquilisers and three cages to trap the tigress. A few villages near the buffer zone are on alert, and we are also camping in the forest,” Ambrish told TOI, adding injury can also be a reason for the tigress to attack humans. As per official figures, there are 33 tigers in VTR with a density of 2.5 tigers per 100 km. VTR located 289 kilometres from Patna, is spread over an area of 901 square kilometres. There are three forest ranges in the division- 1 of VTR- Ragghia, Govardhana and Manguraha, and five ranges in the division- 2, including Chiutaha, Harnapand, Valmiki Nagar, Ganauli and Madanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/60-forest-officials-on-trail-of-killer-tigeress-in-vtr/articleshow/80932052.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 16, 2021||Varanasi||Father, brother & brother-in-law kill girl for ‘honour’ of family||Gorakhpur: One more girl was sacrificed in the name of the honour of her family after her father, brother and brother-in-law hired a contract killer for killing her because they were against her alleged relationship with a Muslim man. The police arrested the girl’s father Kailash Yadav, her brother Ajit Yadav, brother-in-law Satyaprakash Yadav and one Sitaram Yadav and sent them to jail on Sunday evening. A search has been launched to nab the contract killer, said the police. A petrol container and motorcycle used in the crime was also recovered by the police. During the press conference, SP Sant Kabir Nagar Dr Kaustubh said, “A half-burnt body of a young woman was found at village Jigina under Dhanghata police station limit on February 4. With the help of local police, surveillance, CCTV footage, field unit and dog squad the body was identified as of Ranjana Yadav of Belghat area in Gorakhpur.” “Ranjana’s father Kailash Yadav told the police that her daughter was having an affair with a Muslim man and was not ready to leave him after which he, with the help of his son-in-law Satya Prakash Yadav and one Sitaram Yadav, both residents of Sant Kabir Nagar and son Ajit Yadav, hired a contract killer Varun Tiwari of Mahuli in Sant Kabir Nagar. He paid Rs 1.5 lakh for the murder of her daughter. They succeeded in third attempt on February 3. They took the girl to a deserted place in Jigina village of Sant Kabir Nagar on a motorcycle. When she resisted they tied her hands and mouth and burnt her after pouring petrol and ran away,” said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/father-brother-brother-in-law-kill-girl-for-honour-of-family/articleshow/80932389.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Kanpur||Girl blackmailed, raped in city||Kanpur: A 20-year-old girl, pursuing a computer course in the city, was allegedly raped by a youth on February 11. The incident came to light after her parents lodged an FIR with the police on February 14. Reports said when she first met the youth at SSC coaching in 2019 , the suspect clicked her photos with him in park and other places and used them to blackmail the girl over the next few months. The youth asked her to give him Rs 20,000. On September 16, 2019, the girl withdrew the said amount from her account and later gave it to him. Thereafter, when she started asking him to refund her money, the suspect started giving her threats of making her photos with him public. “On February 11, while the girl was on her way to write her exam at the computer institute, the suspect waylaid her and forcibly took her to his house and raped her. When she offered resistance, he attacked her with a glass piece,” said the police. The girl informed her parents, who went to Barra police station on Sunday and narrated the ordeal. Inspector Barra police station Harmeet Singh said, “The suspect, Lalit Umrao, a resident of J Block Barra Vishwa Bank Colony, has been booked under relevant sections of IPC. Raids are underway to arrest him.” In her complaint, the girl narrated how she was trapped on the pretext of friendship and exploited physically and mentally. She alleged that the youth asked for money citing family problems. When she asked her to return the money, he gave a sum of Rs 5,000 and when she asked him to give back the remaining amount, threatened to make her photos viral. The police said that they would also analyse the girl’s bank account. “Police will also go through their call records to gather evidence,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-blackmailed-raped-in-city/articleshow/80932535.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Patna||Land survey work slow in Katihar district||KATIHAR: The special land survey in the district is slow as hardly 30% of the work has been completed at five out of the seven camps set up for the purpose. The survey work in only Falka-1 (Pothia) and Falka-3 (Hathwara) camp offices has been over 50%, that is 54.03% and 54.34% respectively. The other five camps are Korha-1 (Baharkhaal), Korha-2 (Rampur), Korha-3 (Nakkipur), Falka-2 (Bareta) and Kurshela-1 (Kurshela). The Korha-1 has completed 26.11% of the survey while Korha-2 has done 26.92%, Korha-3 28.99%, Falka-2 31.33% and Kurshela-1 only 31.40%, the sources said. Officials said work on data entry under Performa 2, 3(1) and 5 has been going on. The Performa (2) deals with the self-declaration made by the farmers while 3(1) tells about family lineage (vanshavali) and Performa (5) speaks about terij, which means copying the land details (khatiyan) from the government record office. An assistant settlement officer said they were acing difficulty in procuring relevant documents from the farmers. “So, work under Performa 2 and 3(1) has been affected. Work under Performa (5) has achieved 88% results as amins who carry khatiyan from the land record office do the job on their own,” he said. Katihar ADM Vijay Kumar, said after the village land boundary verification work, which is called ‘kistawar’, ground truthing work (khanapuri) will commence. That will be done by an agency who had earlier conducted an aerial survey work of the land in the state, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/land-survey-work-slow-in-katihar-district/articleshow/80932359.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Business||TVS signs new distributor for UAE||Two and three wheeler maker TVS Motor company on Monday announced that it has appointed Public Motors, part of the Ghaf Investments LLC, in the United Arab Emirates as its distributor. TVS will introduce its products offerings that will cater to both the personal commuting and the delivery segments in the UAE, a company statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tvs-signs-new-distributor-for-uae/articleshow/80936114.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||PGI team visits site of Sangrur satellite centre||Chandigarh: On Monday, PGI deputy director (administration) Kumar Gaurav Dhawan visited the institute’s upcoming satellite centre in Sangrur with other officials. After an extensive inspection round of all the OPD, hospital block, director’s bungalow, residential units, and the hostel, he had a meeting with the officials and representatives of the executing agency to direct them to avoid any further delay in completing the project. He told the agency to award the service tenders fast and try to finish construction and the installation of services in the next few months so that the centre could be made operational by mid-year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-team-visits-site-of-sangrur-satellite-centre/articleshow/80938023.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||PGI blames non-interactive Co-Win portal for hesitancy||Chandigarh: The PGI blamed a non-interactive CoWin portal for the city’s Covid-19 vaccination hesitancy when a Union textile ministry bureaucrat came over to monitor it, but sources say that he said if the institute could motivate its own staff, it could stimulate others in the region as well. The portal sends a text message, telling the receiver to attend the session. If the message recipients are unable to attend for some reason, they cannot convey it to the health department or the hospitals where the session is on. During the meeting with the bureaucrat, the PGI officials told him they had more unregistered health workers for the vaccine, as the portal is unfriendly and they could achieve 80% of the target. An official in the UT health department said: “The PGI should have been frank with the official about the vaccine hesitancy instead of just blaming it on the portal issue. The institute has also not agreed for the second dose of the vaccine needed after 28 days. It didn’t conduct a dry run along with the other sites.” The PGI has been able to cover only 44% of its health workers out of 7,281. Still 15,000-odd workers remain to receive the first dose. A member of the PGI faculty said: “The portal should allow self-registration, where one can decide the schedule and convey availability to the hospital. The data maintenance and tracking of routine immunisation happened earlier as well and it was all streamlined. But this portal has complicated things.” Chandigarh has achieved only 32% of vaccine coverage among its front-line and healthcare workers. Now the registration for the health workers is over and the frontline workers must receive the first jab by March 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-blames-non-interactive-co-win-portal-for-hesitancy/articleshow/80938018.cms||Shimona Kanwar
February 16, 2021||Patna||Kanhaiya’s meeting with JD(U) minister triggers speculation||PATNA: Former JNU Students’ Union president and CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar met state building construction department minister Ashok Choudhary at his residence on Sunday, triggering speculation about his next political move. Kanhaiya had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Begusarai against BJP’s Giriraj Singh. Kanhaiya’s meeting with Choudhary, a close aide of CM Nitish Kumar, assumed significance in the wake of a censor motion passed against him by the CPI in Hyderabad recently. The censure motion was passed against him for misbehaviour with the party’s office secretary Indu Bhushan in Patna on December 1 last year. Kanhaiya got angry with Indu Bhushan following cancellation of a meeting of party workers in Begusarai. Sources in the party said Kanhaiya, who belongs to Bihat area in Begusarai district, allegedly thrashed the office secretary of the party, causing strong resentment in the party rank and file. Sources in the CPI said except for three out of 110 members present at the Hyderabad meeting supported the censor motion against Kanhaiya. Reacting to the meeting, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said there may be ideological differences but leaders of different political parties often meet with each other to discuss certain issues. “In a democratic set-up, people freely exchange ideas on various issues. It’s not necessary that there is a political motive behind the meeting between the two leaders,” he said. When asked about JD (U)’s reaction over the possibility of Kanhaiya switching sides, the JD(U) spokesperson said it was a hypothetical situation and it won't be justified to make any comment right now. Choudhary couldn’t be contacted for his comments despite repeated attempts. However, his close aide described it as a non-political meeting. Choudhary was the working president of the state JD(U) during the last assembly elections and also played an important role in enlisting the support of lone BSP legislator from Chainpur Md Zama Khan and independent MLA from Chakai Sumit Kumar Singh to the Nitish government. Both have been inducted into the Nitish cabinet. He had also caused jitters in Chirag Paswan-led LJP after meeting their lone MLA Raj Kumar Singh recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kanhaiyas-meeting-with-jdu-minister-triggers-speculation/articleshow/80931774.cms||Ramashankar
February 16, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Two, including minor, held for murder of corporator in AP||KAKINADA: Police on Monday arrested Gurajana Veera Venkata Satyannarayana alias Fish Point Chinna, accused in the murder of Kampara Ramesh, ward corporator of Kakinada Municipal Corporation. Chinna’s 17-year-old brother was also arrested for assisting him in the murder. It will be recaleld that Ramesh was mowed down by a car on the intervening night of February 11 and 12 in Valasapakala village under Kakinada rural in East Godavari district. Three police teams were subsequently formed to nab the culprits. According to Kakinada DSP V Bheema Rao, there were disputes Gurajana Chinna and Ramesh and the two had had several arguments. Gurajana Chinna admitted to intentionally arguing with Ramesh and mowing him down with his car. The accused also confessed to mowing down Ramesh, fearing retaliation if Ramesh were alive. The brother of the accused will be sent to a juvenile home. Police have also collected CCTV footage and have the accounts of three witnesses and mobile call data records. Sarpavaram Inspector Nunna Raju arrested the accused and produced him before court. Police seized the car used to murder Ramesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/2-including-minor-held-for-murder-of-corporator/articleshow/80932368.cms||Samson Raj
February 16, 2021||Patna||Bihar: JD(U) MLA booked in murder case||BAGAHA: JD(U) MLA Rinku Singh alias Dhirendra Pratap Singh has been made a named accused in the murder of former West Champaran district board member Dayanand Verma, who was gunned down at Sirsia Chowk under Naurangia police station area around 7.15pm on Sunday. Rinku is MLA from Valmiki Nagar in West Champaran district. One Bablu Jaiswal was caught by the villagers when he was fleeing from the crime scene. Kumud Verma, the wife of deceased Dayanand, stated in her FIR that her husband and Shakeel Miyan of Valmiki Nagar had heated arguments at Sirsia Chowk and the latter had threatened her husband to teach him a lesson. Kumud alleged that Shakeel along with the MLA and four-five other persons came on four four-wheelers around 7.15pm and shot Dayanand in his left temple. Verma was rushed to Bagaha sub-divisional hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. Bagaha SP Kiran Kumar Yadav said prima facie it was a case of rivalry for contract works. “Police are investigating the case from every angle. One Bablu has been arrested and the police are interrogating him,” the SP said. On Monday, Verma’s supporters demonstrated at the collectorate gate with the body, demanding arrest of the accused named in the FIR. West Champaran district magistrate Kundan Kumar assured them that no culprit would be spared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-mla-booked-in-murder-case/articleshow/80931878.cms||Tirthraj Kushwaha
February 16, 2021||Patna||Light rain likely in south Bihar tomorrow||PATNA: Weathermen have predicted thundering activities along with light showers at a few places in south Bihar on Wednesday. Cloudy skies are expected at most places in south and central Bihar on Wednesday and Thursday. The overcast conditions have been attributed to weather system over central India, which is likely to have more impact on Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and even Jharkhand. Bihar, particularly its southern parts, are likely to get the impact of outer periphery of the system, which has been described as wind discontinuity. Neeraj Ashutosh, an officer at Patna Meteorological Centre, said on Monday that weather in Bihar is likely to remain dry over the next 24 hours, followed by thundering and light rains. “The wind direction is expected to change from dry and cold northwesterly to moist easterly after 24 hours. Accordingly, thundering and light rain are expected at few places in south Bihar,” he said. Meanwhile, weather has started getting warmer, especially in central and south Bihar, as the maximum temperature is nearing 30 degrees Celsius mark, while minimum temperature is also being recorded in the range of 13-16 degrees C in these parts. The highest maximum temperature in the state was recorded at Bhagalpur at 29.3 degrees C. The lowest minimum temperature was recorded at 9 degrees C at Gaya. The minimum temperature at Patna stood at 13 degrees C, which was a notch higher than the corresponding normal. Maximum temperature in the capital, on the other hand, stood at 27.6 degrees C, which was also a notch higher than the corresponding normal for the day. India Meteorological Department (IMD), in its bulletin issued on Monday, stated that warmer night temperature is likely to continue over the plains of north India during the next four to five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/light-rain-likely-in-south-bihar-tomorrow/articleshow/80931956.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Vehicles without FASTag slow down traffic on first weekday||KOLKATA: National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) on Monday started collecting penalty — double of the toll amount — from the vehicles without FASTag (a radio frequency identification — or RFID tag — to facilitate seamless toll collection electronically) in Bengal. But the sudden rush of vehicles without FASTag during the morning peak hours forced NHAI to operate all lanes as hybrid lanes where vehicles without the tag paid double the amount in cash. This operation of hybrid lanes defeated the purpose of giving preference to FASTag vehicles. Many FASTag motorists expressed anger for being forced to queue up behind vehicles without tags. At Dankuni toll plaza, there was only one hybrid lane during the morning peak hours. The FASTagged vehicles were zipping past the toll plaza. But the problem was with vehicles without the tag. “At one point, the queue became more than 5km long on either side of the toll plaza. Many vehicles without tag started jumping the queue and entered the FASTag lanes, forcing us to turn all 12 lanes — 6 for north-bound and the rest for south-bound vehicles — into hybrid lanes,” said a NHAI official. This helped NHAI to penalize vehicles without FASTag but a lot of motorists, who had valid FASTag stuck on their windshield, rued the delay. “I have a valid FASTag. But I had to wait for long because of vehicles without the tag. Why should a compliant be punished for those not complying with the rule?” asked Abhijit Mukherjee, a central government employee from Durgapur. His grudge was echoed by Bipin Samanta, who also queued up behind a long line of vehicles without the tag. Shyambhibhai Gupta, who was driving from Patna, had to pay double the toll amount. I was not aware of the penalty for not having FASTag. The government should give advertisements before implementing such a stringent rule,” he said. Gupta had a harrowing times at every toll plaza. “I could have bought a tag, but I am not carrying enough KYC documents,” Gupta added. Santu Pal, who carries vegetables everyday from Kalna to Gariahat, was also penalized for not having FASTag. “I did not know that the deadline was yesterday,” he said. Lalan Singh, another transporter who did not have FASTag, said he did not know anything about FASTag. NHAI officials, however, said there were some teething issues with vehicles without tags. “We are hoping that they will all fall in line. We are engaging more traffic marshals all along the road so that FASTag vehicles can travel along a designated lane. All vehicles without the tag need to follow a single queue in the future,” said a senior NHAI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vehicles-without-fastag-slow-down-traffic-on-first-weekday/articleshow/80933776.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 16, 2021||Patna||Mild tremors felt in Patna, Nalanda||PATNA: Tremors of 3.5 intensity on Richter Scale were felt in Nalanda, Patna and nearby districts at 9:23pm on Monday. No aftershock was reported till the time of filing this report. The epicentre of the earthquake was 20km northwest of Nalanda. The depth of earthquake was 5km below ground level. The depth of an earthquake indicates the distance under the earth’s surface where two tectonic plates collide, leading to release of energy that translates into ground-shaking. Earthquakes having depth of 0-70kms are categorized as shallow earthquakes. Many people in Patna claimed they felt the tremors. “I was watching television when I felt slight trembling for a few seconds. Though it seemed less in intensity, I did feel it,” said Ayush Kumar, a resident of Ashiana Nagar. People also came out of their houses and stood in the open for a few minutes after feeling the tremors. State authorities, however, did not receive any report of loss of life or damage of property from anywhere in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mild-tremors-felt-in-patna-nalanda/articleshow/80932451.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Business||SAT stays Sebi’s order barring Kishore Biyani from markets||BENGALURU/MUMBAI: The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) on Monday stayed Sebi’s debarment order against Future Group founder Kishore Biyani and related parties, said multiple sources familiar with the development. The tribunal pronounced the order verbally on the matter, they said. The securities markets regulator had barred Biyani and four other entities from accessing the capital market for one year for alleged insider trading violations. They were also barred from dealing in Future Retail shares for two years. “A formal order is yet to be received, but the Sebi ban has been stayed,” a person aware of the SAT proceedings said. Sebi had also directed Biyani and other entities to disgorge over Rs 20 crore made wrongfully by dealing in Future Retail shares while in possession of confidential information. The appellate tribunal on Monday heard the appeals of Biyani and other entities against the Sebi directives. The details of the order are yet to be uploaded on SAT’s website. Future Corporate Resources had said the Sebi order was “untenable” since it treated a well-anticipated and publicly well-known impending reorganisation of the home furnishing businesses that the Future Group effected in 2017 to be unpublished information. A spokesperson of Future Group declined to comment immediately on Monday. Biyani is in the midst of selling Future’s retail portfolio to Reliance Industries (RIL). But the deal has been dragged to various judicial forums by its estranged partner Amazon. After Sebi’s debarment order, Future Retail had said that the markets regulator’s directive will not pose any hurdle on the Rs 24,713-crore transaction with RIL. Apart from two pending cases in Delhi high court, the battle has moved to the Supreme Court as well. In August 2019, Amazon acquired 49% in a promoter entity of Future Retail. The deal also gave the US e-commerce giant the right to buy into Future Retail after a certain period of years. Further, Biyani had also entered into a restriction on transfer of shares to a list of “specified persons”. This list included RIL. But Biyani, owing to his tight financial position, decided to sell Future’s retail portfolio to RIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sat-stays-sebis-order-barring-biyani-from-markets/articleshow/80939096.cms||Digbijay Mishra
February 16, 2021||Patna||Bihar: ‘No nervousness in getting 2nd shot of Covid vaccine’||PATNA: Ram Babu, the 35-year-old sanitation worker at IGIMS in Patna, was the first person in Bihar to get Covid-19 vaccine. With the beginning of the second dose for the healthcare workers in state on Monday, Babu turned up at the IGIMS for the second shot and shared his experience with TOI’s Sheezan Nezami. Excerpts: How are you feeling today?I am happy to get another dose. In fact, there was no nervousness today as Covid-19 vaccine is no more a new thing. Just like the first day when I offered prayer before vaccination, today also I prayed to God and came to the hospital. Finally, everything is in his (God) hand. In the past 29 days since taking the first shot, did you ever had any mental stress or health issue?Neither I went through any mental pressure nor there was any health problem. I am completely fit and fine. Do you get calls from people to know about vaccine and your experience?Initially I got many calls, especially from media people, to know how I was feeling or if I had any problem post-vaccination. Even now when my friends or relatives call or meet me, they ask about my experience. I tell everyone to have faith in vaccine and take it. Are you still taking precautions or relaxed?You can see for yourself that I always put on my mask and maintain distance even while interacting with my colleagues. In fact, I will request everyone to follow the Covid norms to fight it. Don’t you feel like a celebrity as people keep calling you, take interviews and get themselves clicked with you?I am a ‘superstar’ for the namesake. For a poor person like me, who has the responsibility of three kids and a wife, the selfie and interviews will not make any difference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-nervousness-in-getting-2nd-shot-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80932516.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 16, 2021||Lucknow||Low turnout of 41% hits Lucknow’s plan for early herd immunity||LUCKNOW: Low turnout of healthcare workers continued to plague the vaccination drive against Covid-19 in the city as only 41% beneficiaries turned up for their first dose even on being given a second chance in the mop-up round on Monday. As many as 13,390 health workers were enlisted for the mop-up round, but just 5,442 (40.6%) turned up at 119 booths in 25 centres. No case of any adverse impact was reported from any booth. The overall turnout was lowest in terms of percentage in comparison to the previous six rounds in phase 1 during which health workers are being vaccinated. Earlier, the lowest turnout was 48% on January 28. In fact, two mop-up rounds are being held because of low turnout in previous rounds. So far, 38,869 (65.8%) of total 59,000 health workers have received first dose, while 20,131 are still left and for whom second mop-up round on February 19 would be last chance. Officials said lack of communication, anomalies in lists and reluctance were the main reasons for low turnout. “Many did not come because their phone numbers provided by hospitals to the health department were inactive, hence they could not be informed,” said district immunisation officer Dr MK Singh. The lists also had names of employees who had quit. Nodal officer at RMLIMS, Dr Vinita Shukla said some employees did not get message about vaccination schedule. “There were repetitions in numbers and names in the lists of selected beneficiaries,” said Dr Sudhanshu Tiwari nodal officer TS Mishra Medical College. “Several beneficiaries refused to take vaccine asking what is the need now when cases have drastically declined,” said an officer. BOX 1 93% take booster dose About 64 health workers missed their second vaccine dose as 780 (93%) of 844 took shots. SGPGIMS director Prof R K Dhiman, Balrampur Hospital director Dr Rajeev Lochan and DG Family and Welfare, Rakesh Dubey took the booster dose. District immunization officer Dr M K Singh said, “Those who missed the second dose should positively take it on February 19 for required immunity.” BOX 2 Many were eager for jab Many beneficiaries showed eagerness for the jab. Dr AK Jain (68) got vaccinated at SPM Civil Hospital and said, “I am relieved that my name was finally included in the list”. He was accompanied by wife Rita Jain (67). At Jhalkari Bai Hospital, Dr Rais Bano (46), who has a history of skin allergy, said, “I was initially reluctant, but took the vaccine after taking medical advice.” BOX 3 Have asthma, so took shot The SPM Civil hospital achieved 100% target with inoculation of all 250 listed beneficiaries. Some frontlines workers were also given shots at a few places. At Balrampur hospital, cops posted in the district court for security got vaccinated. Head constable Idarat Khan, 54, said he took the vaccine since he has asthma and Covid infection may prove disastrous for him. (With inputs from Pragati Shukla and Yashita Arora)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/low-turnout-of-41-hitsplan-for-herd-immunity/articleshow/80941104.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Ambassador land to host Rs 10,000-crore IT park||KOLKATA: The land at Hind Motor that once used to house the manufacturing facility of Ambassador, once called the wheels of India, is all set to get a new lease of life. The Hiranandani Group, a Mumbai-based diversified conglomerate, has entered into an MoU to set up a logistics and hyper-scale data centre park in the region. The group has signed the agreement to acquire 100 acres in Uttarpara from Hindustan Motors to set up the data centre park by Hiranandani group companies GreenBase and Yotta. The combined investment is estimated to cross Rs 10,000 crore. The project was announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, along with a host of other IT and power projects, at Nabanna on Monday. Darshan Hiranandani, CEO of the group, told TOI that it had bought the land directly from the C K Birla group that owns the now defunct Hind Motor factory and Hindustan Motors. There will be a data centre on 20 acres and the rest — 80 acres — would be utilized for warehousing and logistics facilities. “Kicking off this project would not have been possible without the support of the Bengal government under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee. West Bengal is the gateway to the east. It is an ideal hub for logistics and industrial development with excellent road, rail and riverine connectivity,” said Darshan Hiranandani. According to him, the first facility of the industrial and logistics park will be ready by June 2022 and the first data centre building by 2023. Incidentally, in 2008-09, Chennai-based Shriram Group had bought over 300 acres at Hind Motor factory for real estate and IT park. GreenBase will deliver a modern and self-sustainable ecosystem on 3-million sq ft of industrial and warehousing space, along with essential utilities and support infrastructure of international standards. Yotta will develop six hyper-connected data centre buildings, bringing in 250MW of cutting-edge data centre capacity over the next several years to the state. “The data centre business will benefit from the digitization revolution, the upcoming Silicon Valley at New Town in Rajarhat and excellent fibre connectivity on land and the new submarine cable coming up at Tajpur. By setting up a data centre park in Kolkata, we will not only serve the customers of the state but the entire eastern region, including neighbouring countries,” Hiranandani said. Meanwhile, along with the announcement of the Hiranandani project, Banerjee inaugurated four IT parks and three power sub-stations in the state. While two IT parks were inaugurated in Salt Lake Sector V, Rajarhat and Kalyani got one each. The total built-up space in these IT parks is 2.8 lakh sq ft. Sources in IT department said these IT parks would have a plug-and-play approach. There will be both rental as well as ownership space. “Online booking for space in these IT parks would start from March 1 and possession would start from the Bengali New Year. There are 18 IT parks in the state and over 70% space in these parks are already occupied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ambassador-land-to-host-rs-10k-crore-it-park/articleshow/80933824.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Vijayawada||AP HC appoints amicus curiae in Kodali case||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday heard the house motion petition filed by civil supplies minister Kodali Nani challenging the gag order issued by the State Election Commission (SEC). The court adjourned the matter for further hearing on Wednesday. The court verified material filed by N Ashwani Kumar, standing counsel for APSEC, and posed the question that Kodali Nani’s statements at the press conference that find place in the impugned proceedings were not clear. Ashwani Kumar told the court that video footage of the press conference should be treated in its entirety and not for specific insults or remarks made. Prashant, counsel appearing for Kodali Nani, argued that no statements were made in the press conference that attacked the commissioner in his personal capacity or the Constitutional independence of the commission. The court further questioned Prashant on the denial of the video and its veracity. The HC appointed senior counsel P Sri Raghuram as amicus curiae to assist the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-appoints-amicus-curiae-in-kodali-case/articleshow/80931558.cms||Venu Lanka
February 16, 2021||Vijayawada||ULBs an electoral challenge for YSRC, TDP||Amaravati: Notwithstanding the big win in gram panchayat elections, the YSRC will face a tough test in the upcoming elections to urban local bodies as these will be fought on party symbols. Municipal elections will put an end to the debate on the performance of the government in the last two years as almost all major cities and towns are going to the elections. Winning major corporations, particularly Greater Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Guntur and Kurnool will be crucial for YSRC as these cities are linked with the YSRC government’s three capital cities move. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had recently told the senior officials that his government had already completed one-third of its term and it is time to gear up speed with performance. Although YSRC leaders are confident of repeating the success rate the party achieved in gram panchayat elections, field-level leaders are of the view that more hard work is needed to win municipal elections. “The State Election Commission helped us a lot by holding panchayat elections a little ahead of municipal elections as the party’s massive victories in rural areas has set the mood even in urban areas. Otherwise, it would have been a really difficult task,” said a legislator from Guntur city. Legislators are hopeful of reaping rich dividends in municipal areas as they have distributed house sites to several people. YSRC is also banking on schemes like Amma Vodi to win over women voters. “Civic infrastructure is a big issue in towns and cities. We have rarely seen the intellectuals who criticise the poor civic infrastructure exercising their franchise in civic polls,” said Dr Subramanyam, a retired professor. TDP, which has struggled to make an impact in the panchayat polls, is leaving no stone unturned to win the municipal elections as it fears the party may otherwise become irrelevant.  TDP, however, believes that a good percentage of voters who backed YSRC in the general elections are likely to choose TDP or back the BJP-Jana Sena combine, making it difficult for YSRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ulbs-an-electoral-challenge-for-ysrc-tdp/articleshow/80931402.cms||Samdani MN
February 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Garment inc worries as Pb falls on exports charts||Ludhiana: In a disappointment for the city considered a hub of textile and garments, Punjab has ranked seventh in volume of net exports in the sector in 2019-20. In the previous two years, too, the performance had been dismal as compared with the other states. As per the data released by the ministry of textiles, the total amount of exports from Punjab for 2019-20 was of US$ 1,509 million. Other states that have ranked ahead of Punjab include Delhi (US$ 2,332), Gujarat (US$ 4,901), Haryana (US$ 3,035), Karnataka (US$ 2,386), Maharashtra (US$ 3,987), Tamil Nadu (US$ 6,766) and Uttar Pradesh (US$ 2,853). Industrialists said it was because of the Centre and the state government turning a blind eye to the problems of the garment and textile industry and if these warning signs were ignored, Punjab may slip even further. However, some businessmen differed and said the data contained statistics for textile products like sarees, carpet, denim, home furnishing and other handlooms, which were not the specialisation of Punjab. Expressing resentment over the statistics, Harish Dua, executive council member of Apparel Export Promotion Council, said, “Ludhiana is the biggest hub of garment manufacturing in north India. There was a time when we were number one garment manufacturers in the country, but due to the apathy of the successive Central and state governments, we slid and other states pipped us. One of the biggest hurdles for Ludhiana's garment exporters is huge expenditure incurred on the outgoing freight till the ports as compared with the other states. It has been years since we have been demanding freight subsidy for garment exporters of Punjab to put us on a par with those from other states.”Vinod Thapar, chairman of Knitwear Club, said, “Punjab's garment industry is in dire need of technological advancement. Both Centre and state should come together and introduce a tailor-made technological upgrade scheme for us, under which we should be given financing at 0% rate for purchase of machinery. Besides, the labour cost is very high in Punjab as compared with the other states. Our competitors in other states have an edge over us.”However, Narinder Mittal, general secretary, Ludhiana Business Forums, said there was no need to panic. “We are ranked at seventh position because the figures released by the ministry of textiles include both garments and textiles. Textiles is a vast term that includes a wide product range, including denims, carpets, sarees, home furnishing and specialised fabrics. Punjab produces nothing of this sort and that is why states like UP and Gujarat are far ahead in this list though they do very little production of garments. However, there is no denying that we are not the number one garment manufacturing state anymore. Steps need to be taken by the state and the Central governments to uplift the garment industry of Ludhiana so that we can regain our lost number one spot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/garment-inc-worries-as-pb-falls-on-exports-charts/articleshow/80934462.cms||Mohit Behl
February 16, 2021||Patna||Mixed response to Chhapra college teachers’ suspension||CHHAPRA: The suspension of Rajendra College principal and 12 assistant professors along with three others has evoked mixed response from the staff and alumni of the Chhapra college. The suspension order was issued by the JP University (JPU) on Saturday last on the inquiry report submitted to the office of governor-cum-chancellor. Principal Pramendra Ranjan Singh and the 12 assistant professors, including 4 women, were found guilty of “gross misconduct” for dancing to the tune of item songs at a function to celebrate the birth anniversary of the country’s first President, Dr Rajendra Prasad, on the college campus on December 3. Rajendra College is a constituent unit of JPU, which had ordered an inquiry after the dance video had gone viral on social media. Dean (Faculty of Science) Prof Ashok Kumar Jha, dean students’ welfare Prof Uday Shankar Ojha and proctor Dr Kapil Dev Singh have been suspended for “not conducting inquiry in an impartial manner”. “Present college principal Ashok Kumar Sinha on Sunday relieved the 12 assistant professors to facilitate their joining the colleges assigned to them for the suspension period and many of them joined on Monday,” said Prof Tanuka Chatterji, one of the suspended assistant professors. Prof Ranjit Kumar, secretary of PG Teachers’ Association, criticised the suspension as unilateral and unjust decision and violation of established norms. Samarendra Bahadur Singh, secretary of ‘Pariwartankari Shikshak Sangh’, also criticized the university action. Prof D P Sinha, president of the retired teachers’ association of the university, has termed the action as ‘making a mountain out of a molehill’. “When the university has debarred them from the annual increment, the second penalty appears to be unjust. Only warning was enough as most of them are freshers, well qualified and selected by the Bihar Public Service Commission,” he said. However, reacting sharply against the dance performance, Prof P N Sinha, former principal of the college, said: “The wrong must be punished to revive the lost values of the college. The educational institutions are not a place of entertainment, but a place of learning.” Prof K N Labh, a retired professor and noted Hindi scholar, said: “The teachers’ conduct should be exemplary to the society.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mixed-response-to-chhapra-college-teachers-suspension/articleshow/80932196.cms||H K Verma
February 16, 2021||Vijayawada||Govt to develop smart townships across state||Vijayawada: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday directed officials to develop smart townships in all towns in the state. After reviewing the development of townships and solid waste management at his Tadepalli camp office, the chief minister told officials to identify suitable lands in urban areas to be developed as smart townships. He also wanted them to distribute house sites in these townships to middle class people as per their eligibility. Jagan further asked officials to plan outer ring roads in every town and plan the townships along these roads. “The beneficiaries should have clear ownership title. The townships should also have basic infrastructure including electricity, drinking water, drainage and internal roads,” he said. He also discussed various strategies to acquire lands in the urban areas and give plots at no-profit-no-loss basis. “Ensure that every eligible family gets house site in these townships. Distribution of house sites at nominal price should be a regular feature in the state,” the chief minister said, and asked officials to take applications from all eligible families as they come. The officials were told to acquire lands and develop a land bank for every town in the state. The chief minister wanted them to acquire at least 25 acres on the lower side to 200 acres on the higher side in every town. The officials, who gave a presentation on similar schemes in other states, also proposed development of 18 layouts in 12 towns in the state in the first phase. The CM asked them to prepare the layouts and keep the title documents ready in the next 18 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-develop-smart-townships-across-state/articleshow/80931806.cms||Gopi Dara
February 16, 2021||Patna||LJP MP meets Nitish, creates flutter in political circles||PATNA: The meeting of LJP MP from Nawada, Chandan Singh, with CM Nitish Kumar at his official residence on Sunday has created flutter in political circles of the state. Chandan is the younger brother of Mokama don-turned-politician and former LJP MP from Balia Surajbhan Singh. Though Chandan described his meeting with Nitish as a routine one and said their discussion was confined to the problems related to his constituency, political observers said there is more to it than meets the eye. Chandan called on Nitish after the latter returned from New Delhi. “The timing of the meeting is significant. Last week, LJP chief Chirag Paswan had blamed the CM’s indifference for delay in opening of a medical college in his constituency Jamui,” said political observer Pramod Kumar. He said Chirag was extremely harsh on Nitish during the last assembly polls and even threatened to send him to jail if he came to power. Be it the issue of law and order, floods, return of the migrant workers during the lockdown or development, Chirag has always been critical of Nitish, he added. LJP spokesperson Asaraf Ansari, however, said the issue was being blown out of proportions. “There is nothing unusual in it. The MP may have some works pending in his constituency and the CM’s assistance was required. I am amazed to know why there is so much hue and cry over the meeting,” Ansari told this newspaper on Monday. Ansari said the meeting shouldn’t be viewed from political angles. “The LJP is intact under the leadership of Chirag Paswan. However, some people are trying to create a confusion by giving much importance to the meeting between the MP and the CM,” he added. JD(U), on the other hand, said those who blamed the CM’s indifference for delay in development works in Jamui must have got a befitting reply. “It’s wrong to put the onus either on the CM or the state government for delay in works in Jamui. There is no discrimination at the government level so far as development is concerned,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore said CM Nitish’s popularity and support is declining. “This is why he is meeting the leaders (read MLAs and MPs) of different political parties,” he said. In January, LJP’s lone MLA Raj Kumar Singh had met Ashok Choudhary, a minister and close aide of Nitish, at his residence in Patna. The LJP legislator, however, said he had gone to Choudhary’s residence for a book launch. Earlier, five MLAs of Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM had called on the CM at his residence. The MLAs later told the media that they had discussed with the CM the issues related to their respective constituencies. Recently, Md Zama Khan, who had won from Chainpur on BSP symbol, joined JD(U) and became a minister, Independent MLA from Chakai, Sumit Kumar Singh, also got a ministerial berth after supporting Nitish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-mp-meets-nitish-creates-flutter-in-political-circles/articleshow/80931707.cms||Ramashankar
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||Housing complexes leave pandemic fears behind, scale up Saraswati Puja celebrations||Kolkata: Having missed out on the festivities during all the community pujas last year due to Covid restrictions, housing societies across Kolkata are preparing to celebrate the year’s first festival — Saraswati Puja — in a big way. While several complexes are re-initiating the puja that has mostly been limited to households, others are scaling up the event. With no fresh restrictions imposed by the state or judiciary, apartment owners’ associations are also planning to allow revellers at pandals, call in guests and performers and host offline events and programmes. “We had stopped celebrating Saraswati Puja in our complex for several years. But this year we thought of bringing it back, hoping to drive out the negatives associated with the festivities last year. We are looking forward to celebrating at the pandal. However, we have asked everyone to wear a mask and maintain social distance,” said Indranil Chowdhury, secretary, Silver Spring Complex on Bypass. Sarosi Apartment in Kasba has scaled up the celebrations with a slew of offline events. “The pandemic had put a stop to everything. As a result, Durga Puja 2020 and other festivals were hushed affairs. But with life gradually returning to normal, we are organizing a gala Saraswati Puja as we step into our fourth year. The residents are excited and members from almost every household have helped decorate the mandap and made alpana. They are also rehearsing for a cultural programme,” said Sujata Ghosh, member of the flat owners’ association. A blind men’s band from the Welfare Society for the Blind will perform at the venue on Tuesday. “For us, Saraswati Puja symbolizes a time when the curve is coming down and we can afford to at least sit around the pandal at safe distances from each other and chat. The Durga Puja was a stifling affair with many residents suffering and most choosing to avoid the pandal space. We are now following all the protocols but are determined to enjoy Saraswati Puja,” said Vijaylakshmi Kumar, a resident of Ruchira Residency off Bypass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/housing-complexes-leave-pandemic-fears-behind-scale-up-saraswati-puja-celebrations/articleshow/80933925.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 16, 2021||Patna||‘Mohalla clinics’ await final PMC nod||PATNA: Taking a cue from the Delhi government, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has mooted a proposal to set up Mohalla clinics in the state capital. The proposal to set up three such clinics was approved by the empowered standing committee of the PMC last week, and the final nod from the board is awaited. PMC officials claimed that Mohalla Clinics will provide help free of cost to people in need of general medical checkup and consultation. “This is for people who can't afford expensive treatment and medications. In the first phase, the PMC is preparing to execute this proposal in three different locations in the city and based on the response, we will expand it. We will be scheduling the timings for particular patients, and necessary doctors such as physicians, gynaecologists and orthopaedics,” PMC’s public relations officer Harshita said. She added, "The PMC is already focussed on health. During Covid times, PMC contributed its efforts to cleanliness and the effort is to ensure better health along with hygiene.” In Delhi, the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP government has set up 189 Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics (AAMC) for free medical services and essential medicines. According to the official website of the health department of Delhi, the AAMCs provide basic medical care based on standard treatment protocols, all lab investigations by empanelled laboratories and all medicines in essential drug list free of cost and preventive services such as antenatal and postnatal care of pregnant women among others. The concept of Mohalla clinic has been welcomed by residents in Patna as well. Yash Adhikar, (22), an MBBS student, said, "I appreciate this step taken by the PMC to ensure that healthcare services are provided to people, who can’t afford to pay hefty charges at hospitals. It will greatly improve our medical structure." Retired doctor Nirbhay Kumar, 75, said, "As we all know Covid has affected us in many ways, this initiative by the PMC is highly appreciated. Many people can’t afford treatment and medications due to the higher fees of private hospitals and clinics. The Mohalla Clinics will thus be of great help for such people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mohalla-clinics-await-final-pmc-nod/articleshow/80932604.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Patna||150 take part in Tarumitra’s ‘Basant Utsav’||PATNA: Nearly 150 students, teachers, principals, educationists, authors, poets, artists and social activists from Patna took part in the ‘Basant Utsav’ organized by Tarumitra on Monday. The programme began with the sisters of Notre Dame Academy singing a prayer song appreciating the spring season. Later, the students of Delhi Public School, Litera Primary School, Radiant International School, St Dominic Savio’s High School, St Xavier’s College, Patna Women’s College and J D Women’s College presented a series of events that included dance, songs, poems and skits. Father Robert Athickal, who was the chief guest of the event, praised the participants for putting in efforts to make ‘Basant Utsav’ memorable. At the outset, Tarumitra director Father Tony Pendanath welcomed the guests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/150-take-part-in-tarumitras-basant-utsav/articleshow/80933774.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Business||Renault launches Kiger SUV at Rs 5.45 lakh||French carmaker Renault on Monday announced that it has priced the small sports utility vehicle (SUV) Kiger at an entry level price of Rs 5.45 lakh for the petrol variant. This vehicle is built on its CMF-A platform at the Oragadam factory — which it jointly operates with its alliance partner Nissan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/renault-launches-kiger-suv-at-rs-5-45-lakh/articleshow/80935984.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
February 16, 2021||Patna||Bus services to Jehanabad, Gaya from ISBT start today||PATNA: The trial run for the bus services to Jehanabad and Gaya from the newly built interstate bus terminus at Ramachak Bairiya in Patna was completed on Monday. The regular service for these two districts will begin from today and Nawada and Nalanda routes will be added soon. Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh said altogether 32 buses for Patna-Jehanabad and Patna-Gaya routes returned to the new terminus. “Everything was smooth and now buses for these two districts will be available,” said Singh, adding Nawada and Nalanda will be added in the second phase and will take about a month. Singh told TOI the agency constructing an elevated road near the terminus has been told to complete the work in 20 days, which will take auto-rickshaws and private vehicles bringing people to this terminus directly to the first floor. The first floor has basic facilities like drinking water and toilets and temporary drinking water facility along with urinals has been made available on the ground floor. Two dedicated city buses will run at an interval of thirty minutes from the Mithapur bus stand. Arrangement for an auto stand has also been made on the ground floor and prepaid auto facility is also being set up. Singh said even buses from Gandhi Maidan to Patna City via Zero Mile have been instructed to reroute via the new terminus. This state-of-the-art terminal was inaugurated by chief minister Nitish Kumar in September last year before the assembly election and he had christened it the Pataliputra Bus Terminal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bus-services-to-jehanabad-gaya-from-isbt-start-today/articleshow/80931976.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 16, 2021||Patna||Bihar: JJB awards 3 juveniles three-year term for murder||BIHARSHARIF: The Nalanda Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) principal judge, Manvendra Mishra, on Monday awarded three years punishment under Section 302 and three years each under Sections 379 and 120(B) of the IPC to three juveniles accused of murder. The punishments will go concurrently. Additional public prosecutor Rajesh Pathak said Mohd Altimash of Biharsharif Town, Imran alias Mona of Bhusatta also from Biharsharif Town and Shabbir, a native of Alamganj in Biharsharif, were found guilty of killing their friend Jitendra Kumar on February 8, 2019, after stealing Rs 24,000 from him. He said Imran alias Mona confessed he had taken Rs 10,000 from someone for his treatment at an interest of Rs 3,000 a month. “When he did not pay the heavy interest, Mona along with his two friends Altimash and Shabbir hatched a conspiracy to steal some money from their friend after getting him drunk,” said Pathak. The trio called Jitendra to meet them around 10 pm, they drank together and when Jitendra lost his senses they slit his throat with a blade and stole Rs 24,000 from his pocket the same night. On the morning of February 9, 2019, a critically injured Jitendra was taken to Biharsharif Sadar hospital and was later sent to PMCH, where doctors declared him brought dead. APP Pathak said the court considering the age of the convicts awarded them minimum punishment. Other two members of JJB Dharmendra Kumar and Usha Kumari consented to the punishment awarded to the convicts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jjb-awards-3-juveniles-3-year-term-for-murder/articleshow/80932279.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Business||Dhanlaxmi plans to raise fresh equity in April-June quarter||MUMBAI: Kerala-based Dhanlaxmi Bank is likely to raise fresh equity capital in the first quarter of FY22. The capital mobilisation will be to fund growth, plans for which have been drawn up by J K Shivan, who recently took charge as the bank’s MD & CEO. Speaking to TOI, Shivan said that the bank will need growth capital in coming years. “We have an enabling provision that gives us the headroom to raise around Rs 130 crore. In March, the bank will hold its strategy meeting and decide on how to grow business. The immediate focus is to increase profitability by improving net interest margin and reducing non-performing assets (NPAs). To improve interest earnings and conserve capital at the same time, we will be focusing on gold loans and very short-term investments in top-rated companies,” he said. To improve its operational efficiency, Dhanlaxmi Bank has migrated to the latest core banking solution from Oracle and the objective was now to increase adoption of digital channels. “At present, it is around 55%. We want to popularise it so that it is at least 70% of transactions,” said Shivan. He added that while new customers were already using the digital channels first, the bank would be having a dedicated person at every branch to handhold customers who were not used to the digital modes. Another focus area would be the recovery of bad loans. Shivan plans to play to his strengths in his former role as chief general manager in charge of stressed assets at SBI. “Dhanlaxmi Bank has around Rs 700 crore of fully provided NPAs and, being an old private bank, the loans are largely collateralised,” said Shivan. The bank’s gross NPAs at the end of the third quarter stood at 5.78%. However, if the Supreme Court order barring classification of loans during Covid as NPAs was not followed, it would be higher. The bank, which has a large part of its business centred in Kerala, has been in business since 1927. The strategy meeting next month might draw up a road map for where the bank wants to be when it turns a hundred in 2027. Shivan’s appointment was recently approved by shareholders. The RBI had asked the bank’s board to vote for a CEO candidate before the regulator approved the same. This was after Dhanlaxmi Bank’s former RBI-approved CEO Sunil Gurbaxani was ousted by shareholders in September 2020, within seven months of his appointment by the board. According to Shivan, he has a positive perception of the bank. His approach would be to draw from the positives of earlier experiences of the bank while technologically preparing it for the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dhanlaxmi-plans-to-raise-fresh-equity-in-april-june-qtr/articleshow/80938692.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 16, 2021||Business||Indian Oil starts land acquisition at Nagapattinam for new refinery||Chennai: State owned oil refiner Indian Oil Corporation has said it has commenced land acquisition in Nagapattinam region for the proposed nine million tonne per year refinery. Indian Oil and its refining subsidiary CPCL will own 25% each in a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) which will set up the Rs 31,500 crore refinery, while the rest will be held by strategic or financial investors.The project needs regulatory approvals and nod from Niti Aayog, Indian Oil said. CPCL already owns 650 acres in the area as it already has a one million tonne refinery which is operational. “We need another 600 acres and the land acquisition process is underway,” said Rajeev Ailawdi, MD of CPCL. This project shall generate about 50 lakh man-days during the execution phase. The new refinery will produce petrol, diesel and Polypropylene. The integrated complex will house a desalination plant and also a 150 MW captive power plant which will be fired using natural gas as feedstock.The Prime Minister will operationalise the Ramanathapuram – Thoothukudi natural gas pipeline and Gasoline desulfurization unit at CPCL on Wednesday and also lay the foundation stone for the refinery. The project has received environmental clearance and is awaiting a Consent to Establish (CTE) from the Tamil Nadu state government. Fiscal incentives for the mega project has also been awarded the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-oil-starts-land-acquisition-at-nagapattinam-for-new-refinery/articleshow/80935909.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Patna||Cops caught drinking will be dismissed from job: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Police personnel caught drinking liquor would be dismissed immediately, CM Nitish Kumar warned on Monday. “All police personnel across the state have taken a pledge of not drinking liquor in their lifetime. If anyone is caught drinking alcohol, disciplinary action must be initiated, and he or she must be dismissed immediately,” Nitish told officials while reviewing the performance of prohibition, excise and registration department during a meeting at the CM residence here. Around 80,000 police personnel working in the state, take an annual pledge of not drinking or storing alcohol and work to ensure successful implementation of total prohibition in the state. “I do solemnly swear I will never consume liquor in my lifetime. I shall be liable for stern action if I am ever found involved in any activity involving liquor,” reads the oath. Prohibition was imposed in the state on April 5, 2016. Issuing instructions to police and prohibition officials on how to put an effective check on illegal supply and sale of liquor, the CM said chowkidars working at the village-level possess every bit of information about illegal activities going on in their areas. “Ensure stern action against the chowkidars if any irregularity regarding liquor is found in their jurisdiction,” Nitish told the police officials. CM further asked officials to ensure a comprehensive inquiry in all bordering areas to check smuggling of liquor from other states and take action against officials of local administration if they are found involved in any kind of irregularity regarding liquor. He also asked officials to publicise the punishments given to people involved in the illegal trade of liquor so that it creates a sense of fear among people committing irregularities. Earlier, the state’s prohibition-cum-excise commissioner B Kartikeya Dhanjee and the inspector general of police (excise) Amrit Raj made detailed presentations before the CM about the actions taken by the prohibition department and police for effective enforcement of prohibition in the state since April 2016. State’s prohibition, excise and registration minister Sunil Kumar, the department’s additional chief secretary Amir Subhani also were present at the review meeting. The CM also held separate meetings to review the functioning of five other departments on Monday. The departments were science and technology, social welfare, food and consumer protection, rural works and minority welfare. The ministers and departmental heads of the respective departments were present during the review of their departments. Four of the six departments whose functioning were reviewed on Monday have first-time ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-caught-drinking-will-be-dismissed-from-job-nitish/articleshow/80931675.cms||Madan Kumar
February 16, 2021||Visakhapatnam||New Covid cases in AP drop to nine-month low||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 30 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,88,899. This is the lowest single-day case load in about nine months, since the state recorded 27 cases on May 17. The toll increased to 7,163 as one more patient succumbed to the novel coronavirus in Krishna district. Altogether, 69 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state. There are currently 695 active cases with the 8,81,041 cumulative recoveries and 7,163 fatalities. All districts reported either single-digit case numbers or zero new cases on Monday. Kurnool, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram did not record any new cases. The active case load is less than 50 in seven districts, while active cases are as few as five in Srikakulam district. Andhra Pradesh tested 18,834 Covid-19 samples on Monday and detected 30 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.2%. The overall case positivity rate of the state stood at 6.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/new-covid-cases-in-ap-drop-to-nine-month-low/articleshow/80931657.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Lucknow||Exam aspirants stuck in Kota trigger behind Abhyudaya idea: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: To provide quality education to the youth and make them employable, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday inaugurated the ‘Abhyudaya’ scheme and interacted with candidates selected under it. Classes will begin from Tuesday on the auspicious occasion of Basant Panchami in all 18 divisions of the state. At the launch, the CM emphasised that the scheme will add to the holistic development of youth by providing coaching facilities similar to those in Kota and Prayagraj. The coaching will also boost the spirit of self-reliance, he said. Abhyudaya is for holistic development: CM Yogi AdityanathThe CM said that Abhyudaya is a ‘path pradarshak’ (guiding light) for holistic development. “The idea to start a scheme like Abhyudaya struck when about 30,000 competitive exam aspirants were stuck in Kota and Prayagraj due to Covid-19 lockdown. It was challenging for us. So, we decided to get similar coaching facilities in the state,” Adityanath said, while answering a query by Kapil Dubey from Varanasi. Abhyudaya coaching centres set up under direct supervision of the CM himself at the divisional level in the first phase and at the district level in the second will benefit aspirants preparing to qualify NEET, JEE (mains and advanced), CDS, NDA, UPSC and all other competitive exams. Free guidance and teaching by senior bureaucrats and police personnel will also be provided to the aspirants through these institutes. There will also be a provision of facilities like virtual doubt clarifying sessions, interview calls, career counselling and subject matter expertise. “I want to assure everyone that these classes will help students achieve their goals. In 2020, the scheme was not only appreciated but a special package was also announced in the Union budget,” said the CM during the inauguration via video-conference. Abhyudaya has received overwhelming response, with more than 5 lakh candidates registering for it in less than a week. Of this, 50,192 selected candidates will avail the free facility from Tuesday. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who attended the launch, applauded the Abhyudaya platform as an ‘impeccable’ and ‘extremely innovative’ effort towards empowering the youth. Social welfare minister Ramapathi Shastri acknowledged the government’s vision through this scheme of providing quality education to uplift the deprived sections and called it as the medium of ‘Antyodaya’. Padma Shri awardee Prof HC Verma described Abhyudaya as inventive, unique and exemplary. He said it was a measure to boost self-reliance among the youth in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/exam-aspirants-stuck-in-kota-trigger-behind-abhyudaya-idea-cm/articleshow/80941187.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Police advise caution while posting on social media||Ludhiana: In the wake of arrest of 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi, who allegedly shared a toolkit document related to the farmers’ protests with Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg, the cyber cell of Ludhiana police has advised people, especially the youngsters, to maintain caution while sharing any post for or against any movement on social media.The Constitution if India does give the freedom of speech, but an error of judgement while exercising this right could land one in jail, said Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, additional deputy commissioner of police (crime) and also in-charge of the cyber cell here.She said, “People, especially youngsters, are very active on social media these days. Although supporting a cause or movement on social media is not a crime by itself, certain mistakes could turn it into a crime.”ADCP Bhatti said people need to do just two things to avoid any trouble — the first thing is to verify the facts or documents they are uploading or sharing, and the second caution everyone should maintain is to not target anyone on a public platform.“It has been seen that people without rechecking or verifying the facts share information on social media, which amounts to spreading fake news, intentionally or unintentionally. Always recheck the information. There are always two sides to a story, so before sharing it on social media, always check both sides and then share your opinion based on facts,” she said.The police officer further said, “The other mistake that could land one in trouble is ‘accusing someone’, be it a person, community, gender, caste etc. While uploading anything on social media, one has to avoid targeting anyone, so that it is not construed as a hate speech.”Asked about the measures the police has in place to check the abuse of social media, the ADCP said, “We have cyber cell and social media cell that keep a watch on the content being shared online. Anyone found to be sharing anything offensive or illegal is booked and further action is taken in line with the legal provisions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-advise-caution-while-posting-on-social-media/articleshow/80934455.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||Face of Park Circus anti-CAA protest dies||Kolkata: Asmat Jamil, who was at the helm of the anti-citizenship protest and steered the sit-in at Park Circus Maidan for over two months last year, passed away on Monday evening. The homemaker from central Kolkata led a small group to Park Circus Maidan on January 7 last year and refused to move till the central government withdrew the citizenship bill. In the days to follow, thousands joined the movement with many calling it the Shaheen Bagh of Kolkata. Several politicians, social workers, rights activists and youths visited the protest venue every day. Several activists across the state who joined Jamil in the protest expressed grief at her demise. They plan to offer her namaz-e-janaza (final prayers) at Park Circus Maidan on Tuesday afternoon before proceeding to the graveyard. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/face-of-park-circus-anti-caa-protest-dies/articleshow/80934032.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Frequent petrol, LPG price hikes put a strain on household budget||PATNA: Residents are having a tough time adjusting their household budget after hike in prices of various commodities over the past few weeks. While petrol is above Rs90 per litre, LPG prices have increased by around Rs25 per cylinder. The proposed autorickshaw fare hike in the state capital will pinch the common commuters hard as they are dependent on this mode of transport to reach their schools, colleges and offices. The COMFED, which sells milk and milk products in the state and outside under the brand name of ‘Sudha’, also increased the prices of different varieties of milk by Rs2 per litre from February 7. The petrol, diesel and LPG prices in Patna have been turning more volatile. Petrol is being sold at Rs91.54/litre while diesel price climbed up to Rs84.72/litre on Monday. In addition, the price of a non-subsidized LPG cylinder in Patna is Rs817.50. “Such price hikes are harsh on the budget of a common man. More considerate financial decisions from the government would be the much needed relief,” Meena Singh, a resident of Kankarbagh, said. The LPG price hike at regular intervals has become a growing concern for middle class families. “Adjusting to these sudden price hikes is becoming more and more difficult. Even a slight increase in gas consumption affects the monthly budget a lot,” said Sangeeta Prakash, a resident of Hanuman Nagar. All India Road Transport Workers Association president Raj Kumar Jha said Patna Auto Chalak Sangh (union) has submitted a proposal to the government, requesting hike in the auto fare. The proposal has not been accepted yet. Transport department secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the department has not taken any decision regarding increase in the auto fare. “Unions do give their proposal for hike in the fare every year, but as of now no decision has been taken,” he said, adding a committee will be formed to review the proposal and take a decision accordingly. “In the new proposal, the union has requested the government to fix Rs22 for the first two kilometres, which means even if a person gets down before one kilometre, s/he has to pay Rs22. After 2km, Rs10 will be added with each extra kilometre,” Jha said, adding that at present they were charging Rs7.50 for each extra kilometre. The increase in auto fare will make daily life more difficult for common people. Chotu Kumar, a salesman in a showroom located in Boring Road, said, “I travel by auto to reach my workplace. An increase of even Rs4 in fare for one side will cost me Rs8 extra per day and more than Rs200 more in a month. For me, this means a lot.” Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra hit out at the NDA government at the Centre as well in the state for hike in petrol, diesel and cooking gas prices, which he said has led to increase in fares and inflammation and was impacting a common man’s life. “In spite of fall in crude oil prices, petrol, diesel and cooking gas have become expensive because of the wrong policies of the government,” Mishra said. He further said because of excise duty and VAT, common people had to pay Rs45 more for one litre petrol and Rs43.50 more for one litre of diesel in the state. “During the Congress’s regime in May 2014, cost of crude oil in the international market was $113 per barrel and that time petrol was Rs74/litre and diesel Rs57/litre. And now that the crude oil price in international market is half of that period, petrol is being sold at 91.12/litre and diesel for Rs84.57 per litre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/frequent-petrol-lpg-price-hikes-put-a-strain-on-household-budget/articleshow/80932386.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 16, 2021||Patna||Mithilanchal has high hopes from 4 ministers||DARBHANGA: People in Mithilanchal are jubilant over the induction of Madan Sahni, Sanjay Kumar Jha, Alok Ranjan and Jibesh Kumar into the Nitish Kumar cabinet and hope they will develop the region at a fast pace. Pawan Sureka, president of divisional chamber of commerce and industries, said: “We are proud of having four ministers from the region in the state cabinet. If they perform better in their respective departments, this region will definitely get benefited.” He added: “Problems like lack of industries, closed paper mill and discarding of sugar cane cultivation by the farmers due to closure of sugar mills among others have hit the area hard. We hope the ministers from the Mithilanchal region will pay special attention to these issues.” Residents of Bahaduprur assembly segment represented by social welfare minister Madan Sahni have high hopes from him. “Apart from the benefits of various welfare schemes, we are also hopeful of getting a boost to the fisheries sector as well,” Binod Sah from Bahadurpur said. Former JD (U) MLC Binod Kumar Chaudhary said ministers from the area should have play a major role in further development of Mithila. “All industries, including sugar, jute and paper mills established by Darbhanga Raj, are lying defunct and need reopening for production, employment generation and minimizing labour migration,” he said. People of Manigachhi block in the district feel elated over Sanjay Jha having been given the charge of water resources department again. Murari Mohan Mishra and Pawan Jha of Manigachhi block expressed pleasure and wished that Sanjay will take steps for providing irrigation facilities to the deprived area in this district and launch flood protection schemes at war footing in vulnerable areas of Darbhanga, Madhubani and Samastipur districts. The local social and cultural organization ‘Vidyapati Seva Sansthan’, led by Baijnath Chaudhary ‘Baiju’, said the organization will felicitate Sanjay and Alok Ranjan (art, culture and youth affairs minister) with ‘Mithila Vibhuti Samman’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mithilanchal-has-high-hopes-from-4-ministers/articleshow/80932126.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Allahabad||Tight security at Mela campusfor Basant Panchmi snan today||Prayagraj: Elaborate security arrangements have been made for pilgrims, devotees and kalpwasis ahead of Basant Panchmi snan on Tuesday and the Magh Mela campus has been into a fortress with ATS and STF commandos, and personnel of para military forces also being deployed. The Basant Panchmi snan is considered a local snan and hence local residents will also be going besides pilgrims, sadhus, and kalpwasis and hence security has been beefed up in and around mela campus. ATS and STF commandos and personnel of para military forces have also been deployed to keep a strict vigil and tackle any incident. SP (Magh Mela) Dr Rajiv Narayan Mishra said on Monday, “The diversion plan has been implemented from Monday evening in view of Basant Panchmi snan and will continue till Wednesday night. The entry of vehicles towards Sangam has been restricted.” Mela police have started crowd and traffic management for the fourth main snan of the ongoing Magh Mela, and teams of jal police, NDRF and PAC flood relief personnel have been deployed at the ghats, he added. Astrologer Amitabh Gour told TOI that Panchmi Tithi will start at 3.36am on Tuesday and will continue till 5.46am on Wednesday. The entire day is considered auspicious, but the right time for doing Saraswati Puja is in the afternoon, he added. Parking arrangements have been made at five prominent spots, including plot number 17, pontoon bridge workshop, Galla Mandi (Daraganj), Helipad parking, and Kali Sadak so that devotees don’t have to walk much to reach Sangam. Mela police have also appealed to visitors to keep a small note with name of child and parents, address, and mobile numbers in pockets of their children as a precaution in case they get separated. Public address system is being used to create awareness about Covid-19 protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/tight-security-at-mela-campusfor-basant-panchmi-snan-today/articleshow/80931373.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Patna||Saraswati Puja to be a low-key affair||PATNA: With most schools, colleges and coaching institutes functioning in a phased manner amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Basant Panchami will be a low-key affair on Tuesday. Since goddess Saraswati is an epitome of knowledge, education, music and art, the festival is of utmost importance to students and artists. But celebrating yet another festival without friends and relatives is no less than a disappointment to them. Class XII student Rishika Singh told this newspaper on Monday, “When I heard there would be no Saraswati Puja celebrations at my coaching institute this time, I was really upset. I will have to stay home.” NIT-Patna’s Sakchishree recalled that Saraswati Puja used to be the highlight of her institute. “I would prepare the ‘prasad’ with my friends and was a member of the decorating committee as well. I will miss all the fun this year,” she said. A Class XI student, Aadarsh Kumar, pointed out, “Basant Panchami will be a low-key affair this time. No students will participate in the celebrations.” Adjusting to the new normal, some coaching institutes in the city have decided to conduct virtual Saraswati Puja celebrations for their students. “To avoid gatherings, we have asked the students to join us virtually,” said Brijesh Kumar, the manager of a coaching institute in Rajendra Nagar. Many residential societies have also decided not to celebrate Basant Panchami on a large scale due to the pandemic. Somya Chaudhary, the president of a housing society in Boring Road area, claimed, “Every year we would have theme-based celebrations on our campus. Keeping in mind the safety of the residents, we will not have any celebrations this time.” However, there are some people who believe that the pandemic cannot dampen their festive spirit. Instead of sulking, Kankarbagh resident Shanya Chauhan has bought a small idol of goddess Saraswati and decorated a corner of her house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/saraswati-puja-to-be-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/80932203.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Vijayawada||UN asst secretary general calls on CM||Vijayawada: United Nations assistant secretary general and head of UN Environment Programme (UNEP) Satya S Tripathi called on chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy at his Tadepalli camp office on Monday. The chief minister briefed the UN assistant secretary general about the state government’s initiatives to protect the environment. He gave him a presentation on natural farming in agriculture besides marketing facilities provided to farmers to ensure minimum support price. On the waste-to-health programme, the government has initiated measures to collect plastic and electronic waste. He also told him about the proposed recycling of food processing waste. The chief minister said the government is ready to work with the UN on environmental protection. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/un-asst-secretary-general-calls-on-cm/articleshow/80932142.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Patna||Bihar: FASTag a must from today||PATNA: Despite several extensions of the deadline for compulsory FASTags on vehicles crossing toll plazas on national highways, officials claimed that only 55% of the vehicles have got the FASTags. The toll tags become mandatory at all NH toll plazas from Monday midnight as per a statement issued by the Union ministry of road, transport and highways on Sunday. Vehicles without a valid and functional FASTag entering a toll plaza will have to pay double the fee applicable to that category of the vehicle as per the NH Fee Rules 2008. Sanjeev Kumar, manager of a toll plaza on NH-30 (Patna- Bakhtiyarpur) told this newspaper on Monday that only 55% of vehicles using the highways have got the FASTag service. “Now that all lanes of NH will become ‘FASTag lanes from midnight today, it will be mandatory to make digital payment at the toll plaza for everyone. Those, who have not got the FASTags issued for their vehicles, will be liable to pay double the toll charge for the respective category,” Kumar said. An official of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) at Patna said, “FASTag is an electronic toll collection system, which will enable easy toll deduction for citizens. The system will enable easy and hassle-free movement without disruption.” He added, “If the vehicle owners failed to get the FASTag card or sticker on their windscreen, they will have to pay double the toll charge from Tuesday.” Motorists, on the other hand, are still facing teething troubles with FASTags. “I am not very comfortable with FAStag as I don’t have much information about it. I have registered for it but it is taking time,” said A K Shrivastava, a resident of Nehru Nagar in Patna. Deshant Arya, an IT professional said, “The system wasn’t as effective while travelling recently, there was a long queue on the toll plaza so I had to wait way longer than the normal duration.” The Union ministry had mandated the FASTags in M and N categories of motor vehicles with effect from 1st January this year. Category – M stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying passengers. While Category – N stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying goods, which may also carry persons in addition to goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fastags-must-from-today-but-only-55-vehicles-have-them/articleshow/80932059.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Goa||Goa budget likely to be presented on March 24 or 25||PANAJI: With an aim to make Goa ‘swayampurna’ (self-sufficient), chief minister Pramod Sawant is likely to present the budget in the legislative assembly on March 24 or 25. The state cabinet is expected to take a decision on Wednesday to summon the assembly from March 24 even as the opposition has been demanding a long session to discuss issues of public interest. A senior government official said Sawant, in consultation with speaker Rajesh Patnekar, will take a call on the duration of the assembly session following the cabinet’s decision. The chief minister has already begun holding meetings with various departments and private organisations to prepare the state budget. Representatives of Credai, GSIA and the Small and Medium Goan Hoteliers Association have met with him and have presented their demands to be considered in the state budget 2021-22. Sawant has assured the delegation to examine its demand of a 50 per cent reduction in infrastructure tax, stamp duty and sanad conversions charges. During the budget session, the opposition will get time to speak specifically on the matters of particular departments during the presentation of demands. It hadn’t got much time to corner the government over various issues at the winter session in January — including the three linear projects at Mollem — as the business advisory committee had decided to allow only three calling attention motions. The government had also defeated a private member’s resolution to scrap the three projects at Mollem. The state government will have to face issues like diversion of the Mhadei river, Covid management, the Tamnar transmission line, double-tracking of the South Western Railway, widening of the national highway, coal-handling and implementation of the amended MV Act in the House, among other issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-budget-likely-to-be-presented-on-march-24-or-25/articleshow/80939805.cms||Murari Shetye
February 16, 2021||Business||Chinese apps’ market share falls to 29%: Study||CHENNAI: Geopolitical tensions between India and China and the rise of local developers have resulted in Indian apps holding a larger chunk of the overall market at the cost of Chinese options. The share of installs of Chinese apps slipped to 29% in 2020 from 38% in 2019, a report by analytics firm AppsFlyer said. Indian apps leveraged this opportunity by dominating the install volume with 39% share in 2020. China’s loss was also captured by apps from Israel, the US, Russia, and Germany. These countries made further inroads too into India’s rapidly growing app market, the report noted. “With app marketers increasingly expanding their remit to cover tier-2 and tier-3 regions, the demand from semi-urban areas is firing up India’s app consumption. In this highly diverse and fragmented marketplace, personalised content is critical to engage and retain customers,” Sanjay Trisal, country manager, AppsFlyer India, said. States with semi-urban areas emerged as the sweet spot for mobile usage, the study showed. Around 85% of app installs came from tier-2 and tire-3 cities. Gaming, finance, and entertainment categories dominated in app installs outside in the smaller cities and towns. Read AlsoHow Modi made IT ministry burn the midnight oil to ban Chinese appsThe decision to ban Chinese origin apps including TikTok and WeChat, just ahead of the third round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders, saw the information and technology ministry work through the night to put together the extensive paperwork needed for the unprecedentedWith people spending more time at home, dependency on apps increased on the one hand. But, on the other, it also meant that users had more time to declutter their phones and remove unwanted apps. In an indication of cut-throat competition across verticals, retention rate (number of users using the app after a certain number of days) dipped and day-1 uninstall rates (number of times users uninstalled the app on the day of install itself) increased. For an average app, overall retention rate across verticals fell this year by around 12% as marketing budgets were slashed due to the pandemic, the report said. While on day one, the retention rate of apps was at 22.3% this dipped to 1.7% by day 30, the study showed. Read Also43 new Chinese apps banned, 267 in allThe Centre on Tuesday launched a fresh offensive against Chinese apps, blocking another 43 new apps, amid continued tension at the border. With the latest move, India has banned 267 apps in addition to getting countries such as the US to follow suit.Indian app users continued to prefer apps that take up less space on phones, consume less data, and are more seamless to use in spotty connectivity. Overall, day-1 uninstall rates stood at 27% (marginally up from 26% last year). This was higher for gaming, food and finance apps at 32%, 32% and 30%, respectively. While most players in India’s nascent app economy prioritise new user acquisition over retention, without a retention strategy, companies are essentially spending resources with no benefit, analysts said. AppsFlyer’s study analysed 7.3 billion installs recorded in India between January 1 and November 30, 2020 covering 4,519 apps across verticals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chinese-apps-mkt-share-falls-to-29-study/articleshow/80935862.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
February 16, 2021||Lucknow||PGI’s cardiology deptstudy bags first prize||Lucknow: A drug study undertaken by Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences cardiology department was awarded the first prize of excellence in cardiology by the AV Gandhi Society of Cardiac Angiography and Interventions (SCAI). An official statement issued by the institute said, “The study is likely to give a ray of hope to many patients afflicted with mitral valve disease and atrial fibrillation to achieve normal cardiac rhythm and lead to a good quality life.” It added that Dr Anindya Ghosh of the department, who presented the data, received the first prize amongst all the thesis submitted from across India. Giving more details, Prof Aditya Kapoor, who mentored the work, informed reporters that India has a very high burden of rheumatic heart disease (RHD) that involves the valves of the heart and usually often affects young people in their prime and productive phase of life. “RHD usually leads to valve stenosis (narrowing) and regurgitation (leakage) with narrowing of the mitral valve (mitral stenosis or MS) being the commonest outcome of RHD. Nearly one third of patients have irregular, chaotic heart rhythms called atrial fibrillation (AF). If uncontrolled, this can cause dislodgement of clots from inside the heart to vital organs of the body leading to stroke and limb gangrene, a condition called thromboembolism,” he explained. Adding that the currently used drugs for control of AF in such patients have the disadvantage of having a lot of side effects, Prof Kapoor added: “We studied the role of a drug called Flecainide in 50 such patients. Though used to treat certain types of abnormal heart rhythms by blocking abnormal electrical signals in the heart, it was never tried before in patients with RHD due to fears of cardiac toxicity. Our work showed that the drug was effective in achieving normal cardiac rhythm in nearly 75% cases which is extremely encouraging. Also, no untoward side effects of the drug were observed in the follow up studies too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pgis-cardiology-deptstudy-bags-first-prize/articleshow/80941017.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Varanasi||CM launches Abhyuday Yojana, interacts with a student||Times News Network Varanasi: The chief minister Yogi Adityanath interacted with a local student Kapil Dubey through during the launch of Abhyudaya Yojana of free coaching for the preparation of competitive exams on Monday through video conference. The state government has introduced Abhyudaya Yojana for the preparation of competitive exams like IAS, IPS, PCS, NDS, CDS, NEET and JEE. During interaction, Kapil asked the CM how he thought about this scheme. Responding to his query, the CM said that the idea came to his mind after seeing the agony of students stuck in Kota due to Covid-19 pandemic. It was decided to provide better coaching facilities to the students near their homes in the state. The CM said that the Abhyudaya Yojana has been started at 18 divisional headquarters of the state, which will be further expanded to the district level. He said that the physical and virtual classes will start running on the auspicious occasion of Basant Panchami on Tuesday. The scheme website has been visited by 40 lakh people so far and more than six lakh people have registered themselves. Yogi informed that 50,000 students have been selected in the first phase of Abhyudaya Yojana. Those who have not been selected yet, do not need to be disappointed as there will be a virtual arrangement for them as well, he said. There will also be a weekly and monthly examination of the children studying in the coaching classes. “Abhyudaya is not just a coaching center, it is a new beginning of life building,” said the CM Divisional commissioner Deepak Aggarwal, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, chief development officer Madhusudan Hulgi and other officials attended the programme. The official said that the state government is providing the facility of high-level coaching to prepare them for competitive examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-launches-abhyuday-yojana-interacts-with-a-student/articleshow/80932311.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: Smugglers move on from ganja to hash oil||VISAKHAPATNAM: With law enforcement agencies cracking down on and arresting ganja smugglers across Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts, the manufacture and smuggling of hashish oil from Vizag Agency to other metros is rapidly becoming an alternative for ganja smugglers. Many are finding innovative methods to make money producing hashish oil by processing dry ganja in remote areas in Vizag Agency and along the Andhra-Odisha border (AOB). Unlike dry ganja, hashish oil is easy to conceal and transport in plastic containers such as plastic bottles to other cities, SEB personnel have observed. Police and excise department officials have observed that some smugglers in Vizag Agency are getting technical and financial support from inter-state gangs. They are preparing hash oil with ganja paste and adding ingredients such as poppy seed paste and other substances. The rise in hashish oil smuggling has come to the notice of enforcement officials who observed that some inter-state gangs are sourcing it from Vizag Agency and smuggling it to Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai, and other cities. City police chief Manish Kumar Sinha said cops have seized over 966 kilograms of dry ganja and 11 kilos of hash oil from over 260 smugglers and ganja users in recent days. Those caught consuming ganja are being booked and sent to remand. In several incidents, many consumers ultimately graduate to peddlers. “We will continue our raids to nab peddling gangs,” Sinha said. While a kilogram of ganja is traded for around Rs 3,000 to Rs Rs 5,000 in Vizag Agency, a similar quantity of hash oil can fetch between Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 depending on the quality of the oil. Peddlers are procuring them from Agency areas and selling at high prices in metros, making sizeable profits. Enforcement personnel are yet to zero-in on kingpins of this trade despite arresting some smugglers who were said to be point men for shifting contraband from one area to another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/smugglers-move-on-from-ganja-to-hash-oil/articleshow/80931720.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 16, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: TOI, DD-AIR storm into semi-finals of Media Cup||LUCKNOW: Continuing their winning streak, the Times of India (TOI) and Doordarshan-All India Radio (DD-AIR) stormed into the semi-finals of the ongoing SBI T20 Media Cup by defeating PR-XI and Amar Ujala, respectively, at KD Singh Babu Stadium on Monday. Batting first, TOI scored 137 runs at the loss of eight wickets. Skipper Abbas Rizvi played a brilliant 53-run innings (43 balls) which included six boundaries and sixer. Anish Oberoi (39) and Rishi Singh Sengar (20) also consolidated their team's position. TOI's bowling attack did not allow PR-XI batsmen to hold their ground. Pranchal Srivastava demolished the opponents with his four-wicket haul while Prem Shankar Mishra, Rishi Sengar and Abbas took two wickets each to restrict PR-XI to just 92 runs and ensure a 45-run victory for TOI. PR-XI captain Amir Raza scored highest 28 runs while Ravi Tiwari and Paramvir contributed 16 and 15 runs, respectively. Abbas bagged the man of the match award for his all round performance. In the second match, Sudhir Awasthi of DD-AIR claimed four wickets while Shailendra struck twice to help his team register a six-wicket win over Amar Ujala. Batting first, Amar Ujala scored 107 runs for nine wickets, thanks to the 43-run knock (four boundaries) by Rajeev Anand. Amit Yadav and Ashwini scored 11 runs each. DD-AIR successfully chased the target in 18.4 overs, losing just four wickets. Bhola Ram contributed highest 35 runs while CS Azad scored 27. Rajeev Anand claimed two wickets for Amar Ujala. Sudhir was named the man of the match. Hindustan Times will take on The Pioneer while Digital Media will lock horns with Electronic Media on Tuesday. Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Seth and Faisal Khan of Radiance were special guests on the occasion. Yorker Club pip RBN: Yorker Cricket Club defeated RBN Global Clb by 25 runs in a league match of BBD Prize Money Super Cricket League at Dr Akhilesh Das stadium on Monday. Brief score: Yorker Club: 184 (Swastik 65, Abhishek 26; Rajdeep 2-21, Ankit -28); RBN Club: 159 (Ashutosh 64, Danish 19; Abhishek 4-9, Om Kashyap 3-41) Man of the match: Abhishek Roshan (Yorker). RKB excel: RKB Cricket Club defeated Youth Cricket Club by 24 runs in a league match of the 2nd Gaurav Mehta Memorial Tournament at NDBG Ground on Monday. Brief score: RKB: 122 (Krish 31, Adarsh 22; Satyam 4-22, Surya Pratap 3-20); YCC: 98 (Satyam 21, Partha 18; Sahibe Alam 4-13, Ankit 3-11) Man of the match: Sahibe Alam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/toi-dd-air-storm-into-semis/articleshow/80941057.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||GMCH studying lockdown’s maternal mortality trend||Chandigarh: Seeing a 3 to 7% increase in maternal mortality after delivery during the Covid-19 pandemic, doctors at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, have begun to study the trend and its reasons. Prof Alka Sehgal, principal investigator of the study, said: “We felt an impact of Covid-19 on maternal mortality, hence we started this trial. There were late referrals during the lockdown and, due to the social distancing rules, we couldn't keep more than three mothers and babies in one bed like the pre-Covid times. That also limited the intake to genuine referrals.” The researchers will do a retrospective study of the maternal deaths that occurred at the institute during pregnancy or within 42 days of its termination. The death could be as a result of pregnancy, childbirth, or puerperium-related complications. The in-transit deaths (in ambulance, recognized patient transport system) with reliable history and documentation of pregnancy-related complications will also be considered. The doctors will compare this data of 6-month since the declaration of lockdown with maternal deaths six month before the pandemic (from October 2019 to March 31, 2020). The maternal mortality data of 2019 will also be analyzed to know its ratio at the institute before the pandemic. Dr Alka said: “The crucial period is the last three months of pregnancy. From April to June last year, there must have been a huge impact because of a delay in antenatal services.” Maternal mortality is death of a mother within 42 days of delivery, due to direct or indirect causes. Better hospital services reduce the rate but infections are the indirect causes. Does it imply that the lockdown affected institutional deliveries? The UT health department data shows otherwise. Of the 12,898 delivery cases in the city from April to December 2020, 8,182 were city residents and the others were referral. In the same period, there were 27 deliveries at home, against last year's 39.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gmch-studying-lockdowns-maternal-mortality-trend/articleshow/80938064.cms||Shimona Kanwar
February 16, 2021||Vadodara||Ensure adherence to Covid rules: BUTA||Vadodara: The Baroda University Teachers Association (BUTA) has demanded strict implementation of Covid-19 guidelines and exemption from election duties for teachers above 50 years and those who are suffering from co-morbidities. On Monday, BUTA made a representation before MS University registrar against election duties assigned to teachers and non-teaching employees for the forthcoming Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) polls. More than 1,200 university employees have been assigned election duties.  “The hall is overcrowded and there is no arrangement for even drinking water even as temperature crossed 35 degrees in the training hall,” BUTA’s representation said.  BUTA officials said the training is being provided without sanitizers and masks while social distancing norms are not being followed.  “As soon as we heard the news of Gujarat CM testing positive, we held a meeting and concluded that coronavirus is very much active in Gujarat,” said BUTA president Dr K V R Murthy, adding that it has asked university registrar to submit its demands to Vadodara’s chief election officer.  “We are demanding that those teachers who are more than 50 years of age and are suffering from diabetes, cancer and auto-immune diseases as well as those who are pregnant should be exempted from election duties,” he said. “Similarly, all Covid-19rules should be implemented,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ensure-adherence-to-covid-rules-buta/articleshow/80931104.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ludhiana||3 held for helping drug peddler get bail on false info||Ludhiana: The police on Monday arrested two for furnishing false information and submitting a forged Aadhaar card before the court to help a drug peddler get bail. Another accused, who forged the Aadhaar card, has also been arrested.The arrested are Chamkaur Singh of Haas Kalan village, Jagraon, Hardeep Kumar of Jawahar Nagar and Deepak Kumar of New Janta Nagar. Division 5 ASI Sukhpal Singh said, “An FIR has been lodged on the complaint of Judicial Magistrate Vijay Kumar. It has been alleged that Chamkaur submitted a forged Aadhaar card to help the drug peddler, also named Deepak, get bail. The Aadhar number he furnished is of Rajinder Kumar of Ludhiana. Hardeep, who was surety of Chamkaur, also gave false statements before the court. During investigation, it was found that Deepak Kumar forged the Aadhaar card for Chamkaur.” “Deepak Kumar has a murder case against him. We are checking if he has forged more Aadhaar cards. The arrested confessed that they were to get Rs 2,000 from drug peddler Deepak, a resident of Daba, for helping him get bail,” the ASI added. A case has been registered against the trio under sections 177 (furnishing false information), 199 (false statement made in declaration which is by law receivable as evidence), 200 (using as true such declaration knowing it to be false), 420 (punishment for cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document), 474 (having possession of a document described in section 466 or 467, knowing it to be forged and intending to use it as genuine), 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-held-for-helping-drug-peddler-get-bail-on-false-info/articleshow/80934468.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ludhiana||No Covid-19 deaths from district, 26 test +ve||Ludhiana: No Covid-19 related death was reported from Ludhiana district, but 26 persons tested positive on Monday. However, one person from other district died of Covid-19 at a Ludhiana hospital. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said with no death from Ludhiana district, the total number of deaths from the district stood at 1,013 whereas 489 out of district/state deaths have been reported in Ludhiana hospitals.Civil surgeon said till date 6,33,797 suspects have been tested for Covid-19 in the district. He added that the 26 patients who tested positive include 11 from flu corner (influenza-like illness (ILI) patients), seven contacts of positive patient, four from OPD and tracing in process four. Local health department officials said, till Monday the number of patients from the district were 26,366, whereas with addition of 11 cases from outer districts/states the number of cases from outer districts/states has risen to 4,052.Civil surgeon said till now 25,028 Covid-19 patients have recovered in Ludhiana district, which constitutes 94.92% of the total cases.Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to not only save themselves but also keep everyone around safe.Box 1:322 active patientsAccording to the DC, there are 322 active patients in the district at present. He added that the number of persons home quarantined is 770, taking total number of people who are home quarantined to 56,882. The DC said, on Monday the number of persons quarantined were 21 and 1,779 samples were taken, of which 1,683 were done through RT PCR, results of which are expected shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-covid-19-deaths-from-district-26-test-ve/articleshow/80934464.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Marriage party supports farmers with flags, slogans||Ludhiana: To show support for farmers’ agitation, each vehicle in the marriage cavalcade of a groom in Chakar village hoisted flags of solidarity as baratis raised slogans. The villagers said one of the brothers of the groom has also participated in the farmers’ stir at a Delhi border.“Being a farming family, we feel the pain of those struggling to get the three laws repealed and braving chilly weather at Delhi borders. As the agitation was on my mind, we got flags in support of farmers on each vehicle accompanying my marriage party, including the car I travelled in to my in-laws’ place at Bulara,” said 23-year-old Kamaljeet Singh of Chakar village. He and his family do farming on about 40 acres, of which they own seven acres. He said it was a small gesture of solidarity with farmers’ struggle. Villagers said the family has been supporting the agitation in their own way. “Jagdeep Singh, younger brother of the groom, had been to Tikri dharna site twice since the start of the agitation. Sarbjit Singh, his elder brother who is in Italy, had sent Rs 10,000 for the farmers’ agitation. Sarbjit could not come for the marriage due to Covid-19 related restrictions,” said Chamkaur Singh, groom’s uncle. “Twenty cars of the marriage party raised slogans in favour of kisan mazdoor ekta and against the Union government,” he added.Villagers said their village has been at the forefront of the struggle against the farm laws. “We have been frequently sending jathas to the dharna site near Tikri border. Even women from our village have been doing their bit. We are happy that our village is doing its best for the success of the ongoing struggle,” said Sukhjeet Singh, a farmer from the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/marriage-party-supports-farmers-with-flags-slogans/articleshow/80934466.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||FASTag: Sea link, Mumbai’s five toll plazas to accept cash till March||MUMBAI: The Bandra-Worli sea link and Mumbai’s five entry points—Vashi, Airoli, LBS, Mulund and Dahisar toll plazas—will continue to accept cash in a few lanes till March 10 and 31, respectively. Mumbai Traffic Police said that they have not yet received orders to fine motorists without FASTags on their vehicles on city roads. The transport ministry has directed that Tuesday onwards, vehicles without the tags on their windshield will have to pay twice the normal toll in case they pay cash at toll plazas on national highways, including Mumbai-Pune Expressway. The penalty would be Rs 300 for first offence and Rs 500 for repeat offence for vehicles not sporting FASTags. TimesViewAuthorities must ensure no bottlenecks are created at toll booths while the FASTag process is being streamlined. There must be full transparency in implementing the new rules as different rules for different locations will fuel confusion. Moreover, technological glitches must be sorted so that errors in recharge, which were recorded on Monday, do not occur, and booth operators must issue receipts for any fines collected as these weren't reflected in some places earlier.“All lanes on the sea link and the city’s five entry points are FASTag-enabled, but to meet certain technicalities on part of the contractor, we will not make it compulsory. On the sea link, cash collection will be allowed in two lanes, while at the entry points, three to four lanes in both directions will have compulsory FASTag, the rest will have both cash and FASTag transactions for toll collection,” said Vijay Waghmare, joint managing director, MSRDC. The sea link and Mumbai entry points are already charging double toll if vehicles without the RFID tag on the windshield enter the FASTag-only lanes, officials clarified. Even at toll nakas, police will not be involved in charging double the amount of fines.. “Our only role will be to ensure there is no congestion at toll nakas. And if there’s a law-and-order problem, the local police will step in,” said highway police superintendent Sunita Salunkhe. There has been a rush for FASTag applications since last week, with the urgency to meet the deadline for installing the RFID tags on vehicles by Monday midnight. Most toll nakas in the city witnessed traffic jams on Sunday. Restaurateur Farhan Azmi tweeted that traffic was backed up till 3km on Sion-Panvel Highway at Vashi toll plaza as the FASTag scanners were malfunctional. Motorists can buy RFID tags on the spot from the FASTag stalls near toll plazas or nearby listed bank branches, said officials. But, if a motorist buys the tag online via bank websites, it will take a few days for the bank to home deliver the sticker. Since stalls offer quick activation, officials said, motorists are queuing up in large numbers at Dahisar, Mulund and Vashi toll plazas. Sagar Patil, who issues FASTags near the Mulund toll plaza, said: “Motorists just need to show their Aadhaar card, RC book (smartcard) and PAN card. We fill the form and issue a FASTag for Rs 200, including loading Rs 100 cash in the FASTag sticker,” Patil said, adding that they also offer a top-up facility at the stall. Meanwhile, national highway officials warned that cash counters will be replaced by FASTag scanners at toll plazas on all national highways. “There will be no scope for cash payment,” said an official, adding that only 70% of motorists in the western region have bought tags.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fastag-sea-link-citys-5-toll-plazas-to-accept-cash-till-mar/articleshow/80944303.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||GMCH resumes full OPD, for city residents initially||Chandigarh: Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, will resume pre-Covid-times OPDs from Tuesday, only for the city residents to begin with. The hospital authorities assembled on Monday to decide on resuming full physical OPD (outpatient department) services, but okayed only stepwise reopening since the threat of Covid-19 wasn't gone. The meeting charired by the director principal was attended by the medical superintendent, joint director (administration) and all heads of the department. Director-principal Dr Jasbinder Kaur told the committee that in the war-room meeting of February 14, the governor had desired that the OPDs in all the three hospitals be restarted, so from Tuesday onwards, all the OPDs will start moving towards normalcy in a phased manner. The officials felt that since the threat of Covid had not receded fully yet, crowding needed to be restricted. The director said: "So, physical OPDs will be opened initially for the Chandigarh patients alone and we'll review the situation after a week for opening it for the Tricity.” The hospital will continue its telemedicine facility e-Sanjeevani for the covenience of the patients residing outside Chandigarh. The OPD registration will be from 8am to 11am. Registration is must. Online registration will also continue. The visitors will undergo rapid antigen test (RAT) for Covid-19, and to avoid a rush inside the OPDs, the guards will let in only the patients, and usher attendants looking at the patients' condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gmch-resumes-full-opd-for-city-residents-initially/articleshow/80938076.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Madurai||‘Remove seal of shop where banned tobacco products were seized’||Madurai: Taking into consideration the livelihood of a shopkeeper, the Madras high court has directed the authorities to remove the lock and seal of a grocery shop and godown in Madurai district where officials had seized 112kg of banned tobacco products.The court was hearing a petition filed by S Karthik Pandi who sought the food safety department officials to remove the lock and seal of his grocery shop and godown situated at Narasingam.Officials conducted an inspection at the petitioner’s shop and seized nearly 112kg of banned tobacco products on October 5, 2020. After the seizure, officials sealed the shop.Justice G R Swaminathan observed that even though the court holds that the action of the officials was justified in locking and sealing the petitioner’s premises and godown, the continued closure may not really serve any purpose. The respondents will have to be mindful of the principle of proportionality.The judge said that the measure of locking and sealing has a drastic consequence on the petitioner’s livelihood. It is not as if the petitioner was dealing only in prohibited products. He is running a regular grocery and it so happened that some prohibited items were also found in the petitioner’s godown.The judge observed that though the counsel for the petitioner would point out that famous celebrities have been endorsing these products, possession by the petitioner cannot be justified because they have been banned for sale in the state.Taking cognizance of the fact that results for samples were sent for analysis have come, the judge said that it is for the authorities to continue the proceedings initiated against the petitioner and it is entirely for him to defend the same in the manner known to law.Hence, the judge directed the authorities to remove the lock and seal forthwith and permit the petitioner to open his shop and godown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/remove-seal-of-shop-where-banned-tobacco-products-were-seized/articleshow/80941546.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Madurai||Annual talent search contests to be held for govt school students||Madurai: The annual talent search competitions which aims to bring out the creative talents of government school students from class IX to XII is set to be held this month. However, dates for the competitions are yet to be finalised.Even though schools have reopened for classes IX to XII, the talent search competitions will be conducted through online mode, considering the Covid-19 pandemic. The competitions will be held in essay writing and elocution for school students. The competitions will be held in two categories-one for classes IX and X and another for classes XI and XII. The elocution competition will have a time limit of five minutes while the students will be allowed one hour for essay writing. District education officials said that arrangements are being made for conducting the competitions and the dates are to be finalised and announced soon.Another competition for class XI students, which involves showcasing of concept-oriented innovations based on the students’ subject of interest, is also to be organised at district level. “The aim is to motivate students to seek knowledge beyond textbooks, explore their interests and train them. Many students who may not do well in studies may show interest in research and innovation. Students from 10 schools will be selected to exhibit their work on February 26,” said a district education official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/annual-talent-search-contests-to-be-held-for-govt-school-students/articleshow/80941509.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Touts make money for OPD bookings at GMCH-32||Chandigarh: With online registration as the first step for getting OPD booked at GMCH-32, touts have started making money. Majority of patients, who are semi-literate, are registered by these touts for Rs 50. Director-principal Dr Jasbinder Kaur said she would place a signboard for the public to be warned against such malpractice. The OPDs are not working in usual way as they used to before the Covid-19. To avoid overcrowding, GMCH-32 and other hospitals have started online and telephonic registration for OPDs. Only those are called for physical evaluation where doctors feel the requirement. “This should go away now as patients are getting exploited. They have to get themselves registered and even for investigations, a separate registration is required,” said a doctor at the GMCH-32. Not only patients are shuttled, they are being charged for registration which is free. “I did not know how to get myself registered. There were some people around who asked for Rs 50 and within a few minutes they got me registered,” said a patient, who had come from Hisar in Haryana. However, the director-principal feels that such activities should not be rampant. “We have been seeing patients in the OPDs and in emergency. But to restrict overcrowding, which can be risky for the health workers during the pandemic, we have started with online registration. There is also a registration desk for those who do not know how to do the same,” she said, adding that even if there are people who are hoodwinking, we shall paste information on the notice board and take action against touts. Sources informed that there are some departments which have started registering patients as it was in the pre-Covid-19 times, but most of the doctors are still reluctant. “If vaccines have come and numbers of infections are declining, why the OPDs cannot function in a usual way?” asked a nursing staff at the GMCH-32.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/touts-make-money-for-opd-bookings-at-gmch-32/articleshow/80938090.cms||Shimona Kanwar
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Defence minister to look into eviction notice sent to Doon’s Gorkha Military Inter College, promises to extend help||Dehradun: Exactly a month after TOI published a report on how Gorkha Military Inter College (GMIC), the Doon-based school that has produced many international footballers and Army personnel, was fighting for survival, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said that his ministry will look into the matter and extend help. The development comes shortly after Mussoorie MLA Ganesh Joshi met the minister in Delhi and briefed him about the issue. Singh told the MLA that his ministry will extend help to the school and get the matter checked on priority. Naresh Bansal, Rajya Sabha MP from Uttarakhand, and state higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat were also present in the meeting. Earlier, TOI in an exclusive report in January, had highlighted that GMIC — which has been the alma mater of football legends like Shyam Thapa, Olympians like Padam Bahadur Mall [who won the first-ever Asian Games gold medal for India in boxing] and Army officers like Shaheed Major Durga Mall, the first Gorkha soldier in Indian National Army (INA) to lay down his life for the Independence movement — was fighting for survival after getting notice to evict land on which the institution has been operating for almost a century. “GMIC’s 90-year-old lease ended in 2017. The defence estate department hasn’t renewed it yet and has served an eviction notice as well. If the school gets shut, then what will happen to the current batch of students? Rajnath Ji agreed that he will look into the matter and has asked his ministry officials to look into all sorts of possibilities of renewing the lease of the land,” said Joshi. He added, “Our government is planning to make a degree college as well on that land. This will benefit the local population. However, the project is not taking off due to the non-renewal of the lease.” Notably, GMIC is a not-for-profit school which charges a very nominal fee — as low as Rs 45 per month — from its students. The land, on which the school is presently located, was allotted by the defence estate department for a period of 90 years which ended in 2017. In May 2020, the school was served with an eviction notice but currently, the matter is sub-judice. The school has a glorious past in football as it is still the only institution from the state to win the prestigious Subroto Cup.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/defence-minister-to-look-into-eviction-notice-sent-to-doons-gorkha-military-inter-college-promises-to-extend-help/articleshow/80931141.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination’s second leg on in Mohali, 25 jabbed||Mohali: The second leg of Covid-19 vaccination here started from the Phase-VI civil hospital on Monday, when civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur says 25 frontline health workers were given the jabs. The first leg had started on January 16. The civil surgeon said the health workers had received the Covishield vaccine. She also said: “So far, after completing the first leg and starting with the second, we have not come across any major adverse effects of the vaccine. Covishield is very safe and for everyone." The second dose is for the health workers who got their first shots on January 16, when the Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh launched the campaign in Mohali district. Dr Adarshpal Kaur said "the injections will protect them from coronavirus". Earlier, the civil surgeon, district immunisation officer Dr Veena Jarewal, district hospital senior medical officer Dr Vijay Bhagat, SMO-2 Dr H S Cheema, and other health officials also received the first dose. Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the vaccination was done under the supervision of specialist doctors and, so far, no one had reported any side effect. She appealed to the health department staff and corona warriors to drop their vaccine hesitancy. Askeed what after the vaccination, she said: "Only mild caution is needed. People should cover their faces with masks while moving out, and keep the necessary distance from each other. It is also important to wash hands frequently with soap and water. For any information, use health department's helpline 104."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vaccinations-second-leg-on-in-mohali-25-jabbed/articleshow/80938119.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||2nd dose of vaccination starts in Pkl, 543 inoculated||Panchkula: Second dose of Covid-19 vaccination to the healthcare workers (HCW) started in Panchkula at three sites on Monday. Besides, frontline workers (FLW) and HCWs have also been given their first dose at CRPF Pinjore and SDH Kalka by the various teams. In all, 543 HCWs and FLWs were given the vaccination. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said out of 214 HCWs who were vaccinated on Monday, 41 received first dose while 173 received second dose. Health officers who received second dose of vaccination were DGHS Surajbhan Kamboj, director MCH V K Bansal, director dental department Praveen Sethi, PMO CH-6 Panchkula Suveer Saxena, district immunisation officer Meenu Sassan, SMO CHC Raipur Rani Sanjeev Goyal and consultant CH-6 Mankirat. Besides this, 329 FLWs were given the first dose of the vaccination. The department achieved 63.9% in HCW and 64.5% achievement in FLW vaccination on Monday. The sites were civil hospital Sector 6 for HCWs and FLWs, Alchemist for HCWs, CHC Raipur Rani for HCWs, SDH Kalka for HCWs and FLWs and CRPF Pinjore for FLWs. CMO said till Monday, 8,705 (4,328 HCWs and 4,377 FLWs) were given vaccination achieving 59.7% vaccination. During the third phase, people above 50 years will get the vaccine and those less than 50 years in age, but suffering from some disease will be covered in the fourth phase. Each person will receive two doses. After receiving the first dose, they will be monitored by health experts for 30 minutes. The second dose will be given after four weeks of the first one and information will be sent to beneficiaries on their registered mobile number. “For making the drive a success and pick up speed, open spaces at schools, colleges, community centres and dharamshalas will be utilised,” added CMO Dr Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2nd-dose-of-vaccination-starts-in-pkl-543-inoculated/articleshow/80938173.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Five in suicide bid, demand Maratha quota||Mumbai: Five activists of Akhil Bharatiya Chhawa Maratha Yuva Sanghatan from Jalna allegedly tried to commit suicide by consuming poison outside the state secretariat building on Monday afternoon, demanding Maratha reservation. The police detained them and released them after a warning. Activists were raising slogans outside the secretariat building. Babasaheb Jogdand, one of the activists told TOI that the community wants the state to address the Maratha quota case strongly in Supreme Court and protect the socially and the educationally backward classes reservation. Also, candidates who passed the exam and were selected for recruitment, before the stay by the top court, must be given appointment letters at once, he said. The SC had stayed the SEBC quota, and the reservation is pending in SC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/five-in-suicide-bid-demand-maratha-quota/articleshow/80941730.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress to move court against Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over MLCs’ appointment||MUMBAI: Newly appointed state Congress president Nana Patole appears to be on a collision course with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over the Governor’s nominees on the state legislative council. Congress will soon file either a public interest litigation or a writ petition against the Governor for his failure to accept the recommendations of the state cabinet. “The state cabinet had in November last year submitted a list of eminent persons to the Governor for appointment to the legislative council. The Governor has failed to implement the recommendation of the cabinet. Under such circumstances, we feel knocking on the doors of the high court will be the best option. We are in the process of filing a PIL or a writ petition before the high court. In our view, it is the murder of democracy,” Patole told TOI. Patole said a Constitutional problem has been created following the failure of the Governor to appoint nominees on the council. “As assembly speaker, I had proposed to set up statutory committees of both the houses of the state legislature with the assumption that the Governor would nominate 12 persons on the council. However, in the absence of the 12 nominees, the committees may not be constituted,’’ Patole said. On his appointment as state PCC president in place of Balasaheb Thorat, Patole said it was in keeping with the party policy of ‘one man one post’. He said he would soon embark on a state-wide tour to strengthen the party at the grassroots level. “We are gearing up for the upcoming elections to local bodies. A large number of people who had left the Congress are keen to return. In addition, several prominent leaders from other parties too are keen to join the Congress,” he said. On whether the Congress would join hands with the Shiv Sena and NCP for the ensuing elections, Patole said it would depend on local conditions. “Before taking any decision, we will consult our workers at the grassroots level and then take a call. We joined Shiv Sena and NCP despite ideological differences, only to ensure BJP is kept out of power,” Patole said. On the election of speaker, Patole said Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP’s Sharad Pawar and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray would take a decision.“I am sure a decision will be taken by consensus,’’ he said. On his controversial statement over reverting to ballot papers, Patole said in the recently held elections to the teachers and graduates constituency, people had more faith in ballot papers than EVMs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-to-move-court-against-guv-over-mlcs-appointment/articleshow/80944429.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||11 students of GMCH, Nagpur, 4 of GDC test Covid positive, most live in hostels||NAGPUR: In an alarming development, 11 MBBS students of Government Medical College (GMC) and 4 students of BDS in Government Dental College (GDC), Nagpur have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last two days. Authorities have confirmed that many of the Covid-19 positive students are hostel inmates. “Some of the students of MBBS and BDS courses and a junior resident doctor have tested positive. All are admitted in the Covid hospital and necessary precautionary measures are being followed as per protocol,” said a senior administrative office of the GMCH. Similar reaction was received from GDC administration. All the admitted students are doing well and recovering fast. Contact tracing and testing drive have already started in the GMCH campus. Doctors said that the admission process for new session has been completed and new students have started reaching hostels. TOI learnt that 10 students are admitted in ward no 13 of GMCH. Three of them are from Buldhana, and one each from Nagpur, Yavatmal, Akola, Amravati, Chandrapur, and Wardha. One student is from Chhattisgath. Other students are said to be from other states as many students in national quota are reaching from different parts of the country. A senior academician said that the new cases will rise with more relaxation in movements and beginning of academic activities. “All are medical students and they know how to take care of themselves. We have started testing more students and residents from February 13 itself,” said the doctor. Sudden surge in number of Covid-19 cases in Nagpur will eventually raise the burden over the facilities and infrastructure in GMCH. In such scenario, it will be a matter of concern if more students and doctors living inside the campus test positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11-students-of-gmch-4-of-gdc-test-covid-positive-most-live-in-hostels/articleshow/80931207.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 16, 2021||Amritsar||Kisan morcha slams arrest, warrants, minister’s tweet||Bathinda: Sanyukta Kisan Morcha on Monday condemned the arrest of 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi for alleged role in a “toolkit” post shared on social media by Sweden-based climate activist Greta Thunberg. The morcha also condemned a non-bailable arrest warrant issued against Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob. The morcha has termed the arrest and warrant as acts of intimidation to scare activists from supporting the ongoing farmers struggle. The morcha also took note of a tweet by Haryana home minister Anil Vij, who, in a cryptic post, called Ravi an “anti-national” and said all such people should be eliminated. The morcha also took exception to a statement by Haryana minister J P Dalal, who had said those who died during the ongoing farmer protest would have died anyway. The morcha said these statements had shown the real fascist face of BJP and feelings towards those struggling for their rights. “Morcha condemns the arrest of young climate change activist Disha Ravi, who stood in support of farmers and also condemns efforts to arrest Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob. We demand immediate unconditional release of Disha, as her arrest was made without following due procedures,” said morcha leader Darshan Pal, adding that the morcha was deeply concerned and anguished about the use of police power to weaken the ongoing agitation. Morcha said India’s young environmentalists understood and appreciated that unviable farming would lead to unsustainable farming too. “The statement of home minister Anil Vij is another step which shows the real face of BJP,” added Pal. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/kisan-morcha-slams-arrest-warrants-ministers-tweet/articleshow/80944358.cms||Neel Kamal
February 16, 2021||Kanpur||Govt ready to end deadlock on farm laws: Madhav||Kanpur: Senior BJP leader Ram Madhav said the government is ready to end the deadlock with regard to farm laws. “Either they (farmers) sit and discuss the issue with the government or end the deadlock through a commission formed by the Supreme Court,” Madhav while talking to reporters in the city on Monday. Exuding confidence, Madhav said his party will defeat Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress in the upcoming West Bengal Assembly elections. “Mamata Banerjee trembles on hearing ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan only because she knows that it’s people’s anger behind the slogan and they will give a befitting reply to her in the next elections.” Over the question that Banerjee accused BJP of spending crores of money on AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, Madhav replied, “It would be better if you question AIMIM chief in this regard.” To recall, Banerjee had stated in a rally in Jalpaiguri in December last that to divide the Muslim votes, the BJP is spending crores of rupees to bring in a party from Hyderabad. The BJP leader, meanwhile, discussed a range of issues with intellectuals during the launch of his book “Because India Comes First” at the auditorium of Deen Dayal Upadhyay Sansthan in Nawabganj. He told the audience that his new book captures the many aspects of a future that will culminate in the country becoming the world’s third-largest economy and a regional power before the decade gets over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/govt-ready-to-end-deadlock-on-farm-laws-madhav/articleshow/80932445.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||No special educators appointed inmodel schools||Jaipur: Despite a rule of appointing a special educator teacher in every government school, there has been no such appointment made in the Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools and Model Schools in Rajasthan.Reacting to a petition, the Court of Disability Commission Jaipur has sent a notice to the Directorate of Education, Bikaner, and secretary, school education, to start the process of appointing the educators.There are 134 model schools and 203 Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools in Rajasthan where the department is yet to make appointments preventing students with disabilities an opportunity to study there.Dipendra Chauhan, the activist who filed this petition, said, “This is against the rules in RTE Act, 2005, and many courts’ decision in which it has been clearly mentioned that students with disabilities must get facilities of education. Even the New Education Policy, 2020 mentions that - Each school complex will appoint adequate special educator and therapists. It is their right and state is obligated to make arrangements even for one child.”According to a recent study, there are 3,06,750 students with disabilities in Rajasthan between the age of 5 and 19. Of them, only 73,890 students are in enrolled in schools, which shows the lackadaisical attitude of the state government.A senior education official on condition of anonymity said that it is not possible to appoint so many special educators due to scarcity. “In over 60,000 government schools, we just have 1,326 special education teachers. There is a need for new recruitments which will be done after the REET is held in April. After that the situation will improve,” said the official.In an RTI filed last year, it was revealed that there has been a 63% decline in students with disabilities studying in government and private school in the state. In 2015-16, 1.16 lakh such students were studying in schools which came down to 42,910 in 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-special-educators-appointed-inmodel-schools/articleshow/80934634.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Month-long petroleum conservation drive ends||Chandigarh: The month-long campaign to bring awareness among citizens about the need for petroleum conservation culminated at Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration, Sector 26, on Monday. Amarpal Singh, state transport commissioner, Punjab, was the chief guest at the valedictory function of Saksham 2021 (SanrakshanKshamta Mahotsav). The ministry of petroleum and natural gas through PCRA (Petroleum Conservation Research Association) and oil PSUs have been conducting fuel conservation drive. Sujoy Choudhury, state level coordinator (oil industry Punjab), and executive director, IOC, Chandigarh gave welcome address and Shalabh Raj Gupta, state level coordinator (oil industry, Chandigarh) and chief regional manager (retail), HPC, Chandigarh Regional Office thanked the chief guest and other senior dignitaries. Campaigns on fuel conservation in public places through debates, group talks, street plays, and wall painting competitions had been organised. Group talks on oil and gas conservation were conducted in resident welfare associations, and housing societies. An online pledge was also taken on fuel conservation, and various fuel efficient driving contests organised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/month-long-petroleum-conservation-drive-ends/articleshow/80938218.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Allahabad||UP board releases second list of exam centres||Prayagraj: UP Board has started uploading the second list of tentative exam centres spread across the 75 districts of the state to conduct high school and intermediate exams, 2021. The list can be accessed on the board’s official website. Till now, the board has uploaded the list of exam centres of 60 districts of the state. Exam centres in districts including Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Fatehpur, Kanpur Dehat, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, etc., is in the process of being uploaded. The board examinations would begin on April 24 and end on May 10 for Class X and on May 12 for Class XII. According to the revised programme released by the board on January 21, all DIoS were instructed to receive the objections, if any, against the exam centres identified by the board. They were asked to weigh these objections, try resolve the same and send their report based on these objections to the board by February 9. The objections were to be resolved and after approved by the district committee, the list was to be uploaded on the board’s website. “After receiving the report from all the DIoS concerned and resolving the objections, if any, we have prepared the second tentative list of the exam centres for conducting the upcoming board exams and the same is being uploaded at the website. List for most of the districts has been uploaded and the reaming would be done soon,” said board secretary Divyakant Shukla. Now that UP Board has uploaded the second tentative list on its website, if any person in any district is dissatisfied with the resolution of objections made by the district committee, he or she can raise their case on the board’s email ID www.upmspexamcentre@gmail.com by February 18. These objections will be resolved at the level of the central assessment committee set up at the board. The chairman of the council committee is chairman of the board and director of secondary education, Vinay Kumar Pandey and the member secretary is Divyakant Shukla, secretary of the board. The final list of the centres will be released on February 22, resolving all the objections received by e-mail. There were 300 centres in Prayagraj in the first list, but after the disposal of objections, the number of centres has increased to 321. The increase is because of the fact that the centres for around 30,000 students were allotted quite far away and the same was adjusted. Interestingly, both the Civil Lines and Rasulabad branches of Jwala Devi Inter College, run by Vidya Bharati group, have now become centres in the new list. The principals of both schools had objected to their schools not being included in the first list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/up-board-releases-second-list-of-exam-centres/articleshow/80931506.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Business||Arohan Financial files DRHP for Rs 1.8kcr IPO||Kolkata: City-based Arohan Financial Services has filed its draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) for its upcoming initial public offering (IPO). As per market sources, the NBFC-MFI company that focuses on the unserved and underserved states across the country plans to raise between Rs 1,750-1,800 crore. The public offer comprises a fund raise via a fresh issuance of shares amounting to Rs 850 crore. The company will have an offer for sale (OFS) of 27,055,893 equity shares by Maj Invest Financial Inclusion Fund II K/S, Michael & Susan Dell Foundation, Tano India Private Equity Fund II, TR Capital III Mauritius and Aavishkaar Goodwell India Microfinance Development Company II; collectively. The portion reserved for qualified institutional buyers will be up to 50% of the offer, non-institutional investors will have up to 15% of the portion reserved while up to 35% will be reserved for the retail investors. The portion reserved for eligible employees will be up to 5% of the offer. As stated in the DRHP, the company may decide to undertake a pre-IPO placement of Rs 150 crore subject to consultation of the merchant bankers. The net proceeds from the fresh issue will be utilised for augmenting the company’s capital base to meet their future capital requirement, which is expected to be deployed in FY22. As on September 30, 2020, the Kolkata-based company which commenced its operations in 2006 has served approximately 2.21 million borrowers across 17 states and stands as the largest NBFC-MFI in eastern India as per gross loan portfolio, it offers a broad range of products across credit and financial instruments. The microfinance business of the company operates out of 710 branches across 11 states and the MSME lending business has a reach across eight states through its 10 branches. Edelweiss Financial Services, ICICI Securities, Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India) and SBI Capital Markets are the BRLMS to the Issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/arohan-financial-files-drhp-for-rs-1-8kcr-ipo/articleshow/80938271.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Madurai||Plea to disburse victim relief fund||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday directed the authorities to take steps to disburse victim compensation fund in accordance with law to 21 families whose applications are pending before the authorities. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi passed the order on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by K R Raja, a social activist from Madurai district working towards helping the children of inmates and crime victims for their education. The petitioner stated that as per provisions under Tamil Nadu Prison Rules 1983, 50 % wages shall be deducted for the upkeep of the prisoners, 30 % wages shall be credited to the prisoner’s cash property account and 20 % shall be credited to the victim compensation fund. He stated that a district-level committee would be constituted to recommend cases where the victims’ families are eligible for getting compensation under the victim compensation fund. Though 20% of the salary is deducted from the prisoners salary, they are not being disbursed to the eligible families. The prime objective of the fund and the reason why it had evolved is only to minimize the hardship by providing them financial compensation for their rehabilitation which should be in a timely manner. Though the 21 families had submitted applications for the fund, no steps were taken to disburse the amount so far. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench. He also sought for a direction to fix a timeframe to dispose of such applications and also sought to increase the quantum of victim compensation fund in consonance with the increase in prisoners wages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-disburse-victim-relief-fund/articleshow/80941634.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University starts process to allot hostels: DSW||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) has initiated the process to allot hostels to students, said dean student welfare (DSW). Students under the banner of NSUI had written to the authorities on January 25, February 1 and 11 on the issue. The DSW on Monday wrote back saying, “We are thankful for your suggestion. Further, we would like to intimate you that DSW office has already begun to work on the same.” The students in their request had shared that since the university was likely to reopen after exams in March, students who have been newly admitted and even existing students who do not have hostels will be forced to rent out rooms on high costs if the allotment is not done before reopening of the university. Nearly 7000 students live in hostels of PU. “New students come from different parts of the country and they do not know much about the city and if the process of allotment is not finished before reopening of the university, they will have to struggle to find a place to live,” said Nikhil Narmeta, President NSUI. PU had on January 29 announced reopening of hostels for all the eligible research scholars. They have been allowed to stay in the hostels from February 1 with the consent of their supervisor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-starts-process-to-allot-hostels-dsw/articleshow/80938254.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Mission Shakti phase 2 to focus on success, eradication of social evils||LUCKNOW: The second phase of Mission Shakti, the ambitious programme launched by the state government to create awareness on women’s rights and empowerment, will take off in March. The new phase will be based on the theme of Samajik Vyavhar Parivartan Sanchar (Social and Behaviour Change Communication). From March 1-7, the state government will identify women in each district who have worked towards bringing about positive change in the society. These women will become an inspiration for others and their stories will be shared across the state as part of an event, Ananta, which will be held on International Women’s Day. The departments concerned have been directed to hold a master training in collaboration with UNICEF for its 450 officers and staff who will later train the officials of other government departments for organization of awareness campaigns. An official of the department of child development and nutrition said the module would focus on eradication of social evils like patriarchy and gender bias that hinder the progress of women. Meanwhile, under the ongoing events under Mission Shakti, awareness programmes were held in Barabanki and Mirzapur in which over 25,000 people participated. Self-defence training programmes were held across the state in which girl students of Smt Rewati Goyal Government Girls Inter College, Muzaffaranagar, Government Girls Inter College and Lala Ramswarup Shiksha Sansthan (both in Lucknow), learnt techniques from experts. Students of Pioneer Montessori Inter College in Barabanki took a pledge for women safety. Montfort Inter College in Lucknow organised a judo training programme for students in which they were informed about techniques of street fight. The department of higher education organised self-defence training in colleges in Agra in which 624 girls participated in physical training while 552 got online tips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mission-shakti-phase-2-to-focus-on-success-eradication-of-social-evils/articleshow/80941298.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Covid biggest challenge in first year of AAP 3.0||NEW DELHI: Arvind Kejriwal will be completing the first year of his third term as chief minister on Tuesday. Soon after he assumed office on February 16 last year, the AAP government had to brace for communal riots that broke out barely a week later in northeast Delhi. And before work could start on the pre-poll promises, the Covid-19 pandemic in March dealt a double whammy making the entire year a trying process. But the entire year was not lost as various achievements of the government could be seen, including successful handling of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, relief from bills to over 38 lakh power and 14 lakh water consumers despite a severe revenue crunch, launch of the electric vehicle policy, financial relief to 2 lakh auto and taxi drivers and construction workers, among other initiatives. Though the government was newly sworn-in, it was full of experience. Kejriwal didn’t replace any minister in the new cabinet because he believed that the unprecedented verdict of AAP winning 62 out of 70 assembly seats was the outcome of the work done by them. This also helped the government in tackling the pandemic with key measures like home isolation and establishing plasma banks. Delhi government provided Rs 1 crore as honorary compensation to the families of frontline Corona Warriors who died in the line of duty. This boosted the morale of healthcare personnel. With tax revenue declining by over 42%, various development projects were hit. However, the AAP government still managed to kick off key projects like the electric vehicle policy, doorstep delivery of ration, health information management system (HIMS) to provide health cards to all and purchase of 1,000 low-floor buses. Ten infrastructure projects were completed and Rs 508 crore was saved by cutting costs. Within a short period, the government managed to strengthen the existing health infrastructure, which is why it did not collapse despite the high number of Covid-19 cases being witnessed daily. Delhi government worked in sync with the central government and created multiple additional healthcare facilities. Covid-19 patients in home isolation were provided oximeters and regularly monitored. Till date, nearly 3.2 lakh people have been treated under home isolation. There were 7,000 vacant beds in the city’s hospitals even on November 11 when 8,500 cases were reported, the highest in any city across the world. A large number of patients from outside Delhi were also accommodated in the city’s hospitals. The year 2020 was the toughest as many people lost their livelihood and shops, markets and factories closed down. With the coffers running dry, it became difficult to pay salaries of employees. But the government arranged for money from various sources so that no one faced any hardship. During the lockdown, dry ration was provided to 1 crore people every month, 10 lakh migrants and the homeless were given cooked food every day, Rs 5,000 each was deposited in the bank accounts of 1.6 lakh auto and taxi drivers and Rs 10,000 each was paid to around 44,000 construction workers. The government took a loan of Rs 5,339.4 crore from the national small savings fund till November 2020. Before the pandemic ripped through the city, plans were afoot to push pending works like installation of 11,900 Wi-Fi hotspots, streetlights, the second phase of installation of 1.4 lakh CCTV cameras and a new fleet of buses. Detailed action plans were also being readied for cleaning the Yamuna, riverfront development, fighting pollution, 24x7 water supply and landscaping of 500km of roads. But the lockdown put a spanner in the works. The new year has begun on a positive note. Covid-19 is on the decline and revenue collection is picking up. Delhi government has already set the ball rolling for doorstep delivery of ration, providing flats to slum dwellers, 24x7 safe and clean water and e-health cards to each individual under HIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-biggest-challenge-in-first-yr-of-aap-3-0/articleshow/80934724.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 16, 2021||Madurai||Plea: Update schedules of Wildlife Act||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday sought a response from the central and state governments on a plea seeking to update and restructure the Schedules of the Wildlife Protection Act with respect to threatened and endangered plant species. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi sought the response on a public interest litigation filed by K Pushpavanam, a law student from Madurai district. The petitioner stated that the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Wildlife Institute of India had prepared lists of threatened and endangered species of plants in the country. A state-wise database of threatened species for each state was also published. Nearly 133 species of plants were recorded in Tamil Nadu and several other species of plants were listed as threatened in other states. He stated that it is disheartening to know that only six plants are placed under the Schedule VI of the Wildlife Protection Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-update-schedules-of-wildlife-act/articleshow/80941675.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Delhi||94 new cases, lowest daily tally in 9 mths||New Delhi: The capital recorded 94 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday — the lowest in over nine months — while the positivity rate slipped to 0.17%, health authorities said. With one fatality, the death toll in the capital touched 10,894, stated the latest health bulletin issued by Delhi government. Delhi had recorded 96 Covid cases on January 27, which was the lowest then in over nine months, and the first time the daily cases’ count was below the 100-mark in that month. According to the bulletin, 56,944 tests were conducted the previous day, including 34,679 RT-PCR and 22,265 rapid antigen tests. The Covid-19 case tally climbed to 6,37,181, while the active cases slightly rose to 1,036 on Tuesday from 1,031 the previous day. The capital recorded 141 Covid cases and two deaths on Monday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.36%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/94-new-cases-lowest-daily-tally-in-9-mths/articleshow/81010157.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Surat||Global campaign helps NRG boy find three stem cell matches||SURAT: A 16-month relentless global campaign to find a stem cell match for a four-year-old Gujarati boy living in the UK has finally turned life saving. Veer Gudhka, whose parents hail from Jamnagar, suffers from Fanconi anaemia, a rare genetic disorder which requires bone marrow transplant. The matches have been found in India, Israel and the UK. Fanconi anaemia which is inherited prevents the bone marrow from producing enough red blood cells. “A big thank you to all the people in our core campaign group who have been behind us all the way through the campaigning!'” Veer's family wrote on the special Facebook page thanking everyone who supported their cause. His father Nirav told TOI over phone from London that Veer’s condition is stable and he does not need any medication for now. “The good news is that we found three matches for stem cells. We will go for Veer's stem cell transplant as per medical expert's advice,” said Nirav, who works in a car company as a business analyst in the UK.  The Gudhka family has been running a campaign encouraging people to get themselves registered as potential stem cell donors and save other's lives. “Till now, over 9,000 people have got themselves registered as potential donors from across the world and even after Veer's transplant is done, we will continue this campaign to encourage people to become life saviours,” Nirav added. In July, Nirav and his wife Kripa had addressed the Gujarati community in the state and Mumbai, appealing people to come forward and register as stem cell donors. In fact, a special campaign for stem cell donor registration was also launched in India and over 4000 people got themselves registered. Veer wins charity award Veer has won 'John Petchy Young Hero of the Year in the Anthony Nolan Supporters Award' in the UK. Anthony Nolan is the charity that makes life saving connections between people with blood cancer and strangers ready to donate their stem cells. The social media campaign 'The Help Veer Now' was the runner-up for the Ethnic Minority Advocate Award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/global-campaign-helps-nrg-boy-find-three-stem-cell-matches/articleshow/80931262.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
February 16, 2021||Ludhiana||NSW police foiled ‘provocative bid’ near gurdwara: Australian Sikh body||JALANDHAR: Claiming that the New South Wales (NSW) police on Sunday helped stop a large convoy of vehicles heading towards the Glenwood gurdwara and “foiled an attempt of some miscreants to provoke/disrupt Sunday services at the gurdwara”, Sydney-based Australian Sikh Association (ASA) has alleged that the convoy proceeded towards gurdwara after holding a rally in Parramatta with Indian national flag and shouting religious slogans. “We were informed that police officers, accompanied by the riot squad, helped stop a large convoy of vehicles heading towards the gurdwara and took control of the roads leading to the sacred premises… The timing of this coincided with Sunday congregation and is strongly believed to have the intent of disrupting the service and damaging the building,” ASA said in a statement issued on Monday. The Association manages the Glenwood gurdwara. Thanking the NSW police “for prompt and efficient response”, ASA said otherwise this could have turned into an ugly incident, in turn tarnishing the image of the normally peaceful Indian diaspora in Australia. “The ASA has also been apprised of the ugly incidents that have occurred recently in Sydney area when Sikh symbols were desecrated and Sikh youth were beaten mercilessly. Such violent and divisive incidents can only embarrass the Indian diaspora,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/nsw-police-foiled-provocative-bid-near-gurdwara-oz-sikh-body/articleshow/80944436.cms||IP Singh
February 16, 2021||Kanpur||Jyoti murder case: Case cannot conclude in stipulated time as directed by Supreme Court: Special prosecutor||Done/ALVI  Times News Network Kanpur: There is no possibility that the much publicized Jyoti murder case could be concluded in the stipulated time frame fixed by the Apex Court as just two days are left. The Supreme Court had directed the trial court to conclude the case within three months which are going to expire on February 18.  According to special prosecutor Damodar Mishra, the defense had so far produced two witnesses in the case. And no proceedings could take place in the last two dates. He said the previous day's date was fixed on February12 last but the defense did not produce any witness. The court thereafter fixed February 15 as the next date and on this day too but since the defense could not produce any witness, therefore, the court has fixed February 17 as the next date. The special prosecutor said that the defense had produced two witnesses. One witness was a woman doctor who had adduced that she had treated Jyotir and that Piyush too took care of her. The second witness was Mukesh who had claimed that Jyoti was being properly cared for by the family.  Manisha Makhija, Piyush Shyamdasani and Ashish have been granted bail. Manisha was the first to get bail with certain conditions, Piyush, who got bail later on November 22 last, came out of jail after six months. The high court had granted bail to Piyush in June last. The Supreme Court had confirmed his bail with a direction that the accused would cooperate with the prosecution so that the trial could be concluded within three months. The high court observed that since all prosecution witnesses had been examined, there was no probability that the accused would threaten any witness or jump the bail and abscond. The prosecution had produced a total 37 witnesses Apart from Jyoti murder case, Piyush is also an accused of one more case in which he has been charged for buying mobile SIMS with fabricated documents. Piyush, son of a biscuit baron, had allegedly got his wife yoti Nagdev killed by his friends on July 27, 2014. According to police, Piyush was the mastermind of the murder. The murder plan was executed by Awadhesh, Sonu, Renu and Manisha Makhija. Piyush had a love affair with a woman Manisha and he wanted to marry her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jyoti-murder-case-case-cannot-conclude-in-stipulated-time-as-directed-by-supreme-court-special-prosecutor/articleshow/80932484.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath urges students to work hard for their dreams||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath advised students to pour in immense hard work and dedication without any fear of failure. “Keep making dedicated efforts towards achieving your dream and never rely on luck. Only when you show absolute commitment without any expectations, you achieve the desired results,” the CM said while addressing the youth while launching the Abhyudaya scheme. Addressing the curiosity of Varanasi student, Kapil Dubey on how the Abhyudaya scheme struck the CM, Yogi said that this scheme stems from the pain the parents faced when their children were stuck in another state at the time of the pandemic. Explaining his idea about launching the coaching centres in the state itself, the CM said, “When thousands of children were stuck in Kota and Prayagraj due to Covid-19 induced lockdown, there was an atmosphere of helplessness among the parents regarding the return of their children.” Reiterating the neglect by previous governments towards the education system, Yogi said another reason for connecting youth with Abhyudaya was the unsatisfactory performance of UP in civil services. While answering the question of Prayagraj’s Shishya Rathore in the Abhyudaya town hall, the CM urged everyone to follow a strict routine in life as it not only makes a person more efficient but also eliminates wastage of time deciding what to do next. The CM said, “The atmosphere for the preparation for competitive examinations in Prayagraj is very good. A similar environment will be developed in every region of the state.” On the question asked by Himanshu Bansal from Meerut on the policies related to the welfare of farmers, Yogi said his government, for the first time since Independence addressed the farmers’ uncertainties, be it on promoting drip irrigation by adding techniques like crop insurance or irrigation schemes for good yields. Answering Priyanshi Mishra of Lucknow about the state’s strategy of controlling the pandemic, the CM dedicated UP’s success in the battle against corona to the combined efforts of both his government and the people of the state. The CM, on a question asked by Sakshi Pandey from Gorakhpur on the ODOP scheme, said, it is a step towards making India ‘self-reliant’. The scheme, said Yogi, will recognize the uniqueness of every district thus giving a boost to the economy by encouraging the craftsmen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-urges-students-to-work-hard-for-their-dreams/articleshow/80941155.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Main accused in Ajit Singh murder case killed in encounter||LUCKNOW: Kanhaiya Vishwakarma alias Girdhari, the main accused in the murder of history-sheeter Ajit Singh, was killed in an encounter in Lucknow early on Monday morning after he attacked a sub-inspector and opened fire on the police team escorting him. According to police, Kanhaiya (40) tried to flee when he was being taken to Khargapur in Gomtinagar where he had confessed to have hidden the pistol that he used to eliminate Ajit Singh in Vibuti Khand (Gomtinagar) on January 6. Ajit (35) alias Ajit Langda of Mau, was a history-sheeter with 19 cases and was externed from his native district. Girdhari was arrested by the Delhi police on January 11 and was later brought to Lucknow. A local court had on February 13 extended the police custody of by three days. “Girdhari was being taken to Kharagpur for the recovery of murder weapon. However, he attacked sub-inspector Akhtar Usmani and also snatched his pistol,” Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur said. Lawyers sought med board, recording of postmortem“Another cop, Anil Singh, chased him and asked him to surrender but Girdhari opened fire. He was injured in retaliatory firing and was taken to RML Hospital where doctors pronounced him dead,” he added. Meanwhile, CJM Sushil Kumari constituted a medical board as per rules and ordered video recording of post-mortem proceedings. After the encounter, Girdhari’s lawyers Aadesh Kumar Singh and Pranshu Agarwal sought the constitution of a medical board and recording of post-mortem examination. Police said Girdhari, a sharp-shooter of Kuntu Singh gang, had used a 9mm pistol to bump off Ajit Singh. “Girdhari had eliminated Ajit on the direction of a don from east UP. He had also hired other shooters from west UP. Arms and ammunition used in the attack as well as the spot to execute the crime was chosen by Girdhari,” SHO, Vibhuti Khand, Chandra Shekhar Singh said. Kuntu, Girdhari and Ajit Singh initially used to work together but Ajit parted ways after the killing of former Samajwadi Party MLA Sipu Singh in July 2013. While Ajit forged close ties with Mukhtar Ansari, Kuntu and Girdhari joined hands with a don-turned-politician from eastern UP. Girdhari came to know that Ajit used to visit Lucknow alone in a bullet proof SUV and used to go to a flat in Gomtinagar Extension. He decided to eliminate Ajit in the same area. Six shooters – Shivendra Singh aka Ankur, Rajesh Tomar aka Jai, Bunty aka Veeru (also known as Rajesh and Mustafa), Ravi Yadav, Sandeep aka Baba and Girdhari – had opened fire on Ajit and his aide Mohar Singh on January 6. While Ajit died, Mohar suffered injuries in the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/main-accused-in-ajit-singh-murdercase-gunned-down-in-encounter/articleshow/80941325.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 16, 2021||Varanasi||Contract killer linked to Gujarat don nabbed in Varanasi||Varanasi: Special Task Force of UP police arrested one Pankaj Kumar, a contract killer linked to Gujarat-based underworld don Jayesh Patel, who is believed to be operating from Dubai or the UK, from Cantonment area here on Monday. Two gangsters of Jamnagar in Gujarat had got a contract to kill builder Jaysukh Pethadiya from Patel for Rs 2 crores after which they tasked Pankaj, a native of Azamgarh district, and his accomplice Maniram to kill him. Pethadiya survived the attack despite suffering bullet injuries on January 28. STF said that after a team of Jamnagar police contacted it, the Varanasi field unit team of force led by Inspector Amit Srivastava was engaged to trace Pankaj. On getting inputs regarding presence of Pankaj in Cantt area, they conducted a raid and arrested Pankaj with a mobile phone. Pankaj was produced before the chief judicial magistrate court where Jamnagar cops had initiated the process to take him to Gujarat on transit remand. According to Jamnagar police, Pethadiya was present at a construction site on Lalpur bypass road in Jamnagar on January 28 when motorcycle- borne miscreants fired at him and fled the scene. Pethadiya suffered bullet injuries on his face but survived. Pethadiya had claimed that don Jayesh Patel, a wanted criminal involved in dozens of cases including Rs 100 crore land grabbing case as well as murder of advocate Kirit Joshi, had masterminded the attack on him as after Joshi’s murder Patel had also threatened him. During initial interrogation ,Pankaj, a native of Atraulia area in Azamgarh, confessed to his crime and divulged that Patel, who is believed to be hiding in Dubai or the UK and operating his gang from offshore, had given a contract to two Jamnagar gangsters — Bharat alias Kachcho Karamsi Bhai Chopra and Bhimsi alias Bhimo Goa —to kill Pethadiya. The duo, who got this contract against payment of Rs 2 crores, hired Pankaj and Maniram. Pankaj divulged that he and Maniram had also gone to Jamnagar in October 2020 but could not execute the plan of killing Pethadiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/contract-killer-linked-to-gujarat-don-nabbed-in-varanasi/articleshow/80932383.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Middleman held by ACB in Dausa corruption racket||Jaipur: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Monday arrested a 60-year-old middleman who is a part of the corruption racket allegedly run by the suspended IPS officer and former SP, Dausa. ACB has already arrested the IPS officer, a middleman and two SDMs in this racket.According to the ACB officials, they called one Gopal Singh, the middleman who was taking money on behalf of the former SP, Manish Agarwal. “Since we had incriminating evidences against him, Singh was arrested after interrogation,” said Pushpendra Singh, additional SP, ACB.Asked about his role in the nexus, senior officials of ACB stated that once the contractor of the private company involved in road construction work under Bharat Mala project was asked by a local villager to dig a pit. “After digging the pit unfortunately two persons drowned in that pit as it got filled up with rain water. Thus, the accused contractor Deepak Saini was booked for a case under Sadar police station of Dausa,” Singh added.Thereafter, Gopal Singh approached Saini and asked him to pay Rs 15 lakh to ensure police to file a final report in his favour. “During taking of Rs 15 lakh, Singh had also told him that he should tell that he had paid only Rs 14 lakh,” said a senior officer of ACB.Singh in connivance with the former SP received the money as bribe so that contractor Deepak Saini could go scot-free in the drowning case.ACB had collected documents, electronic and other important evidences against suspended IPS Manish Agarwal that finally led to his arrest. “We have many corroborating evidences related to this nexus,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/middleman-held-by-acb-in-dausa-corruption-racket/articleshow/80934700.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Madurai||Sewage replaces water in check dams on Vaigai||Madurai: The two check dams constructed in 2019-2020 at the river Vaigai in Madurai near the AV bridge in the city and another at Obula Padithurai, at a cost of Rs 21 crore under the Smart City mission as part of the Vaigai riverfront development programme, are turning into a dump yard for sewage. These dams with the stagnant water, as rains have stopped and there is no flow of water in the river, are now looking like garbage dumps and due to sewage in the water, it has become a source of bad smell as well. Coordinator of the Vaigai Nathi Makkal Iyakkam, M Rajan, said that it was disheartening to see the garbage that the people left strewn on the riverbed, the day after Thai Amavasai, where people who paid obeisance to their ancestors, brought garlands, rice, turmeric, rice, fruits and even clothes in the banned plastic bags and threw them on the bed after performing the rituals. “If the corporation wants to keep the riverbed clean, it should construct a barricade to prevent people from directly entering the river on such occasions and littering it,’’ said K Selvakumar of Anna Nagar. P Jeeva, central constituency secretary of CPM, said, “The road on both sides has shrunk to the size of a drain due to the construction of dams and traders dump their garbage into the dams. It is important that the people’s connection with the river remains but steps should also be taken to keep the river bed clean . Authorities should ensure monitoring of activities on important days and also putting up garbage bins,” he said. Corporation commissioner S Visakan said they were planning to create mass awareness by involving NGOs against dumping waste into the dams. They already had such programmes by also giving the households two small bins for garbage disposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sewage-replaces-water-in-check-dams-on-vaigai/articleshow/80941739.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Exam angst spurs teen to talk of suicide, cops save him||Mumbai: The cyber police foiled a suicidal tendency that in a 17-year-old Class 12 student after he tweeted the same around 8.02 pm on Sunday as he was worried about not having clarity about board exams. Taking a serious note of the tweet, the cyber police contacted Twitter India office and for the internet protocol (IP) address before the police tracked the boy to his home in Amravati and got in touch with the boy and counselled him against the suicide plan. The boy tweeted: “Today I got many times suicidal thoughts. Since there are no clarifications on the forthcoming MH HSC exam 2021...” The tweet was addressed to top political leaders of the country. DCP Rashmi Karandikar said it was sixth suicide attempt or thoughts posted on social media and the plan was stopped by timely action by the cyber team. “The entire operation lasted over 4 hours before our technical team traced the teenager and and counselled him.”  —V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/exam-angst-spurs-teen-to-talk-of-suicide-cops-save-him/articleshow/80944591.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 16, 2021||Kanpur||City wins UP state powerlifting championship||Done/ALVITimes News NetworkKanpur: Kanpur team emerged as overall champion in UP state level junior/senior powerlifting championship (men/women) which concluded in Chandausi (Moradabad) on February 14.According to Saurabh Gaur honorary secretary, Kanpur Powerlifting Association, the city lifters had lifted a total of 29 medals including 18 gold, 10 silver and one bronze.The medal winners are:Gold- ( Men) Ritik Gupta, Gaurav Jaiswar, Satyikeya Awasthi, Shashank Shukla, Naman Gupta, Amit Bajpai , Zeeshan Ahmad, Satpal Singh, Women- Mahi Verma , Bhavya Saxena, Vandana Sharma, Khushi Yadav, Akansha Patel, Apoorva Singh, Akriti Katiyar, Anshika Tiwari, Renu Gautam, Manjari Shukla.Silver- (Men) Aryan Gupta, Rishabh Yadav, Sankalp Patel, Rishabh Kashyap, Rahul Tiwari, (Women)- Divyanshi Dwivedi, Arabia Bano, Shivani, Kaushiki Awasthi.Bronze-Ayush Katiyar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/city-wins-up-state-powerlifting-championship/articleshow/80932414.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Vadodara||Umakant Dash appointed as IRMA director||Vadodara/ Anand: Dr Umakant Dash has been appointed as director of country’s premier rural management institute – The Institute of Rural Management, Anand (IRMA). The appointment to the post has been made with effect from Monday. Dash has replaced professor Hitesh Bhatt, whose three years term as director, ended in November last. Bhatt was appointed as director of IRMA in December 2017. Dash has more than 25years’ experience in teaching and research. Prior to joining IRMA, he served as head of Department of Humanities and Social Sciences at IIT Madras and as adjunct professor at IIM Tiruchirappalli. He specialises in the areas of macroeconomics and health economics. He holds a PhD in applied economics from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. “I look forward to working together with the faculty and staff to make IRMA one of the best academic institutions with human values,” said Dash, while expressing his happiness at joining the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/umakant-dash-appointed-as-irma-director/articleshow/80931387.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Registration for e-rickshaws restarts||Jaipur: The transport department has restarted registration process of e-rickshaws which had been stopped for over a year. The registration had been halted because the e-rickshaws were causing traffic congestion, especially in the Walled City area. Ravi Jain, commissioner, transport department said, “The registration of the e-rickshaws had been halted because there were too many of them in the city which was resulting in traffic congestion, especially in the old city. Now we have started the registration again after taking stock of all the e-rickshaws in the city.” According to officials, there are approximately 14,000 e-rickshaws in Jaipur and a committee of various stakeholders will be constituted for the functioning of the vehicles. A policy will also be drafted for their registration and giving licences. The transport department had also ordered that e-rickshaw dealers will have to submit an affidavit with a declaration to conduct a 10-day drivers’ training programme for the e-rickshaw drivers. The officials also stated that zones will be divided in which the e-rickshaws will be operational and charging points will be installed at various locations.“Training of the e-rickshaw drivers is essential as they move throughout the city. Since they are not trained properly, they, at times, cause accidents due to erratic driving. This was also one of the reasons because of which the registration was stopped for some time. It was also found that many of them do not have licences. We are trying to resolve this issue as well,” added an official. A few years back, the Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) has played a key role in getting the e-rickshaws registered with the regional transport office (RTO) and making driving licences compulsory for the drivers. The state government had notified e-rickshaw as a vehicle under the Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/registration-for-e-rickshaws-restarts/articleshow/80934680.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Cameras emerge as key tool to solve crime cases||Jaipur: Be it the robbery of a cash van or recent theft and loot at Jain temples, CCTV cameras installed at public places and markets have often proved to be handy tool in solving the crime cases. Senior officers of Jaipur police on Monday said that gradual installation of CCTV cameras have come as a big help in solving crimes. In the last couple of years since Jaipur police escalated installing CCTV cameras and emphasized on its need through their initiatives like Abhay Command Centre and others, solving crimes have become quite easier. “There was a time when robbers used to first damage the CCTV camera in an ATM and used to flee with confidence that they will not be traced. But the scenario has changed as at every escape route, they will find the CCTV cameras now. This has of course facilitated us in greater way in solving crime cases,” said ACP crime Ajay Pal Lamba on Monday. He added that in cases including loot of cash van at Mansarover, firing on a businessman in Vidhyadhar Nagar and in the recent cases of thefts at temples, CCTV cameras and its footage have emerged as effective tool. “We are preparing the city for a time when robbers or assailants while escaping should find camera everywhere on their escape route. Things are improving as traders and locals are helping us by installation. But, we have to keep on asking the trade associations to have more and more CCTV cameras,” said a senior officer of Jaipur police (West).Senior police officers said CCTV cameras have also helped police in solving the petty crimes like snatching of mobile phones, handbags and other valuables. “Many a times, we had arrested the accused within hours of a crime due to timely availability of the footage,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cameras-emerge-as-key-tool-to-solve-crime-cases/articleshow/80934735.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Lucknow||‘Uttar Pradesh can increase exports, has potential for $29 billion’||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh’s merchandise exports in 2019-20 were $17 billion and can be increased by about 70% as the state has an untapped export potential of about $12 billion, said a top management executive of the India Exim Bank. Speaking exclusively to TOI, Exim Bank’s chief general manager, research and analysis, Prahalathan Iyer said the bank has identified about 103 products — all low hanging fruits — UP is already exporting and has a huge scope to expand. These include electronics, mobile phones, meat, precious metals, iron, steel, aluminum, copper, rice, garments, footwear and automobiles. “UP needs to diversify its markets. There is a huge mismatch between its export destinations and major import markets. For instance, if it is exporting meat to some countries, those countries are not the major global importers. It is exporting rice to mainly Nepal, for instance, though the major importers of rice are Iran and other Middle East countries, China etc. Its commodity exports are also concentrated in a few markets,” Iyer said. He further said that UP’s technology-oriented exports are not significant and largely electronics from Noida were being exported, and no other hi-tech products form a major component of exports. “The Centre has started a performance linked incentive (PLI) scheme for textiles, food processing, semiconductors, solar energy, etc. The UP government should leverage this to draw investments, especially in technology,” the export-import bank’s CGM said. Iyer further pointed out that UP can increase its export competitiveness by plugging the existing gaps in trade-enabling infrastructure. Referring to a report on the Export Preparedness Index by Niti Aayog, Iyer said that UP is a top-performer in terms of cluster strength, but in terms of internet facilities, the state’s coverage is much below the national average. Addressing the deficiencies in infrastructure will help the state ramp up its exports, like UP has only 83 National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL)-accredited research labs against 895 in Maharashtra, he said. Iyer praised the state’s one district-one product scheme and said it needs to be branded properly. He also recommended an ‘Ubharte Sitare’ policy in which it would have to identify, encourage and felicitate promising small enterprises that have shown exemplary performance in exporting products through innovative practices. In the post-Covid era, where UP is vying with countries like Vietnam, Philippines and other states in the country to attract investments that are shifting out of China, Iyer recommended compensating investors for their relocation costs. “UP should explore what other states and countries are offering and then give investors a better deal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-can-increase-exports-has-potential-for-29bn/articleshow/80941247.cms||Neha Lalchandani
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Wife fumes as Nagpur cop gets anticipatory bail||NAGPUR: Anticipatory bail granted to constable Nikhil Shegaonkar of rural police last week has left his wife distraught. Last year, she had lodged an FIR at Ajni police station against the cop and his relatives for dowry-related harassment, torture and forced unnatural sex. She had also held the cop responsible for her abrupt medical termination of pregnancy following the assault. While granting Shegaonkar bail, the district and additional sessions court stated that being a cop he would not flee. The conditional pre-arrest bail included PR and a surety bond of Rs 25,000 each. It’s learnt that Shegaonkar, who had joined police in 2017, has two FIRs against him. Sources in the rural police, who are conducting the preliminary inquiry, also confirmed a third complaint against him at Yashodhara Nagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wife-fumes-as-cop-gets-anticipatory-bail/articleshow/80931319.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: No toilet, Congress candidate’s nomination flushed away||AHMEDABAD: She owns Rs 15 lakh worth of gold, a flat in Naroda and drives a Rs 10 lakh SUV, but on Monday, the nomination of Krina Patel, the Congress candidate from the Singarva seat for the Ahmedabad district panchayat, was rejected as her house in Kanbha village does not have a toilet. During scrutiny of her form, her rivals in the BJP objected to the fact that she had “lied” in her affidavit that stated that she had a toilet at her home in Kanbha, from where she filed her nomination. Krina, 47, had attached her voter ID card stating her address as 504, Patel Vas, Kanbha-II in Daskroi taluka. Komal Patel, the returning officer for Daskroi told TOI, “During scrutiny, a BJP member and their candidate objected saying Congress candidate Krina Patel did not have a toilet at her residence in Kambha.” “As she had declared on oath that she had a toilet at her residence, I asked her if she had one. This worried her and she did not reply. A Congress leader was also present and asked her if she had a toilet at her residence. She then said that she did not have a toilet at her place in Kanbha.” The SDM said Krina admitted that she did not have toilet. “We asked her to give it in writing, which she did. We then had to reject her nomination,” said Patel. Krina has passed Class XII and has a flat in Naroda along with the house in Kanbha, from where she filed her nomination. She has an SUV which costs Rs 10 lakh and a two-wheeler. The party said that it appears she was living in Naroda and a resident of Kanbha only on paper and hence never bothered to get one built. In October 2017, Gujarat claimed that all its villages are free of open defecation. According to figures from the Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation, 92.46% of the states villages had been verified as open defecation free (ODF) villages. According to the figures, as many as 14,647 villages of the total number of 15,842 villages were verified as open defecation free villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-toilet-congress-candidates-nomination-flushed-away/articleshow/80934970.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Many from affluent class testing positive, hospitalized: Doctors||NAGPUR: Doctors treating Covid patients have observed that those testing positive and requiring hospitalization are mainly from posh localities. The observation comes in the backdrop of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) move to focus on what it calls ‘super spreaders’ such as vendors, security guards, milkman, vegetable sellers and house maid and nine emerging hotspots. At least five of the emerging hotspots have posh localities beside plush venues for big functions. One of the reasons being attributed for fresh Covid-19 surge in the city is large number of marriages and socializing without following Covid norms in halls, lawns and hotels. Doctors say that there are big turnouts in closed spaces where guests are not seen following any preventive measure. The civic body has so far failed to check crowding at any type of function. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said he is observing that many middle and upper class people are testing positive. “This is mainly because people are mingling a lot during occasions like marriage ceremonies, public meetings etc. The cap on invitees has been extended to 300 but in reality many more are attending the functions,” he said. Pulmonologist and CMD of KRIMS Dr Ashok Arbat said people stayed safe by not venturing out during the lockdown days. “But when cases declined and vaccination started, a false sense of safety developed that medicine is available and there is no need to worry about Covid. Hence, they are not hesitating to attend functions even at crowded places.” Dr Arbat added that open spaces are still better option as compared to closed venues. “People are in contact with each for a longer period. Another thing is they feel that they can get cured at home. But when hospitalized, they complain of cough, fever and breathlessness. Percentage of elderly is more,” he said. Dr Hema Dhoble, head of Covid Unit at Suretech Hospital, Jamtha, said she feels only the middle class is following norms as they have limited resources. “Socializing, travelling, leisure trips and marriages have resumed like in pre-Covid days. Marriage ceremonies are being held with pomp and show in slums as well as swanky venues. Who is infecting whom is not clear,” she said. Dr Tushar Gawad, director of administration at Alexis Multi Speciality Hospital, said people are testing positive from across socio-economic background. Asked about the ratio of Covid admissions, he said, “Forty per cent are from lower or middle class while 50-60% are from upper middle class. Also, upper middle class is more aware and have better access to diagnostics as well as treatment, thereby skewing the average,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-from-affluent-class-testing-positive-hospitalized-docs/articleshow/80931361.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Beyond Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party looks to expand base to other states||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party is looking to expand its presence in other states, particularly those that are poll-bound. In the party’s focus are Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Goa, all of which have assembly elections next year. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia recently dared ministers of UP and Uttarakhand to a debate on governance and visited the two states for the purpose, but the state ministers did not turn up for the verbal contests. AAP now has an exercise under way in these states to strengthen itself both organisationally and politically. AAP backed the farmers' protests and it believes this has earned it trust in its support base in Punjab and will also help it in UP. CM Arvind Kejriwal is going to address a kisan mahapanchayat in Meerut on February 28 supporting the farmers’ movement. About building grassroots in the poll-bound states, an AAP leader said, “While we have strong grassroots in Delhi and Punjab, we have an organisation base in Goa having fought elections there. Thousand have joined us and we have held over 200 corner meetings there. In Uttarakhand too, over 300 meetings are planned in the next one month and have over one lakh volunteers because of the strong familiarity with AAP’s works from people of Uttarakhand living in Delhi.” AAP doesn’t want to spare any efforts in these poll-bound states to be able to take strides beyond Delhi before the 2024 general elections. Among the four states, Punjab will likely be where AAP will concentrate the most. It already is the main opposition to the ruling Congress in the state, having ended up winning 19 seats in the 2017 Punjab assembly polls. Jarnail Singh, one of the prominent Sikhs in the party, has been put in charge of Punjab, with the youthful Raghav Chadha, who has his roots in Ludhiana, as his co-in-charge. “Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP and Congress have looted Punjab and people are feeling cheated. People have seen rule of all and now want to give an opportunity to AAP,” claimed Chadha, who recently returned from a multi-district tour of the state. Chadha and other party functionaries will be frequenting Punjab. Chadha asserted that apart from political activities reported in the media, AAP is engaged in intense organisational activities across Punjab. He said that the party setup, from booth to state level, had been established and people were joining AAP in large numbers. Sisodia invited Uttarakhand urban development minister Madan Kaushik to an open debate on the performance of the chief ministers of the two states, namely ‘Kejriwal Model vs Trivendra Rawat Model’, on January 6 in Delhi. “People who fought so long for the creation of Uttarakhand 20 years ago and had big dreams are now feeling cheated due to the politics and policies of BJP and Congress,” Sisodia alleged. “They want better education and health facilities, better electricity and water supply, and so are looking forward to AAP.” AAP’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh, who is in charge of UP, has kept himself busy in that state and keeps cornering the Yogi Adityanath government on various public issues in an effort to capture the people’s mind. AAP has planned protests in all districts on January 8 against the alleged corruption in the construction of the building at the cremation ground in Muradnagar that recently collapsed, killing two dozen people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/beyond-delhi-party-looks-to-expand-base-to-other-states/articleshow/80934823.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: One-hour window for Covid+ voters in civic byelections||NEW DELHI: With the goal of “no voter to be left behind”, the Delhi election commission said on Tuesday that all Covid-positive people would also be allowed to cast vote at their polling station in the last hour of the voting day, between 4.30pm and 5.30pm, during the civic bypolls. Issuing guidelines for the February 28 polling at five wards, the commission said these people would vote under the supervision of health personnel, strictly following Covid-related preventive measures. Paramedical staffers will coordinate this in their allocated polling stations, the guidelines state. “It will be necessary for them to wear mask and gloves before leaving home.” Polling officials have also been directed to carry out thermal checking of all voters at the entry points of every polling station and special paramedical staffers or Asha workers will be deployed for it. In case the temperature of a voter is above normal even after two readings, they will be provided with a token or a certificate and asked to come for voting during the last hour, an official said. Token booths will be set up to avoid long queues. A total of 327 polling stations will be set up and the number of electors at each booth will be 1,000. The guidelines state there will be handwashing provisions at the entry points and every voter will have to sanitise their hands before touching the voting machine. Though the case count is low in the city, the commission is not taking any chances and restrictions will be applied during campaigning too. Each door-to-door campaign can be carried out by a group of five persons, including the candidate, while for roadshows, the convoy should be broken after every five vehicles and the interval between two sets of vehicles should be half an hour. “All persons who are at higher risk, i.e. aged, pregnant women, children below 10 years and those who have underlying medical conditions, should be advised by the candidates and the parties to take extra precautions and try to avoid participating in meetings and rallies,” the guidelines state. Non-compliance can invite action as per Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1-hour-window-for-covid-voters-in-civic-byelections/articleshow/81010278.cms||Paras Singh
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||NGT directs Zirakpur MC to stop burning of garbage at dumping site||Mohali: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) Delhi, while taking the serious note of the garbage being burnt at the garbage dumping site at Bishanpura village in Zirakpur, has issued directions to Zirakpur municipal council (MC) to ensure that the burning of garbage activity is immediately stopped. NGT had constituted a joint action committee to verify the complaint filed by a local resident of burning of garbage at garbage dumping site which after inspecting the site found that the complaint is valid. The committee thereafter issued directions to MC Zirakpur. NGT stated, “It is evident from the observations, that grievance of the complaint regarding the burning the MSW of the petition is found to be correct to the certain extent as boundary wall of the dumping site is not complete and anyone can access the dumping site.” NGT said the MC should ensure 100% door-to-door collection of waste and segregation at source. It also said the MC should finalise the alternate site according to the siting criteria laid in Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and also complete the construction of boundary wall of the site within a month. The MC is also directed to ensure plantation along the periphery of the site and to immediately start the bio-remediation of existing legacy waste lying at the site. Last year in November, NGT directed the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to encash the bank guarantees of Rs 2 lakh each of the civic bodies of Zirakpur and Banur, as they failed to implement door-to-door garbage collection and segregation of waste. The panel also directed PPCB to encash the bank guarantees of Rs 2 lakh of the municipal council of Nayagaon as they failed to construct composite pits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ngt-directs-zirakpur-mc-to-stop-burning-of-garbage-at-dumping-site/articleshow/80938400.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Bypolls: Five persons to be allowed for campaigning||Jaipur: In view of Covid situation in the state, only four persons and two vehicles will be allowed to enter the campus during filing of nominations by the candidates for the bypolls to four assembly constituencies in the state, said chief electoral officer of the state Praveen Gupta. Nominations will also be accepted online. During the election campaign, only five people will be allowed for door-to-door campaigning.In view of Covid pandemic, the number of polling stations in the four districts has been increased from 1,074 to 1,529. The expenditure limit for candidates has been increased from Rs 28 lakh to Rs 30.80 lakh. The election department also sought cooperation from political parties for smooth conduct of the bypolls. Bypolls have been necessitated due to the death of sitting MLAs of Sujangarh in Churu, Rajsamand, Sahada in Bhilwara and Vallabhnagar in Udaipur assembly seats. Postal ballot option will be also given to voters above 80 years and persons with disabilities (PwDS). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bypolls-five-persons-to-be-allowed-for-campaigning/articleshow/80938379.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||We need 10k organs every year, but get only 500: CMO||Panchkula: Health department of Panchkula on Monday organised a training and sensitisation session on organ donation and transplantation in Panchkula, in coordination with the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) Chandigarh faculty. Panchkula is one of the four districts chosen for the first phase of the project. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said organ donation and transplantation is a flagship programme of the chief minister (CM) of Haryana. The CMO said Haryana needs 10,000 organs every year but only 500 are available, thereby in Haryana, only 5% of the demand is being fulfilled. Haryana has the potential of saving nearly 35,000 lives per year, she added. “In Haryana, there are approximately 6,000 brain deaths every year. Each deceased person can donate at least six organs and can help six people. 36,000 precious lives can be saved yearly,” said the CMO. According to the CMO, there are two types of donors — live and deceased donors. An IEC campaign, along with setting up of retrieval centres across the state will enable organ donation and transplantation, she added. The CMO said, “The training and sensitisation session is a step forward and I hope this session will not only enhance the knowledge of our participants, but also motivate them to work for a cause.” The meeting was held at the conference room in mini secretariat at Sector 1 and was attended by the representatives of all the five hospitals with ICU facility — Command Hospital, Alchemist Hospital, Paras Hospital, Ojas Hospital and civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/we-need-10k-organs-every-year-but-get-only-500-cmo/articleshow/80938346.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
February 16, 2021||Lucknow||DCPs in Lucknow, Noida can attach properties under Gangster Act||LUCKNOW: The state cabinet has approved a proposal allowing officers of the rank of deputy commissioners of police to order attachment of property of the accused in cases registered under the UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act. As per the provisions in place, till now it was the district magistrate and commissioner of police who were vested with the power to order attachment of property of an accused booked under the provisions of the Gangster Act. The modification in the provisions will only be applicable in Lucknow and Noida which have a police commissionerate system in place. In the remaining districts, the power will continue to vest with the district magistrates. Under the Gangster Act, if the authority concerned has reason to believe that any property, whether movable or immovable, in possession of any person has been acquired by a gangster as a result of the commission of an offence triable under this Act, he may order attachment of such property whether or not cognizance of such offence has been taken by any Court. Explaining the impact of the cabinet decision Joint Commissioner of Police (JCP) (crime) Nilabja Chaudhary said in Lucknow and Noida till now only the police commissioner was authorised to order attachment of property. With the cabinet nod, all 10 deputy commissioners of Police in Lucknow will be able to dispose of such cases. In Noida, all seven DCPs will have the same authority. This will help to dispose of cases faster. JCP Chaudhury said in the past one year, as many as 697 persons were booked under the Gangsters Act and property worth Rs 90 crore was recovered from their possession. “Now with the power being designated to DCP, action will follow faster,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dcps-in-noida-lucknow-given-power-to-attach-properties-under-gangster-act/articleshow/80941214.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Night curfew in Amravati, stricter norms in Akola||NAGPUR: There was no let up from the Covid surge in Amravati and Nagpur with both the districts reporting just under 500 new cases on Monday. Vidarbha reported 1,244 new cases in a day, with Nagpur and Amravati districts together contributing 947 (76%). Alarmed by the growing number of cases in Amravati, the district administration has imposed a night curfew. In Akola, nearly 40% samples tested positive on Monday. District collector Jitendra Papalkar issued a restraining order till February 28 in urban and rural areas of Akola. However, in both districts, administration has ruled out possibility of a fresh lockdown. “The curfew is aimed at controlling crowding at public and market places. It does not mean closing down businesses or markets, which will function as usual,” said Amravati district collector Shailesh Naval. The orders are stricter in Akola. “Crowd of five or more people has been banned. Only 50 persons will be allowed for religious processions, festivals, ceremonies, get-togethers, mass events, meetings, gatherings and weddings. Big processions and rallies have been banned,” said Papalkar. Schools, colleges and coaching classes will be shut. Amravati reported 449 cases and four deaths on Monday. Nagpur reported 498 cases and six deaths, including two patients coming from other divisions/states. Wardha reported two deaths and Akola one. Buldhana (129) and Akola (86) were the two other districts reporting more than 50 cases. In some relief, seven out of 11 districts reported less than 50 cases, with six of them reporting 10 or even less cases. Yavatmal reported 34, Bhandara (10), Wardha (10), Gondia (10), Gadchiroli (9), Washim (5), and Chandrapur (4). Day’s 825 recoveries came from Nagpur (281), Amravati (336), Wardha (52), Akola (50), Buldhana (30), Yavatmal (29), Bhandara (21), Washim (12), Gondia (10), Gadchiroli (4) while Chandrapur did not report any recovery. Out of the 2.86 lakh reported patients, 2.70 lakh have recovered in the region whose recovery rate is 94.5%. The fresh surge has brought it down in the last eight days. Maharashtra state average recovery rate is nearing 96% while the national average recovery rate is more than 97%. Case fatality rate of Vidarbha is 2.48%, which is equal to state average. More than 8540 patients are under treatment in Vidarbha, including 75% in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/night-curfew-in-amravati-stricter-norms-in-akola/articleshow/80931397.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur cops ask traders to install CCTVs without delay||JAIPUR: In order to ensure better security and safety to people, Jaipur police has re-issued its order asking financial and commercial establishments to install CCTV cameras. These establishments include all kinds of shops, private lockers, petrol pumps, guest houses, restaurants and multi-storied housing societies. Police is going tough as this year till now at least 10 FIRs have been lodged against those violating the order of installing CCTV. Rahul Prakash, additional commissioner of police, law and order, had earlier issued Section 144 of CrPC in which shops, private lockers, liquor shops, guest houses, restaurants were directed to install CCTV cameras. “For better compliance I have asked all the DCPs concerned to go tough on this. However, we will take action on traders who, even after repeated requests, are not abiding to it. It is a good option to provide safety and security to the public,” he said on Monday while talking to TOI. In the past one month Jaipur police had lodged a case under section 188 of IPC for defying government orders against at least 10 traders including grocery shops, eateries including dhabas and others. In many areas the traders have started installing the cameras. “We have also asked them to keep the recording of 15 days which will enable us to check and re-check in case any crime takes place in a particular area,” he added. The ongoing order will continue till March 25, 2021.  Traders meet ADCP, want some relaxations: A delegation of traders on Monday met Rahul Prakash, additional commissioner of police, law and order and requested him to urge police to be a little lenient. “We have assured them that no cohesive action would be taken against them for some months. But, we have to follow it. They have assured us that they have started procuring CCTV cameras and will soon install them, which is fine,” Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-cops-ask-traders-to-install-cctvs-without-delay/articleshow/80934772.cms||Ashish Mehta
February 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: BJP, Congress yet to name Rajya Sabha candidates||GANDHINAGAR: The BJP and Congress are yet to finalize the names of their nominees for the two vacant Rajya Sabha seats, elections for which will be held on March 1. Candidates of the parties have time until 3pm on March 18 to file their nominations for the two vacant seats. The delay in finalizing candidates is happening because both parties are apparently preoccupied with the local body elections. Two Rajya Sabha seats of Gujarat fell vacant after the deaths of Ahmed Patel of the Congress and Abhay Bharadwaj of the BJP. C R Paatil, state BJP president admitted discussions for finalizing the two candidates have not begun yet. “We are yet to discuss the selection of candidates for the Rajya Sabha seats. We will finalize the names shortly and communicate our choice to the high command in time. We are confident of winning both seats comfortably,’’ he said. Leader of opposition in the assembly, Paresh Dhanani, said, “We are meeting today (Monday) for a discussion on the Rajya Sabha candidates. We could not discuss it earlier due to the local body elections. Despite ECI’s organizing two separate elections on same day, which may help BJP win both seats, we will democratically contest the elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-congress-yet-to-name-rs-candidates/articleshow/80934963.cms||Kapil Dave
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||CSR funds for Tata hosp’s pediatric cancer patients drop 75%||Mumbai: One of the casualties of the Covid-19 pandemic has been a sharp drop— almost 75%—in funding for free treatment of pediatric cancer patients. Tata Memorial Hospital, the department of atomic energy-run cancer hub in Parel, provides free treatment for children under 10 years of age (its network of social workers organizes funding for older children as well). As against Rs 25 crore that the hospital gathered in 2019 through corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding for pediatric cancer treatment, it has managed promises for barely 25% of the sum. Most such funding in 2020 was channelised to the Covid-19 crisis across the country. Dr S D Banavali, director (academics) at the Tata Memorial centre, said Covid delivered a triple punch to the field of pediatric cancer. “Firstly, there was a delay in diagnosing cancer among children. Secondly, even after the diagnosis, families found it difficult to access treatment as travelling was difficult during the lockdown months,” he said. Thirdly, because of the delay in diagnosis and starting the treatment, most affected children need advanced treatment. “This means more money is needed,” added Dr Banavali. Every year, the Tata Memorial centre treats 5,000-plus children. “We need Rs 35 crore to treat all these children as our institute has been providing free treatment for pediatric cases for many years,” said pediatric oncology head Dr Girish Chinnaswamy. Shalini Jatia of ImPaCCT Foundation that works with TMH’s pediatric cancer department, said the funding comes from corporates, individual donors and NGOs. “But many donors helped out the Covid-19 management. Even we needed a lot of funds to put in place safety practices such as the use of face masks and sanitizers,” she said. Covid affected the centre’s working. If in 2019, Tata centre saw 2,086 new patient registrations, the number dropped to 1,188 in 2020. Roughly 60% patients hail from outside Maharashtra. Movement of patients is almost back to normal now. “In January, we got 110% of the average monthly registrations,” said Dr Banavali. On the occasion of International Childhood Cancer Day on Monday, Dr Chinnaswamy said the focus is on improving cure rates among pediatric patients. At present, their cure rate is 30% across the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/csr-funds-for-tata-hosps-pediatric-cancer-patients-drop-75/articleshow/80941929.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Plans afoot to replace 71 old bridges unfit for heavy load||Dehradun: Taking into account that certain bridges have been damaged or collapsed due to overloaded vehicles and also natural disasters in the state, the Public Works Department (PWD) has identified 71 bridges, which it intends to replace at the earliest. Most of these bridges are several decades old and do not have the capacity to take the load of heavy vehicles. There are over 3,000 small and large bridges in Uttarakhand, out of which, 2,265 are of PWD department. Also, 1,601 bridges are included under the 'A' category that have the capacity for vehicles of 25 tonnes. The remaining 664 are of 'B' category with capacity for 16.2 tonne vehicles. With several important projects like Rishikesh-Karnprayag rail track and all-weather road for Char Dham routes, under construction in the state, the movement of heavy vehicles is quite regular. The PWD conducted a study after which it found that 71 bridges, which are in the 'B' category, can be replaced at the earliest. During the recent Chamoli tragedy, one motorable and four suspension bridges were washed away by strong currents of Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers. Later, at a meeting presided over by chief secretary Om Prakash, a decision was taken to permit only those vehicles with a total capacity of 16 tonnes. However, in special cases, prior permission was needed from the authorities before allowing the movement of heavy vehicles within the state, and particularly the hill routes. Sources said that a survey has been conducted and now plans were on to chalk out the strategy for construction work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/plans-afoot-to-replace-71-old-bridges-unfit-for-heavy-load/articleshow/80931452.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 16, 2021||Madurai||Mad rush for FASTag on eve of deadline||Madurai/Trichy: While FASTag is made mandatory at toll plazas across the nation starting at midnight on Monday, it seems that not all the motorists have prepared for the new system. Meanwhile, the February 15 deadline set by the Union ministry of road transport has caused rush at many toll plazas on the highways in the central districts. In Trichy, more than 200 applications were received at Samayapuram toll plaza on Chennai NH and Valavanthankottai toll plaza on Thanjavur highway by noon on Monday. Toll plaza sources said that the double fee directive has forced vehicle owners to affix the RFID stickers. There was around a 40% increase in the requests for applications to avail FASTag stickers at the toll plazas in Trichy. “Since morning, there has been a huge demand for RFID stickers. Government buses have also affixed the FASTag stickers,” an official source with a toll plaza said. NHAI officials confirmed that double toll fees will be collected from those who do not have FASTags starting from Tuesday, provided there is no communication from the central government extending the deadline or giving some relaxation. There will be police personnel to prevent any untoward incidents at the toll plazas, they said. An NHAI official said, “Close to 75% of the toll fee collected from the southern districts are accounted through FASTag. While most of the heavy vehicles have FASTag, a few private car owners and taxi drivers are yet to take it.” The official said that the TNSTC is yet to comply with the rule. The transport corporation alone accounts for around 15% of fee collection through cash. “Higher officials from NHAI are in touch with the transport department. They too have started the process of getting FASTag for buses,” he said. Meanwhile, some of the vehicle owners are looking for further extension of the deadline, while a few have urged for exemption for private vehicles. “I hardly use my vehicle on highways. What is the point in getting a FASTag account and keeping money in it?” V Mugilan, a car owner from Vandiyur, said. NHAI sources said that the stickers are now available free of cost. “FASTag users should keep adequate balance ahead of visiting the toll plazas. Server connectivity issues at times due to heavy usage may delay crediting the sum transferred to the FASTag account,” a toll plaza official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mad-rush-for-fastag-on-eve-of-deadline/articleshow/80941805.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 16, 2021||Vadodara||Cutting the flab: Vadodara cops to shed pot-bellied image||Vadodara: In a move towards major image correction, the police department has launched an initiative to make Vadodara police the fittest force in Gujarat. If all goes as per plan, the city streets will see lithe cops on patrol, while the much-riled ‘pot-bellied’ versions gradually fade into oblivion. The police department on Saturday began medical check-up of the cops at different hospitals in the city. Once all the 2,800 cops undergo detailed check-up, reports of each policeman will be submitted to the DCPs of the areas they are posted. Each of the cop will then be given a dedicated diet plan, physical exercises like cycling and yoga as well as stress management tips. “We have formed a health advisory committee consisting of specialists who designed the health programme. It has been specially designed to test fitness of the cops and work on those who need help. We want the city police to be the fittest in the state,” said Shamsher Singh, city police commissioner. The advisory committee has 10 members including superintendent of SSG Hospital, heart specialists, ENT surgeons and those treating lifestyle diseases. Singh said that many policemen have irregular and sometimes extended work hours that affects their lifestyle, food and sleeping habits. And hence they suffer from heart diseases, hypertension and diabetes. “Such diseases directly affect their health and productivity. Our manpower is our strength and the healthier they are, the better we can serve the society. Also, if a policeman is fit, people feel confident that they can protect people,” Singh added. “The panel will monitor the progress of the policemen and prepare a monthly report which will be reviewed every quarter. Cops whose fitness levels don’t improve much will be monitored and given alternate plans,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cutting-the-flab-vadodara-cops-to-shed-pot-bellied-image/articleshow/80931497.cms||Tushar Tere
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Himmat invites Tikait for mahapanchayat on Feb 25||Jaipur: Rajasthan farmer leader Himmat Singh met Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait at Delhi’s Ghazipur border on Monday and invited him to attend a mahapanchayat to be held at Kariri village at Todabhim (Karauli) on February 25. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha will be organising “rail roko” programme on February 18 in support of the farmers’ agitation against the centre’s three farm laws. Apart from this, they also decided to hold a kisan mahapanchayat in Jaipur soon. Tikait, meanwhile, has agreed to attend the mahapanchayat at Todabhim (Karauli) on February 25. The date and speakers for the mahapanchayat in Jaipur will be decided by Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Campaigns will be conducted in support of the farmers’ movement in villages and mohallas. They also decided to conduct roadside public meetings to make the toll plazas in Jaipur toll-free. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/himmat-invites-tikait-for-mahapanchayat-on-feb-25/articleshow/80938458.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Prison authorities are taking due care of Saibaba’s health: Maharashtra Home Minister||NAGPUR: State home minister Anil Deshmukh, in an informal press meet on Monday, said Maoist ideologue and former Delhi University professor GN Saibaba’s health was being monitored and he was being cared for by prison authorities. Deshmukh also said the suicide of the 22-year-old woman in Pune would be probed thoroughly to ascertain whether there was any foul play or abetment. Deshmukh, who met media persons shortly after stepping out of a private hospital where he had been admitted after testing Covid positive on February 5, said Saibaba was taken to hospital and given proper treatment after testing positive. “The jail authorities are taking due care of Saibaba’s health. They are fully attentive about him,” said the home minister in response to a query regarding Saibaba’s wife AS Vasantha Kumari’s letter to the chief minister, demanding shifting her 90% physically challenged husband to a private hospital for treatment. Deshmukh also clarified that he has never issued any order of probe against Lata Mangeshkar and Sachin Tendulkar regarding the celebrity tweet row on farmer agitation issue, but only wanted an inquiry of the BJP IT cell. “Preliminary findings have shown the involvement of the BJP IT cell chief and 12 influencers behind the celebrity tweet controversy,” he said. The home minister, who later flew to Mumbai in a special flight in the afternoon, also said he would look into the issue of no offence being registered till now in the Bhandara fire incident, where 10 babies had died at the district general hospital. “I would collect information on it,” he said. Deshmukh, bombarded with questions on the issue of a minister’s role in the suicide of a Pune-based woman, said there would be a thorough probe into the incident as per norms. “There is no question of pressure on government or police machinery. Pune police are conducting fair probe into the incident and soon the whole of Maharahtra would be able to see the truth rolling out of the probe,” he said. “The chief minister has already issued his statement on a fair probe and the state government would decide after the inquiry is completed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/prison-authorities-are-taking-due-care-of-saibabas-health-hm/articleshow/80931489.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 16, 2021||Jodhpur||Cops & lawyers get training to handle cybercrime cases||Jodhpur: Spurt in cybercrimes amid growing penetration of internet in every walk of life has prompted both the judiciary and police to equip themselves with the necessary knowhow to not only nab these criminals of virtual world but also provide skilled representation to the victims in the courts.Police, however, have already realised the seriousness of the crimes taking place in the cyber world and have started strengthening itself in view of the rise in cybercrimes. Judiciary has begun with training of advocates for inculcating awareness among them about cybercrimes and cyber security. A one-day training programme for 50 selected advocates practicing at each district headquarters was conducted last week at the behest of the Rajasthan State Legal Service Authority (RSLSA) with sessions on nature and characters of cybercrimes, laws pertaining to these crimes and secured use of information and communication technology.Addressing the inaugural session of the training programme, held virtually, administrative judge of the RSLSA Justice Sangeet Lodha said that there had been over 450% rise in cybercrimes in the past five years in India and stressed the need of an integrated mechanism to deal with this crisis.“It is the need of the hour that our advocates are adequately equipped with the laws relating to technology, computer functioning, networking & communication technologies etc, so that they could represent the victims of E-commerce, E-contracts, digital signatures, Intellectual Property Rights and linked crimes,” Lodha said.Referring to the cybercrimes data from the National Crime Records Bureau, he said that 12,317 cases of cybercrimes had been reported in 2016 which shockingly shot up to 44,546 in 2019 with data for 2020 yet to be released.Member secretary of the DLSA Brajendra Jain said that people have been spending most of their time in the virtual world today and falling victim to cybercrimes increasingly due to ignorance and lack of awareness.“Hence this programme has been conceived for these victims to bring them justice in the courts,” he said.Recently, Jodhpur police commissionerate has also taken up an initiative to deal with cybercrimes wherein a team of 20 police officers has been given special training by the IT experts to enable them to understand the cyber world and crack the cases of cybercrimes.“We have roped in a special team of ‘Cyber Warriors’ comprising 20 specially trained policemen to keep a check on cybercrimes in Jodhpur,” said police commissioner (Jodhpur) Jose Mohan.The team has been equipped with required skills to identify the criminals, crack the unsolved criminal cases, surveillance of organized criminals and searching for wanted criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cops-lawyers-get-training-to-handle-cybercrime-cases/articleshow/80934857.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, under Covid quarantine, meets media||NAGPUR: A press conference announced, cancelled, and then held ‘informally’ by the State home minister Anil Deshmukh following his discharge from Alexis Multispecialty Hospital on Monday has triggered a controversy. Deshmukh has been advised home quarantine as he is recovering from Covid. He blamed media’s insistence on meeting him for the fiasco. Deshmukh said journalists were calling him since a day earlier but he had declined to meet anyone. “I had repeatedly refused to meet but still some media persons turned up to speak to me,” he said adding that he had come out of the hospital only after testing negative for Covid. The hospital authorities stated Deshmukh had completed 11 days of hospitalization which is more than duration of infectivity of coronavirus. As per Centre for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines, the person with mild to moderate Covid illness is infectious for 10 days from the day of symptom onset. Deshmukh was admitted on February 5 a few days after testing positive in RTPCR test. He was discharged on the 11th day from the day infection was detected. At 9.27am on Monday, a message was posted in the official group of the state HM that the minister would speak to the press after his discharge at 12.30 pm. At 11.38 am, his personal secretary Yogesh Kothekar posted a message asking the media persons not to come to the hospital for the home minister’s press meet. He stated that some information or statement would be shared later, if there was any need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hm-deshmukh-under-covid-quarantine-meets-media/articleshow/80931429.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Protesting patwaris, jobless youths bring Jaipur to halt, trigger long snarls||JAIPUR: Police resorted to lathi charge on a group of protesting patwaris at Bais Godam on Monday when they were heading towards the state assembly to demand an increase in their grade pay to 3,600. Meanwhile, a mahapanchayat by nearly 2,000 unemployed youths, under Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh’s banner led to a huge traffic jam around Bais Godam on Monday. They were protesting against government’s delay in fulfilling their demands related to pending recruitment in various departments and conducting of exams that are due. The demands of the unemployed youth include release of advertisement for examination to the posts of technical helpers in the energy department and that the examination should be held offline. They also wanted that the centre should be given in Rajasthan and that there should be relaxation in the age limit. Apart from this, they also demanded holding of computer teacher recruitment exam (education department), RAS recruitment 2021, exams to recruit school lecturers and several other pending exams for various posts. “The mahapanchayat at Bais Godam will continue till our demands are fulfilled. We went to the state assembly at 3pm. But, at 6pm, we were asked to leave without anyone letting us meet the chief minister (Ashok Gehlot), ministers or any other official. We will not leave the place till we have a dialogue with the representatives of the government. The police are even threatening to remove us from here. We have submitted four memorandums - related to pending recruitment, fresh recruitment and other issues - addressing the chief minister,” said Upen Yadav, convener of Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh. “Five buses of protesters were not allowed to enter the city as they were stopped at Chomu Pulia and Gopalpura Bypass. The ministers and officials in the government are behaving like dictators,” he added. Rajendra Nimmiwal, president of Rajasthan Patwar Sangh, said, “We walked all the way from Ajmer to Jaipur to submit recommendations, signed by MLAs, sarpanches, former MLAs and MPs, to the state government to increase the pay grade of the patwaris to 3,600. As we were peacefully heading towards the assembly, police resorted to lathi charge. The police even kicked some of us, beat up women patwaris and tore our clothes.” Talks between Patwars and state government remained inconclusive. “Our first demand is that our grade pay should be increased to 3,600 (i.e. from Rs 20,800 to Rs 33,000 for L-5 patwaris). The second demand is that on completion of services for 7, 14, 21, 28 and 32 years, the patwaris should be upgraded to the next pay scale,” he added. There are 12,898 sanctioned posts of patwaris in the state. Of these, 7,849 posts are filled and 4,956 posts are vacant. Watch Protesting patwaris demand wage hike, bring Jaipur to a halt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/protesting-patwaris-jobless-youths-bring-city-to-halt-trigger-long-snarls/articleshow/80938419.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Madurai||NHRC should probe manual scavenging deaths in TN: NGO||Madurai: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) should conduct a probe on manual scavenging in Tamil Nadu and give recommendations to the government based on the actual findings, said Evidence an NGO fighting for the rights of people from the scheduled caste and scheduled tribe communities.They made this recommendation following the death of three manual scavengers M Murugan, 41, D Bhagyaraj, 40, and S Arumugam, 45, due to asphyxiation while cleaning the septic tank of a private company at Katrambakkam near Sriperumbudur in Kancheepuram district on Sunday.“Eleven persons died due to manual scavenging in the state in the last eight months. It is the highest in the country,” says A Kathir, executive director of the NGO. Sunday’s incident had the second highest casualty in an instance during the said period. The highest was four – Balakrishnan, Pandi, Isakki and Dinesh – at Keela Chekkarakudi in Tuticorin district on July 2, 2020.Among their recommendations they stated the Union government should declare manual scavenging a crime and that those engaging them should be arrested. The Centre should also make state-of-the-art equipment available for sanitary and conservancy workers on a war-footing.They added that Tamil Nadu should be declared as a state where manual scavenging deaths take place and a state-level committee to be formed exclusively to monitor and put an end to manual scavenging. In addition to compensation of Rs 10 lakh to kin of the deceased, a government job should also be given to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nhrc-should-probe-manual-scavenging-deaths-in-tn-ngo/articleshow/80941857.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||Day after he collapsed, Rupani says he’s fine||Gandhinagar: After testing positive for Covid-19, chief minister Vijay Rupani said he is fine and will resume routine work after his quarantine period. Meanwhile, Rupani’s personal assistant Shailesh Mandaliya also tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Mandaliya, who accompanies the CM to all functions, also got admitted to UN Mehta Hospital for treatment. Speaking to The Times of India, the CM said, “I am fine. Doctors have found all my parameters to be normal. However, as a precaution I will stay in the hospital under observation of doctors.” He added that he fainted on Sunday because of low sugar levels. “I fainted on Sunday at Vadodara because of low sugar levels. I request all who came in close contact with me to get tested and take care. I thank all party workers and well-wishers who have prayed for me. After quarantine period, I will resume routine work,” he said. Meanwhile, sources said none of Vijay Rupani’s family members have shown any symptoms of Covid-19. The CM’s wife Anjaliben and other family members will however be under observation. Sources said after the CM tested positive for Covid-19, staff at the chief minister’s office (CMO) and other officials in the bureaucracy who met the CM in the past week, have been advised to report Covid-19 like symptoms. Sources said senior officers in the CMO like K Kailashnathan, chief principal secretary to the CM, secretary to CM Ashwani Kumar and others have not shown any symptoms so far. Chief secretary Anil Mukim and other IAS officers who met the CM in the past few days have also not shown any Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/day-after-he-collapsed-rupani-says-hes-fine/articleshow/80934948.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Awareness on digital toll payment needed, say transporters||Jaipur: The MV (Motor Vehicles) Act 2019 notification has made it mandatory for all vehicles to have the FASTag and officials claimed that violators will be checked at toll booths. Meanwhile, transporters claimed that the deadline for FASTag should be extended to end of this month as there are still many who are yet to get it. They also claimed that more awareness should be raised regarding it to ensure that people are not fined unnecessarily. The government has amended the Motor Vehicle Rules, making it mandatory for all vehicles (four-wheelers and above) to fix FASTag from January 1 and from April, it is mandatory for renewing your vehicle insurance policy. “As FASTag has been made mandatory, all vehicles will have to get it if they have to travel on highways otherwise they will be fined, but at present, we are not looking at penalising the vehicles moving within the city,” said an official. Meanwhile, the transporters claimed that a lot of people were also not aware about ways to get the FASTag sticker. Anil Arora, president, Jaipur Transport Operators Association told TOI, “The concerned department needs to raise awareness about this by setting up camps at various locations in the city. Many people are not internet savvy and are facing issues in downloading the app and recharging. The deadline should be extended so that people can understand how this system works. We are in favour of using FASTag as it would reduce long queues at the toll booths as well as ensure that crime is also curbed as there will be a record of the vehicles.” Motorists also claimed that the system at toll plaza needs to work efficiently as in few instances, when the server was not working, they paid cash at the toll while money also got deducted from their FASTag account, which was not refunded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/awareness-on-digital-toll-payment-needed-say-transporters/articleshow/80938486.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||NDMC zeroes in on more sites for mini-forest||NEW DELHI: Taking ahead its project of developing mini-forests in the middle of congested neighbourhoods or busy commercial areas, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has strated work at five more sites in places like Rohini, Prasant Vihar and Azadpur. The project is targeted to be completed this year, taking the total number of mini-forests to eight. In 2019, the horticulture department had started a special drive to identify such neglected sites to develop them into man-made mini-forests. Unlike parks, only saplings of native trees are being planted in such forests. The civic body had begun with developing one acre in Rajendra Nagar on the direction of Delhi High Court and soon chose two more sites at Keshavpuram and Karol Bagh. “After getting encouraging response at Rajendra Nagar, we identified five more sites last year at C Block park, Azadpur Mandi; park B4 adjacent to a primary school in Sultanpuri; vacant area at G Block in Prashant Vihar; area near Pocket 2 in Rohini’s Sector 25; and Pocket 8A in Rohini’s Sector 24. Though the deadline for planting trees is March, we have already completed work at some places like Azadpur Mandi,” said an official. “With the hiring of 600 more contractual staff, we will speed up work at other sites as they need proper maintenance to increase the survival rate of saplings,” said the official. In mini-forests, the corporation gives stress on planting native trees like pilkhan, banyan, gular, jamun, mahua, neem, mango and teak at short distances while a walkway is constructed on the sides. “Our purpose is to develop lush green areas. Such places are important in congested areas where there are no or limited trees,” said the official. Officials appreciated the help of RWAs or locals in ensuring survival of 90% of the saplings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corpn-zeroes-in-on-more-sites-for-mini-forest/articleshow/80934932.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||Epar-Opar Bangla artists unite at Fort William to celebrate Muktijuddha @ 50||Kolkata: Over a dozen large canvases on easels with renowned painters and art college students busy at their work. Nine tents with finished paintings, depicting themes from the Liberation War of Bangladesh, adorning their walls. Such was the scene at the Vatika Lawn of Fort William in Kolkata on Monday. This was an art fest organized by the Army's Eastern Command. Painters from India and Bangladesh expressed their feelings about the war, fought 50 years ago through their brush strokes, at the art fest. The Indian Army and the Eastern Command played an important role in Bangladesh’s War of Liberation, so the event was titled ‘1971: Retrospective Through an Artist's Eye.’ The paintings will be displayed in a gallery at the Fort William Museum under the banner ‘Commemorating the Birth of a Nation.’ The art fest was inaugurated on Monday by Lt Gen Anil Chauhan, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command. “Though there have been many interactions between people from the two countries on this subject, this is for the first time that an exclusive event has been organized for painters like us. This is an honour. I am very happy to be participating in this event as India played a crucial role in our Liberation War. This is also a message to all that the military is not only about warfare and violence. Even soldiers do appreciate art,” said Jamal Uddin Ahmed, a painter and faculty at the department of fine arts in the University of Dhaka. “This is a great event. India has been a true friend. Your country played a major role in our War of Liberation,” said Ahmed Shamsuddoha, an artist. Arindam Chatterjee, who was among the Indian artists, said, “There have been a few such events where people from the field of arts have come together to commemorate the events of those times and pay tribute to those who gave up their all. This should have been thought earlier. Unfortunately, the literature of that time does not sufficiently reflect the great struggle in Bangladesh. Such an event with the historical structure of Fort William as a backdrop is certainly unique.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/epar-opar-bangla-artists-unite-at-fort-william-to-celebrate-muktijuddha-50/articleshow/80934958.cms||Jayanta Gupta
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Recruitment rally starts in KRC||Almora: Around 1,100 men participated in an Army recruitment rally which started at the Kumaon Regimental Centre (KRC) in Ranikhet on Monday. However, only 1,050 were selected after checking their Covid-19 test report and pre-height test. Open recruitment rally for all six districts of Kumaon has been organized by Army Recruitment Office (ARO), Pithoragarh in KRC. The rally would end on March 10. Around 301 candidates won the race held in different groups. Colonel Bhaskar Tomar of ARO said, “Tehsil-wise recruitment of men from all the districts of Kumaon will be done in the ongoing rally which would end on March 10.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/recruitment-rally-starts-in-krc/articleshow/80934896.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Over 82% FASTag coverage in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With nearly 6.25 lakh registered vehicles in the state, the FASTag coverage has crossed 82 per cent. From Tuesday (12 am) onwards, FASTag will be mandatory in all lanes at the toll plazas across the state. The vehicles without FASTag or without functional FASTag will have to pay double the fare. “To promote fee payment through digital mode, reduce waiting time and fuel consumption and provide for a seamless passage through the fee plazas, it has been decided that all the lanes in the fee plazas on National Highways shall be declared as “FASTag lane of the fee plaza” w.e.f midnight of 15-16th February 2021,” a statement issued by the ministry of road transport and highways said. “Therefore, as per NH fee rules 2008, any vehicle not fitted with FASTag or vehicle without valid, functional FASTag entering into the FASTag lane of the fee plaza shall pay a fee equivalent to two times of the fee applicable to that category,” it added. Union ministry of road trasport and highways had issued a notification making FASTag mandatory to be available by January 1, 2021 in old vehicles also i.e. M and N category of motor vehicles (four wheelers) sold before December 1, 2017 through amendments in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989. Meanwhile, state transport departments are sending text messages to vehicle owners pointing to the violation and also mentioning that they could be imposed a penalty in case they are caught. The penalty would be Rs 300 for first offence and Rs 500 for repeat offence. It has been further mandated that a valid FASTag is mandatory while getting a new third party insurance through an amendment in Form 51 (certificate of Insurance), wherein the details of FASTag ID shall be captured. This shall be applicable w.e.f. April 1, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-82-fastag-coverage-in-raj/articleshow/80938518.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mom of 2 stabbed on Valentine’s Day, dies||Mumbai: A 37-year-old ward attendant died after she was stabbed on Valentine’s Day by a man who had allegedly been stalking her. Bhoiwada police registered a murder case on Monday and arrested Rajesh Kale (36), a Govandi resident. Deceased Kavita Kamble lived with her husband and two children in Gautam Nagar slums in Govandi. She used to work in KEM Hospital as a class four employee, said police. According to the police, Kale and the deceased knew each other as they lived in the same locality. It is alleged that Kale had been stalking her. On Sunday, she was going to work when Kale accosted her and stabbed her in the stomach. Locals immediately alerted the police and rushed Kamble to KEM Hospital.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mom-of-2-stabbed-on-valentines-day-dies/articleshow/80944611.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur citizens exhibit Covid memory loss, doctors remind of lurking threat||NAGPUR: Though the daily cases have increased in the range of 100 to 200 since the last few days, people seem to have forgotten the threat that novel coronavirus is posing. Despite the use of mask in public and Covid distancing still being advised in every government advisory, citizens continue to give two hoots to these norms. Hugging and handshakes, which were discouraged in the wake of Covid spread, have resumed among citizens. Doctors say any mention of use of masks, following hand hygiene or maintaining Covid distancing are taken with scorn by the citizens these days. NMC’s chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said, “Those who have been infected by Covid may not forget it for their entire life. Those who are still not infected are showing carelessness. Not much restrictions are there on the outskirts of the city and citizens believe there is nothing to worry within the city as well. It is a misunderstanding. The pandemic is still there and people must follow the protocol,” he said. IGGMCH department of pulmonology head and professor Dr Radha Munje said people may not have forgotten Covid but they think it won’t affect them. “People should avoid going to crowded places. Same self-discipline of waiting in queue with Covid distancing, which was seen during lockdown, must be followed. People are risking their lives when they don’t follow these norms. They are also risking lives of their family members,” she said. Consultant pulmonologist of Kingsway Hospital Dr Vikram Rathi said in the beginning a lot of precautions were taken. “As cases went down, people lowered their guard and became complacent. They are not following adequate precaution,” he said “Citizens believe that Covid is not such serious disease and therefore we are still fully unable to prevention the spread of infection. Citizens need to change their mindset to tackle Covid,” said Anasuya Kale Chhabrani of NGO TogetherWeCan, which has been working for Covid patients. Senior psychiatrist at Regional Mental Hospital Dr Praveen Navkhare feels there are a couple of factors responsible for change in citizens’ response to Covid norms now as compared to last year. “As Indians, we are used to rules being imposed upon us rather than we ourselves choosing to follow them on our own. Second is overcoming the fear of death. Earlier, everyone feared death due to Covid,” he said. Dr Navkhare added that some people are under impression that vaccine is a cure. “Many are not aware that vaccination is for prevention,” he said. Besides these, of late, different issues are on people’s mind. “Attention is shifted towards issues ranging from national importance to ‘how to retain present job’. This attention shift from 2020 when it was only Covid could be one more reason,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-exhibit-covid-memory-loss-doctors-remind-of-lurking-threat/articleshow/80931533.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||24 Asoka trees shifted from indoor stadium to Jaipur Road||Ajmer: Green Army and Ajmer Smart City Company shifted 24 Asoka trees from the indoor stadium to Ashok Vatika at Jail Training Institute on Jaipur Road.The trees were translocated in order to create space for a sports complex at Patel Stadium under smart city project. Following a request by the committee of indoor stadium, the district officials decided to shift the treesto the Jail Training Institute.Officials said that these large trees were removed with their roots and were taken to the Vatika with the help of earthmovers. Officials said efforts are being made to ensure that the trees are provided enough water and minerals to make them survive in the new area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/24-asoka-trees-shifted-from-indoor-stadium-to-jaipur-road/articleshow/80934919.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Surat||Virtual national tax conference from Feb 17||Surat: The All India Federation of Tax Practitioners (West Zone), an association of advocates, chartered accountants and tax practitioners in the country, will organise a two-day ‘Virtual National Tax Conference’ from February 17. “The conference is being jointly organised by AIFTP (West Zone), the Goods and Services Tax Practitioners Association of Maharashtra, Vidarbha Tax Practitioners' Association, and Central Gujarat Chamber of Tax Practitioners. The main object of AIFTP is to spread education in matters relating to tax laws, other laws and accountancy. The membership of the AIFTP includes senior advocates, advocates, solicitors, chartered accountants and tax practitioners, practicing direct or indirect taxes from all states,” said Mitesh Modi, vice chairman, AIFTP (West Zone). “Over 1,000 professionals have got themselves registered for the virtual conference. P P Bhatt, president of income tax appellate tribunal will deliver the inaugural speech. The relevant subjects like implications of union budget on direct taxes, recent changes and budget implications on GST and GST audit and annual return for financial year 2019-20 among others will be discussed by a panel of experts,” added Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/virtual-national-tax-conference-from-feb-17/articleshow/80931569.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Bengaluru||Nod to anti-cow slaughter bill: Only buffalo meat in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The controversial anti-cattle slaughter law came into effect in Karnataka on Monday, with governor Vajubhai R Vala giving his assent to the bill which makes it illegal to slaughter all cattle, barring buffaloes aged over 13. The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, which will bring about an “almost-blanket beef ban” in the state, has become a law nearly three months after the it was passed in the assembly last year. Law allows govt officials to act in ‘good faith’The government’s inability to get the bill passed in the legislative council had forced it to take the ordinance route earlier. The law allows authorities to conduct search and seizure operations merely on suspicion, and to clamp down on transportation of cattle outside the state without certification from a veterinarian or competent authority. It also allows government officials to act in “good faith” — a clause that is being seen as a shield against unnecessary complaints against them. The law also brings strict provisions of imprisonment of not less than three years and up to seven years on conviction, apart from a fine of not less than Rs 50,000 and up to Rs 10 lakh based on the severity of the offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bill-gets-nodonly-buffalomeat-in-ktaka/articleshow/80947398.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Over 200 hectares of flora and fauna in ‘core zone’ of Nanda Devi National Park badly hit in Chamoli deluge||DEHRADUN: A preliminary digital analysis of the Nanda Devi National Park revealed extensive damage to flora and fauna of the sanctuary, a Unesco World heritage site, caused by the Chamoli flash flood. Forest officials said that Raunthi area, the core zone of the national park, had been hit badly. Also, according to experts of the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) as well as other institutes studying reasons behind the flood, the water had further damaged a 22km stretch from Raunthi to Tapovan. The current had sliced off a side of the mountain, sweeping away trees, medicinal herbs, shrubs, endangered species like musk deer, Himalayan goats as well as leopards. “The preliminary digital analysis, done by expert scientists, shows around 200 hectares of the forest has been lost in the disaster. In terms of area, the losses can amount to several lakhs, as it was the habitat of precious trees and animals - Himalayan birch (bhojpatra), Pindrow Fir, Surai, Kaangar and Kael as well as musk deer, Himalayan goats, bharals, and leopards,” said range officer of Nanda Devi National Park Vijay Lal Arya. A forest team will give its final report on the matter by the end of this week, said DFO of Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve NB Sharma. “The team is yet to reach the actual spot in Raunthi from where it all started, as there is no connectivity. Therefore, the exact estimates are awaited. This week, we will come up with an actual count regarding losses to trees and other natural resources of the biosphere reserve,” Sharma said. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, officials of the forest department said that “the loss in monetary terms may turn out to be immense after an adequate evaluation is conducted”. An official said, “The area is among some of the rarest in the Himalayan zone and its flora and fauna has been devastated.” Villagers of Raini, the cradle of Chipko movement, told TOI an irreparable damage had been done. Bhawan Rana, pradhan of Raini village, said, “Some unique trees grow only in this temperature and environment but it’s all gone. The forest patches of Pangrai saved by (Chipko activist) Gaura Devi and the snow desert are nowhere to be seen anymore. The tragedy should be considered an alarm bell.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-200-hectares-of-flora-and-fauna-in-core-zone-of-nanda-devi-national-park-badly-hit-in-chamoli-deluge/articleshow/80931600.cms||Shivani Azad
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||BSF holds health camps for border villages||Jaisalmer: The 18 BN BSF organised a medical and veterinary camp in Shahgarh Bulj area for the villages on Indo-Pak border, here on Monday.A BSF Source said the camp was organised at Murar ki Dhani in which over 600 people, including kids, of nearby villages and dhanis participated.Commandant Raj Kumar Negi distributed water storage tanks, quilts, portable toilets, solar street-lights, sports articles, stationery, and water campers among the local population. In addition, 240 camels, 20 cows and over 100 sheep/ goats were also tested at the veterinary camp and necessary medication was given to them. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-holds-health-camps-for-border-villages/articleshow/80934953.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Fairs, haats hold key to artisans’ return to biz||Jaipur: Handicraft fairs and haats are back in business. For local arts and craftsmen, these traditional marketing events were restricted by the pandemic for most of 2020. Now, they look forward to rebuilding their business which suffered the most. In January, two handicraft fairs were held in Jaipur. In February, a special handloom expo is scheduled to be held in the city by the Udhyam Protsahan Sansthan of the state industries department. More events are in the pipeline and will be held in other parts of the state. “For the crafts people, these haats and fairs were the main source of promotion and business. That’s why they are displaying high levels of enthusiasm to participate. The event organisers are following Covid protocols so that buyers feel confident to visit the fairs. We will continue to support such activities,” said Archana Singh, commissioner, department of industries.Earlier, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had expressed concerns on the pandemic’s impact on artisans and craftsmen and their families. “Withthe return of fairs, handicraft artists are optimistic of quick return to normalcy. These artists are aware of the protocols and follow them strictly so that they don’t lose out customers,” added Singh. Around four events are scheduled to be held till April. A special handloom expo will start from February 19 and run till March 4. Similarly, two crafts bazaars have been planned from March 5-14 and March 15 -24. Another event will take place between March 25 and April 3. Nearly 4 lakh artisan families depend on the cottage industry. They have suffered hugely because of Covid and these fairs and haatsare likely to lend an impetus to the recovery of their businesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fairs-haats-hold-key-to-artisans-return-to-biz/articleshow/80938558.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Forest wing organises bird fair & census in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: A large number of migratory birds visit the desert areas during winters and reside near various water bodies. It is also a treat for bird lovers who come here to watch them. The forest department organised a bird fair and conducted a census of birds of 13 waterbodies on February 14.The deputy conservator of forest and wildlife, Jaisalmer, Kapil Chandrawal and assistant conservator Vijay Borana with other forest staff participated in bird fair and the census. Others who joined them were environmentalists Shyam Sundar Meena, Parth Jagaani, Amitabh Baloch and other volunteers, mainly school and college students.Kapil Chandrawal told TOI, “The second edition of the bird fair was organised by the office of deputy conservator of forest, wildlife, Jaisalmer at Gajroop Sagar Lake under the Mid-Winter Water Fowl Population Estimation, 2021. The main motive of this programme was to increase awareness about the migratory and native birds of Jaisalmer among the public. All the Covid-19 guidelines were followed properly.”He said, “Forty-three species of birds were sighted at Gajroop Sagar Lake. These included Little Grebe, Little Ringed Plover, Common Redshank, Common Greenshank, Common Sandpiper, Wood Sandpiper, Lapwing, Common Coot, Pond Herons, Egrets, Kingfisher etc. A photography contest was also organised, we will award the three best photos.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-wing-organises-bird-fair-census-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80935028.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Madurai||Water in petrol? TN petroleum dealers assn blames it on ethanol||Madurai: Vehicle users in south Tamil Nadu recently picked up a quarrel with fuel station owners after they experienced jerking of vehicles which they thought was due to adulteration of petrol. But the Tamil Nadu Petroleum Dealers Association blames it on ethanol in petrol. The association said that oil marketing companies are mixing 10% ethanol with petrol as a measure to reduce environmental pollution. Ethanol can mix with water and this can lead to issues like jerking of vehicles, according to the association.The association on Monday issued an advisory to petrol vehicle owners to take caution to ensure that water does not mix with the fuel. State president of the association K P Murali said that petrol vehicle owners had faced the issue during the recent unseasonal rain and picked up a quarrel with the fuel station owners. “Petrol will not mix with water, but ethanol will,” he told TOI. Water leaking into the tank during rain or while the vehicles is being washed would result in ethanol getting in contact with water. A very small quantity of water is enough to attract the ethanol in petrol and convert it (ethanol) into water, according to him. It will get collected at the bottom of the fuel tank, causing difficulties while driving.Murali said that fuel station owners were taking utmost care in ensuring that water does not leak into their petrol tanks. The association stated that the respective vehicle users would be responsible for such cases and that fuel stations would not take the responsibility. They also asked consumers to check the quality of fuel at the stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/water-in-petrol-tn-petroleum-dealers-assn-blames-it-on-ethanol/articleshow/80941944.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||High court interim relief to Jha in web series case||Jodhpur: Providing interim relief to film director Prakash Jha in an FIR filed against him for hurting the sentiments of Dalits in his recently released web series, the high court ordered ‘no coercive action’ against him until the next hearing.While hearing the petition moved by Jha, justice Manoj Kumar Garg has also issued notices to the complainant and the state government on Monday returnable in 6 weeks.A complaint had been filed in Luni police station of Jodhpur over a scene in season I of the web series where some people of an upper caste object to a Dalit groom mounting a horse during his wedding procession. The complainant objected to portrayal of Dalit people in a derogatory and insulting manner in the episode. It was also mentioned that this would encourage such behaviour in villages and strict action against the maker of the series was demanded.Jha’s counsel Nishant Bora, who moved the high court praying quashing of FIR against his client, argued that no case under SC/ST Act was made out against Jha as the scene was fictional and was just a conversation among the characters of the serial. “It was not intentional to rebuke the Dalits in these scenes and was just a fictional portrayal of a situation,” Bora argued.A similar matter is pending before the district & sessions court against Jha and actor Bobby Deol, who played the central role of a Hindu godman in the series.In this matter also, the petitioner had argued in the court to direct police to file an FIR against the two (Jha and Deol). It was alleged that portrayal of Deol as a Hindu godman has hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus.The court, however, had refused to direct the police to file an FIR and issued notices to Jha and Deol instead, seeking a reply to the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/high-court-interim-relief-to-jha-in-web-series-case/articleshow/80934983.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Allahabad||Trader shot dead in broad daylight, another injured||Prayagraj: A 25-year-old trader was shot dead in broad daylight shootout incident and another sustained serious injuries after a history sheeter opened fire on them near Bajrang crossing, Allahapur under the limits of Georgetown police station on Monday. The deceased, identified as Shobhit Kesarwani, was a resident of Allahapur. The injured trader, Satyam, was admitted at SRN hospital for treatment. SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh said the incident took place around 12 noon when Shobhit Kesarwani was sitting at his father’s paan beetal shop (Satish Pan Bhandar) located at Bajrang crossing. He added that the accused assailant identified as Pradeep Shukla arrived at the pan beetal shop and had arguments with Shobhit over some old issues. The verbal dispute between Pradeep Shukla and Shobhit went so loud that traders of nearby shops started reaching towards Shobhit’s shop. Before Shobhit and his friend could understand, the accused first opened fire with his pistol on Shobhit and then shot at his friend Satyam who had come to help Shobhit. The broad daylight shootout incident created panic among traders who pulled down their shutter one by one. The accused managed to escape from the scene unchallenged. Upon receiving information, senior police officials along with forensic experts rushed to the spot and carried out investigations. SP, meanwhile, said that police have traced the vehicle belonging to the history-sheeter and a team was dispatched to ensure his arrest. The condition of injured trader was stated to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/trader-shot-dead-in-broad-daylight-another-injured/articleshow/80931608.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur civic body starts on-the-spot Covid testing of hawkers||NAGPUR: To curb spread of Covid-19 infection in city, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Monday started testing hawkers at their business places using a mobile swab collection centre. The civic body will also start Covid testing of food delivery executives from Tuesday. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B had on Friday announced Covid testing of hawkers, vegetable vendors, milkmen, delivery boys, staff of courier services and other such people who daily come in contact with a large number of people. Accordingly, an NMC team led by assistant medical officer Dr Vijay Joshi took the mobile swab collection centre to Sitabuldi market, which is one of the most crowded areas of the city. The team talked to representatives of the hawkers association and also interacted with hawkers. However, only 14 hawkers turned up and gave swab samples there. NMC’s additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “We have already informed the hawkers associations and will also hold meetings at zone-level to convince them for undergoing Covid testing.” Medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said plan is to begin testing of delivery boys in Laxmi Nagar zone on Tuesday. The civic body has identified nine localities where the number of cases is higher as of now — Khamla, Swawlambi Nagar, Jaitala, Wathoda, Dighori, Jaripatka, Jafar Nagar, New Bidipeth and Ayodhya Nagar. Dr Chilkar said, “Rapid Response Team (RRT) was appointed for each area on Friday. Each RRT is inspecting 50 households and inquiring about health, checking temperature and oxygen saturation level of persons with comorbidities and senior citizens. Two more RRTs have been deputed for each area on Monday. Thus, 1,350 households will be covered in a day.” The NMC also organized special camps by engaging mobile swab collection centres in these areas on Sunday and Monday. Samples of over 500 people were collected in the two days. Some NGOs and enthusiasts came forward to encourage contacts of Covid positive persons and those with symptoms to undergo testing. With the help of NMC, radiologist Dr Nayeem Khan arranged mobile swab collection centre at Eidgah ground in Jafar Nagar. The civic chief has also directed owners of shops and hotels to get their all employees tested once in a month and also submit a work plan within 10 days. Weekly data clearly shows rise in Covid cases in the district, especially in city. In the first week of February, 1,824 cases were registered for a daily average of 261. Also, 27,508 tests were done for a daily average of 3,930. Cases increased to 2,657 in the second week and daily average was 380. The number of tests also increased to 30,962, which means 4,423 per day. However, the number of cases detected in the first two weeks of January was more compared to the corresponding period of February. Daily average was 412 in the first week and 413 in the second. Cases declined in the third (285/day) and fourth week (273/day), though no rise in Covid casualties has been reported in the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-starts-on-the-spot-covid-testing-of-hawkers/articleshow/80931595.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 16, 2021||Business||Post-Budget rally unabated in 3rd week, sensex tops 52,000||MUMBAI: The Budget-led rally on Dalal Street continued for the third straight week as unabated buying led by foreign funds took the sensex past the 52k milestone on Monday. The index opened the session at 51,908 points, rallied to a new life high at 52,236 and settled 610 points higher at 52,154, also a new closing high. Banks and FIs were among the top contributors to the day’s gains. The market cap is now at a record Rs 205 lakh crore (about $2.8 trillion), higher than the country’s GDP. Analysts believe the Budget could lead to investmentled growth while the proposal for an AMC for banks’ bad assets would release funds for lenders to concentrate on their core business. A stable rupee, with India’s forex reserve nearing $600 billion, is also giving confidence to foreign funds to buy Indian stocks, market players said. The rally since February 1 has also made investors richer by over Rs 19 lakh crore with BSE’s market capitalisation now at an all-time high at Rs 205 lakh crore or about $2.8 trillion. This also lifted India’s market cap above the country’s GDP, making it one of a handful of countries to have a market cap-to-GDP ratio of more than 1. The gains were led by foreign fund buying who net pumped in over Rs 20,100 crore, or about $2.8 billion. In contrast, domes tic funds have net sold stocks worth about Rs 8,960 crore, data from CDSL and BSE showed. The rally in the domestic market was also helped by a global rally but ignored the rising crude oil prices and also the chance of a double-dip recession in the Eurozone. According to Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities, global shares rose for the 11th consecutive day to hit a fresh peak on optimism about the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines and new fiscal aid from Washington, while tensions in the Middle East drove oil to a 13-month high. “A recent Reuters poll found the euro zone economy was in a double-dip recession and that economists now expect GDP to contract 0.8% in the first quarter, reversing an earlier forecast for growth of 0.6%,” Jasani wrote in a post-market note. In Monday’s market, the gains came mainly on the back of buying in banking and financial stocks with ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, HDFC and Axis Bank contributing over 80% of the sensex’s gain. Selling in TCS, RIL and HUL, however, limited the gains to some extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/post-budget-rally-unabated-in-3rd-week-sensex-tops-52000/articleshow/80947404.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||6,500 trees planted in shape of India’s map||Jaisalmer: To promote eco-tourism at the Indo-Pak border, around 6,500 plants of different varieties have been planted to denote ‘India’ in Ghotaru area of Jaisalmer district. The forest shaped like the India map will be visible from any flight or satellite.Fencing has been done on all the sides. Arjun, Seesam, Neem and Peepal trees have been planted. NGO Sankalp Taru gave the idea and ONGC provided budget from its CSR fund. NGO founder Apoorva Bhandari said it had earlier undertaken plantation of saplings in Leh and Ladakh areas. For the first time, they have taken the task of growing 6,500 plants in an area where the temperature can soar up to 50 degrees Celsius.The NGO will take care of the plants for three years and then hand it over to the BSF.To develop this place as a picnic spot, ONGC will put solar lights and provide other facilities. Bharatmala highway passes from Ghotaru. The Green India project is being made near the highway. The forest is situated near Longewala, a popular tourist spot known for the War Memorial honouring the Battle of Longewala 1971. It is 900 metres from the BSF checkpoint. The location of the plantation block was chosen to not only grow a mini forest, but also support the local communities, who depend on livestock and animal husbandry with cattle population around 15,000. Lack of grazing grounds makes generation of livelihood challenging. The mini forest will help combat the rising desertification in the region by improving ground water availability, and in turn help the local communities in improving farming practices by growing fodder crops for their cattle and prevent their migration to the cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6500-trees-planted-in-shape-of-indias-map/articleshow/80935093.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Petrol pump manager injured in robbery bid||Jaisalmer: An effort was made to loot a petrol pump on Sunday night near Thob village in Pachpadra police station area in Barmer district on mega highway on Barmer-Jodhpur border. The thieves threw chilli powder and tried to rob on gunpoint but fled away as the staff at the petrol pump screamed for help. An employee got injured in the incident. Police are investigating the case. On getting information, police reached the spot and started the investigation based on CCTV footage. SP said that the search is on and soon, the culprits will be nabbed.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/petrol-pump-manager-injured-in-robbery-bid/articleshow/80935052.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana HC to decide if AP will get share in dairy unit||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that AP Reorganisation Act did not confer any adjudicatory powers on the Centre, Telangana HC said it would pronounce its decision on whether AP will have any share in Vijaya Milk Products factory in Secunderabad or should it be considered as an exclusive asset of Telangana. A bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Vinod Kumar reserved its judgment in a petition filed by AP State Dairy Development Cooperative Federation which challenged the decision of its Telangana counterpart, TSDDCF, to count Lalguda factory and Vijaya guest house in Hyderabad as exclusive assets of Telangana. Judges heard arguments from AP advocate general S Sriram and his Telangana counterpart BS Prasad and found fault with the central government for misleading both the states in the tussle over dairy assets. At one stage, the judges said the Centre can at best advise the states but its advice in this regard is binding on none. “We have seen how different departments within the same central government are thrashing out their differences before the courts. Central government cannot entrust to itself any adjudicatory role when the Reorganisation Act did not confer any such role to it. The task of adjudicating such issues rests solely with the courts. Either this court or some other court or the SC itself, but not the central government has such powers,” the judges said. Since the factory and guest house are located in Hyderabad, Telangana claimed that they were not part of headquarters that needs to be apportioned. AP, on its part, argued that this was a common asset built by both states over a period of time and the factory was catering to the needs of both the states. “Vijaya Federation is an inter-state organisation and its common assets should be apportioned between AP and Telangana in tune with population ratio,” Sriram said. He described the GOs issued by Telangana’s animal husbandry department’s principal secretary annexing the Lalaguda factory and the guest house to Telangana federation as a “mutated understanding” of the law. Prasad, however, said the factory was catering to the needs of the twin cities and hence authorities were right in considering them as an asset belonging to Telangana. At this, the judges found fault with counter filed by Telangana authorities. “On one hand, they agree that by allotting two floors each to AP and Telangana federations in the head office, it is an inter-state organisation whose common assets are required o be apportioned. On the other, they demarcate Lalaguda factory and the guest house as separate local assets and refuse to recognise them as common assets,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-decide-if-ap-will-get-share-in-dairy-unit/articleshow/80935109.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Walled City traders’ group complains over squatters||New Delhi: Expressing displeasure over the presence of hawkers on the main road connecting to Red Fort, Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal has written to North Delhi Municipal Corporation and Delhi Police regarding the increasing encroachment in the area. “Every day one can find some new hawkers on the roadsides, which is in violation to the court orders. We had rounds of meetings with the municipality and Delhi Police, but in vain,” said Sanjay Bhargava, president of the association. The association has requested for calling a joint meeting of all the departments to discuss the issue and ensure the orders of the Supreme Court and Delhi High Court were enforced. A corporation official said regular drives were being conducted in the area. A cop also said they were taking action and even keeping track on illegal encroachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/walled-city-traders-group-complains-over-squatters/articleshow/81010415.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Ship fire: Kin’s wait for bodies gets longer||Mumbai: Poor weather conditions hampered the arrival of distressed offshore vessel Greatship Rohini, and it is now expected to dock in Mumbai either late Monday or Tuesday morning. Three crew members had died after a fire broke out on the vessel on Saturday, while a fourth is critical in hospital. The bodies of fourth engineer Anit Antony (31) from Vasai, fitter Akshay Nikam (25) from Borivli and oiler Ranjit Sawant (49) will be sent to JJ Hospital for DNA test. Their families are in a dilemma after being informed it will take at least seven days to get the report. “Initially, we were told the DNA test would be completed in two days, but we are now told it will take a week,” Anit’s father, TD Antony, told TOI. V.Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ship-fire-kins-wait-for-bodies-gets-longer/articleshow/80944708.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Corbett to conduct baseline survey of birds from today||Dehradun: A three-day-long bird counting exercise, starting Tuesday, will be undertaken in the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) to develop a baseline data on the birds in and around the park. “The exercise will be conducted in a phased manner, covering all four seasons. We will study the number, species, and locations of birds inside the park. As some birds visit the park during a particular season, we will ensure that the exercise goes on for one full year,” said Rahul, CTR director. According to an estimate by birdwatchers and researchers, CTR is visited by around 400-600 species of birds. The reserve is famous among the birdwatchers of India for sighting of raptors, eagles, vultures, fish eagles, different species of owls, and Indian pitta, among others. Migratory birds like brown dipper, forktails, white-capped water redstart, and gray-headed fish-eagle also visit the park annually. The 12 ranges of Kalagarh tiger reserve and Ramnagar forest division will be covered in the estimation exercise, which is to be conducted by 21 teams — having five members each. The move will help in conserving the avian species, say officials. Rahul added that another major objective of the exercise is to provide livelihood to the villagers in and around Corbett. “Bird watching has huge scope for rural tourism. We want to engage local youths in this profession. It will serve dual purpose for us — conserving biodiversity in the park and generating livelihood for them,” said Rahul. “The estimation will span across the park. The major focus this month is on river, water reservoirs, and ponds as we have migratory birds in this season. And Kosi river, Kosi barrage, Ramganga river, and several other ponds are also to be covered in the exercise,” added Rahul. The senior official further said that if the situation demands, drones may also be used for the exercise. Meanwhile, the bird watching festival — which is conducted in Uttarakhand every year — has been postponed in the wake of the Chamoli flash floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corbett-to-conduct-baseline-survey-of-birds-from-today/articleshow/80931692.cms||Shivani Azad
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Weak comeback: A fortnight on, attendance thin at DU colleges||NEW DELHI: The number of students coming to the campus remains low two weeks after Delhi University colleges reopened for physical classes. Attendance in both North Campus and South Campus colleges has been low. This is perhaps explainable since classes have restarted physically only for science students and many outstation students haven’t returned because the hostels are yet to open. At Hindu College, the administration and the teachers have been reaching out to the students, but not many have responded. At Ramjas College, principal Manoj Khanna said, “The attendance has been irregular and there are actually very few students in some of the courses.” Khanna added, “Beyond counselling them, we cannot force them to return. At most, we can tell them what precautions we have installed in college. But only after the university takes a decision about reopening hostels will we see more students coming back.” Students too have noticed fewer of their peers’ presence on the campus. Aniket Dan, life sciences student at Swami Shraddhanand, said, “We have to go to college once or twice a week for our practical classes. But while some students from UP and Uttarakhand are coming for classes, we are not back to the pre-Covid strength.” Speaking to TOI, Balram Pani, dean of colleges, DU, said, “We are working on the modalities of reopening the hostels for undergraduate students. It will be done in a few weeks’ time.” This will be crucial for proper attendance in colleges as evident in the few colleges where the majority of students are from Delhi logging better presence in the classes. Ramanujan College is one of them. Principal S P Aggarwal, said, “Our students are keen to return because they want to meet their friends.” Schools are witnessing a similar attendance issue. In the city’s private schools, the attendance in the four classes — from IX to XII — that have resumed is around 50%. Ashok Pandey, director, Ahlcon Group of Schools, hoped more would return. “It is important for the children to attend classes to bridge the gaps in the learning. We are doing all we can to assure the parents and tell them that social distancing is not a problem because we will seat fewer students in one room,” said Pandey. The school has even asked parents to take a tour of the school to see how prepared it is for the pandemic situation. The hesitancy of parents, according to Pandey, is because it is difficult for children to be made to follow social distancing and avoid crowds when they would be meeting friends after a long time. But students being present in school is important, especially for any remedial classes they may need. Of course, in government schools, student attendance has been as high as 90% on occasion. Rajpal Singh, principal of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Yamuna Vihar, said, “After the schools reopened, the attendance has been increasing by the day. We are glad that we have successfully managed to follow the Covid standard operating procedures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/weak-comeback-a-fortnight-on-attendance-thin-at-du-colleges/articleshow/80935189.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||KMDA turns 50, b’day bash features Lake flower show||Kolkata: There has been a riot of colours at Rabinda Sarobar these days. KMDA, keepers of the lungs of south Kolkata, is holding the first flower show since last Thursday. The flower show is a part of KMDA’s 50 years’ celebration. The artificial lake was dug in the 1920s by the Calcutta Improvement Trust (CIT), which has now merged with KMDA. “The flower show is being held in association with the Agri Horticultural Society of India, which turned 200 last year. The blooms amid Lake’s greenery are a real visual treat,” said Santanu Chatterjee, a morning walker. Thousands of people have been thronging the Lake to enjoy the flower show that was initially planned till Sunday. “Minister Firhad Hakim, who is KMDA’s chairman, is enthused by the response and decided to extend it till the day after Saraswati Puja,” said a KMDA official. “Events like these will go a long way in increasing people’s awareness on protecting the greens of Rabindra Sarobar that is included under the National Lake Conservation Plan,” said Probir Kumar Basu, former director of NIT and a morning walker. Sprawled across 192 acres with a 73-acre waterbody, the Sarobar hit headlines last November when the HC barred Chhath Puja inside it. But evening walkers are worried with the increased footfall. “Many visitors are coming without masks,” said Saheli Pal, local resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-turns-50-bday-bash-features-lake-flower-show/articleshow/80935163.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 16, 2021||Udaipur||Gang flees with ATM having Rs 5L||Udaipur: Unidentified men uprooted an ATM containing more than Rs 5 lakh on the main road at Madri Industrial Area in Udaipur on Sunday. Sources said the men tied the machine with a rope and used a jeep to uproot it. ASP Gopal Swaroop Mewara, DSP Rajiv Joshi and Pratapnagar CI Vivek Singh Rao along with a special task force team later went to take stock of the spot. The loot is said to have taken place between 1.30 am and 2 am. Police have collected footage from all the CCTV cameras installed in the locality. One of the CCTV cameras has captured footage of the jeep which the robbers had used to carry away the machine. The jeep had stopped after moving some 100 metres and the men pushed it to some distance to restart it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/gang-flees-with-atm-having-rs-5l/articleshow/80935132.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Civil Society members, farmers hold tractor rally, give memo to ADC||Ludhiana: Members of Civil Society and farmers’ organisation submitted a memorandum to the district administration here after taking out a tractor march from Noor Mahal in Jalandhar to Ludhiana on Monday. Keeping this in mind, the Ludhiana police had already issued an advisory to the commuters on Sunday to avoid certain routes in the city in view of the tractor rally. Tejinder Singh, son of national president of BKU Rajewal Balbir Singh Rajewal, said that about 250 tractor and 50 other vehicles were part of the tractor rally that started from Noor Mahal area of Jalandhar. He added that after reaching Ludhiana they handed over a memorandum to the additional deputy commissioner at Jagraon bridge. Singh said that in the memorandum they had taken strong exception to use of bad words against farmers by some BJP leaders. He added that they had asked the administration that they (BJP leaders) should not do it and if they would do it again, then they would boycott them. Tejinder added that they had given an application to SHO Noor Mahal about the tractor rally, who had taken it up with Ludhiana police and whatever route they provided, they followed the same route. He added that the rally was taken in a peaceful and disciplined manner and traffic was not disrupted. Meanwhile, the BKU in a statement issued said that the farmers’ struggle had been going on for the last seven to eight months and the ‘black laws’ passed by the Union government were like death warrant for farmers. It added that one-two farmers were dying daily at the Delhi borders. The statement said that despite all this, BJP leaders were making false statements against them and allegedly celebrating the fate of martyred farmers. It added that despite the peaceful dharna, false FIRs had been registered against farmers which was totally wrong. Kashmir Singh, a farmer from Jandyala and BKU Rajewal worker, said that the farmers wouldn’t rest till their demands about repeal of the ‘black farming laws’ was accepted. He demanded that the government should also cancel the cases registered against farmers during the Republic Day tractor rally and also guarantee MSP on all crops. Earlier, the rally saw elderly and youth in good numbers. They were carrying flags of farmers’ agitation and raising slogans in favour of farmers and farm workers and against Modi government. Open jeeps, modified tractors also comprised the rally that passed through the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/civil-society-members-farmers-hold-tractor-rally-give-memo-to-adc/articleshow/80935204.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||658kg of opium doda chura seized in Chittor||Udaipur: Chittorgarh police seized 658kg of opium doda chura from a long platform truck (LPT) from a checkpost on the Nimbahera-Mangalwad state highway on Monday. Seeing the police checkpost, the truck driver tried to speed away, however the police team caught the driver. When the cops checked the vehicle, they found it laden with sacks of fertilizers but beneath the load were 43 plastic bags that were full of doda chura. Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava said the department has been continuously raiding the highway hotels and intercepting trucks to check illegal activities and smuggling of contraband and in the series, the Mandaphiya SHO GhanShyam Singh led the team for intercepting a truck that approached from Dungla. The driver Sureshchandra, son of Manna resident of Chikarda, Chittorgarh has been arrested under Section 8/15 of the NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/658kg-of-opium-doda-chura-seized-in-chittor/articleshow/80935174.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Four trespass into house, arrested||Hyderabad: Dundigal police arrested three trans women and a cross dresser for trespassing into a house in Doolapally village and forcibly taking away Rs 4,000 cash from the landlord after abusing him and creating nuisance on Monday afternoon. According to police, the four accused went to the newly constructed house of the complainant during the house warming ceremony and asked him for money. As the family refused to give money, the accused abused them and behaved in an indecent manner. The accused also forcibly took Rs 4,000 cash from the complainant. Based on the victim’s complaint, we have registered a case against the accused and arrested them under sections 448, 384, 506, 294 r/w 34 of the IPC, SI D Mahesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-trespass-into-house-arrested/articleshow/80935142.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||26k applications in for DDA housing scheme, last day today||NEW DELHI: If you have been planning to apply for Delhi Development Authority’s Housing Scheme 2021, today is your last chance. Tuesday is the last day to apply for the 1,354 flats on offer, for which the draw of lots is scheduled to be held on March 5. DDA received total 26,365 applications till around 8 pm on Monday for the scheme that was launched on January 2. A DDA official said that “out of the 26,365 applications it has received, 15,103 applicants have also made the final payment of application fee. DDA has received most of the payment for 10,147 HIG and MIG flats, 1,711 final payments for LIG flats and 3,245 for EWS flats. The application fee is Rs 2 lakh for HIG and MIG flats, Rs 1 lakh for LIG flats and Rs 25,000 for EWS flats.” The draw of lots will be webcast and applicants who are unsuccessful in landing a flat will be refunded the application fee. The scheme offers 254 higher income group (HIG) flats with prices ranging between Rs 69.6 lakh and Rs 2.1 crore and 757 two-bedroom, middle income group (MIG) flats priced between Rs 40.6 lakh and Rs 1.4 crore. The number of one-bedroom flats is on the lower side with just 52 lower income group (LIG) flats with price ranging between Rs 17.7 and 35.5 lakh, apart from 291 flats for economically weaker sections (EWS). For its 2019 Housing Scheme, DDA had received around 45,000 applications for the nearly 18,000 flats on offer. With a large number of these flats not finding any takers, DDA finally carried out draw of lots for around 10,000 flats. DDA officials said that the response to the housing scheme has been satisfactory and as seen in previous schemes, the number of applications see a spike in the last few days. Between January 2 and February 7, DDA had received 15,361 applications, out of which 6,488 applicants had made the final payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/26k-applications-in-for-dda-housing-scheme-last-day-today/articleshow/80935239.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ludhiana||SAD worker nabbed in Cong MLA’s defamation case||Ludhiana: The Tibba police have arrested Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) worker Paramjeet Singh Pamma in a preventive arrest on Sunday night. Importantly, Pamma was booked by the police for defaming Meenu Talwar, wife of MLA east Sanjay Talwar. According to the police officials, they are also checking the role of the SAD worker in the defamation and extortion case of MLA also. On February 4, Ajay Talwar, brother of the MLA, had lodged a complaint against accused Pamma for uploading defamatory remarks on his FB profile related to the MLA’s family, specifically against his wife. Following the complaint, Tibba police had booked the accused. Besides, the police registered a case against an unidentified accused for uploading an obscene video on FB page ‘Congress Mukt Punjab’ and claimed MLA Talwar to be in the video. Following this, the unidentified accused also demanded Rs 50 lakh extortion from the MLA with a warning that if he does not get more, he would upload more such videos on social media. Now, the cops are checking if both cases related to MLA Talwar and his family are linked or not. Assistant commissioner of police, East, Devinder Chaudhary said, “Paramjeet Singh Pamma, a SAD worker, has recently been booked in two-three cases, including defamation and IT Act. He is a notorious person, therefore the police, while taking preventive action, has arrested him.” On asking if Pamma was linked to the FIR lodged by MLA Talwar, the ACP said, “As of now, the police cannot say anything on this. But the role of Paramjeet is certainly being probed in the defamation and extortion case of MLA Sanjay Talwar.” Pamma has four cases filed against him, including a case of assault on a woman, two cases of obscene act and a defamation case, inspector Mohammad Jamil, SHO police station, Tibba, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-worker-nabbed-in-cong-mlas-defamation-case/articleshow/80935224.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 16, 2021||Delhi||AAP goes door to door ahead of civic bypolls||New Delhi: Ahead of the municipal bypolls to five wards on February 28, AAP on Tuesday distributed various responsibilities related to election preparations. The party organised a public meeting in Bawana where AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai, MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj and functionary Durgesh Pathak interacted with local people. AAP volunteers are also going door to door to discuss local issues. After Tuesday’s interaction, the party claimed Delhiites were fed up with BJP’s corruption. Meanwhile, Santlal Chawriya, a former BJP candidate and ex-chairman of Delhi Safai Karamchari Commission, joined AAP with supporters. BJP functionary and MCD Sramik Sangh president J P Tonke also joined AAP. Both slammed BJP over management of the municipal corporations and corruption in the civic bodies. “I decided to join AAP because I have witnessed how BJP is manipulating the funds released by the Kejriwal government as sanitation workers’ salaries,” said Chawriya. Rubbishing the allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Virender Babbar said everyone knew that AAP had starved the corporations of funds. “People will teach AAP a lesson,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-goes-door-to-door-ahead-of-civic-bypolls/articleshow/81010496.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||State starts giving 2nd dose of Covid vax||Ahmedabad: On Monday, the state health department started administering the second dose of Covid-19 vaccination. On the first day, about 9,300 beneficiaries took the second dose. The pace of inoculation, however, remained slow in the state with only 71% of the beneficiaries in first and second phases getting the shots so far.Dr Nayan Jani, the state immunization officer, said that on the first day of the vaccination for the second dose, about 9,300 got the shots. “The majority were among the first beneficiaries on January 16 and 17,” he said. “Now the administration of both first and second shots will continue simultaneously. We have covered the majority of healthcare workers.”Dr Jani went on to say: “Several of those who could not get vaccinated had medical conditions or valid reasons such as pregnancy.”An analysis of vaccinations revealed that 88% of the 4.33 lakh healthcare workers and 60% of the 6.93 lakh frontline workers have so far got the jabs. The Union government intends to start the third phase of vaccination covering the population of people aged 50 and above from the first week of March. In Gujarat, over 1 crore beneficiaries for the third phase have been identified.“We have kept the window open for those in first and second phases if they have missed the designated date and time,” said Dr Jani. “The focus will now be on frontline workers and the compliance with the second dose.”At Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad, 40 doctors got the second dose of the vaccination. Dr J P Modi, the medical superintendent of the hospital, was among the beneficiaries. “We appeal to all to comply with the vaccination schedule,” he said. “There are no or negligible side effects of the vaccination, and currently it’s the best chance we have against the pandemic.”Earlier, several beneficiaries waiting for the second dose reported a glitch with CoWIN even as the state authorities claimed that there was no issue. Sources aware of the development said that several doctors had earlier got the message for vaccination on Saturday, but they were later told by the health department to approach the vaccination centre on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-starts-giving-2nd-dose-of-covid-vax/articleshow/80935223.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Gangster Papla shifted to Ajmer’s high security jail||JAIPUR: Notorious gangster Papla Gujjar was shifted to Ajmer’s high security jail on Monday after a local court at Mundawar in Alwar sent him to judicial custody till February 26. The decision came just minutes after he was initially sent to Kishangarhbas jail as senior police officers and jail authorities wished not to give the gangster or his aides to repeat what he did in 2019. Papla appeared at a court in Mundawar which sent him to judicial custody. Initially, he was taken to Kishangarhbas jail in Alwar. However, after a nod from jail authorities, he was shifted to the Ajmer’s high security jail. “Since he escaped from judicial custody twice including once in Rajasthan, it was not a feasible idea to keep him in Alwar district, which is close proximity to neighbouring state Haryana. That’s why he was shifted to high security jail of Ajmer,” said a senior police officer of Bhiwadi police of Alwar. At Ajmer jail, Papla would be kept in a smaller compartment in one of the blocks of the jail. “The height of the jail walls is above 40 feet and we have more than 76 CCTV cameras installed at every nook and cranny to observe the activities of the inmates. Also, we have the facility of video conferencing for the appearance of dreaded criminals,” said a senior officer of Ajmer jail. Ajmer jail has a separate oval-shaped compartments in which an inmate can’t even stand properly. Gangsters including Lawrence Bishnoi of Haryana, Raju Theth of Shekhawati, Manjeet Singh, who is brother of notorious gangster Anand Pal Singh, are among other inmates who were kept at Ajmer’s high security jail. It may be recalled that Papla was arrested by a special team of Jaipur Range police on January 28. He has been in police custody for more than 18 days so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gangster-papla-shifted-to-ajmers-high-security-jail/articleshow/80935207.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab: Nodeep Kaur gets bail in second case but not out of jail||BATHINDA: Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur on Monday got bail in another case registered against her on January 12 under the charges of extortion and unlawful assembly. However, she is still behind the bars as she faces another case of attempt to murder for allegedly attacking Haryana Police personnel. Her family moved a bail application on Monday in the Punjab and Haryana high court in the case, which was also registered on January 12 after her arrest. She had got bail on Thursday in the first case of extortion registered against her on December 28, 2020. Earlier, bail in attempt to murder case was denied to Nodeep by Sonipat district and session court on February 2. Nodeep’s sister Rajveer Kaur told TOI, “The Sonipat district and session court granted her bail on Monday in FIR 26 registered on January 12 at Kundli. The family today moved application in the high court for bail in FIR 25 also registered on January 12, under the charges of attempt to murder. The court is expected to take up the application soon.” Twenty three years old Nodeep, who was from Gandhar village in Muktsar district of Punjab, was arrested on January 12 after a clash with police. Farm activists have said the Dalit activist was raising the matter of unpaid wages of nearly 300 workers of factories situated at Kundli when the incident happened and claimed that she was being punished for participating in farmer struggle at Singhu. While cases of extortion was registered on the complaint of an employee of the industrial unit where Nodeep and others had gone to protest, attempt to murder case was filed by Sonipat police. Police had released a video of Nodeep and others clashing with cops. Nodeep was participating in the farm struggle from early days of December 2020 and she was thrown out of job. US Vice President Kamala Harris’ niece Meena Harris, Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission and Punjab Women Commission have raised her issue, along with farm bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/nodeep-gets-bail-in-2nd-case-but-not-out-of-jail/articleshow/80944696.cms||Neel Kamal
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||T reports 99 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||Hyderabad: Telangana on Monday recorded 99 new cases of Covid-19- recording less than 100 cases in a matter of 7 months and the positivity rate standing at 0.6 percent—the lowest so far. Two deaths were recorded in the state. Taking the latest numbers into account, the state recorded a total of 2,96,673 cases and 1,618 deaths so far. The number of active cases in the state have reduced to 1,676, while a total of 2,93,379 patients in the state have so far recovered from the coronavirus infection. The recovery rate meanwhile has improved to 98.88 percent. This is better than the country’s average rate of 97.3 percent. The CFR is 0.54 percent. On this count too, Telangana is better off than most other states with country average being 1.4 percent.A total of 15,766 samples were tested for coronavirus on Monday. Telangana has now completed 83.1 lakh tests for Covid-19 and has reached 2.23 lakh sample testing per million population. On Monday, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 24 new cases while Rangareddy recorded 10 new cases. 13 districts did not record any new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-99-new-covid-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/80935229.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Heart transplant patient on recovery path||Hyderabad: The heart transplant performed on a critical cardiac patient at Apollo Hospitals, Jubilee Hills, with the cadaver heart transported through metro rail on February 2nd, was successful with the heart recipient recovering fully. For the first time in the history of organ transplantation, anywhere in the world, metro rail was used to transport an organ. A dedicated green corridor was created by Hyderabad Metro Rail and Police, for the cadaver heart to reach Apollo Hospitals at Jubilee Hills, expeditiously. tnN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heart-transplant-patient-on-recovery-path/articleshow/80935198.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||FIR filed for bid to breach the peace||AHMEDABAD: A 52-year-old BJP worker had accused a Dariapur resident of intentionally insulting him with the intent to provoke breach of peace on Monday. Sanjay Limbachiya, a catering contractor who lives in Mehta Pol in the Vadigam locality of Dariapur, filed a complaint against Kunjal Patel, a 34-year-old resident of Moti Mehta Pol in Kot ni Raang area behind Vadigam. According to Limbachiya’s FIR, he was standing near one Mukesh Panchal’s house with his associates Jignesh Kadia and Jabbarsingh Shekhawat at 8.15pm on Saturday, discussing arrangements for his party president’s public meetings and rallies. The FIR states, “Kunjal Patel came up to them and told them that ‘you BJP people should not hold any rallies or public meetings in this area’. Patel also said that if BJP people held rallies there, he would get his people to pelt them with stones and shut them down.” Limbachiya also alleged that Patel used abusive language against him. Dariapur police on Sunday filed a complaint under IPC Sections 504 and 294 (b).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fir-filed-for-bid-to-breach-the-peace/articleshow/80935249.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Hry discoms still far from UDAY goals’||Chandigarh: The 15th finance commission has raised the issue of Haryana’s electricity distribution companies’ (discoms) aggregate transmission and line losses (AT&C). According to the commission, the state has progressed in power reforms, but has failed to achieve the target under UDAY scheme. “Robust systemic reforms are required to ensure that power subsidies reach intended beneficiaries without leakage to improve the health of the power sector,” the report remarked. . Under the UDAY scheme, the state has taken over Rs 25,950 crore of discoms debt during 2015–2017 in the form of grants (Rs 7,785 crore), loan (Rs 15,570 crore), and equity (Rs 2,595 crore). Also, the loan was converted into equity in 2017–18 and 2018–19 Bringing down AT&C losses and increasing recovery was one of the major factors under UDAY scheme. The state has been able to increase revenue , especially through schemes like Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon, but the line losses continue to hang between 18% and 21 %, which burden the consumer with more levies. Even for the next financial year, UHBVN and DHBVN have submitted ARRs, and Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) is expected to release the tariff orders by mid-March. Haryana additional chief secretary (power) P K Das expressed ignorance about issue raised by the Finance Commission report. “Let me have a look at the report and its findings first. Rest for our knowledge, this document is generally a communication between state and Centre about its financial management,” he said. The commission has also advised Haryana government to prioritise certain things, like health investments, and to concentrate on reducing outstanding debt. Besides, the state government has been asked to devise a mechanism to recover cost of investments in power in order to meet corresponding interest burden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-discoms-still-far-from-uday-goals/articleshow/80944787.cms||Manvir Saini
February 16, 2021||Chennai||Active Covid cases plateau in Chennai, but more zones enter below-100 club||CHENNAI: The spread of Covid-19 in the city has hit a plateau and the number of recoveries has slowed down in comparison to the previous few weeks, official data shows. On many days, recoveries are lower than fresh cases. This has ensured that the number of active cases has not dropped in the last one week. However, apart from the five North Chennai zones and two in South Chennai, active cases in Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar and Alandur zones went below 100. In Perungudi, they increased to 100. Data released by the city corporation shows that the number of active cases on February 7 and 14 was 1,559. In fact, in many zones, the number of active cases has increased. In Manali, cases rose from 37 to 50, in Thiruvottiyur (50 to 54), Madhavaram (54 to 59), Tondiarpet (49 to 68), Royapuram (78 to 86), Anna Nagar (139 to 171), Perungudi (89 to 100), Sholinganallur (68 to 78). The number of active cases would have increased substantially, if not for a substantial drop in Valasaravakkam (153 to 117), Kodambakkam (167 to 150), Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar (109 to 99), Alandur (110 to 84) and Adyar (146 to 119). However, the test positivity rate (TPR), measure of the spread of Covid-19, was 1.49% on February 7 and 1.23% on February 14. Official data shows that when the number of fresh cases increases on a day or the number of recoveries is lower than fresh cases, the number of people tested is increased the next day. As on date, the number of streets with positive cases is 57. Of these, 18 are in the south, 22 in the central part and 17 in the north.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/active-cases-plateau-in-city-but-more-zones-enter-below-100-club/articleshow/80935258.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ludhiana||SAD raises questions over Pamma’s arrest||Ludhiana: A day after SAD worker Paramjit Singh Pamma was arrested by Ludhiana police, the party has alleged that the arrest of Pamma is unjustified and slapping ‘kalandara’ under Section 110 on him is under pressure from the Congress. Meanwhile, Dhillon said that SAD does not approve posting of any kind of objectionable comments and posts against anyone, including political rivals, but also said that Pamma had already got bail from the court in the IT Act case registered by the police on the complaint of brother of MLA Talwar. He said that there was no need to impose ‘kalandara’ on him and arrest him. Dhillon also said that Pamma was a social activist too and arresting him without a proper case smelt of a conspiracy. Speaking on the issue, Dhillon said “Ludhiana police is misusing its powers and playing in the hands of the Congress. Rules are being openly flouted and people and social workers and their families are being unnecessarily harassed by slapping cases on them. Pamma’s case is the latest in this series and without proper verification of facts ‘kalandara’ under section 110 was imposed on him as if he was a hardcore criminal. By doing this the police have clearly violated the law, misused its powers and given the evidence of acting not as police, but as a Congress worker. We have already conveyed about the wrongdoings to our high command and based upon the plan of action suggested by them, we will proceed accordingly in this case.” Dhillon added that, “Mine and my party’s stand on the issue of objectionable posts is clear and we strongly oppose any such act committed by any of our worker or leader. But in Pamma’s case he was booked under the IT Act by the police in the case of objectionable post, but he secured bail from the court in this case. So, as of now I cannot comment anything about the social media posts case, but all I know is imposing ‘kalandara’ on him is totally unjustified and a ploy by the Congress to harass him.” Meanwhile, while rubbishing SAD’s claims Ashwani Sharma, district president of the Congress, said, “By levelling such false accusations of our pressure on police for arresting Pamma, SAD is just trying to cover misdeeds of their workers. The police is doing its work as per law and Akalis are trying to disrupt it and create hurdles in the investigation. Moreover, the tactics of influencing investigations or pressuring government officials is the trademark practice of SAD and not of the Congress, which works only on democratic values.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-raises-questions-over-pammas-arrest/articleshow/80935236.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Attention diversion gang busted in Telangana, 6 held||HYDERABAD: Task Force police have arrested six members of an attention diversion gang, who were stealing silver jewellery from shops posing as customers. Police seized Rs 2.5 lakh worth silver articles from their possession. The accused were identified as M Kiran, 40, an auto driver, Y Renuka, 40, Y Thulasi, 24, Y Swetha, 22, all three housewives, Y Raju, 29, a painter, and Elizabeth Rani, 25, a labourer from Hayathnagar. According to police, the accused, all from Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh, had migrated to Hyderabad 15 years ago. On December 20, 2020, the gang went to Ramswaroop Jewellery shop at Chilkalguda posing as customers and stole silver anklets weighing about 500 grams. On January 6, the gang stole 50 tola silver ornaments from Om Sai Gold and Silver workshop at Nacharam after diverting the attention of salesperson there. On February 6, the gang stole 40 tola silver jewellery from Trishla Jewellery Shop at Tukaramgate. Task Force North Zone team verified CCTV camera footage of over 200 places and identified the accused. Acting on specific information, police arrested the accused at Monda Market on Monday and seized 1 kilo silver, four cell phones and an auto rickshaw from the possession of the accused. On January 6, the gang stole 50 tola silver ornaments from Om Sai Gold and silver workshop at Nacharam after diverting the attention of salesperson there||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/attention-diversion-gang-busted-6-held/articleshow/80935255.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: PM Modi to address IIT e-convocation||KOLKATA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will give the convocation speech at IIT Kharagpur. The 66th convocation, which has been deferred since August last year, will be held virtually on February 23. Modi will chair the convocation and inaugurate a super-specialty hospital that has come up just off the campus. The facility, Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Science and Research, will start recruiting doctors and medical faculty from the next academic session starting in August. The institute is, however, yet to get the detailed minutes of the PM’s schedule from his office. The hospital is distinct from the existing B C Roy Technology Hospital. Initially it was thought the two facilities would be under the same umbrella but later, it was decided that the super-specialty hospital would be developed as a Section 8 company so, should have a different identity and name. “The same name would create confusion. So last year, the board decided to change it to Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Science and Research. The other hospital will continue to cater to IIT staff, students and pensioners,” said registrar Tamal Nath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pm-to-address-iit-e-convocation/articleshow/80935233.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Water supply to be restored after Uttarakhand hurdle||NEW DELHI: After mud and debris from Uttarakhand’s Chamoli impacting Delhi’s water supply via Upper Ganga Canal on Sunday, the situation has started improving as the turbidity levels have come down from 8,000NTU to less than 1,000. The level usually hovers around 100 nephelometric turbidity units (NTU), Delhi Jal Board (DJB) officials say. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha visited one of the impacted water treatment plants (WTP), Bhagirathi, on Monday. Upper Ganga Canal provides a quarter of Delhi’s overall 930 million gallons per day (MGD) water supply. Chadha said DJB had overcome the problem of water supply that was caused by the natural calamity in Uttarakhand. The Bhagirathi water treatment plant is now working at 100% capacity and the Sonia Vihar WTP at 80% capacity, he said. Bhagirathi supplies 108MGD water to city and Sonia Vihar, 140MGD. The impact of the Chamoli disaster was first felt in the raw water coming via Muradnagar early on Sunday when silt, organic and inorganic materials started reaching Bhagirathi and Sonia Vihar WTPs, which receive 248MGD water from Upper Ganga Canal. DJB had to reduce water production at both plants, affecting supply in parts of south, east and northeast Delhi. At the Bhagirathi plant, the turbidity has reduced from 8,000NTU to 960 and, in Sonia Vihar, from 8,200NTU to 1,000. On Sunday, NTU in both plants was 80 times more than the normal level. “To combat this situation, we had to bring down production at both plants substantially. These plants together provide around 250MGD water per day,” Chadha said. “We have now cleaned around 90% of the dirt in the water and only 10% is remaining. I am also happy to announce that due to this hard work of our officials, from Monday the Bhagirathi water treatment plant will work at 100% capacity,” the DJB vice-chairman said in the morning. He claimed that DJB had provided enough water tankers to manage the situation. The Sonia Vihar water treatment plant produces around 140MGD water per day. “But due to the dirt in the water, only 40% production was happening in this plant,” Chadha said. Now this has also been brought down to less than 1,000NTU, he added. “The plant is still running at 80% of its capacity. I hope that by the evening, the Sonia Vihar plant will start working at 100% capacity,” Chadha said in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/water-supply-to-be-restored-after-ukhand-hurdle/articleshow/80935291.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Erode||Only 30% recipients across TN show up to take Covid jab 2nd dose||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu vaccinated 21,645 people on Monday, when 3,782 people – 30% of the people who were due — returned to take the second shot of the vaccine. With this, the state has vaccinated 2,69,017 people with the first dose and 4,936 people with both the doses. Meanwhile, public health authorities added 455 fresh cases, six deaths to the Covid-19 registry and discharged 477 patients. This pushed the cumulative case tally to 8,45,575, detah toll to 12,425 and left the state with 4,232 active infections. On Monday, from the 663 vaccination centres, the state had the capacity to vaccinate 89,847 people, but only 24% of the beneficiaries turned up. “There is some hesitation among healthcare workers in returning for the second dose because studies by a British journal suggested that delay may increase efficacy. The country’s policy of giving the second dose in a 28 day interval is based on scientific evidence and opinions of the experts,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan, after taking the second shot at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Though cities such as Chennai have vaccinated a high number of people, the backlog is still huge, he said. “The centre has permitted us to roll out the vaccines for officials deputed or engaged in poll related activities. Their names will be added to the Cowin portal soon,” he said. Barring Perambalur and Tiruvannamalai, all districts had fresh cases on Monday. While Chennai and Trichy reported two deaths, Coimbatore and Tiruvallur reported one death each. Chennai topped the case table with 143 new cases, Coimbatore had 46 and Chengalpet 39. All other districts reported cases below 25. Active cases were highest in Chennai – 1,568.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/only-30-recipients-across-tn-show-up-to-take-c-jab-2nd-dose/articleshow/80971723.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||2 killed as lorry rams into bike at Mirchowk||Hyderabad: Two youngsters travelling on a bike were killed after they were hit by a lorry coming in the opposite direction in Mirchowk. According to Mirchowk police the deceased were Mosim Khan (28) and Faisal Khan (26). The duo, residents of Azampura, were returning home after attending a marriage in Chaderghat on the wee hours of Monday. At around 1.28 am, when they were travelling between Chaderghat and Kalikhabar, the rider suddenly stopped the vehicle to avoid a pothole. But he lost control and fell aside along with the pillion. Both were crushed to death by a lorry. Police registered a case against the lorry driver. Both the victims were denting work mechanics. Locals alleged that the pothole was formed due to the negligence of municipal authorities.  At around 1.20am, the rider suddenly stopped the vehicle to avoid a pothole. But he lost control and fell aside along with the pillion||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-killed-as-lorry-rams-into-bike-at-mirchowk/articleshow/80935264.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of Delhi ride, man dies in Gurdaspur||Gurdaspur: A farmer, who was actively involved in the farmers’ struggle against the three farm laws, died in mysterious circumstances at Gawar village in Gurdaspur. The deceased was identified as Parwinder Singh (45). Though sources said Parwinder committed suicide, as he held himself responsible for failure to mobilise more people for the ongoing agitation on Delhi borders, police cited the autopsy report to rule out the possibility of suicide. Sources said Parwinder allegedly committed suicide on Sunday after he couldn’t persuade more farmers and villagers to join the protest for which he had even got his tractor trolley readied and had parked the same outside a local gurdwara. Jamhuri Kisan Sabha senior vice-president Jagjit Singh Kalanaur said Parwinder had been actively associated with farmers’ struggle since the beginning and had also visited Delhi on several occasions. “He had prepared his tractor trolley to leave for Delhi and had been successful in persuading about a dozen persons to join him, but he was not happy upon not getting an encouraging response to his call,” Kalanaur said, adding that something happened to him and he collapsed. He said earlier, Parwinder had stayed in Delhi for about 8 to 10 days and had also gone to attend the tractor march on January 23. Denying reports of suicide by Parwinder, Batala senior superintendent of police Rachpal Singh said Parwinder had made an announcement from village gurdwara about going to Delhi on Sunday morning. “He went to answer nature’s call and later some villagers found his body near the local cremation ground,” the SSP said, adding that nothing suspicious was found in the post-mortem report. “There is no injury or any sign of an attempt to suicide,” he said, adding that Parwinder could have possibly died of cardiac arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ahead-of-delhi-ride-man-dies-in-gurdaspur/articleshow/80944907.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||Global boost for Liver Foundation||Kolkata: Liver Foundation West Bengal (LFWB) is set to go global in its activities with the launch of Friends of LFWB (FLFWB) in California. The organisation aims to align with more people — scientists, activists, philanthropists and other like-minded people across the globe for its activities. “LFWB has been working on how to bring the best care to the rural people in a well-planned design devoid of any prejudices and its ability to think out of the box,” said Nobel laureate Esther Duflo while inaugurating the website of FLFWB online from Paris. Duflo pointed out on how rural medical practitioners were trained by LFWB and the government of West Bengal so that they could provide basic medical care to people in the rural villages of Bengal where there is acute crisis of doctors. The medical practitioners have also been taught about when and what kind of patients they should not handle and instead send them to a hospital or a qualified doctor. “We aim to go beyond geographical boundaries through FLFWB,” said hepatologist Abhjit Chowdhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/global-boost-for-liver-foundation/articleshow/80935284.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Subedar Major Dilip Singh cremated with military honours||Almora: Subedar Major Dilip Singh, posted in Bengal Engineering Group (BEG) in Roorkee, passed away on February 14 while undergoing treatment. His last rites were performed with full military honours at his village Kapileshwar on Monday. Many people came to bid farewell to the Subedar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/subedar-major-dilip-singh-cremated-with-military-honours/articleshow/80935357.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Blaze in forest near Aarey, greens cry foul||Mumbai: A fire broke out in a forest area near Aarey Colony at Goregaon (west) on Monday afternoon. Fire Brigade officials said the fire was near Royal Palms Estate. No injuries were reported, but green activists said regular fires were breaking out in the Aarey forest area over the last few days and alleged it was a deliberate act. “Fires have been deliberately set off during the past four days. We have already complained to the authorities concerned, pointing out that fires have been frequent in this forest area. This is a serious cause of concern. Not just fires, even hacking of the forest is taking place in Dindoshi hills. Authorities must take immediate preventive and punitive action,” said D Stalin from NGO Vanshakti. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/blaze-in-forest-near-aarey-greens-cry-foul/articleshow/80945000.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Vadodara||Five-ft-long crocodile rescued from sewage pumping station||Vadodara: They were out strolling in the compound of the sewage pumping station on VIP Road on Sunday night when the security guards and some labourers noticed something crawling nearby. When they went up to have a closer look, they spotted a crocodile moving around in dark. The guards immediately contacted the Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT) volunteers who rushed to the spot. “The five-foot-long crocodile had sneaked in the compound of the sewage pumping station from an opening in the rear portion. It took us about half an hour to rescue it,” said Arvind Pawar who runs WRT. Pawar said that the reptile must have ventured out of a lake nearby. “Crocodiles look for good basking spots in this season. This reptile must have ventured out in dark to migrate to some other waterbody,” Pawar told TOI. Several housing colonies are coming up next to the sewage pumping station, so the area is flocked by labourers every day. Pawar said that the reptile was rescued and released into its natural abode. The crocodile census released by the forest department recently revealed that Vishwamitri River is home to about 270 crocodiles. Many of these reptiles venture out of the river and migrate to the ponds nearby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-ft-long-crocodile-rescued-from-sewage-pumping-station/articleshow/80931903.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Salem||Only 30% recipients across TN show up to take Covid jab 2nd dose||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu vaccinated 21,645 people on Monday, when 3,782 people – 30% of the people who were due — returned to take the second shot of the vaccine. With this, the state has vaccinated 2,69,017 people with the first dose and 4,936 people with both the doses. Meanwhile, public health authorities added 455 fresh cases, six deaths to the Covid-19 registry and discharged 477 patients. This pushed the cumulative case tally to 8,45,575, detah toll to 12,425 and left the state with 4,232 active infections. On Monday, from the 663 vaccination centres, the state had the capacity to vaccinate 89,847 people, but only 24% of the beneficiaries turned up. “There is some hesitation among healthcare workers in returning for the second dose because studies by a British journal suggested that delay may increase efficacy. The country’s policy of giving the second dose in a 28 day interval is based on scientific evidence and opinions of the experts,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan, after taking the second shot at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Though cities such as Chennai have vaccinated a high number of people, the backlog is still huge, he said. “The centre has permitted us to roll out the vaccines for officials deputed or engaged in poll related activities. Their names will be added to the Cowin portal soon,” he said. Barring Perambalur and Tiruvannamalai, all districts had fresh cases on Monday. While Chennai and Trichy reported two deaths, Coimbatore and Tiruvallur reported one death each. Chennai topped the case table with 143 new cases, Coimbatore had 46 and Chengalpet 39. All other districts reported cases below 25. Active cases were highest in Chennai – 1,568.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/only-30-recipients-across-tn-show-up-to-take-c-jab-2nd-dose/articleshow/80971725.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Lowest AQI of year yesterday as ocean winds clear up city air||Mumbai: Winds from the ocean cleared up pollutants in the city’s air on Monday as Mumbai recorded its lowest Air Quality Index (AQI) this year. According to System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), Mumbai’s overall AQI for PM 2.5 was115, the lowest this year. An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered moderate and doesn’t pose any health problems to the general public. Researchers at SAFAR attributed the dip in AQI to clean winds from the ocean clearing up pollutants over the city. Among 10 locations monitored by SAFAR, the most polluted was Bandra Kurla Complex with an AQI of 208 which is considered ‘poor’. The cleanest was at Colaba with an AQI of 78. SAFAR has predicted AQI to further improve to 108 on Tuesday. Last year, the cleanest AQI of 12 had been recorded on June 30. That was also the cleanest AQI since SAFAR has began monitoring in the city in June 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lowest-aqi-of-year-yesterday-as-ocean-winds-clear-up-city-air/articleshow/80942179.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chennai||Only 30% recipients across TN show up to take Covid jab 2nd dose||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu vaccinated 21,645 people on Monday, when 3,782 people – 30% of the people who were due — returned to take the second shot of the vaccine. With this, the state has vaccinated 2,69,017 people with the first dose and 4,936 people with both the doses. Meanwhile, public health authorities added 455 fresh cases, six deaths to the Covid-19 registry and discharged 477 patients. This pushed the cumulative case tally to 8,45,575, detah toll to 12,425 and left the state with 4,232 active infections. On Monday, from the 663 vaccination centres, the state had the capacity to vaccinate 89,847 people, but only 24% of the beneficiaries turned up. “There is some hesitation among healthcare workers in returning for the second dose because studies by a British journal suggested that delay may increase efficacy. The country’s policy of giving the second dose in a 28 day interval is based on scientific evidence and opinions of the experts,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan, after taking the second shot at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Though cities such as Chennai have vaccinated a high number of people, the backlog is still huge, he said. “The centre has permitted us to roll out the vaccines for officials deputed or engaged in poll related activities. Their names will be added to the Cowin portal soon,” he said. Barring Perambalur and Tiruvannamalai, all districts had fresh cases on Monday. While Chennai and Trichy reported two deaths, Coimbatore and Tiruvallur reported one death each. Chennai topped the case table with 143 new cases, Coimbatore had 46 and Chengalpet 39. All other districts reported cases below 25. Active cases were highest in Chennai – 1,568.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/only-30-recipients-across-tn-show-up-to-take-c-jab-2nd-dose/articleshow/80935294.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||PMO officials film Dakshineswar Metro||Kolkata: Officials from the PMO on Monday inspected the Dakshineswar Metro and recorded videos of trials and the newly built stations. PM Narendra Modi is slated to flag off the 4km extension of the north-south corridor next Monday. BJP Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta told TOI: “The PM is scheduled to address a public meeting in Hooghly on February 22. But I cannot comment on his official programmes.” Sources said Modi will inaugurate the new elevated Metro line from Dakshineswar and remotely inaugurate the 30km third line between Kalaikunda and Jhargram stations of the Kharagpur division. The section, part of the 132km Kharagpur-Adityapur third-line project, was inspected by the Commissioner of Railway Safety last Tuesday. But Modi’s main official event is likely to centre around Dakshineswar, which is finally getting Metro a decade after the project began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pmo-officials-film-dakshineswar-metro/articleshow/80935343.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Buy e-tickets for all DTC buses in a couple of months||NEW DELHI: Commuters in Delhi will soon be able to find out the expected time of arrival (ETA) at any bus stop on the One Delhi mobile application. Within a couple of months, they will also be able to buy contactless e-tickets by scanning QR codes on both Cluster Scheme and Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses. While Cluster Scheme buses already have functional GPS devices, the buses in DTC’s fleet are also being retrofitted with CCTV cameras, GPS devices and panic buttons. The presence of latest GPS devices in all buses in the city will allow the data to be made available on the application. Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot said that “earlier, the DTC buses had temporary type of GPS devices but now, they have state-of-the-art devices and the integration has been done with the new Command and Control Centre set up by the Delhi government at Kashmere Gate.” “We will also be able to roll out contactless ticketing in all the buses and while it is now available through the Chartr mobile application, commuters will be able to use the One application too. Commuters will also be able to see the real time location of buses,” Gahlot told TOI. Last year, Gahlot had constituted a taskforce to explore the options of contactless mobile ticketing in buses. DTC had started an actual trial of mobile ticketing from September 14, 2020 in which a new feature for issuing free pink tickets for women passengers was added later. The corporation recently added a new facility for issuing ‘Contactless Daily Pass’ with contactless mobile ticketing through scanning of QR codes on a trial basis in 128 buses till February 28. With the public trials being largely successful, it is expected that within a couple of months, all buses would have the facility of scanning QR codes to buy an e-ticket. The Command and Control Centre, which is expected to become operational very soon, will act as the surveillance system’s nerve centre where all panic alerts, pressed by a passenger, driver or conductor, will be filtered and Delhi Police immediately alerted and provided GPS coordinates of the bus. Depending on the nature of emergency, Delhi Fire Service or ambulance services will also be contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/buy-e-tickets-for-all-dtc-buses-in-a-couple-of-mths/articleshow/80935395.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 16, 2021||Delhi||City cops launch vahans of change for better outreach||New Delhi: To reach out to the public and educate them about the modus operandi adopted by criminals and showcase schemes for senior citizens and children, Delhi Police has introduced a Jansampark Vahan for better community policing. The vehicle, which is a modified mini-truck, will travel to different parts of the city daily to guide people on how they can be force multipliers. Apart from this, Prabodhini Vahan for cyber-crime awareness has also been launched by Economic Offences Wing in association with SBI. The vehicle equipped with the latest audio-visual gadgets will visit different locations, including schools, colleges, malls and other high footfall areas, to make people aware about various kinds of frauds. Police will also organise cricket matches and engage with youths who have come out of the criminal world recently. The two vahans were inducted on the 74th Raising Day in the presence of minister of state (home) G Kishan Reddy and Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava. Chinmoy Biswal, PRO, Delhi Police, said, “The vahans will strengthen police-public relations and publicise various online services, mobile applications, helpline numbers and other facilities. The Delhi Police heritage, good works done during the pandemic and various online services available to the public will be shown on LED screens. Three such vehicles have been allotted to each zone, which will cover various colonies, residential areas and prominent locations during the police week from February 16 to to 22.” He added that a liaison officer and a public facilitation officer would be aboard the vehicles to interact with the public. Shrivastava praised the force for their firm handling of the anti-CAA protests and also lauded their functioning during the pandemic in ensuring lockdown and facilitating supply of essential commodities and services to residents. He said a record 755 cases were registered in the riots that broke out in February 2020 and conveyed that investigation would be done freely and fairly. “Intensive use of technology in identification and arrest of the culprits is the hallmark of the investigation,” he added. “The crime against vulnerable sections has registered a significant fall. The recovery of missing children also got a boost from the incentive scheme,” said Shrivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-cops-launch-vahans-of-change-for-better-outreach/articleshow/81010766.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chennai||Is Centre imposing its quota policy on Ta​mil Nadu universities, asks HC||CHENNAI: Wondering whether the Centre is indirectly trying to impose its own reservation rule on state government colleges and universities offering centrally sponsored courses, the Madras high court has sought a detailed report from the Centre and the University Grants Commission (UGC) on the issue. “It appears that the Centre is indirectly pressing the state universities to follow the Centre’s reservation rule for courses it sponsors,” observed Justice B Pugalendhi on Monday. The court’s concerns pertained to two centrally sponsored MTech courses at Anna University, admission for which was cancelled by the university due to disagreement between the state government and the Centre over the quantum of reservation to be offered to students. While TN government wanted to adopt 69% reservation as per state policy, the Centre insisted on 49.5% ceiling for the quota. After the university announced cancellation of admission, a student, Chitra, moved the court seeking resumption of admission to MTech Biotechnology and MTech Computational Biology in Anna University. Subsequently, though the university sought to recommence the programmes and the state suggested creation of nine supernumerary seats, the Centre said the Supreme Court-stipulated cut-off date was over. The compromise by Anna University and the Centre came not before Justice Pugalendhi made a loaded query as to whether the Centre funded reservation or the MTech courses. A Saravanan, Chitra’s counsel, submitted that resumption of admissions was imperative at the moment as quantum of reservation could be argued separately. On Monday, when the case came up before Justice Pugalendhi, it was submitted by the counsel for All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) that Anna University should have admitted 45 students in the courses before December 31, 2020, and that it was too late now. In response, special government pleader E Manoharan contended that AICTE had no role in the admission to the two courses. After hearing the submissions, Justice Pugalendhi stated that when the Centre had permitted Anna University to fill the seats, it should have followed the state government’s reservation policy. “What is the necessity for having written to the state seeking clarification on which reservation policy to follow?” Justice Pugalendhi questioned. To this, the counsel for Centre responded that there are eight institutions across the state that run nine courses it sponsors and said all the institutions have been following Centre’s reservation rule of 49.5% for several years now. Recording the submissions, the court directed the Centre’s counsel to seek clear instructions on how the Union government could insist on state colleges and universities to follow its rule of reservations and file a response by February 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/is-centre-imposing-its-quota-policy-on-tn-univs-asks-hc/articleshow/80935338.cms||Srikkanth D
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||AIIMS intern dies 11 days after Covid jab||DEHRADUN: A 24-year-old medical intern at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS-Rishikesh) died on Sunday, 11 days after getting the Covid vaccine. According to sources, the intern was administered the Covid jab in early February and was hospitalised of some medical complications on February 5. He battled in hospital till February 14 and died on Sunday night. The authorities of AIIMS though denied that the death was due to any reaction from the vaccine and instead said that the intern had co-morbid illnesses. Notably, the central government guidelines stipulate that persons with co-morbidities shouldn’t take the vaccine. A senior staffer from AIIMS Rishikesh told TOI that the deceased hails from Gorakhpur. On the condition of anonymity, he also maintained that the intern received the vaccination shot in the second week of February and developed complications in a couple of days. “The hospital authorities are trying to hush-up the matter as it is related to vaccination. However, students are circulating about this on various WhatsApp groups and demanding a probe in the matter,” the AIIMS staff added. Another worker at AIIMS mentioned that when kin of the deceased asked for the reason of his death, the hospital administration has responded that he died of “viral encephalitis”. Demanding a probe in the matter, Dr Satendra Singh, a disability rights defender and medical practitioner, said that even if the death took place of encephalitis, it needs to be thoroughly probed as to how the infection happened. “As of February 9, over 23 deaths following Covid vaccine have been reported, but details about them are still not out,” he added. When contacted, director AIIMS-Rishikesh, Dr Ravikant told TOI that the intern had returned from Gorakhpur on January 30 and he never informed the hospital about any kind of fever or infection. “The cause of death is viral encephalitis and it has nothing to do with the vaccine. But, he should have informed us about fever,” Dr Ravikant said. Dr UB Mishra, Dean, hospital affairs, contrary to the director’s version, said that he had complained of fever after returning from Gorakhpur and was even given medication for the same. “He had given history of four days in which he claimed to have fever and vomiting for which he was treated. The fever subsided. Then he was administered the vaccine on February 3,” said Dr Mishra, adding that Gorakhpur is endemic for encephalitis and there are chances that he may have got infected from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/medical-intern-at-aiims-rishikesh-dies-10-days-after-covid-vaccination/articleshow/80931953.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||In 10 months, diesel hiked by Rs 20, petrol by Rs 19 in Mum||Mumbai: Diesel price here has gone up by a record Rs20 a litre in 10 months, while petrol escalated by Rs19, leaving motorists and transporters fuming. The city witnessed hikes for the seventh consecutive day on Monday as petrol touched a new all-time high of Rs95.46 a litre, while diesel went up to Rs86.34. Parbhani’s petrol price broke records to retail at Rs97.63 a litre Rs2.37 shy of the Rs100-mark. The rate of premium petrol (with additives) at pumps in Parbhani crossed Rs100 on Monday. A petrol pump owner said, “We consider the price of ordinary petrol when we compare hikes. In that case, Parbhani will need eight to nine more hikes to cross the Rs100-mark.” The price of fuel in neighbouring Thane and Navi Mumbai was higher than Mumbai. Petrol was hiked on Monday to Rs95.58, while diesel was revised to Rs86.46. The highest price of diesel in the state was in Amravati (Rs87.73). Aurangabad followed at Rs87.51. For petrol, apart from Parbhani, at Nanded pumps dispensed the fuel at Rs97.46. Transporters said there was growing resentment and if the government did not roll back duties and taxes on fuel by the month-end many would be “compelled to shut down operations”. The hikes will pinch pockets of motorists, as car and bike sales have risen in the city for the past few months. The cost per km to drive during peak hours is now over Rs6 for petrol vehicles. CNG price was also hiked by Rs1.50 to Rs49.40 a kg at over 200 city pumps. Similarly, the rate for a 14.2kg domestic LPG cylinder was hiked few days back by Rs25 to Rs719. Shiv Sena, MNS and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) activists had recently protested against the hikes in Mumbai metropolitan region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-10-months-diesel-hiked-by-rs-20-petrol-by-rs-19-in-mum/articleshow/80935444.cms||Somit Sen
February 16, 2021||Madurai||Single-use plastic ban goes for a toss||Madurai: With officials from the Madurai Corporation turning a blind eye towards the implementation of single-use plastic, there is a free run in the circulation of banned plastic bags in various trades in the city. The banned plastic items are found in large quantities in the overflowing garbage bins also. These plastics also get burnt along with the garbage, creating environmental issues, say residents. From meat shops to flower markets and from grocery shops to eateries use of the banned plastic is rampant. Due to its easy availability, most of the people have stopped carrying recyclable bags. V Sivaraj, an eatery owner from Chokkalingapuram, said that ever since Covid-19 broke out they are finding it difficult to get alternatives to single-use plastic items. The cost too has increased. “Though we are asking our customers to bring a bag, many are not willing. We are left with no other option but to use plastic bags,” he said. The channels in the city were much cleaner when the plastic ban was implemented strictly. Now the channels have clogged again with plastic bags. J Charumathi, resident of Yagappa Nagar, said plastic waste is the major thing that blocks water in sewage channels. Stinking smell becomes unbearable if the channels get clogged.” A sanitation employee from Madurai Corporation said that plastic covers found in the household garbage have increased of late. Although they have been asking residents to collect it separately, people are not willing to do it, he said. A corporation official said that they had to concentrate on Covid-19 prevention and vaccination. “A drive will be carried out to ensure that banned plastic items are not used in the city. Sensitisation will also be carried out among residents,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/single-use-plastic-ban-goes-for-a-toss/articleshow/80942195.cms||V Devanathan
February 16, 2021||Chennai||Home nurses kept waiting for vaccine||Chennai: Allied nurses who visit homes to care for people with chronic ailments or those recovering after surgery are yet to be administered vaccine against Covid-19. Agencies that manage them have been petitioning authorities asking they be considered for the vaccination drive as many of them continue house visits despite the pandemic and are, hence, vulnerable. A senior official from Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) health department, when contacted, said there is no clarity if allied nurses are to be considered frontline workers and that a decision would be taken soon on the matter. Ilangovan G, chief medical officer at India Home Healthcare, said despite multiple representations, they were yet to hear something positive. “We requested civic authorities to either hold a separate vaccination drive for home care workers or include them in the frontline workers category so they can get vaccinated in hospitals, but we are yet to receive a concrete response.” While nurses registered with the nursing council can get vaccinated by showing their IDs, nursing assistants and other workers have no way out. “We are ready to issue individual letters to all workers acknowledging that they work with us. We have requested the corporation health department to consider it and give them the jab,” he said. He added that several nurses, despite having registered with the nursing council, are unable to get vaccinated since doctors insist on PAN card for proof. “Most of them have only Aadhaar,” he said. Gowtham Vasudevan, an advisor at the Tamil Nadu Private Nurses Association, said there are around 1,000 allied nurses in the city and many of them work on a commission basis. While nurses administer medicines and injections, nursing assistants, who are more in number, look after other needs of the patient such as feeding, maintaining hygiene. “Nursing assistants stay with patients and look after them. They are equally vulnerable as healthcare workers in a hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/home-nurses-kept-waiting-for-vaccine/articleshow/80935391.cms||Aditi R
February 16, 2021||Madurai||Railway users seek change in operation of 3 train services||Madurai: Rail users have made a representation to the Southern Railway general manager and top SR officials in Madurai and other divisions seeking changes in the routes of three pairs of trains from Kanyakumari for the benefit of more commuters from Tamil Nadu and Kerala.This includes diversion of the train running from Kanyakumari to Dibrugarh (Assam) through Madurai and Chennai. In the representation on Monday, the Kanyakumari District Railway Users’ Association stated that train Nos. 15905/15906 now run through a circuitous route through Nagercoil, Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Palakkad.It enters Tamil Nadu through Coimbatore before leaving the state through Katpadi. This is affecting passengers from the southern parts of Tamil Nadu, they said and pressed for the diversion of the two trains through Tirunelveli, Madurai and Chennai to benefit more passengers from Tamil Nadu. “It will reduce the distance and the journey by nearly six hours,” said the association secretary P Edward Jeni.Diversion of the train will also make connectivity for those travelling to Rameswaram through transit at Madurai. The association opposed the proposed bid to increase the frequency of the Kanyakumari - Dibrugarh express from a weekly to daily. “It will burden the district that is facing issues in getting new trains and terminal facilities due to trains running through Kerala and terminating at Kanyakumari,” he added.They also sought extension of train Nos. 16347/16348 the Thiruvananthapuram - Mangaluru daily express to Nagercoil or Tirunelveli to reduce congestion at the Thiruvananthapuram terminal. They added that this would not affect the present users and will help more commuters from Tamil Nadu, thereby benefiting the railways too.The association also sought operation of the train Nos. 16381/16382 Kanyakumari - Mumbai CST expresses through Ernakulam, Mangaluru and Madgaon to reach the destination within 30 hours from commencement of the journey at the point of origin. It will be of more help to passengers from Kerala and Kanyakumari.They noted that there are no direct daily trains from Kanyakumari to the Konkan Railway route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/railway-users-seek-change-in-operation-of-3-train-services/articleshow/80942237.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Banners: Mayor’s aides fined Rs 20,000||Hyderabad: GHMC’s directorate of Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management (EV&DM) imposed penalty of Rs 20,000 on recently elected city mayor G Vijayalashmi’s aides for raising illegal flex banners . On February 13 also a penalty of Rs 4.35 lakh was imposed on one of her aides after illegal flex banners surfaced in parts of city. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/banners-mayors-aides-fined-rs-20000/articleshow/80935379.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chennai||Ex-MLA in Madurai queues up for house under PM’s scheme||MADURAI: Two months ago, 72-year-old N Nanmaran’s story was being widely shared. An autorickshaw driver had posted on social media about the two-time MLA of Madurai East constituency, who he had happened to meet on the roadside searching for something. When asked, Nanmaran said he had lost a slipper while getting off the bus. The autodriver offered to give him a ride, but Nanmaran told him that he had to go to Karupayoorani and only had `20 with him, just enough for the bus fare. The leftist MLA’s simplicity and humble financial situation moved many on social media and the post became viral. On Monday, Nanmaran was in the news again. He submitted a petition to the Madurai collector seeking a house under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana as the rent was high and he was finding it difficult to make ends meet. A member of the CPM, Nanmaran had been an active trade unionist. In 1980, when the AIADMK and CPM were in alliance and MGR decided to contest from Madurai West, Nanmaran backed his nomination. The CPM gave Nanmaran a ticket to contest the Madurai mayor election in the year 1996, but he lost. Later, he won from the Madurai East constituency in 2001 and 2006. Today, he lives in a cramped one-bedroom flat on the first floor in Ponnagaram, a congested part of Madurai, with his wife and younger son on a pension of `11,000. As per the rules of the CPM, MLA’s pension is given to the party office, which in turn gives him the amount for his monthly expenses. "The rent works out to `6,000 a month, which is high given my income," he says. "I had a 800sqft house that I sold to conduct the weddings of my two sons," says Nanmaran, who shifted to the present house. Nanmaran’s elder son is a homeopathy practitioner at a government hospital and the other works in a bank. His condition has been a surprise for locals, who remember him as one of the most approachable people’s representatives. He was instrumental in giving backward community (BC) recognition to Sourashtrians, who dominated the population in his constituency in Madurai. This recognition enabled them to get government benefits under the BC category. The self-effacing former politician, who is often seen standing in queue to receive his medicines for diabetes, hopes to be considered for the PMAY scheme being implemented in Rajakoor in Madurai. "It is not a free scheme, and I do not know how much I would have to pay for it, but I have submitted a petition in the name of my wife and hope she gets it,’’ he said. Email feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ex-mla-in-madurai-queues-up-for-house-under-pms-scheme/articleshow/80935374.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
February 16, 2021||Ludhiana||After bail, ex-soldier back in action||Patiala: Out on bail after arrest and alleged torture by Delhi Police, 67-year-old ex-serviceman Jit Singh of Khanauri Kalan village has again joined the farmers’ agitation against the three agriculture marketing laws. With visible injuries on his fingers and right ankle, Singh on Monday joined protest at Khanauri Toll Plaza, a few kilometres away from his house. He was granted bail on Friday. He said he would move to Delhi borders protest site within two days. He claimed his hatchback car had been missing since his arrest. He said two mobile phones and Rs 50,000 cash amount was also in the car. “The Delhi police picked me from Burari protest site, along with some others, while we were having langar,” he said. “The police had cordoned off the area of Burari where some protesting farmers are sitting. The entry or exit of farmers from the site is allowed by the police only for few minutes to purchase necessary vegetables or fruits. Despite none of us had even participated in the Kissan Parade on January 26, the police took me and some others into custody on January 28 and tortured a lot,” he alleged. Singh owns one acre in Khanauri Kalan village of Patiala district. Full report on ww.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-bail-ex-soldier-back-in-action/articleshow/80945030.cms||Bharat Khanna
February 16, 2021||Madurai||Second drive under way to identify and rehabilitate school dropouts across TN||Madurai: After the annual survey, held in December 2020, by the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) to identify school dropouts across the state, a second drive is under way in Madurai district to identify and rehabilitate school dropouts amid Covid-19 pandemic as schools are just reopening for Class IX to XII.Though only 848 school dropouts were targeted to be identified in the survey done in December, 1,073 were identified. While usually the survey covers those aged 6-14 years, this time, more students were identified as it covered those till 18 years of age. The annual survey is usually done in April-May to identify dropouts and enroll them in schools before reopening of schools in June. However, this time, it was postponed to December due to the pandemic. The survey is carried out by teams of block resource teacher educators, special educators and anganwadi workers.“As an extension to the annual survey, a special drive is being done now to ensure that no school dropouts are missed out. Especially due to the pandemic and schools remaining closed for more than 10 months, it is feared that more students could become dropouts,” said an SSA official. The official added that not only lower class students like primary and middle school-level but even those from higher classes might drop out due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.The details of all those identified are uploaded online to the Tamil Nadu - Educational Management Information System (TN-EMIS) portal, which allows monitoring by education department officials. A meeting was also conducted with school headmasters, teachers, and officials by Madurai district chief education officer (CEO) R Swaminathan on Thursday to launch the door-to-door survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/second-drive-under-way-to-identify-and-rehabilitate-school-dropouts-across-tn/articleshow/80942280.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Sisodia asks univs to take measures to check brain drain||New Delhi: Urging university vice-chancellors and teachers to work towards preventing brain drain, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday asked them to find ways to accommodate a large number of students who pass out of school. He was addressing the concluding session of the North Zone Vice- Chancellor’s meet organised by Association of Indian Universities and hosted by Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University. “There are certain challenges that universities and educators alike face in the current landscape of Indian education. The first challenge pertained to the challenge of quantity. We introduced several missions and laws such as Right to Education. We ensured that all children attend school. We created a bumper crop of school graduates. But then the child asks—Where should I go? What should I do now? We don’t have answers,” said Sisodia. Pointing towards the second challenge of quality, the Delhi’s education minister stressed fixing minimum standards for quality education. “The bottom line is that we can say that students who graduate from our universities and colleges stand at some level of achievement. We cannot decide the maximum success a child can reach, but we can decide the minimum limits for quality education. We should guarantee minimum levels of education,” he said. Sisodia also asked universities to establish their name in the domains of research and innovation. “Talk about research. Talk about entrepreneurship in your convocation... We have to celebrate our job providers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-asks-univs-to-take-measures-to-check-brain-drain/articleshow/81010885.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||50 stranded workers await state govts' response to facilitate return||Tapovan: Around 50 workers from states such as Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal said that they were still waiting for their respective state governments to facilitate their return home. The workers are currently stranded at the hydro power project site in Tapovan. Notably, some workers from Uttar Pradesh who had come mainly from places like Lakhimpur Kheri said that their state government had deputed ADM-level officials to arrange their return from the disaster site. Workers of the other states, however, said that no such arrangement has been made for them yet. Wazeer Alam, a worker who hails from Bihar, said, “I am too scared to stay here. I have seen my friends die in front of my eyes and that shock will stay with me forever. There is no work for us right now and the family is worried too. I request my government to make arrangements for us to reach home.” Ranjit Kumar, another worker from Bihar, said, “We will not get any employment for at least next 4-5 months. Our survival is at stake. I hope the state government will come to our rescue.” There are a few workers from Nepal as well who have been left stranded in Tapovan and seeking help to return home. N Radhakrishna, a senior official at Rithwik Projects, one of the companies working with NTPC on the hydropower project site, said, “We are doing our best to help the workers who survived the tragedy and also for the families who have come from various parts of the country looking for their dear ones who are still missing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/50-stranded-workers-await-state-govts-response-to-facilitate-return/articleshow/80932003.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||State sewing up right approach: Experts||Hyderabad: Textile industry experts opine that because of Telangana’s approach of setting up an integrated ‘fibre to fabric’ park, it is poised to attract investments from domestic as well as international players. Sushil Sancheti, secretary, Telangana Spinning & Textile Mills Association, said: “The margins in the textiles sector are very thin… in such a scenario, companies would like to optimise logistics costs. Hence, KMTP offers a viable option for players who also want to expand their units in India but are looking at a different location.” In fact, during the latest Union budget, FM Nirmala Sitharaman announced the Mega Integrated Textile Region and Apparel (MITRA) scheme as part of which seven textile parks will be established across the country over three years to attract investments and boost employment in the sector. Jayesh Ranjan, principal secretary, IT & industries, Telangana said that KMTP will be a front-runner in garnering support from the Centre as the project ticks all the eligibility boxes. Sancheti said that though India is mulling setting up such massive units now, these kinds of units have been existing for over two to three decades in China and now in Bangladesh and Vietnam. To boost the textiles sector, Rajat Wahi, partner, Deloitte India said the government can also consider signing free trade agreements with large consumption economies, such as the US and Europe and diversify its export markets to tap countries such as Japan, Brazil and Russia. “The sector is also moving towards responsible, sustainable and eco-friendly manufacturing, and can leverage India’s potential in organic textile products. Further, the restriction on imports from China is likely to give a boost to the Indian manufacturing sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-sewing-up-right-approach-experts/articleshow/80935435.cms||Swati Rathor
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||Mistakes in documents prompt Calcutta University to block students’ registration||KOLKATA: Calcutta University has blocked the registration of several students across its colleges for reasons ranging from admission in multiple colleges, mismatch in personal information provided during admission to missing caste certificates. The colleges concerned have been told to rectify the documents and upload them within this week to prevent cancellation of the applications. Accordingly, the institutes sent notices on Monday, instructing the students to physically report to the campus offices this week with relevant original documents for rectification of the errors, failing which the admission might be cancelled. For the 2020-21 academic session, the entire admission process, including the verification of documents, certificates and mark sheets, was held online due to the pandemic. After receiving the relevant documents from students taking admission, college authorities had uploaded them a Calcutta University portal, opened just for registration. “We are rectifying the errors, like mismatch in photographs and marksheets through the university portal. But there are many students who have not yet cancelled their admission in other colleges. This cannot be resolved till they cancel their admission in other colleges,” said an official at Bethune College. Registration is an important aspect of the admission process, under which the freshers have to submit their boards mark sheets, certificates, photographs and other documents to get registered with the affiliating university. A student not registered with the university is not eligible to appear for exams and consequently, won’t receive any degree or diploma certificate. “A total of 106 students at our college have been blocked on various grounds. Some of them did not submit their Class XII mark sheets, while the photographs of some were not clear. We have instructed the students to submit the relevant documents to avoid cancellation of admission,” said an official at City College in north Kolkata. Till a few weeks ago, most colleges were shut even for non-teaching employees and most institutions functioned with skeletal staff to process the admissions. Principals said many errors could also be the result of oversight by college authorities due to staff shortage. “In most colleges, over 1,000 students take admission in arts, science and commerce departments. Collating data of so many students is a complicated procedure. Earlier, our officials checked the documents physically and only the verified documents were sent to the university,” said the principal of a south Kolkata college. “We have already started working on rectifying the errors and the issue will be resolved soon,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, principal of Vivekananda College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mistakes-in-docus-prompt-cu-to-block-students-registration/articleshow/80935493.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 16, 2021||Chennai||40yrs on, no progress on dam Kamaraj proposed||Chennai: More than 40 years after the foundation was laid for a dam over the Cauvery at Rasimanal near Hosur, not a brick has been placed at the site. If constructed, the facility proposed by then chief minister K Kamaraj with the future water requirements of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka in mind, could have also generated 750MW of power. The site is 30km from Mekedatu, where Karnataka has proposed to build a dam, said advocate Elephant Rajendran who visited both the sites last month. While the Rasimanal area, about 20km from Biligundlu on the border of the two states, would be ideal for a dam, building a dam at Mekedatu would result in clearing more than 12,000 acres of forest land including cutting down nearly 1 lakh trees, he said. It will also mean evacuating residents of half a dozen tribal villages that would be submerged. Considering the huge environmental impact of the proposed project, which cannot be compensated, an expert committee formed by the Supreme Court had asked the Karnataka government to look for alternative sites, said Rajendran. The Mekedatu site also falls within an elephant corridor linking the western and eastern ghats, he said. In contrast, the forest land required to be cleared at Rasimanal would be minimal, he said. When contacted, a senior Tamil Nadu public works department (PWD) official said a preliminary study conducted at the site showed a dam can be constructed at Rasimanal. The study had elaborated the advantages and disadvantages of having a dam in the area, but stressed it could not be as big as the Mettur dam, he said. Rajendran said the Tamil Nadu and Karnataka governments should build the dam at Rasimanal in a joint project that can be funded by the Union government. “If need be, President Ram Nath Kovind can be asked to step in and help convince both the states to agree to the proposal,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/40yrs-on-no-progress-on-dam-kamaraj-proposed/articleshow/80935469.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana spins dream of a vibrant textile sector||HYDERABAD: After having excelled in the fields of IT and pharma, Telangana is now weaving dreams of making it big in the textiles sector. While the youngest state is a late entrant and will have to compete with other established states like Gujarat and Tamil Nadu to attract investments, its focus on creating an end-to-end value chain for the industry is expected to boost its prospects, said experts. To begin with, the state is setting up the country’s largest textiles park — Kakatiya Mega Textile Park (KMTP) — spread over 1,200 acres, that will offer a complete manufacturing ecosystem for the textiles and apparel industry within its premises.  Jayesh Ranjan, principal secretary, IT & industries, Telangana, said KMTP will be a game-changer because no other textile hub in the country sports an end-to-end manufacturing ecosystem. “The land acquisition is over and now we are in the process of developing infrastructure,” said Ranjan. “We have already allotted 350 acres of land to two companies — Youngone Corporation and Ganesha Ecosphere.” Korea’s Youngone Corporation, which is into sports and outdoor wear, will be setting up eight manufacturing units on a land parcel of 300 acres in the park at an investment of around Rs 1,000 crore. This Korean giant, that has units in Bangladesh and Vietnam, is likely to commission its first unit in KMTP this year. Ganesha Ecosphere, which is into recycled polyester staple fibre, has already begun construction activity and is expected to commence operations this year. KMTP is also setting up plug-and-play infrastructure for local weavers and textile manufacturers and will be setting up a common effluent treatment plant. Ranjan said that in 2021, training centres will be set up in Warangal and its catchment villages so that the local population can be trained, and once the units are ready, they will have access to trained workforce.  The state government is also keen on promoting technical textiles and will be setting up the country’s first technical textile testing lab with the help of the Centre at KMTP this year. “Currently, the manufacturers have to send their products abroad for testing,” Ranjan said, adding that around Rs 150 crore is expected to be invested by the Indian government in setting up the lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-spins-dream-of-a-vibrant-textile-sector/articleshow/80935524.cms||Swati Rathor
February 16, 2021||Chennai||HC stays case against DMK’s Bharathi under SC/ST Act||Chennai: Criminal proceedings initiated against DMK Rajya Sabha member R S Bharathi under SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act were stayed by the Madras high court on Monday. Justice N Sathishkumar granted the interim stay till February 22 on an application from the MP. On May 23, 2020, the Central Crime Branch police filed the case for his comments against members of the community during a speech on February 20, last year. In his speech, Bharathi had recalled about dalits being appointed to judiciary postings during former chief minister M Karunanidhi’s tenure and supposedly made crass remarks against the community. After he was booked by the city police, Bharathi moved the court seeking to quash the FIR against, claiming that a few lines from his speech were taken out of context. “The FIR picks a few words here and there and assigns motives to stray sentences,” he stated in his petition. His counsel sought reprieve by pointing out to the absence of specific intent to offend the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-stays-case-against-dmks-bharathi-under-sc/st-act/articleshow/80935572.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||Turnout for 2nd shot dips to 40%-70% at Kolkata vaccination sites||KOLKATA: Most Covid-19 vaccination sites in the city have started inoculating healthcare workers (HCWs) with the second dose of Covishield from Monday with the percentage of turnout ranging between 40% and 70% across hospitals so far. Sources said that most of those who received the second jab were enlisted through the additional ‘add beneficiary’ feature of the CoWIN app which failed to take off at the start of the vaccination exercise last month, forcing the health authorities to use offline methods to call recipients for the shot. As a result, the data of the recipients on the first few days were uploaded later. “Since the data was uploaded later, they are not getting the intimation text messages from CoWIN about the second dose vaccination. We hope the turnout for the second dose will improve once recipients start getting text messages,” said a health department official. While few like IPGMER (Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research) has kept a dedicated site for administering the second dose, most hospitals inoculated recipients from the existing site. “We had nearly 67 recipients taking the second dose on Monday. Since most had not received text messages we had to do that through the ‘add beneficiary’ option of the CoWIN system,” said community medicine specialist Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, vaccination site supervisor at ID Hospital Belighata who himself took the second dose on Monday. Group D staffer Raja Chowdhury, who was the first person to be vaccinated at IPGMER on January 16, got his second dose on Monday. “I had forgotten to bring my ID card on Saturday day and hence couldn’t take the vaccine earlier. I took the second jab on Monday,” said Chowdhury. According to the vaccine coordinators, who have been calling up the recipients asking them to appear for the second jab as per the Centre’s directive, many doctors are asking them to defer the second dose. “There has been a growing demand among a section of doctors to defer the second dose after it has come in public domain that if it is taken within six weeks of the first dose, the efficacy would be 53.2%. It increases to 60.5% if the spacing is extended to 9-11 weeks. If it’s 12 weeks apart, the efficacy would be 78.7%,” said an official at SSKM. Sources in RG Kar Medical College that started second dose vaccination from Saturday also echoed the same. “Though we started administering second dose of Covishield from Saturday, the turnout is not encouraging so far. Many want to defer it for better immune response,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/turnout-for-2nd-shot-dips-to-40-70-at-kol-vax-sites/articleshow/80935583.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 16, 2021||Madurai||Kin of anti-Sterlite victims seek junior assistant jobs||TUTICORIN: Kin of those killed in the police firing and excess on the 100th day of the anti-Sterlite protest in Tuticorin on May 22 and 23, 2018, petitioned chief minister Edappadi K Palanisawmi seeking government jobs in the rank of junior assistant in the revenue department. The representation has been made two days ahead of the CM’s election campaign in Tuticorin. The petitioners include 13 kin of the 15 who died in the incident and seven others who were badly injured in the incident. They said that some of them have a degree or qualification too but all of them have been uniformly appointed as assistant in the village administrative office, which is the lowest in the rank among government jobs. They called the posting eyewash to the CM’s promise of a government job for them. The petitioners said that they have been making this representation for a job matching the qualification of the dependent of the deceased over the last two-and-a-half years. They also pressed for establishment of a memorial for the 15 deceased in a prominent place in Tuticorin city, to give a fitting tribute for their sacrifice that led to the closure of Sterlite. Activist Prabhu who accompanied them said that they would get at least Rs 20,000 a month if they were appointed as junior assistants, against the Rs 12,000 they are drawing now. Activist Krishnamoorthy pressed for withdrawal of the nearly 300 cases registered against more than 3,000 people who participated in the May 22-23 protest. “The government has agreed before the Supreme Court that the factory was polluting. So the government should consider the victims as martyrs who died for people of the district to breathe clean air. The government that is towards the end of its tenure should remove the last brick of Sterlite,” Krishnamoorthy added. District collector K Senthil Raj who received the representation and listened to their grievance assured to take it to the authorities concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kin-of-anti-sterlite-victims-seek-junior-assistant-jobs/articleshow/80942330.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Pune||Pune: CoWIN niggles upset final vaccination date for many||PUNE: The district saw a slow start to the second-dose rollout on Monday with several sites registering dismal turnouts. Most centres in the region recorded turnouts in the low single digits; others had zero. Officials attributed the slow pick-up to problems in the CoWIN app. They said scores of beneficiaries, who had received their first dose on January 16, were not able to find their names on the digital database on Monday. On January 16, 1,802 beneficiaries had received their first jabs against a target of 3,100 in Pune district (a turnout of 58%). Much of the process was conducted offline due to registration problems of CoWIN. This offline process also meant vaccinators had to manually enter recipients’ names on the app and names of many first-day recipients were entered much later after January 16. This delayed data-entry led to no second-dose invites being sent out Monday, officials said. Many private hospitals, in fact, had to hold back the second dose as the sites were not able to activate the second-dose schedule on the app. Jitendra Oswal, the deputy medical director of Bharati hospital, said staff were idle for most part of Monday as the second dose allotment feature did not show on CoWIN. “A total of 50 of our own staffers, who had taken the first shot on January 16 were expecting to get their second shots on Monday. But none of them could due to CoWIN-related issues.” he said. At Noble hospital, site supervisor Raj Kodre said, “Just like Saturday, on Monday too the second-dose allotment feature did not reflect on CoWIN.” Administering of the second dose was to start on Saturday in PMC limits. But it was pushed to Monday due to technical problems in the CoWIN system. Covid-19 inoculation is a two-dose regimen given four weeks apart. This 28-day period — starting January 16 — ended on February 12. In rural parts on Monday, vaccinators gave out the second dose after checking digital certificates that were generated after the first. State immunisation officer DN Patil said the Centre has been informed about the CoWIN glitches. He said those who have received their first dose can walk in as the follow-up shot can be administered even six weeks after the first. Patil said, “We were expecting these glitches because we had them on the first day too. Many sites had to carry out vaccinations offline. And names of beneficiaries registered offline were fed into the CoWIN system much later. However, their names did not reflect on Monday despite the generation of digital certificates that had the actual date. These issues will be resolved.” He added that for the next few days, officials at vaccination sites will be calling up beneficiaries personally. Sanjay Deshmukh, the deputy director of health services, said he has directed all sites to ready lists of beneficiaries for these phone calls that will be made well in advance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cowin-niggles-upset-final-vaccination-date-for-many/articleshow/80939030.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||More schools restart physical classes with practicals, pre-board exams||Kolkata: Several schools returned to campus on Monday, with most starting with lab-based practical classes since they were the most neglected portions of the syllabus during the 11-month hiatus. Some institutes started with their pre-board exams for classes X and XII. La Martiniere schools, Loreto schools, Don Bosco Park Circus, Modern High School and St Paul’s Mission School were among those who re-started on Monday. Distanced seating, hand sanitization, wearing of masks, no crowding and no sharing of food, books or notebooks marked the new phase of re-opening. Every class in all schools has been divided into smaller sections and were called to the campus, based on rosters. Schools that had re-opened on Friday tweaked some norms to close the initial loopholes. Counselling sessions were held at all schools. Students were told that they should not let their guards down once they stepped out. For once, it was good to be selfish with one’s tiffin and books, the kids were told. Teachers stood at the gates to ensure students did not “get together” once out of sight. La Martiniere for Boys called in classes IX and XI on the first day, when only a handful turned up. Principal John Rafi said the number would rise on Thursday, when classes X and XII also arrived. At Modern High, all class XII science students, who were called, were present for their physics and chemistry practical classes. “They were divided into two groups and placed in two labs. They then interchanged their labs after a thorough round of sanitisation,” said director Devi Kar. Class X and XII girls at Loreto Convent Entally appeared for their physical pre-board exams on Monday, the day of reopening. “We had full attendance. Class X students had their exams from 8.15am and after they left, Class XII sat for their exams at 11.45am,” said principal Jessica Gomes Surana. Don Bosco Park Circus started with computer practical classes for Class XII. St Paul’s Mission School called 50% students of classes IX and XI the first day. They will attend classes this week and take final exams from next Monday. “Classes X and XII will come from Thursday. From Wednesday, we have increased timing in subjects, like accounts, physics, chemistry, maths and English,” said principal Sanchita Biswas. St James’ and St John’s Diocesan will reopen their campuses from Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-schools-restart-physical-classes-with-practicals-pre-board-exams/articleshow/80935646.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Traffic curbs at Dabeerpura Darwaza lifted||Hyderabad: After a gap of more than a month, the Hyderabad traffic police lifted the traffic curbs at Dabeerpura Darwaza. The restrictions were lifted after the construction of a slab at Ganga Nagar nala was completed. Though AIMIM Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi visited the site on Monday morning, a formal inauguration could not take place since the poll code for the graduate constituency polls is in force. In January first week, as the construction of a box drain at Ganga Nagar nala was taken up, the traffic police had imposed restrictions from Farhatnagar Crossroads to Dabeerpura Bridge. The road from Dabeerpura Darwaza stretch is being used by commuters as an alternate route to avoid traffic snarls at Nalgonda Crossroads and Chaderghat road. “The widening of the nala will ensure smooth flow of traffic at Dabeerpura Darwaza,” said Haseebullah, inspector, Mirchowk traffic police station. According to sources, the nala widening work was executed by the GHMC in two phases at an estimated cost of Rs 3.93 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traffic-curbs-at-dabeerpura-darwaza-lifted/articleshow/80935622.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||SDMC looks to solve puzzle, gives a push to 2 automated parking facilities||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation will create two automated car parking facilities at M Block Market in Greater Kailash I and near Lodhi Road Flyover at Nizamuddin Basti. The proposals were cleared by the civic body’s standing committee on Monday. Tenders for the construction of the parking project at GK I M Block Market will be floated after administrative approval for the proposal in the SDMC House meeting, said a civic official. “We have submitted a detailed report and the tender documents will be prepared soon after administrative approval,” said the official. “On the direction of the Supreme Court and the lieutenant governor, we started work afresh on erecting parking lots in busy markets and roads, including at GK I in 2017,” explained the official. “But there was no consensus on the type of parking, puzzle or shuttle. Finally, a consultant was hired for surveying the area and its report on putting up shuttle parking has been cleared. Work will start only after the final approval of SDMC House.” The official added, “Tenders for the 1,338 sq metre parking project on Lajpat Rai Marg parallel to the Lodhi Road Flyover has been issued, and work will start as soon as the House gives its nod. It will have space for 86 cars.” The parking lot will help reduce chaos on the main road leading to the dargah of Nizamuddin Auliyah. “There is no planned parking space for vehicles coming to the dargah, which is visited by thousands. We hope to finish the project in six months after the approval of the SDMC House,” said the official. The civic body’s standing committee has also approved proposals for extending the parking contract with the market association at Lajpat Nagar for Feroze Gandhi Marg, Veer Savarkar Marg and the portion opposite Haldiram’s for one year at a monthly licensing fee of Rs 18 lakh. “The existing contract with the market association ended on February 1,” said an SDMC official. SDMC also proposes to allocate the surface parking at Kushak Nullah and Sunehri Nullah to the transport department at Rs 165 per square metre for 10 years starting April 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/s-corpn-looks-to-solve-puzzle-gives-a-push-to-2-automated-parking-facilities/articleshow/80935709.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 16, 2021||Delhi||DMRC to start QR code-based entry system at stations soon||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has decided to upgrade its automatic fare collection (AFC) system. Anup Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “In order to upgrade ticketing technology, DMRC envisages to upgrade the existing AFC system to enable the QR Code, EMV (account-based ticketing) and Rupay-based open loop ticketing, following the national common mobility card standard model as specified by ministry of housing and urban affairs for interoperability with other operators by use of non-proprietary standards so that the interface is scalable to other networks (transit operator/retail outlets/parking etc.) in Delhi/NCR.” Dayal further said, Delhi Metro has invited expressions of interest to solicit and examine the response of the financial institutions, banks along with firms, companies and entities that are capable of upgrading the AFC system and provide comprehensive onsite maintenance of supplied equipment and parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dmrc-to-start-qr-code-based-entry-system-at-stations-soon/articleshow/80935610.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||HC to state: Review mandate for online civic body meetings||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Monday directed the state government to “revisit’’ its decision to allow general body meetings of civic bodies in the state to be held only through videoconference. The court wants the government’s decision placed before it on February 23. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni’s direction followed after it took note that the Covid-19 situation in the state is under control and asked why general body meetings can’t be held physically. “The pandemic in this state is well under control. Activities in almost all spheres have opened up...,’’ said the bench in its order. The court heard two petitions by councillors of Thane Municipal Corporation — Vikrant Chavan and Asharaf Pathan — seeking directions for the meetings to be held physically. Government’s advocate Reena Salunkhe submitted the urban development department’s February 15 letter, stating that to avoid spread of Covid and physical presence in large numbers, the government has decided to continue the civic meetings of municipal councils and nagar panchayats online. The petitioners’ advocates drew the high court’s attention to a January 31 office office memorandum of the ministry of information & broadcasting containing standard operating procedures and allows 100% audience in cinema halls/theatres/multiplexes which are not in containment zones. The judges said “in such view of the matter, there could hardly be any plausible reason” why the meetings cannot be held physically, more so considering that only 131 Thane councillors would meet in the spacious hall. The judges were shown the Thane mayor’s December 2020 letter for permission to hold the meetings at two auditoriums. The letter indicates that Covid situation is under control and with sufficient precautionary measures being to be taken, no councillor would be harmed. “The situation is not so grim as in the past year. In view thereof, we are of the considered opinion that there could hardly be any justification for not allowing the general body meetings to be held in physical presence of all councillors..,” said the judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-to-state-review-mandate-for-online-civic-body-meetings/articleshow/80945159.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 16, 2021||Bareilly||2 killed in hit & run, bodies crushed by vehicles over hours, shovelled into sacks by cops||Bareilly: Two bodies lay on two highways 85 km apart, disfigured and mangled beyond recognition, in the fog-smothered morning on Monday. At Jarifnagar in Badaun, a man was run over by a vehicle and left there to die. At Dataganj, a mentally ill man was hit. For hours, no one saw as vehicle after vehicle crushed them over and over. When the fog lifted and the scattered remains were seen, patrol teams arrived, shovelled the remains into sacks and left. Badaun SSP Sankalp Sharma has ordered a probe into the lapses. “Some people here saw the body on the Meerut-Badaun highway and told the police. I got there after the police had arrived. I saw them use spades to shove the body parts into a sack. It was impossible to identify the person. Many vehicles must have run it over through the night,” Mohammed Javed, a resident of Jarifnagar, told TOI. Jarifnagar SHO Prempal Varshney said there had been no accident on the stretch till 5am Monday. “That was when the night patrol team’s duty was over. The accident could have happened in the morning,” he said. “It appears whoever hit him ran away and left the body there. Because dense fog had reduced visibility, others driving through the stretch may not have seen the body and crushed it. We got information around 9am, got there, collected the body parts and sent it for autopsy. The autopsy report said the body was damaged and the person died of accident-related injuries.” The other accident was reported at Dataganj, between Bhatori and Dhilawari, under similar circumstances. A body was found by the road, crushed over and over, only the head relatively untouched. “Our patrolling team had seen this man on foot around 2am,” Dataganj SHO Ajeet Kumar told TOI. “Next morning, he was found dead.” Kumar said the accident may have taken place around 3am or after, and the body may have been run over by other vehicles for the next 4-5 hours. “We have spoken to the locals to identify him,” Kumar added. “A mentally ill man from Usmanpur village has gone missing. It appears he is the one who was killed in the accident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-killed-in-hit-run-bodies-crushed-by-vehicles-over-hours-shovelled-into-sacks-by-cops/articleshow/80929487.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 16, 2021||Vadodara||PRESENT OF FUTURE ‘SMART CITY’ PITIABLE||Vadodara: Roads, drainage, drinking water and cattle menace are still the main issues for residents of Vadodara, which is touted to be one of the ‘smart’ cities.  Based on a survey sampling nearly 95,000 residents across 19 wards, city-based youth platform has come with ‘Yuva Ka Manifesto’ describing aspirations of the youngsters and their expectation from political leadership.  “The aim was to find out the grievances and problems faced by citizens and find sustainable solutions for the same. The survey revealed what citizens want instead of political leaders speculating as to what they might want,” said Kunal Sharma, founder president of Chhatra Sansad which has collected over 1,000 testimonial videos of people voicing their grievances.  “At its heart, this manifesto aims to bring closer together our leaders and citizens so that together, we can ensure that Vadodara becomes a model city that other cities in our country can look up to,” said Aditya Vegda, senior vice-president of the run organization.  The survey revealed that lack of proper roads and the substandard quality of the existing ones is a major grievance of Barodians. Majority have also complained of poor planning while constructing roads which are dug up just to install new drainage or sewage systems or repair the older ones after which such roads are not properly re-built resulting in further deterioration.  Citizens have also complained against casual and nonchalant manner with which VMC handles repairing of roads,especially during monsoon, when potholes cause massive traffic jams across all major intersections and commercial areas in the city.  Poor condition of service roads surrounding the under-construction flyover between Genda circle to Manisha chowkdi has resulted in severe inconvenience to Baroda as traffic comes to a standstill on this busy stretch during the peak hours.  The fact that Barodians, especially those staying in low-lying areas, turn vulnerable during monsoon is also established in this survey.  “Waterlogging is also causing damage to roads, motor vehicles, homes and houses apart from critical infrastructure like electricity and much more,” the survey states.  Residents of areas like Bhayli, Kalali, Atladara among others want the civic body to lay a proper drainage network.  “Almost every citizen, we surveyed demanded that water supply should be improved and supply increased so that they don’t have to drill borewells to supplement their water supply,” the survey report states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/present-of-future-smart-city-pitiable/articleshow/80932104.cms||Prashant Rupera
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||C-DAC to hold re-exam for PG diploma aspirants||MUMBAI: After conducting the entrance test for postgraduate diploma programmes twice in online proctored mode, the Pune-based Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) has decided to nullify all scores and conduct a re-exam from physical centres. The decision was taken as “C-DAC had received several complaints from candidates related to technical problems, network issues at remote places, cases of unfair means and many others”. “To give all candidates equal opportunity and maintain the exam’s sanctity, the centre has announced a re-exam,” said the C-DAC spokesperson. Over 10,000 aspirants from the country had appeared for the exam. The fresh exam will be computerised, but will be conducted from exam centres. The selection process will, therefore, be delayed by over a month. The new dates will be announced in two-three days. Some students, however, are opposed to the re-exam. “The centre conducted the exam twice and even allowed re-exam for students who faced glitches. The ranks were declared in the first week of February and we were asked to fill our college choices. A week later, on February 13, they sent us a mail saying all the scores are nullified and that they are conducting a re-exam. It is unfair to students who have already scored good ranks. A few of us have even left their jobs after securing good ranks,” said a student. The Maharashtra Students’ Welfare Association wrote to the C-DAC requesting them to start the counselling rounds based on their current scores. An official, however, said the delay will not be much and the decision has been taken for the larger benefit of students. C-DAC conducts PG diploma programmes from several domains and is recognised by the IT industry. —Yogita Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/c-dac-to-hold-re-exam-for-pg-diploma-aspirants/articleshow/80972599.cms||Yogita Rao
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC health staff get 1-week deadline to clear birth/death certificates||HYDERABAD: Birth and death certificates are not being processed in some areas of the city for the past two weeks. On Monday, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) additional commissioner (health) Santosh Badavat pulled up assistant medical officers and directed them to quit if certificates are not processed in a week’s time. “GHMC assistant medical officers for health (AMOHs), working in different circles, were called to the head office. They were given a deadline of one week to clear the pending applications. If they fail to do so, they will be asked to resign,” a GHMC official said. Since the time the civic body decided to hand over the job of issuing birth and death certificates to MeeSeva, there has been a delay in applications being processed. Earlier, people had the provision to apply for birth and death certificates at GHMC citizens service centres and MeeSeva centres too. However, the GHMC decided to hand over the operations to MeeSeva and people can now apply for the certificates only at MeeSeva centres. “I had to run from pillar to post to get the birth certificate of my father Mallaiah. There is lack of coordination between GHMC and MeeSeva staff,” said K Raj, who applied for the certificate in GHMC Charminar circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-health-staff-get-1-week-deadline-to-clear-birth/death-certs/articleshow/80935654.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Pune||Pune: Just 29% get second shot in PMR, turnout for first dose shrinks to 32%||PUNE: Just 525 (29%) of the 1,802 target health workers for the day were administered the second dose of Covid vaccine in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday. Besides, as many as 2,638 individuals, including 1,825 healthcare workers and 813 frontliners, were given the first dose across 77 vaccination centres in PMR on Monday, keeping the overall turnout at 32%. The second dose beneficiaries were among those who had received the Covid shot on the first day of the vaccination drive on January 16. None of the second timers reported any side-effects after inoculation. Officials attributed the dismal performance in PMR to low turnout of frontline workers, the slow start to the second dose owing to glitches in the CoWIN app and the day’s increased target vaccination that rose by another 1,200 beneficiaries on Monday. Incidentally, the day’s target vaccination was just 5,100 on February 9, which went up to 8,287 on Monday (February 15). “The second dose allotment feature could not be activated at quite a few vaccination sites at private hospitals, leading to the dismal turnout of the beneficiaries for the second dose on Monday,” said Ashish Bharati, chief of the PMC health department. Sources at the PMC’s health department revealed that three beneficiaries who received the first shot of the vaccine were vaccinated at the civic-run Kamala Nehru hospital on Saturday (February 13). Senior physician Vinod Shah who was the first to get the Covid shot in PMC areas was also the first to receive the second shot on Monday. “I didn’t experience any symptoms post-vaccination, despite being a diabetic and a patient of asthma,” Shah said. Sassoon hospital’s senior microbiologist Rajesh Karyarkart said, “I got the final certificate after receiving the second dose of the vaccine. Vaccination is an effective tool to halt the pandemic. Although, I will continue to wear a mask, maintain physical distance, and wash my hands frequently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/just-29-get-second-shot-in-pmr-turnout-for-1st-dose-shrinks-to-32/articleshow/80939103.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||No active Covid case among Bidhannagar, Kolkata cops||KOLKATA: The top brass of Bidhannagar Police has confirmed that there is no active Covid case in the commissionerate. This is the first time in past ten months that the twin city police forces have their entire teams back on their feet. The Bidhannagar police said that a civic volunteer had last reported Covid-positive about ten days ago. Sources in Lalbazar welfare cell said daily active cases’ figure had touched around 300 last August. “We identified main zones where we had to break the chain. We split the barracks at Police Training School and a few police stations like Shyampukur and Patuli. This move worked. The Eden Gardens quarantine centre was an innovation. Similarly, tracking and helping the family members of cops affected by Covid helped us quarantine the personnel and stop them from mixing with their colleagues on duty,” explained an officer. The brass of the two commissionerates, though, have decided to hold extensive camps to spread the word on the need of immunization. The brass has decided to ask a section of cops, who are reportedly “unwilling”, to give in writing that they are voluntarily not getting immunized. “The only person still in home isolation is a civic volunteer who had contracted the infection over a week ago and is on the path of recovery,” said Surya Prasad Yadav, the deputy commissioner (headquarters) of Bidhannagar City police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-active-cov-case-among-bidhannagar-kol-cops/articleshow/80935730.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||‘Probe into BJP IT cell, not Lata, Sachin’||State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday, clarified that he had not ordered a probe against Lata Mangeshkar and Sachin Tendulkar following the celebrity tweet row on farmers’ agitation, but only wanted an inquiry to be done on the BJP IT cell. Deshmukh, who had met the media shortly after stepping out of a private hospital where he had been admitted after testing positive for Covid on February 5, said, “Preliminary findings showed the involvement of BJP IT cell chief and 12 influencers behind the celebrity tweet controversy,” he said. Deshmukh, advised home quarantine, said the background of the suicide of the 22-year-old woman in Pune would be probed thoroughly to ascertain if there was foul play or abetment. “There is no question of pressure on government or police machinery. Pune police are conducting a fair probe into the incident and soon the whole of Maharahtra will see the truth rolling out of the probe,” he said. “The chief minister has issued his statement on the fair probe and state government will decide after the inquiry,” he said. He said Maoist ideologue and former Delhi University professor G N Saibaba’s health was being monitored and taken due care of by the prison authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/probe-into-bjp-it-cell-not-lata-sachin/articleshow/80945163.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Surat||Donation boxes stolen from ashram||Surat: Two donation boxes were stolen from Atal Ashram in the city early on Sunday, the second such theft in the temple since August last year.Adajan police booked an unidentified person for the theft. Around Rs 5,000 was collected in the two boxes. Earlier a donation box with cash of around Rs 600 was stolen from the same place and theft has still not been detected. The complaint was lodged by priest of the Ashram Mahantshree Batukgiri Mahadevgiri, (65). The theft was was captured in the CCTVs installed in the ashram. The man had covered his face with a mask and he could not be identified from CCTV footage. Police suspect that some person who was aware about the donation boxes is involved. The donation boxes are steel containers which were placed on desks near Satsang Bhavan and Khodiyar Mata temple. The boxes were not attached to the ground or wall due to which the man could easily steal them.  “We are examining CCTV footage inside the temple and neighbouring areas,” said a police officer in Adajan police station. Pardeshwar Mahadev Temple in Atal Ashram is a popular place visited by thousands regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/donation-boxes-stolen-from-ashram/articleshow/80932182.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||34-year-old killed in road accident||Uttarkashi: A 34-year-old man, Himanshu Rawat, died after the pick-up vehicle he was driving fell into a gorge in the Bhatwari region of Uttarkashi district on Sunday evening. The victim, a resident of Raithal village, was returning home when the accident took place. Soon after the accident, a police team reached the spot and took the injured driver to the primary health centre in Bhatwari, where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “The body was handed over to the bereaved family after postmortem examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/34-year-old-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/80932216.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
February 16, 2021||Pune||Daily cases reduce but top recoveries||Pune: The number of daily Covid-19 cases declined to 396 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday over reduced testing during the weekend, but it still remained above the recoveries (381) for the third consecutive day. Both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits added more cases than recoveries on Monday, while the rural areas bucked the trend and recorded more discharges, a data released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated. According to the report, PMC and PCMC limits added 193 and 100 cases, respectively, as against 169 and 62 recoveries. With this, the tally of positive cases in PMR reached 3.93lakh, while its discharges were 3.79 lakh. The PMR testing dropped to 5,584 on Monday, including 2,376 samples tested in the PMC limits, taking the total tests above 21.94 lakh. The region reported two deaths on Monday, taking the total toll to 9,144. Number of active cases in the region increased further to 4,805 on Monday evening, including 2,875 patients in home isolation and 1,930 in hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-cases-reduce-but-top-recoveries/articleshow/80939171.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Hectic activity ahead of YS Sharmila’s party launch||HYDERABAD: With YS Sharmila considering the launch of her party either in May or June, corresponding with the date of the late YS Rajasekhara Reddy’s (YSR) swearing-in ceremony as chief minister of the erstwhile united AP, or his birthday, YSR loyalists have plunged into hectic political activity. Konda Raghava Reddy, who is coordinating Sharmila’s activities, said that they will take time to float the party. Sources said that the party might be launched in May or June. On Monday, Sharmila met YSR loyalists from Khammam district after her tour was cancelled reportedly due to the poll code being in force in view of the MLC elections. Sources said that Sharmila will meet one district leader every Thursday. “She may tour the district after the poll code is lifted,” a YSR loyalist said. Meanwhile, former MLC and former Congress leader Magham Ranga Reddy met Sharmila at her Lotus Pond residence. “I welcome her decision to launch a party here. She was born and brought up in Telangana, she belongs to Telangana, politics belongs to everyone,” he said after meeting her. Another Congress leader, T Narender Reddy from Nalgonda district, also met her along with Magham. Konda Raghava Reddy said that no woman in the Telugu states has ever headed a party in a big way. “We welcome everyone, women will certainly receive her well. We will certainly do better than the TRS. Many leaders in Delhi and within the state are in touch with us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hectic-activity-ahead-of-sharmilas-party-launch/articleshow/80935677.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||People with leprosy fight 106 discriminatory laws||Hyderabad: Despite making significant progress in leprosy treatment, ensuring quick recovery and fewer families abandoning the affected, there is no respite for the patients as they endure mental trauma due to 106 discriminatory laws existing in the country. With states across the country battling a surge in cases of leprosy, there is an urgent need to abolish these provisions. Telangana has three such laws, including the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Act, 1955 which disqualifies a person suffering from leprosy from being elected as a member. Neighbouring Andhra Pradesh also has such laws. The discriminatory laws, that feature in the municipal laws, Panchayati Raj Act, transport, marriage and divorce, prevention of begging, representation in religious institutions, representation in professional associations, laws regarding prisons/leper asylums, deny several rights to the affected. Some even restrain the right to profession and prohibit entry into specific areas. The Law Commission of India submitted a report to the Centre in 2016 and recommended the repeal of all 120 discriminatory laws, however, only 14 have been scrapped so far. “Although it is under process, the fact that it is taking so long is affecting so many lives. All discriminatory laws against people with leprosy should be repealed at the earliest. Leprosy is preventable and totally curable, therefore, there is no need for a discriminatory law. Currently, one of the biggest concerns is that most of the religions in India recognise this as a ground for divorce. These laws have a huge impact on the patient,” said Prasant Naik, chief executive of Hyderabad-based LEPRA society. LEPRA society along with the International Federation of Anti-Leprosy Associations (ILEP) has studied the subject and is advocating for the cause. Most of these laws violate the fundamental rights given to every citizen of India. For instance, laws relating to transport restrict leprosy-affected persons from boarding the metro, infringe upon right to equality. “Other discriminatory laws largely infringe upon right to freedom of speech and expression, right to personal liberty and right to life,” added Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-with-leprosy-fight-106-discriminatory-laws/articleshow/80935725.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad MLC poll: TRS drags its feet on entering the fray||HYDERABAD: TRS is in a dilemma over fielding a candidate in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar Graduates’ constituency election. A notification for two graduate constituencies —Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda (WKN) and Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar (HRM) — might be issued on Tuesday. Though all other major parties — Congress and BJP — have announced their candidates, the ruling party has not announced candidate for the HRM constituency yet. Sources said the party leadership has not been able to decide on fielding a candidate in the Hyderabad constituency. For Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat, the party has already declared current MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy as its candidate. Congress has named Ramulu Naik and G Chinna Reddy as its candidates for WKN and HRM seats respectively. BJP on Monday declared G Premender Reddy and N Ramchander Rao as it candidates officially for the two seats. “Some top leaders are of the opinion that the party should not contest and support former MLA Prof K Nageshwar, backed by some trade unions and left parties. Nageshwar has already announced that he will contest as an independent candidate. But some ministers, especially from Mahbubnagar and Rangareddy districts are insisting the party contest the election,” a senior TRS leader told TOI. Explaining reasons for their dilemma over contesting the Hyderabad graduates’ constituency, party leaders said if the party losses, opposition parties might take advantage and start a smear campaign against TRS that it was losing ground. If it does not contest also, opposition parties would claim the party was scared of defeat and stayed away from contesting. As TRS is taking its own time on taking a decision on the contest, aspirants are worried as there is a little time for campaigning. “There are 36 assembly constituencies in the three districts — Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar. Covering all the segments is a herculean task for any aspirant in the short time apart from meeting and holding discussions with various unions,” an aspirant told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-mlc-poll-trs-drags-its-feet-on-entering-the-fray/articleshow/80935794.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 16, 2021||Vadodara||Baroda U-16 boys win G1 cricket tournament||Vadodara: The Baroda Under-16 team on Monday became champions in the G1 Tournament that was organized at Ahmedabad. This was the first time that the tournament was organized at the Under-16 level. Baroda boys lost their first match against Saurashtra on the first innings basis but won against Gujarat later. Baroda reached the finals and played against Saurashtra in the two-day match. Paramveer Ghelani and Priyanshu Moliya scored 58 runs each to power Baroda to 169 runs for the loss of four wickets on Sunday.Saurashtra failed to chase the score and got all out for 161 on Monday. Baroda bowler Raj Limbani bagged six wickets while Vraj Desai took two wickets. BCA officials said that the tournament is played among the three teams in the state and Gujarat Cricket Association (GCA) hosted it this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/baroda-u-16-boys-win-g1-cricket-tournament/articleshow/80932259.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Will waste work wonders for Ajmal Khan Park too?||NEW DELHI: If all goes as planned, Ajmal Khan Park in the busy Karol Bagh area may soon turn into another tourist destination in the city. On the lines of south Delhi’s Waste-to-Wonder Park at Sarai Kale Khan, it will have replicas made out of scrap material. Ajmal Khan Park will also have many more features for visitors to explore, said North Delhi Municipal Corporation officials. “There is around nine-acre area in the park, which is not developed fully and lacks proper plantation. We are planning to utilise it for developing the new facilities,” said mayor Jai Prakash. Times ViewIn a city blighted by pollution, developing an eco-friendly park is always a good idea. The project should be taken up with sincerity and finished within an established deadline.The civic body has prepared a list of 32 monuments, including St Basil’s Cathedral in Moscow, Burj Khalifa, Petra in Jordan, the Great Buddha of Kamakura, Trevi Fountain in Rome, Statue of Liberty (New York), the Great Chinese Wall, Sydney Opera House, Hagia Sophia in Istanbul, Pompeii (Italy), Stonehenge (England) and the Louvre Museum in Paris, replicas of some of which may be installed in the park. “Since existing recreational places have replicas of a few selected monuments, we decided to include other popular structures from across the world. We will also share their history for better understanding of the visitors. We will call artists from known institutes for making these replicas from scrap material,” said Jai Prakash. The horticulture department has been recently asked to prepare a proposal, which will be presented in the next standing committee meeting, he added. “It will include the cost of the project, finalised structure, beautification & lightning and other details. After the project is approved, we will ensure its completion in a year’s time,” said the mayor. There is no such place in north Delhi as of now. “People living in north Delhi can easily visit the park. The place is also well connected to the metro,” said a north corporation official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/will-waste-work-wonders-for-ajmal-khan-park-too/articleshow/81011067.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Anganwadi workers stage protest in Almora, demand higher wages||Almora: Anganwadi workers staged a protest in Almora demanding that they be declared government employees and their wages be raised to Rs 18,000 per month. They are currently paid Rs 8,000 monthly for their services. On Monday, the agitating anganwadi workers took out a procession in Almora and thereafter, held a protest meeting in the city's Gandhi Park. “The anganwadi workers help in the rollout of government programmes like vaccination, survey of voter list, registration of births and deaths, among others. Besides, they are tasked with distributing iron supplement medicines to pregnant women and teenage girls. If our demands are not met soon, we will intensify the stir,” said Bhagwati Bisht, district president, anganwadi workers’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/anganwadi-workers-stage-protest-in-almora-demand-higher-wages/articleshow/80932314.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Nominations from today for grad constituency poll||HYDERABAD: Nominations to the biennial elections to the legislative council from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates constituency can be filed from Tuesday. The last date for filing the nominations is February 23. Candidates can file the papers at GHMC head office (third floor) between 11 am and 3 pm. Special arrangements have been made for Covid-19 patients and senior citizens on the polling day on March 14. “For those who are Covid-19 positive and for people above 80 years, staffers on election duty will go to their places and take their vote. They need not visit the polling station,” read a statement issued by GHMC. On February 24, scrutiny of nominations will be done and the last date for withdrawal is February 26. Polling will be held between 8 am and 4 pm and results will be declared on March 17. A total of 11 nodal officers, including two IAS officer and one IPS officer, have been appointed to oversee the elections. Director of GHMC’s Enforcement Vigilance and Disaster Management has been appointed as the nodal officer for enforcing the model code of conduct, law and order and mobilising transport vehicles. GHMC additional commissioner for revenue has been appointed as the returning officer. GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar on Monday held a meeting on the arrangements for the polling. “There are 5.60 lakh people enrolled as voters and 169 polling stations have been set up,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nominations-from-today-for-grad-constituency-poll/articleshow/80935836.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Undertrials do sit-ups in court for loud ruckus||Mumbai: Two undertrials were convicted by the 23rd Metropolitan Magistrate Abhijieet Kulkarni on Monday and asked to publicly apologise in the packed courtroom for creating a ruckus in the court premises. Magistrate Kulkarni himself was the complainant in the case. He made the two accused Jagdish Madan and Vikram alias Vicky Waidande give in writing that they will maintain decorum of the court. He also made them do 10 sit-ups. The two, who were booked for their alleged nefarious activities in 2018, had come to the court for their hearing. They were found arguing loudly outside the court, and despite being asked to leave by constables, they continued to quarrel. — S Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/undertrials-do-sit-ups-in-court-for-loud-ruckus/articleshow/80935893.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 16, 2021||Kochi||Nun’s death: Autopsy suggests drowning, chemical analysis report awaited||KOCHI: Inquest and autopsy of the 45-year-old nun, who was found dead in an abandoned quarry pond near her convent at Vazhakkala on Sunday evening, was held at Ernakulam Medical college on Monday. A team of doctors conducted the autopsy and sources said that the doctors have told police that the preliminary findings suggest a death due to drowning. “The doctors have informally told police that no abnormalities that could raise suspicion were found in the autopsy. However, a report of a chemical analysis is awaited and a final conclusion would be made only after receiving this report. The initial finding is that the death happened due to drowning,” said an official source. Sr Jaseena Thomas, a nun belonging to the Daughters of St Thomas (DST) congregation and hailing from Idukki, is the deceased. DST congregation on Monday came out with an official statement urging netizens to not spread rumours about the incident. The statement said that the nun witnessed the death of a fellow nun in a road accident on August 21, 2004 while they were serving at Chandukhedi Mission station in Ujjain and she started experiencing mental health issues ever since. She underwent treatment there. Later she was brought to Kerala for providing expert treatment in 2011. For the past 10 years, she had been undergoing treatment at Kusmagiri hospital, Kakkanad, the statement said. “She had expressed suicidal tendencies in 2009 and 2011 and her parents were called to convents in Pala and Vazhakkala, respectively to inform about her condition. In 2011, she stayed at her home for a few days for treatment. Whenever she went home, her parents were apprised of the medicines that she takes and these were sent along with her as well,” the statement issued from the Generalate of the congregation in Bharanganam said. The statement further said that the nun got transferred to the convent at Vazhakkala in 2019 November. “She expressed symptoms of depression during the lockdown and she had consulted with doctors as well,” the statement said. It further said that the nun went to her room on Sunday morning as the Mother at the convent advised her to take rest instead of going to the church, since she appeared disturbed. The nun, however, had provided food and tea to two other nuns who were in quarantine around 10.30am. It was during lunch that she was found to be missing. Subsequently, the higher authorities of the congregation and police were alerted and the search led to her body being found in the quarry pond around 6pm, the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nuns-death-autopsy-suggests-drowning-chemical-analysis-report-awaited/articleshow/80932371.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Gurgaon||‘North India’s tallest railway station escalator’ comes up in Gurgaon||Gurgaon: Gurgaon MP and Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh inaugurated several projects in the city on Monday, including the tallest railway station escalator in north India and a foot overbridge (FOB), jointly built by the minist-ry of roadways and the Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon (MCG) at a cost of Rs 14 crore. The FOB is expected to benefit lakhs of people living in various colonies around Rajendra Park. Singh also laid the foundation stone for an underpass to be constructed near Pataudi as well as eight MCG projects, which are estimated to cost more than Rs 17 crore. These include the renovation of seven parks in Sector 37, which will cost over Rs 4.5 crore.Rao Inderjit Singh said with a height of 14.6m, the escalator built at the Gurgaon railway station is the tallest among any railway stations in north India. Further, he said the Centre has allocated funds for a 104km railway line from Delhi to Alwar via Nuh and Ferozepur Jhirka. “In this year’s Budget, a double railway line from Asthal Bohar to Rewari and electrification of railway line from Garhi Harsaru to Farrukhnagar have also been approved. Electrification of rail will help reduce pollution in the region,” he added.Speaking about the escalator, a railway official said: “It has a capacity of more than 30 persons at a time and can also accommodate wheelchairs. This escalator has been specially designed to look after the comfort of the specially-abled, the elderly, pregnant women and children.”The official added, “The new FOB will be of great convenience to passengers as it connects all platforms of the station. Moreover, locals from the area can move from one side to another side through a skywalk.”Divisional railway manager (Delhi zone) SC Jain said 16 underpasses and six railway overbridges (ROBs) have been built in the area in the past three years. “Apart from this, the platform has been extended at Jatula and Pataudi and parking has been provided at Gurgaon railway station. In a year, eight underpasses will be constructed on the Delhi-Rewari railway line in addition to two ROBs on crossing numbers 27 and 31,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/north-indias-tallest-railway-station-escalator-comes-up-in-gurgaon/articleshow/80942526.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
February 16, 2021||Pune||Only 31 get repeat jab of Covaxin at Aundh site||Pune: The District Hospital, Aundh, administered the second dose of Covaxin to 31 beneficiaries on Monday despite CoWIN niggles that caused serious delays. Names of several health workers who were due for the follow-up shots did not appear on the app. In fact, out of the 31 vaccinated on Monday, only one person — Godavari Kendre, a class IV employee of the hospital — had her name on the list of second-dose beneficiaries. The rest were walk-ins invited via phone calls. On January 16, day one of the vaccine drive, 60 people were given their first doses of Covaxin. Staff nurse Vaishali Kardile, who was the first person to receive a Covaxin dose in Pune district on January 16, said she was informed about her second shot on Monday via a phone call. “In the morning, I heard names were not appearing on the app so I wasn’t sure if I was getting my second dose. But then I received a call.” Kardile said she experienced mild body ache after the first shot, which vanished after adequate rest. The district hospital at Aundh is the only site in the city that’s currently administering Covaxin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-31-get-repeat-jab-of-covaxin-at-aundh-site/articleshow/80939325.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||FIR against one of Sushant Singh Rajput’s sisters not quashed by Bombay HC||MUMBAI: In a relief for one of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s two sisters, the Bombay high court on Monday allowed a quashing petition filed by Meetu Singh while rejecting it for Priyanka Singh in an FIR registered for alleged offences of forgery and violation of NDPS Act in getting ‘bogus prescription’ of medicines for the actor. The FIR against Meetu stands quashed for being based only on suspicions and “vague allegations.” But the HC said in Priyanka’s case, though it may be that her relations with Rhea Chakraborty, who filed the FIR, are strained, “we cannot overlook the serious allegations made in the complaint and material on record and the fact that investigation is in progress.” “The allegations are primarily against Priyanka and Dr Tarun Kumar,” said the HC. The HC accepted the legal submissions of senior counsel Devadatt Kamat and public prosecutor Deepak Thakre for Maharashtra government that provisions of NDPS Act are attracted in the complaint against Priyanka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fir-against-one-of-sushants-sisters-not-quashed-by-hc/articleshow/80942564.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Why 6 of 7 posts vacant on minorities panel?: Delhi HC to Centre||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre to explain why as many as six out of seven posts at National Commission for Minorities (NCM) are lying vacant since October last year. Justice Prathiba M Singh directed the ministry of minorities affairs to file a status report in 10 days in response to a plea for filling up the vacancies. “There cannot be so many vacancies,” the court observed and directed the ministry to explain why the posts are not filled up. The commission cannot protect the interests of minority communities without its chairperson, the plea by Abhay Ratan Bauddh, said. The petition argues that it is “obligatory duty of the respondent no. 1 (central government) and 2 (PMO) under the National Commission for Minorities Act, 1992 to appoint chairperson” and members from Buddhist, Christian, Parsi, Sikh and Jain communities in the commission “for enforcement of the laws generally and to supervise the interest of minority communities.” It informed the court that only the post of vice-chairman of the commission is functional from October 2020. Filed through advocate Vinay Kumar, the petition has also said that the posts started becoming vacant since April 2020 and since October, only one post was functional. It has further said that despite bringing the situation to the ministry’s attention, nothing has been done by the government. The PIL said that the administrative institution is deliberately not filling the vacant posts, thereby violating the provisions of the said Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-to-centre-why-6-of-7-posts-vacant-on-minorities-panel/articleshow/80935890.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Uttam bats for Ramulu, Chinna Reddy’s win||Hyderabad: TPCC chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Monday said Congress has two very good candidates in Ramulu Naik and G Chinna Reddy for the two graduates constituency MLC seats and urged voters to elect them. He told newsmen that Ramulu Naik standing from Warangal-Nalgonda-Khammam graduates constituency came from a very humble background. “He is highly educated with a PhD degree and took part in the Telangana statehood movement,” he said. He said Chinna Reddy is a veteran leader and has actively taken part in the statehood movement. He is seeking to win the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat. He sought to know why the TRS government is sitting over the unemployment allowance scheme despite TRS working president KT Rama Rao making it categorical that it would be implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-bats-for-ramulu-chinna-reddys-win/articleshow/80935854.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Harish gives Rs 1L to sarpanch who didn’t get govt funds||Hyderabad: When a sarpanch narrated her ordeal in getting funds sanctioned from the government, finance minister T Harish Rao handed over Rs 1 lakh to her at a Rythu Vedika inauguration function on Sunday. Narsamma, sarpanch of Madur village in Chinna Shankarampet mandal, said she had to borrow money to take up developmental works in the village and an interest of Rs 1 lakh has now accumulated on the loans she took. “I have borrowed money but I have not received any funds from the government. I am in dire need of money,” the sarpanch told the minister. Harish Rao, who was taken aback, asked the panchayat raj officials as to why there was a delay in clearing her bills. When they said that there was a technical issue with the bank because of which the funds could not be released, the minister asked them to resolve it immediately and see to it that the bills of the sarpanch for the works taken up in her village are cleared. To tide over her financial crisis, the minister gave her Rs 1 lakh. Medak legislator Padma Devender Reddy’s husband, IFFCO director P Devender Reddy arranged the cash, which was handed over to the sarpanch by the minister. Narsamma said after her husband died, she received Rs 5 lakh from Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima. She used the money to repay a part of the borrowed money. The sarpanch had reportedly borrowed up to Rs 16 lakh to undertake various works in the last two years. When TOI tried to reach Medak district panchayat raj executive engineer to find out the reasons for the delay in bills not getting cleared, he responded saying that he was in a meeting and could not take the call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harish-gives-rs-1l-to-sarpanch-who-didnt-get-govt-funds/articleshow/80935876.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 16, 2021||Kolhapur||Power utility initiates drive to recover dues despite protests||Kolhapur: Even as citizens and several organisations have strongly opposed the state government’s policy regarding power bills, the Maharashtra State Electric Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) has gone ahead with sending power disconnection notices to the defaulters. Officials from the state power utility said they have cut the power supply of 831 consumers in the past few days after sending diconnection notices. The MSEDCL employees are under pressure to recover the arrears owing to which they are undertaking special drives as the financial year will end next month and the company is facing financial crisis due to non-payment of bills. As per MSEDCL, a total of 23,158 consumers out of 3.31 lakh in Kolhapur district have cleared arrears amounting to Rs 34 crore. However, Kolhapur district has total arrears of Rs 172 crore and MSEDCL is yet to recover Rs 138 crore. Now, MSEDCL has prepared a list of 31,951 consumers who have not paid any bill since April last year. They have been sent notices through SMS on the registered phone number and the employees are also making visits. “The district has as many as 22,195 commercial power connections with arrears of Rs 34 crore. According to the information, 5,365 commercial customers have paid Rs 9 crore in the past two weeks. The district has 6,718 industrial connections with total arrears of Rs 39 crore. Out of them, 1,699 consumers have paid Rs 12 crore till the last week,” an MSEDCL official said, adding the recovery drive will continue. Rayat Kranti Sanghatana, Swabhimani Shetkar Sanghatana, Irrigation federations and several other organizations had protested against the government’s decision with some organizations evening warning the MSEDCL teams going out to disconnect the power supply. A meeting of action committee, held on Sunday, has warned to intensify the agitation if the MSEDCL continues to disconnect the power supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/power-utility-initiates-drive-to-recover-dues-despite-protests/articleshow/80935882.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Pune||Armed men made failed bid at another bungalow||Pune: Investigations by the Pimpri Chinchwad police have revealed that the four armed men, who robbed cash and ornaments worth Rs4.7 lakh from the bungalow of a retired couple at Talegaon Dabhade early on Saturday, had made an unsuccessful robbery attempt at another bungalow around a km away. The four men broke into that bungalow around 2.30am but had to beat a hasty retreat on realising that some people were awake. Prior to this unsuccessful attempt, the suspects had also stolen some pair of shoes from a house at Malwadi, around 3km from the bungalow of retired teacher Arjun Shete (74) at Vanashrinagar. The four men then broke into Shete’s bungalow around 3.30am by cutting the grille of the living room. Shete said, “While fleeing from the spot, the suspects left the stolen shoes on the premises of my bungalow. Sanket Ware, whose shoes were stolen, came to my bungalow on Sunday afternoon to collect his shoes. Shete’s right wrist sustained fracture as one of the robbers pushed him. “They also punched my wife in the stomach. They snatched her gold chain and tried to remove her earrings by force. To avoid any injury, she handed the earrings to the suspects,” Shete said. He said that he and his wife were asleep when the suspects entered the bungalow. “They tied and gagged us. Had our neighbour Sohan Dahitule not come to our rescue, they would have killed us,” Shete said. Dahitule told TOI, “Around 3.30am on Saturday, my mother heard sounds like someone being gagged at Shete’s bungalow. She woke me up. I saw from my balcony that the main gate and the door of the bungalow were open. I raised an alarm following which the suspects ran away. I then went to Shete’s bungalow and freed them.” Dahitule said that about half-an-hour ago, the police had gone to Manohanagar, around a km away, where the suspects made an unsuccessful attempt at robbery. The area under the jurisdiction of Talegaon Dabhade police is quite big. Apart from Talegaon town, many villages come under its ambit. Bhaskar Jadhav, senior inspector, Talegaon Dabhade police, said, “Our policemen visit the secluded spots on bicycles..” Assistant commissioner of police (Dehu Road division) Sanjay Naik-Patil said, “Three teams have been formed to trace the robbers. We have obtained CCTV footages from establishments along the road. Four men have been captured in one of the CCTV cameras. But the images are not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/armed-men-made-failed-bid-at-another-bungalow/articleshow/80939373.cms||Mihir Tanksale
February 16, 2021||Pune||Pune: FASTag sales speed up at most toll plazas||PUNE: FASTag sales have recorded two- to three-fold increase at the Khed Shivapur and Anewadi toll plazas after the Radio Frequency Identification Tag was made compulsory from Monday midnight, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials said. NHAI data revealed that sales surged by 30-32% at the Patas and Indapur toll plazas. Suhas Chitnis, project director of NHAI, saidI, “On an average, the revenue generation from FASTag reached 75% on Monday on all NHAI toll plazas. There are FASTag sale points at various channels, including toll plazas, and the responsibility is now on commuters to buy and affix it. An NHAI official said they have also sent a letter to various police authorities seeking protection if need be during toll collections. “Additional manpower was deployed at toll plazas after Monday midnight to ensure that those who entered the FASTag lane without the reloadable tag were sent back, made to purchase the tag from the point of sale and then re-enter” the official said.  After Monday midnight, any vehicle not having the FASTag will have to pay double the toll. Amit Bhatia, regional head, west, Pune Satara Toll Road Private Limited, Reliance Infrastructure, who manages Kheds Shivapur and Anewadi toll plazas, said, “At the Khed Shivapur and Anewadi plazas, revenue generation from FASTag mode touched 75% on Monday as against 64% a few days ago. We expect revenue generation from FASTag electronic toll collection system to soon touch 80%.”  Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation chief general manager Kamlakar Phand said, “All lanes at the toll plazas on Pune-Mumbai expressway have FASTag readers since January 26 this year. The system is running successfully.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fastag-sales-speed-up-at-most-toll-plazas/articleshow/80939348.cms||Neha Madaan
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Leopard breaks spine, dies after truck hits it||An adult male leopard died after being run over by an unidentified vehicle on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway at Manor in Palghar on Sunday night. Wild animals are known to cross at the spot in search of food or water. Eyewitnesses told the police that a truck ran over the leopard near Durves village. The big cat had a broken spine and head injuries. Forest officials took away the carcass for an autopsy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/leopard-breaks-spine-dies-after-truck-hits-it/articleshow/80945277.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Chennai||17,000 trees face axe for Chennai-Bengaluru Expressway||CHENNAI: Around 17,000 trees and plantations will be cut down and 5.4 hectares of reserve forest will be taken over in Kancheepuram, Vellore and Ranipet for laying the Chennai-Bengaluru Expressway (BCE). While the said reserved forest in Mahimandalam contains another 2,000-odd trees, 26 water reservoirs or lakes in the three districts will also be affected, show National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) documents. Around 13% of people residing here were engaged in agriculture. The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) will seek feedback from the public and other stakeholders regarding the project on March 13 and 16 at Kancheepuram and Vellore district environmental engineer’s offices. Of the Rs 3,472crore sanctioned in the this year’s Union budget for the third and final phases of the project, Rs 66crore is to be used by the NHAI for compensatory afforestation and environmental monitoring. A senior NHAI official said the government’s compensatory afforestation guideline will be strictly followed. “Ten trees will be planted for every tree felled,” he said. But Gokul Raj of Voice of Nature Trust, a not-for-profit organisation which has filed several cases in the past against NHAI for false afforestation claims, said authorities take up such drivers for namesake and respond only when National Green Tribunal (NGT) or courts pull them up. “A classic example is Chennai-Tirupati NH205,” he said. NH48 is currently the most preferred route for commuting between Chennai and Bengaluru, but the NHAI’s new four-lane road project is expected to reduce travel time by 45 to 60 minutes. While the total length of the new project is 278 km, the final phase will involve laying a 106km stretch from Irungattukottai in Sriperumbudur on Chennai’s outskirts to Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh. The project will also involve construction of 57 bridges, 50 pedestrian underpasses, three truck rest areas and more importantly six toll plazas. In the pre-construction phase, trees will be felled and 150-odd residential and commercial structures and religious institutions razed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/17k-trees-face-axe-for-expressway/articleshow/80935888.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi's Karol Bagh police station gets top billing||NEW DELHI: The Karol Bagh police station in central district has been rated the best in Delhi after rigorous evaluation based on over a dozen parameters. Minister of State (home) G Kishan Reddy and police commissioner S N Shrivastava presented the trophy to its SHO Maninder Singh on Tuesday at a function celebrating the 74th Raising Day. The evaluators found that the station had a 93% success rate in detection of cases in its jurisdiction, and not a single substantiated complaint was found against its personnel. The turn-out and discipline of its personnel were excellent and the Malkhana and bar-coding of goods stood at 100%. While Karol Bagh topped the list, police stations of Seelampur and Moti Nagar bagged the first and second runners-up trophies. Reddy appreciated Delhi Police for its efforts in checking crime against women, implementation of 112 number and for leading the fight against cyber crime. He also expressed satisfaction with technical upgradation and optimum use of modern technology on the lines of PM’s SMART Policing project, and assured all help from the Union home ministry to make Delhi Police more tech-savvy. Reddy also conferred medals on 75 police personnel for gallantry, President Medal of distinguished service, Police Medal for meritorious service, Jeevan Raksha Padak and Home Minister’s Meritorious Training Service Medal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/karol-bagh-police-stn-gets-top-billing/articleshow/81011197.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Avinash Bhosale to appear before ED February 17||Mumbai: Pune-based builder Avinash Bhosale and his son Amit, who had approached Bombay high court last week against summons from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with an alleged land scam, said they would comply with the summonsAvinash Bhosale’s counsel Shirish Gupte said Avinash would appear before the ED on February 17. The Bhosales had petitioned th HC for orders to quash the “arbitrary” summons and interim orders to restrain the ED from taking any coercive steps. Both father and son had said there was no pending case against them in the alleged land scam and questioned the basis of the summons The HC will hear the matter next on February 24. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/avinash-bhosale-to-appear-before-ed-february-17/articleshow/80935949.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Rain forecast a wet blanket for rabi crops||PUNE: The light to moderate rainfall expected over a few places in Vidarbha, Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada, over the next few days has worried farmers, who are yet to harvest a bulk of their rabi standing crops such as wheat, gram, maize, jowar, vegetables such as onions and fruit crops. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast light to moderate rain at a few places with isolated thunderstorm, lightning, hail in Vidarbha on Tuesday and Wednesday and Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada on Wednesday and Thursday. Yogesh Thorat, the managing director of Maha FPC, a consortium of 300 farmer producer companies (FPCs) in Maharashtra, said, “Around 60 to 70% of rabi crop such as wheat in parts of Marathwada and Vidarbha is yet to be harvested. What is harvested is also still lying on the fields. Similarly, standing sorghum crop in Marathwada is in the matured stage and is yet to be harvested in some places. A rain spell could cause quality deterioration issues in these crops.” Thorat said already onion productivity was expected to reduce in the onion belt in Maharashtra because of the above normal winter temperatures. Vijay Thube, the director of Shashwat Krishi Vikas India, a farmers’ producer company in Pune district, said, “Rain in January this year had already damaged many crops, and the impending spell was expected to do further damage. Most of the crops such as gram, wheat, millets are still in the fields. Even light rains are detrimental at this juncture because it is necessary wheat and other rabi crops are not exposed to moisture during the current stage, otherwise they could rot overtime.” Shankar Dumre, a Junnar-based farmer owning 5-acre farm land, said, “Almost 70 to 80% crop of pomegranate, maize, onion, grapes, wheat is yet to be harvested from my field. With lightning, rain and hail forecast, we expect strong winds, which can adversely affect standing crops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rain-forecast-a-wet-blanket-for-rabi-crops/articleshow/80939386.cms||Neha Madaan
February 16, 2021||Chennai||Madhya Kailash cave-in leads to traffic pile-up on OMR||Chennai: Travelling on Sardar Patel Road and Old Mahabalipuram Road, always an ordeal for motorists, has become worse since Saturday night when a part of the road at Madhya Kailash junction caved in. This the fifth time in four years the road at the spot has sunk in the past five years, the last being in November 2020 when a Metrowater pipeline burst. This time too, a corroded Metrowater pipeline running under the MRTS line gave way. Adding to motorists’ woes, on Monday morning, a truck carrying loads of rice bags from Tondiarpet capsized on the spot. The truck’s wheel got stuck in the pit and the driver lost control, leading to a traffic pile-up that lasted more than two hours. Residents of the area and others demand a permanent solution to the problem. “Now, taking the stretch is scary as we don’t know when the road would cave in,” said Parasuraman, who works at a private firm in Adyar. “This traffic pile-up is unusual as not many schools and IT companies are open. We cannot imagine travelling on the road when all these institutions open.” Sharma, a resident of Guindy, said officials had left motorists at risk. Bhagya, a regular commuter on the stretch, said traffic congestion was already a major issue and the frequent cave-ins have worsened it. “It takes not less than 45 minutes for me to reach Guindy from Taramani,” he said. A traffic enforcement officer said they had decided not to allow any heavy vehicle on the stretch as the caved-in part would still be loose. “But the truck crossed early in the morning, resulting in the accident,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madhya-kailash-cave-in-leads-to-traffic-pile-up-on-omr/articleshow/80935900.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Demand to lift curbs on Shiv Jayanti celebrations||PUNE: The Shetkari Maratha Mahasangh, a Maratha organization, on Monday demanded that the state government withdraw “unwarranted” restrictions on public celebrations ahead of Shiv Jayanti on February 19. The state government has imposed a ban on public gatherings to contain the spread of coronavirus. The organization further claimed it would celebrate the festival at Varsha, the chief minister’s official residence in Mumbai. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, members on the organization said the government must reconsider “severe restrictions” on such programmes. “The followers of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj are unhappy with such undue restrictions. We are ready to follow the government norms to prevent the spread of Covid-19, but these unwarranted restrictions on public celebrations should be lifted,” Sambhajiraje Dahatonde, president of the organisation, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demand-to-lift-curbs-on-shiv-jayanti-celebrations/articleshow/80939401.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||T gets Rs 1,700cr as GST compensation||Hyderabad: Telangana on Monday received Rs 1,703 crore as GST compensation from the state. The centre is releasing Rs 95,000 crore as the special borrowing plan post Covid- 19 situation. Andhra Pradesh received Rs 2,167 crore . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-gets-rs-1700cr-as-gst-compensation/articleshow/80935898.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Vadodara||CM tests positive, but BJP leaders won’t self-isolate||Vadodara: Despite chief minister Vijay Rupani testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday, the BJP leaders, who had come in contact with him, will not be isolating themselves and it will be business as usual for them. Rupani had collapsed on the stage during an election rally for the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) polls held in Nizampura area of the city on Sunday night. His Covid-19 test turned out to be positive on Tuesday morning. According to central health ministry guidelines, any person who has come in contact with a corona positive patient should isolate himself/herself as a precaution. However, city unit BJP chief Dr Vijay Shah, a healthcare professional himself, said these guidelines are not in force any more. “Only eight to 10 persons had come in contact with the CM. These include the MP, MLAs, general secretaries and others. Candidates met him only at Tarsali public meeting and not in the other two rallies,” said Shah. Also, no person from the city unit of the BJP had travelled with Rupani in the car.  Those who had come in touch with the CM will be undergoing tests if they have any symptoms. As a precautionary measure, leaders underwent rapid antigen tests at VMC health centres, but none has been found positive so far, he claimed. He pointed out that those on stage with the CM were wearing masks. The Congress has, however, raked up a major controversy regarding the issue and demanded that all those who had come in close contact with Rupani should quarantine themselves. It took up the matter formally with the election officials and the district administration.  City unit president Prashant Patel wrote a letter in this regard and said that this was necessary to prevent the spread of the infection. Congress spokesperson Shailesh Amin went a step further and appealed that people should stay at a safe distance from such super spreaders. He sought that all who had come in contact with the CM should be quarantined for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cm-tests-positive-but-bjp-leaders-wont-self-isolate/articleshow/80932388.cms||---
February 16, 2021||India||Toolkit row: Delhi Police teams in Maharashtra to arrest lawyer, activist; both move HC for bail||A day after Disha Ravi was taken into police custody, a Delhi court issued non-bailable warrants against Nikita Jacob (29), a Mumbai-based lawyer, and Shantanu Muluk (31), an engineer from Beed in Marathwada — prompting them to immediately approach the Bombay high court on Monday for protection from arrest. Delhi Police said it sought a warrant against Jacob after she absconded from her residence in Mumbai while being questioned. However, Jacob, in her petition, expressed “apprehension” that “under the guise of investigation she might be arrested in a false and frivolous case”. She said she feared police action “due to political vendetta and media trial”. Delhi Police said search warrants were issued against Jacob and Muluk after a technical probe established that they held several meetings on Zoom along with Ravi and others to draft a document for circulation that had secessionist and pro-Khalistani content embedded into it through links and text. Jacob’s application said she had “not committed any crime, as appears to have been alleged or otherwise”. Nikita Jacob lawyers said Delhi Police’s non-bailable warrants were issued on the “wrong pretext” that she was absconding. Jacob said, “It is difficult for women to travel to other states and to defend themselves with the cloud of fear of getting arrested in transit on the basis of this frivolous/ false complaint.” Delhi Police joint commissioner Prem Nath said, “After registration of an FIR, a technical investigation was launched and as soon as the probe was able to fetch enough information, a search warrant was obtained on February 9 against Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob, who had emerged as one of the editors of the Toolkit Google document.” Jacob said that she began legal practice in 2014 and has an “untainted reputation”. She said that she had “volunteered in an environmental movement called Extinction Rebellion “that helps create awareness of… environmental crisis… worldwide and helps create a positive change… with non-violent means”. Her plea seeking transit anticipatory bail for four weeks was brought before Justice P D Naik; her lawyer sought an urgent hearing and the judge scheduled it for Tuesday. Meanwhile, Shantanu Muluk (31), the engineer from Beed in Marathwada, moved the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court for similar relief of transit pre-arrest bail, which will also be heard on Tuesday. Jacob, Delhi Police alleged, was in touch with Khalistan sympathiser Mo Dhaliwal and his Canadian associate Puneet, who got in touch with her with the idea of creating a Twitter storm before Republic Day. Armed with the warrant, a team reached Mumbai and searched her house on February 11 after due intimation to Mumbai Police, joint commissioner Nath said. Two laptops and an iPhone were found with documents, he added. The Delhi team was accompanied by a constable from Vanrai police station. “Keeping in mind that the person whose premises were being searched as per court orders was a woman, the investigating team wound up the day’s search and requested Nikita to make herself available at her house on the next morning. She gave a written undertaking to remain present,” Nath said. However, she was found missing the next morning, he added. A Delhi Police team stationed in Beed in Maharashtra for the past three days has similarly searched and seized materials from the residence of Shantanu Muluk. “The email account created by Shantanu is the owner of this document and all others are its editors,” DCP (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy said. Both Jacob and Muluk have filed transit anticipatory bail pleas raising apprehensions about the likelihood of an arrest. Both are asking the high court for an opportunity to present their case before the Delhi court and seek regular pre-arrest bail from it. Represented by advocates Sanjukta Dey and Abhished Yende, Jacob in her application filed against the state of Maharashtra and the cyber crime unit of Delhi Police has also said that “some online trolls and bots are circulating her personal information on social media” and that an entity known as Legal Rights Observatory has sought to pin the blame for the violence on January 26 on her by filing a false and baseless complaint with Delhi Police. Watch Delhi Police issues non-bailable warrant against Nikita Jacob in Greta Thunberg ‘toolkit’ case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/toolkit-row-delhi-police-teams-in-maharashtra-to-arrest-lawyer-activist-both-move-hc-for-bail/articleshow/80948042.cms||Rajshekhar Jha
February 16, 2021||Vadodara||Many in crowd seen without face masks||Vadodara: While almost all leaders who were on the dais with chief minister Vijay Rupani may consider themselves lucky as they were wearing masks, it was the scene in the audience that would raise concern. Many including BJP workers in the audience were not wearing masks during election rallies for the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) polls. Only stray persons on stage were not wearing masks even as some others removed them or pulled them down to their chins for photographs. But it seems that the leaders did not try to ensure that those in the audience followed the guidelines like they did.BJP city unit president Dr Vijay Shah said that the party would make a note of this experience and take enough care in the coming rallies. BJP state president C R Paatil is scheduled to address election rallies in Vadodaraon Tuesday.Shah said that necessary instructions will be issued to ensure that the guidelines are followed strictly. He added that if needed masks can be distributed to those who are not carrying one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/many-in-crowd-seen-without-face-masks/articleshow/80932528.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Khar teen’s murder accused seeks interim bail to appear for exams||Mumbai: Shree Jogdhankar, arrested for the alleged murder of his friend, 19-year-old psychology student, Jhanvi Kukreja, on January 1, applied for bail before the sessions court on Monday. Kukreja was found dead near the staircase at Bhagwati Heights in Khar (W). She, Jogdhankar and another accused, Diya Padalkar (19), had attended a New Year’s Eve party in the same building on December 31 night. Kukreja was found dead by a resident around 2.30am on January 1 and the building owner’s son, Yash Ahuja, who had organized the party was informed about the death. Jogdhankar’s lawyer, Mahesh Vaswani, said he should get interim bail as he has to appear for a hotel catering exam which he is preparing for from prison. “There is a missing link in the murder, and Khar police have failed to find the real culprit,” said Vaswani. Earlier, Padalkar applied for bail. The hearing in both cases will be on February 17. Kukreja was represented by senior lawyer Rizwan Merchant along with Trivankumar Karnani and Gayatri Gokhale. “We will oppose the bail as the police probe is on,” said Karnani. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/khar-teens-murder-accused-seeks-interim-bail-to-appear-for-exams/articleshow/80945563.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Janta Darbar plan irks Mumbai, SNDT university management councils||MUMBAI: Members of the management councils of Mumbai University as well as SNDT University have frowned on the higher education minister’s decision to hold a janta darbar to address the grievances of various stakeholders. Some management council members have written to the governor, the chancellor of state universities, expressing their opposition against the public meeting. Minister Uday Samant is slated to meet and address the grievances of students, parents, teachers and the non-teaching staff on February 22 at Jamboree Maidan, Worli. And the responsibility of setting up the venue, arranging the seating and shouldering other expenses is on the two city varsities. “It is sad and unfortunate that in spite of repeated requests from the university authorities and strictures from the High Court, the State Government is not stopping from interfering in the day-to-day activities of the university. The management council of Mumbai University is capable of handling its problems and resolving the same with the help of its stakeholders. The State Government has no right to interfere in the day-to-day administration by organizing such meetings at places which are inconvenient to the university administration,” said a letter from management council member Neel Helekar.  SNDT’s governor nominee to the management council, Suwarna Rawal, will also dispatch a letter to the chancellor. “Universities are autonomous bodies and they have grievance panels. We fail to understand the interference of the minister.” She added both universities have campus halls where the redressal meeting can be held. “Patkar Hall of SNDT has a seating capacity of 1,000. Mumbai University too has its own hall. Across the street from Mantralaya, there is Yashwantrao Chavan hall. Why then is the meeting being held in Worli? For years, the state has not given non-salary grants to universities, which are expected to dip into their own funds for the event,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/janta-darbar-plan-irks-mumbai-sndt-univ-mgmt-councils/articleshow/80932406.cms||Hemali Chhapia
February 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||Girl’s parents enraged as youth was from same clan||Ahmedabad: It has emerged that the primary motive for the killing was that he belonged to the same clan as the girl, and the boy and girl would be considered ‘brother and sister’, said investigators probing the alleged kidnapping and murder of 21-year-old Jigneshsinh Parmar. DCP (Zone-4) Rajesh Gadhiya said, "The girl’s parents told us that they did not know of the relationship between Jigneshsinh and their daughter before they saw her out with him. They were angry as this was an unacceptable relationship to them, as they belonged to the same clan and would be considered ‘brother and sister’." Gadhiya added, "The accused said they saw this as a betrayal by the victim, who is from the same caste and village. They say they did not plan the killing but carried it out in anger." However, the CCTV footage from the dairy shows that one of the accused arrived at the spot on a scooter while three arrived in the car, hinting at some sort of coordination between them. Jigneshsinh, a resident of Parmarpura locality of Maheda village near Valad in Gandhinagar district, was on his motorcycle with a girl from the same village when he was accosted by four persons: the girl’s parents, a relative and another man. CCTV footage from a dairy on Dharmaprabhu Road in Krishnanagar showed Jigneshsinh being forced into a Maruti Eeco car by the four and taken away. Investigators said he was then strangled and thrown into the Narmada Canal on Fagvel Road on Thursday. Divers from the police, fire brigade and local swimmers have been scouring the canal since Thursday, but his body has not been found yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/girls-parents-enraged-as-youth-was-from-same-clan/articleshow/80935908.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Aurangabad||Chavan: Contractors responsible for delayed road works||Aurangabad: State PWD minister Ashok Chavan on Monday said that the contractors are responsible for delay in completion of road projects across the state. Chavan blamed the BJP government for failing to provide sufficient funds towards construction of roads in the Marathwada region. “Every year around 10,000 crore to 12,000 crore is sanctioned, but they prove insufficient. This time the Maha Vikas Aghadi government has proposed Rs 15,000 crore and the entire amount will be sanctioned in the upcoming cabinet meeting,” he said. While interacting with the journalists, Chavan said that union minister Nitin Gadkari might be correct in saying that people’s representatives are causing hurdles in construction of roads. “The state highways and inter-district roads have a total length of 40,000 km in Maharashtra and the demand for construction of new roads, which is indeed essential, is increasing every day. The required funds are also being taken from Asian Development Bank for which cabinet’s nod is awaited,” Chavan said. While expressing his views about Maratha reservation quota, which is pending in the Supreme Court, Chavan said, “We are of the view that instead of hearing the Maratha reservation case through video conferencing, there should be physical hearing and that too before a 11-judge bench.” Chavan is the chairman of state cabinet sub-committee for Maratha quota, and he had earlier too expressed that the pending cases related to reservation above 50% should be clubbed. Chavan along with other ministers was in the city for attending the annual regional district planning committee meeting chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and was attended by people’s representatives, district administrations from across the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/chavan-contractors-responsible-for-delayed-road-works/articleshow/80935905.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Building collapses in Mahabubabad district||Hyderabad: An collectorate building in Mahabubabad district whihc was under construction on Monday collapsed. Seven workers were injured. Officials said that the injured were discharged after giving first aid. No case was registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/building-collapses-in-mahabubabad-district/articleshow/80935904.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Healthcare workers to be given three chances in all to take Covid vaccine||MUMBAI: Health workers will be offered three chances to show up for Covid vaccination. This was reiterated in a meeting of the city's vaccine taskforce and hospital heads on Monday. A month since the beginning of the drive, Mumbai has vaccinated less than 50% of the 1.9 lakh registered health workers. While the slow uptake in the initial days was blamed on CoWIN glitches, hesitancy too continues to affect numbers. On Monday, the turnout dropped to 31%. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We are not forcing people, but if they don’t take the vaccine after three chances, their names will be pushed down the list. We will not omit names.” He said private hospitals will have a final training on Tuesday before they start vaccination by Thursday; 21 have shown preparedness to vaccinate staffers and some will start in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/healthcare-workers-to-be-given-three-chances-in-all-to-take-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80940823.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chennai||Engg colleges seek relaxation of rules to begin new courses||Chennai: Engineering colleges in the state have asked the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to relax rules to start courses in emerging areas such as artificial intelligence, data science and cyber security. Now, colleges should have accreditation to start the new courses or they have to reduce intake in existing courses. "To get accreditation, engineering colleges should have 50% admissions against sanctioned intake. With admission to traditional courses dipping in the last few years, colleges have not been able to go for accreditation. They can survive only if they get courses such as AI and data science. Hence we have asked for simplification of the rules,” a representative from the consortium of self-financing professional, arts and science colleges said. Of 461 colleges that took part in online engineering counselling last year, only around 130 were able to fill more than 50% of seats. Based on AICTE's direction, Anna University allowed around 50 engineering colleges to start BTech AI and Data Science courses in 2020-21. The courses saw 63.5% seats filled in the first year, while response was poor for traditional courses such as civil engineering, (23.5%), mechanical engineering (27.8%) and electrical and electronics engineering (34%). Top colleges, which have accredited their courses, want minimum fees fixed to meet the expenditure on implementing the seventh pay commission award. "A professor's salary would come closer to Rs 2lakh. We expect AICTE to fix a minimum fee for engineering courses,” said R M Kishore, vice-chairman of RMK Engineering College in Chennai. Some principals want top colleges categorised to allow them to collect more fees. "It would encourage colleges to go for accreditation. They should categorize colleges into two or three groups and fix their fees accordingly. AICTE should also think of renewing approval for top colleges once in three years instead of annually," said B Chidambararajan, principal of SRM Valliammai Engineering College. Deemed universities want AICTE to fix the intake cap for the total number of students and not separately for degree programmes. “AICTE can grant approval by default on submission of data for top 100 universities in NIRF ranking,” said S Vaidhyasubramaniam, vice-chancellor of SASTRA. And, professors have asked AICTE to evolve a mechanism to verify salaries. "Some engineering colleges have sacked senior faculty to avoid paying high salaries. AICTE should ensure cadre ratio in all departments," said a professor at a private engineering college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/engg-colleges-seek-relaxation-of-rules-to-begin-new-courses/articleshow/80935973.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Meerut||‘Globetrotting PM’ not walking 3km to talk to farmers, his ministers calling them ‘traitors’, says Priyanka||Bijnor: Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Monday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of “disregarding” lakhs of farmers sitting on protests in cold for three months now, saying he has time to travel to the US to campaign for Donald Trump but he cannot walk 3km to meet the protestors at Delhi borders.Speaking at a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ in Bijnor district of western UP, a region where sugarcane crop is grown prominently, the Congress general secretary raked up the issue of cane dues.Flagging what she called “priorities” of the government, Gandhi claimed that the Prime Minister purchased two airplanes worth Rs 16,000crore to travel the world in the face of Rs 15,000crore pending dues of sugarcane farmers. “He could have easily cleared all the dues of farmers of the country, but he chose the planes,” Gandhi said.She said that the farmers, who are protesting against the three agriculture laws for months now, are being insulted and called traitors.“A minister in Haryana even mocked the death of the 215 farmers. He said that those farmers would have died anyway, at their homes if they had stayed back,” she said, adding that the protesters were insulted in Parliament too.She accused the Prime Minister of disregarding the farmers.“The Prime Minister can go to the US, hold an event for Trump, visit China and Pakistan. But why is he not meeting farmers sitting just 3km away at Delhi borders for the last three months. He has branded them ‘andolanjeevi’. He doesn’t know the difference between traitors and patriots,” Gandhi said. “People of the country are not blind. They are watching what is happening for the past seven years,” she said.Extending her party’s support to farmers’ agitation, Gandhi said, “Our party and all workers stand by farmers. When farmers are in distress, I always would be with them. I have faith in farmers who will teach a lesson to the BJP government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/globetrotting-pm-not-walking-3km-to-talk-to-farmers-his-ministers-calling-them-traitors-says-priyanka/articleshow/80932399.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 16, 2021||Meerut||Amid clash, cops evict sadhus and locals trying to encroach on disputed site, at least 30 booked||Meerut: Nine named and 20-25 unnamed people were booked by Meerut's Partapur police after ugly scenes unfolded at a disputed site in the area. A purported video of cops dragging a priest from the ceremony and holding an argument with sadhus has also surfaced."Some people were trying to encroach on a land sealed after court order. An FIR has been registered in the case," Akhilesh Narayan Singh, Meerut SP (City) said. Locals along with priests and sadhus were organising a religious ceremony to install an idol on Sunday afternoon when a posse of cops arrived at the spot after alert.The land where the ceremony to install the idol was being performed is a disputed site and was sealed following a court order. According to sources, there are three claimants of the property and it was sealed following a court order in September 2017.When the organisers didn't concede to repeated requests of the local administration to vacate the land, force was used to clear the spot with police reportedly dragging out priests and others from the land.Amid the simmering tension, heavy police force was later deployed. Mild force was also used to disperse the crowd which had gathered at the spot.Later, an FIR under stringent sections, including that of obstructing work of public servants, was registered at Partapur police station. Four persons were arrested, but later granted bail, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/amid-clash-cops-evict-sadhus-and-locals-trying-to-encroach-on-disputed-site-at-least-30-booked/articleshow/80932420.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Three on temple trip before wedding drown as car falls into canal in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A trip to seek blessings for their daughter ahead of her wedding turned into tragedy for a family as the father, mother and girl met a watery grave after their car plunged into the Sri Ram Sagar Project (SRSP) canal in Jagtial district in the early hours of Monday. The girl’s 19-year-old brother was the lone survivor as he managed to crawl out of the window before the car submerged. Cops suspect that the father, who was driving, may have dozed off. The deceased were identified as advocate K Amarender Rao (58), wife K Sirisha (52) and daughter K Shreya (25), an IBM software engineer in Hyderabad. Son K Jayanth is a student. The family lived in Jagtial town where Amarender had his practice. Rao along with his family had left home around 5.30am to attend Venkateswara temple festival in their native Joganpalli village, also in Jagtial district, Medipally police said. “Shreya’s wedding was scheduled in May and the family had been visiting temples for her wellbeing. While they were about eight kilometres from Joganpalli, the car veered off the road and plunged into the SRSP canal before a bridge on the outskirts of Medipally village,” Medipally SI Sudheer Rao said. “After the car fell in the canal, they all woke up. Jayanth said they told each other to remain calm and tried to get out through the windows. But as water entered the vehicle, it started sinking and only Jayanth, who was sitting in the front passenger seat, was able to crawl out. He was lucky to find a motor hose placed in the canal by farmers. Holding the hose, he climbed out of the canal,” the SI said. Alerted by passersby, police rushed to the spot and pulled the car out along with the three bodies. Rao was a distant relative of Jagtial MLA M Sanjay Kumar and worked with the MLA’s father Hanumantha Rao, a senior advocate. The MLA visited the accident spot and the bodies were shifted for a post-mortem. A case was registered under Section 304-A of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-on-temple-trip-before-wedding-drown-as-car-falls-into-canal/articleshow/80942635.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Patna||12,101 healthcare workers get second shot of vaccine in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 12,101 healthcare workers took the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine across the state on Monday. These healthcare workers had taken their first shot on January 16, the day vaccination was launched across the country. Of them, 11,822 got Covishield and 279 Covaxin. But the number of beneficiaries were less compared to the first day of the drive when 18,122 healthcare workers were vaccinated across the state. An official with the health department said a gap of 28 days is a must after the first shot and the second dose can be taken anytime between 28 and 45 days from the first one. However, when compared to the first day of the first shot, things were smooth and more systematic on Monday. Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) director Dr N R Biswas, who made a surprise visit, said, “Immunization process is going on smoothly and beneficiaries are being reminded through phone calls.” Dr Anshu Rani, who was on duty in the observation room, said the kind of fear which was there initially was no more in the beneficiaries. By 11am, 30 beneficiaries at IGIMS had taken their second shot. One of the healthcare workers, Afzal Imam, who works as a hospital attendant, said, “Today, there was no fear at all. There was some nervousness on the first day.” Same was the reply of almost all the beneficiaries who had come to the same place to take the second shot. Kuber Ravi, who works in the community medicine department, said he was completely fit even after taking the second shot. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said the kind of apprehension on the launch day was no more there and beneficiaries were more confident while receiving the second shot. So far, total 4,95,792 beneficiaries have got the first shot in Bihar, including 3,97,311 healthcare workers and 98,481 frontline workers. Meanwhile, only 44 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Monday, taking the tally to 2,61,785. In the same time period, 79 people recovered. The state’s recovery rate reached 99.19%. Officially, two deaths were reported and both were from Patna. At AIIMS-Patna, no death was reported. Cases today: 44 Total cases: 2,61,785 Recoveries: 2,59,670 Deaths: 1,527 Suicide: 2 Active cases: 586||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12101-healthcare-workers-get-second-shot-of-vaccine/articleshow/80932431.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 16, 2021||Meerut||Meerut among five centres in UP to have leopard rescue facility||Meerut: For the first time-ever, UP will have five leopard rescue centres in the state in Meerut, Chitrkoot, Etawah, Gorakhpur and Pilibhit districts. As of now, there is only one rescue centre in Agra, and that too for bears and elephants. Animals rescued in the wild are sent either to Kanpur or Lucknow zoo. However, these zoos cannot accommodate all the rescued animals. More so, as incidents of man-animal conflict, particularly involving leopards living amid the cane fields and villagers, in west UP have increased in recent times. More than a dozen abandoned leopard cubs are rescued in Bijnor region alone during cane harvesting every year. The man-leopard confrontation has also led to casualties on both sides. Therefore, a decision was taken to set up the rescue centres in forest areas. The primary aim is to keep injured wildlife within their boundaries so that they can be safely released into the forests after undergoing treatment. Only those afflicted with permanent injuries and can no longer hunt prey on their own will be shifted to the zoos. Each leopard rescue centre will take care of an area within 100-km radius. A sum of Rs 5 crore has been earmarked for each centre. The Meerut centre will be established in Hastinapur, bordering Bijnor district. Giving details, Rajesh Kumar, Meerut divisional forest officer (DFO), said,“Recently a meeting was held in Lucknow in which the five proposed centres were discussed. Each centre will take care of rescue, treatment, storage of medicines, cages, etc. It will also have a residential facility for veterinary staff.” He added, “We suggested some structural changes and once they are approved, funding will be released by Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning (CAMPA).” M Semmaran, Bijnor DFO who has rescued more than 40 leopard cubs over the past three years, said, “A rescue centre is the need of the hour. We had sent a proposal for the same two years ago. Bijnor is known for a very large density of cats and incidents of man-animal conflict are also high. A rescue centre will be a boon in the region.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-among-five-centres-in-up-to-have-leopard-rescue-facility/articleshow/80932429.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 16, 2021||Chennai||TNSCB online redressal portal yet to take off||Chennai: Two years ago, the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) had announced that it would launch an online grievance redressal cell where people and those residing in tenements constructed by it could easily file complaints on issues concerning housing instead of waiting for long hours outside their office. The department, however, is yet to come out with the portal. “We are still in the finalising stage and are in talks with a private consultant, who will be designing the portal. It should come out in the coming months,” said a senior official from the board. The official said that they had planned to launch it last year, but it was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that the cell will be launched on http://www.tnscb.org. Due to its absence, several petitioners and complainants said that they had to take a day off or lose a day’s wage and wait outside the board’s circle and head office, sometimes for more than six hours to get their plea heard. “I took a day’s leave again to come here and submit my petition for housing. I have also been trying to meet the official concerned to speak about my plight, but they are not available,” said R Kalaivizhi, a sweeper from Anna Nagar who went to the TNSCB head office last Tuesday. “If they are so busy they must find an alternative, like the portal. It is difficult to keep coming and standing all day outside,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tnscb-online-redressal-portal-yet-to-take-off/articleshow/80935927.cms||Aditi R
February 16, 2021||Kolhapur||Mushrif asks KMC to rehabilitate hawkers evicted from temple area||Kolhapur: NCP leader and state rural development minister Hasan Mushrif on Monday said that the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will continue it’s action against illegal hawkers, but at the same time it will have to ensure rehabilitation of the hawkers. Mushrif chaired a meeting that was attended by hawkers and the civic officials. Since last one week, the hawkers and civic staff are consistently at loggerheads over the eviction drive. For some time, a truce was achieved on Mahalaxmi temple premises where earlier 100 meter radius was made a no-hawking zone but it has now been reduced to 25 meters. “Even though the prohibitory zone has been reduced, some hawkers have been affected by it. I have asked both hawkers and the KMC officials to visit the temple premise and search for a space to accommodate the affected hawkers. For hawkers in other areas of the city, no leader will oppose action against the hawkers or cabin shop operators occupying the space illegally and causing traffic congestions. The KMC can continue its action.” Civic administrator Kadambari Balkawade, during the meeting, stated the need for carrying out the action. She said the hawkers are causing traffic congestions at many places and the action is a part of the larger drive to make the city safe for commuters. “We want the hawkers to be disciplined. The action is directed to ensure the hawkers do not cause any inconvenience to the commuters. We are following the rules in place. Soon hawking zones will be marked across the city,” she said. The hawkers representatives too yielded to some extent and said that they will not oppose action against illegal hawkers. “We have a list of over 800 hawkers who are yet to submit all the required documents due to which they have not yet received the biometric cards. We are not against evicting those who have not registered themselves, but will oppose action against those who participated in the survey and have not received the biometric cards yet,” R K Powar, chief convenor of hawkers associations, said. The civic officials, however, said that no new hawker will be allowed to do business for the next five years. They will be considered illegal till the next survey takes place after five years as per law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mushrif-asks-kmc-to-rehabilitate-hawkers-evicted-from-temple-area/articleshow/80935957.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Silkworms get more allocation than tigers in Union Budget||NAGPUR: For the BJP government at the Centre, the Central Silk Board (CSB), whose aim is to promote the development of the silk industry, seems more important than forests and tigers. In the Union budget 2021-22, the CSB has been allocated Rs 875 crore, which is over three times more than the allocation (Rs 250 crore) to ‘Project Tiger’. While the budget for Project Tiger has been reduced by Rs 100 crore in the last two years from Rs 350 crores, the allocation for Silk Board has been increased by Rs 75 crore this year. This Union budget was the first paperless budget of India. Other than reducing use of paper, the budget does little for the environment. The MoEFCC has been given Rs 2,869.93 crore this year, which is 7.4% less than Rs 3,100 crore it got last year. This has direct impact on many crucial departments dealing with the conservation and protection of the forest, wildlife, and biodiversity. A detailed analysis by Tanvi Sharma, associate research analyst with Legal Initiative for Forest & Environment (LIFE), Delhi, shows money for wildlife and forests has decreased. The budget for National Mission for Green India aiming to increase forest cover, as an essential part of Paris Climate Agreement, has been reduced by 6.7%. Its sub-category Green India Mission— National Afforestation Programme with its EAP (externally aided projects) component together has been allocated Rs 250 crore, or Rs 11 crore less than last year. “Forests are carbon sequesters and are crucial in emission reduction, therefore hold significance in strengthening our position to fulfill our Paris Agreement pledge to decrease emissions. Still, the allocations have seen a drop despite the significant diversion of forest land for non-forest purposes which was almost 100 acres per day in 2019,” says Sharma. Environment education, awareness, and training budget has also been slashed by 32.5% from Rs 114.36 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 77.13 crore. R&D budget for conservation and development has also been reduced to Rs 5 crore from Rs 7 crore last year. Allocation for Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats (IDWH) has been brought down 22% from Rs 532 crore to Rs 414 crore. These funds are utilized under ‘Project Tiger’ ‘Project Elephant’ and Development of Wildlife Habitats (DWH). The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), which manages 51 tiger reserves in the country, has been given only Rs 10 crore. These 51 tiger reserves in the country occupy about 73,000 sqkm area. For Project Elephant, Rs 35 crore was allocated in 2020-21, which has fallen to Rs 33 crore this year. Financing of premier institutions like Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and Indian Institute of Forest Management (IIFM) working for research and training for biodiversity and forest conservation has also been cut significantly. WII’s budget has been reduced from Rs 34 crore to Rs 25 crore. “The question is whether the funding for conserving forests and wildlife is sufficient. Funds for development of wildlife habitats have been reduced from Rs 148.41 crore to Rs 116 crore and biodiversity conservation is given only Rs 12 crore. Silkworms hold more importance for government than tigers. When it is clear that biodiversity loss is leading to pandemic and when India is under an international obligation to increase its forest cover, this reduction of funding for biodiversity, wildlife, and the forest is of serious concern,” Sharma says. “A substantial emphasis should have been given to address our conservation goals and global climate change commitments when our progress has been meagre in the sector. This was the time to increase allocation, not reduce it,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/silkworms-get-more-allocation-than-tigers-in-union-budget/articleshow/80936084.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Global teen climate activist from U’khand extends support to arrested Disha Ravi||Dehradun: Young climate activist of India, Ridhima Pandey, came out in strong support of the arrested Disha Ravi for her alleged involvement in a "Toolkit" case, its role in farmers' protest and the Republic Day violence. The 13-year-old activist from Uttarakhand, who had earlier called the government and local authorities to do more to clean the Ganga, is willing to go to any extent in support of Ravi. “I will meet her when I get an opportunity and go to any extent to bring her out of jail." Sharing a personal moment when Ravi had extended help, she said her Twitter account was "restricted" last year and "Ravi helped me restore it”. The teen activist, on Monday, said that Ravi's arrest was "unnecessary, be it for any kind of 'Toolkit', and she could never intend to cause violence". "She [Disha Ravi] is a very genuine person," she added. Pandey, who was on the list of BBC’s 100 most influential women globally in 2020, reportedly knew Ravi since last year when she joined 'Fridays for Future' - an online forum for a group of young climate activists. “She contributes immensely towards India's growth by educating the youth about sustainable development. She has been relentlessly working on environmental causes and in a way helping our country's future,” Pandey, who calls Ravi her "good friend", said. On "freedom of expression", Pandey said that she had tweeted in favour of the American 'Black Lives Matter' movement. "But, no one from America came to pick me up and arrest me. So, it is a heinous act on the part of government to silence people from expressing their views and arresting them if they do so.” Notably, the green crusader along with 15 others, including Greta Thunberg, had filed a complaint to a UN committee, pulling up certain nations for not addressing the climate crisis adequately. Pandey had also called for a complete ban on plastic in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/global-teen-climate-activist-from-ukhand-extends-support-to-arrested-disha-ravi/articleshow/80932507.cms||Shivani Azad
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||25 firms in Telangana, AP defaulted on Rs 10k crore loans, reveals RBI data||HYDERABAD: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has identified 296 companies across the country as wilful defaulters who owe banks more than Rs 100 crore or more each. As many as 25 of these are in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, most of them based in Hyderabad. A Right to Information (RTI) query by Society for Safety of Public and Good Governance to RBI revealed that the 296 companies collectively owed banks Rs 1.25 lakh crore till September 30, 2020. The top 25 companies from Telangana and AP have defaulted on Rs 9,975 crore loans. According to the data, 2,203 companies have wilfully defaulted on Rs 1 crore or above each, putting together a grand total of Rs 1.66 lakh crore in the country. Geetanjali Gems Limited owned by Mehul Choski has defaulted Rs 5,747 crore and tops the list. Deccan Chronicle Holdings Private Limited has defaulted on Rs 1,801 crore putting it on top of the list in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh followed by VMC Systems Limited at Rs 1,331 crore. CBI had earlier issued an FIR against VMC and alleged that the company cheated banks of Rs 1,700 crore. BS Limited, another Hyderabad-based company into telecom services, has defaulted on Rs 754 crore. Two Guntur-based companies owned by former TDP MP Rayapati Sambasiva Rao of Transstroy group have also been shown as wilful defaulters. The Transstroy companies are already facing ED and CBI investigation. BS Rambabu, All India Bank Employees Association national secretary, told TOI, “Banks have given loans from deposits collected from the public. If they fail to recover the money, banks must pay the public. The law should be amended to confiscate personal properties of promoters or director of defaulting companies.” Former banker R Prasad, who has been researching bank loan defaults and frauds, told TOI: “RBI list looks like it is not updated. I have collected the notices for auction, possession and default issued by the banks from June 2019. There are 524 defaulters in Hyderabad alone and they have defaulted around Rs 1 lakh crore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-firms-in-t-ap-defaulted-on-rs-10k-cr-loans-reveals-rbi-data/articleshow/80942778.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 16, 2021||Nashik||NHAI officials inspect accidents spots on Malegaon highway||Nashik: A team of officials from National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) on Monday visited the Chalisgaon Phata junction in the city on instructions of Malegaon police to inspect and take up the road repair works on the stretch between Malegaon and Chalisgaon Phata. DySP Lata Donde said that residents of Malegaon are staging protests against the number of accidents taking place on the stretch between Manmad Chaufuli and Chalisgaon Phata. “The stretch is around six-km-long and has been witnessing continuous accidents. On this backdrop, we had called the officials of the NHAI to check the broken dividers and repair the speed breakers,” the DySP said. She added that the subway at Chalisgaon Phata junction needs immediate repair so that people can avoid crossing the road. “Further, there is also a need of a service road there. Recently there was an accident on the road wherein four people died,” Donde said. Also, the Nashik RTO released figures related to the accidents that took place in the district in 2020 and mentioned that Malegaon taluka witnessed the maximum number of accidents and fatalities in the rural parts of the district. The presence of the Mumbai-Agra highway and other roads leading to Manmad and Jalgaon witnesses the maximum number of road accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nhai-officials-inspect-accidents-spots-on-malegaon-highway/articleshow/80936035.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Wadhawans used fake branch to siphon money: ED||Mumbai: Promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) had opened a fictitious branch in Bandra which boasted of over two lakh dummy homebuyers and had been created to siphon off Rs 12,000 crore, according to information obtained by the Enforcement Directorate from DHFL senior executives. The promoters diverted the money to around 80 shell construction companies after showing it as loans against the name of homebuyers under the subvention scheme. Under this scheme, the buyer pays the initial amount, and the bank pays the loan amount to the developer as the construction progresses, while the interest portion on the loan disbursed is paid by the developer. Buyers don’t have to pay interest on home loan till the property remains under construction or for the period agreed on. The DHFL senior executives told ED that the Bandra branch, shell companies and dummy homebuyers existed only on paper. They also explained the modus operandi adopted by DHFL promoters Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan aka Baba Dewan to siphon off Rs 12,000 crore. ED documents stated DHFL was using Synergy software to maintain its loan customers’ records. DHFL CMD Kapil Wadhawan was using a different software (Tally) to maintain the loan disbursed to shell companies. Loan to these shell companies was disbursed in bulk, but in DHFL system, it was shown as loan to different homebuyers (dummy). Wadhawan also had a customized FOXPRO software, in which, when they entered a disbursed loan amount, it would create thousands of bogus homebuyers with fake details to adjust the amount against their names. Details of these bogus homebuyers were added into DHFL’s Synergy system which would maintain a record of lakhs of their genuine customers (homebuyers). Jayesh Khona, vice-president of special projects at Kapil Wadhawan’s office told ED officials in his statement that accounts of 80 shell companies were mentioned in the Tally system, which had no link with the balance sheet of DHFL. Khannna told ED officials that in 2013, DHFL got an I-T notice regarding TDS in respect of some shell companies and that the fictitious Bandra branch was controlled by CMD’s office. Priya Naik, DHFL senior manager, told ED she was handling FOXPRO system for Bandra branch to create dummy homebuyers on Wadhawan’s instructions. She said the Bandra branch did not exist but only in the database. ED has filed a supplementary chargesheet in the Iqbal Mirchi case in which it also accused the Wadhawan brothers of siphoning off DHFL money with the help of shell companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wadhawans-used-fake-branch-to-siphon-money-ed/articleshow/80942802.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 16, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government plans app to integrate all apps||CHENNAI: In six months, mobile users may not have the hassle to search and download multiple apps of the state government departments. Instead, one official app will act as a nodal window for all apps of various state agencies and departments. The state government is in the process of designing the all-in-one app where users can log in and browse the apps of multiple departments. The move is expected to reduce the time to search for authentic apps of the government. In the first phase, the nodal app would be integrating five key agencies and departments that are the most sought-after including the agriculture department, police and eSevai. Sources said it is likely to be ready in four months. While agriculture and police have their own apps, e-sevai does not have an independent app. Official sources privy to developments said work has started to develop the uniform app. “It is for the first time that the government is engaged in creating an uniform app for the public. The objective is to ensure that people get an access to apps for utilities and services under a single platform,” an official said. Similar apps with identical features are already available online initiated by private firms with a disclaimer that the respective apps were not developed by the government. Currently, app of an agency or department needs to downloaded independently though users may not be using the services frequently. This results in downloading and deleting the app after completion of a specific task. Against this backdrop, the uniform app will be helpful. “Moreover, people will get access to authentic apps without any hassles,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-plans-app-to-integrate-all-apps/articleshow/80936062.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||BJP: Centre helped Delhi tide over pandemic||New Delhi: Questioning the performance of the third term of the Arvind Kejriwal-led dispensation, especially regarding handling of the pandemic, Leader of Opposition in Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Monday claimed that the central government took it upon itself to provide healthcare facilities and infrastructure to the capital’s residents because the AAP government could not manage the situation. Reminding the chief minister of the promises made during the assembly polls on the basis of which AAP came to power, Bidhuri said, “The Kejriwal government promised free Wi-Fi, streetlights, four lakh CCTV cameras for the security and safety of citizens, especially women, redesigning of 500km of roads and 24x7 clean drinking water, but all these works remain on paper.” “Six years ago, Kejriwal had promised that thousands of buses would be bought for public transport, but not a single vehicle has been inducted till date. Despite the tall claims of having done great work in the field of education, the massive dropout rate in government schools tells a different story,” added Bidhuri. Referring to the migration of labourers during the lockdown, Bidhuri claimed they fled because the Kejriwal government did not bring out any kind of scheme to look after the families facing a crisis. “The traders and business community are facing difficulties due to the faulty economic policies of the AAP government. There is no policy to deal with pollution,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-centre-helped-delhi-tide-over-pandemic/articleshow/80936185.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||A yellow melting pot of traditions at dargah||New Delhi: Nikhil Kumar, a communications policy researcher, has been coming to the dargah of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya on Basant Panchami for many years. He believes that events like these “reaffirm some of the old beliefs of syncretic India” and the celebration of a Hindu festival by another faith “allays some of our fears about the fraying of Indian culture”. As it has for 700 years, the dargah celebrated Basant Panchami on Tuesday with a glorious splash of yellow. The dargah committee members, all of them descendants of Nizamuddin Auliya, marched in procession with a yellow chaadar, while qawwals sang Amir Khusro’sSakal ban, the song that began the tradition. They walked to the tomb of the Sufi saint and placed the yellow sheet over the grave and then covered it with yellow flowers. Dargah committee members Altamash Nizami said, “We all wear yellow on the festival and carry mustard and other yellow flowers to offer at the grave of the saint.” Kumar, who happily took photographs, like many others, said events like these transcended religion. He said, “The Basant festival, like Makar Sankranti and Bihu, is among the oldest of Indian festivals. Sufis, more than spiritual beings, are lovers of god. At their shrine, a person’s religious affiliation does not matter. Basant Panchami at Nizamuddin is a living example of cultural co-mingling.” Preeti Singh, a designer from Bihar, said that while the spring festival back home was focused on Goddess Saraswati, she started reading the works of Amir Khusro after coming to Delhi and began to believe in humanity. “For me, all festivals are the same. This celebration at the Dargah is an example of the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb, which is so beautiful,” said Singh. Activist Faisal Khan too said much the same. “I am a believer of diversity. If a society does not accept diversity, then it will die,” he declared. “It is celebrations like these that help people appreciate humanity and provide a template for youth of all faiths to learn from.” Munish Rathore, a writer, had come too, for the first time and dressed in mustard yellow. “I have visited the dargah but never on Basant Panchami,” Rathore said. “When I heard about a Hindu festival being celebrated at a Sufi shrine, I wanted to come and see it with my own eyes. This celebration is an example of the composite culture of India. In these turbulent times, I believe that events like these have a lot of significance.” Also first timers at the event were friends Aishwarya Diwakar and Prachi Sharma, the first an Ambedkar University Delhi student and the other a writer. “The atmosphere is so good and it is very calming. We feel such traditions are essential to India,” said Diwakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-yellow-melting-pot-of-traditions-at-dargah/articleshow/81011471.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 16, 2021||Bhopal||LPG priced hiked for second time this month||Bhopal: While people were anxiously talking about petrol prices inching towards Rs 100 per litre mark and diesel rates closely following, oil companies dealt another blow to the common man on Valentine’s Day as they raised the prices of domestic LPG cylinders by another Rs 50 per cylinder. This is the second time this month that the LPG cylinder rates have been raised. On February 4, the cylinder rates were raised by Rs 25 per cylinder. Now, every domestic gas cylinder will cost Rs 775 per cylinder. Since November, LPG prices have gone up from Rs 600 per cylinder to Rs 775 per cylinder, badly affecting the kitchen budget of poor and middle-class families. Besides, when gas agencies are asked about the subsidy amount on cylinders, which the Union government used to deposit in the accounts of consumers who have not given up on subsidy, they plainly say that the subsidy amount has not been coming to consumers since March last year. It is not the housemakers, who are under pressure from rising prices of LPG cylinders, but also small eateries and roadside vendors. Though the price of a blue cylinder weighing 19 kg, used for commercial purpose, has been reduced by Rs 9.50 per cylinder in the latest round of price revision on February 14, it would still be costing Rs 1,529 per cylinder. “We are trying to establish our business from a scratch following the lockdown, but the ingredients we use for making snacks like samosa and kachori are costly. LPG cylinder also costs us a lot, but if we raise the price of snacks or tea, we shall lose some customers at least, a risk which we can't take at this point of time, when people have just started coming to our shops after the coronavirus pandemic,” said the owner of a small eatery. If homemakers and small eateries are feeling the heat over LPG price hike, gas agencies are also getting the flak. “Earlier, gas companies used to change prices (hike or decline in rates) on the first day of the month, but now, they are doing it anytime and even twice in a month. They raised LPG cylinder rates twice in December and till now, twice already in the month of February. And, consumers fight with us. They would accuse us of late supply so that we get more money. They don't understand that if price is hiked, the money doesn't come to us. They also ask about subsidy amount. How would I know? Subsidy amount is not being transferred to consumers since March,” said a gas agency official. Constant rise in the prices of diesel even result in hike of 20 per cent in freight charges. Deepak Nema, manager at Bagai Transport Company, said, “The way prices of diesel are rising, we may soon see a rise in freight charges by 20 per cent. Afrter all, we shall not bear the cost, obviously it will be passed on to the consumer.” When asked whether constant rise in the prices of diesel has led to increase in prices of grocery items, Anupam Agrawal of Bhopal Kirana Mahasangh, said, “As of now, it has not happened, but if the prices keep rising the way they are, it will definitely happen in near future.” Salesmen, medical representatives, contractors and professional like them, who have to run the whole day on their bike or two-wheeler, have been the worst-hit by constant hike in prices of petrol. “During the lockdown, my company retrenched most of the salesmen. I was also one of them, Now, I have found a job with a new company at a lesser salary, but I have to go from Kolar, where my house is located to old city areas every day. With the price of petrol touching Rs 100 per litre, half of my salary would be spent in purchase of petrol itself,” said Avdhesh Shrivastava, a salesman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lpg-priced-hiked-for-second-time-this-month/articleshow/80932465.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
February 16, 2021||Meerut||Mutilated body of woman fished out of Ganga canal||Meerut: Mutilated body of a woman floating in Ganga canal was fished out in Anoopshahr area in UP's Bulandshahr district. The identity of the woman is yet to be ascertained, police said. The body of the woman in her mid 20s is at least 10 days old and most likely belongs to districts upstream, police said. The cause of death is yet to ascertain. “Efforts are being made to find out the identity of the woman,” said Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahar senior superintendent of police. This is not the first time Gangnagar canal has been used to dispose of a body. In September last year, the body of a pregnant woman who was strangled to death was dumped into the Ganga canal in Muzaffarnagar allegedly by her husband and in-laws when she failed to fulfil their demands for dowry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mutilated-body-of-woman-fished-out-of-ganga-canal/articleshow/80932462.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Patna||School principal gets death penalty for student’s rape in Patna||PATNA: A private school principal has been awarded death sentence for repeatedly raping his 11-year-old student. The victim had later become pregnant. The court simultaneously ordered a compensation of Rs15 lakh to be paid to the victim. Her father is a daily wager. The special court of ADJ-VI, Awadhesh Kumar, in Patna also slapped a fine of Rs 1 lakh on the convicted principal Arvind Kumar alias Raj Singhania (31). The court also awarded rigorous life imprisonment to schoolteacher Abhishek Kumar (29) for conniving with Arvind. He was also fined Rs50,000. The amount of fine would be paid to the victim. Convicted teacher Abhishek KumarArvind owned New Central Public School at Mitramandal Colony in Phulwarisharif, Patna, where the incident took place between July and August, 2018. “Considering the nature of this case against the main accused Arvind Kumar, who has committed rape with the victim, I am unable to impose the sentence less than capital punishment,” the court observed in its judgment on Monday. Special public prosecutor Suresh Chandra Prasad said the incident took place . “The matter came to light when the victim started vomiting. The parents took her to a doctor who examined and found her pregnant,” he said. Prasad said the parents later approached the police following which an FIR was lodged with the Women’s police station against Arvind and Abhishek on September 19, 2018 and both were arrested. The PP said Abhishek had first sent the victim in a room in the school building saying the principal was checking her copy there. “There was a bed in the room where Arvind raped her at least six times over a period of two months,” he said. “Charges were framed against both the accused on October 9, 2018,” Prasad said and added that the victim had undergone abortion at PMCH following permission from the special court. “The DNA sample was collected from her foetus and sent to forensic laboratory of state police. The DNA sample matched with that of Arvind,” he said. Prasad said the victim had narrated her ordeal before a judicial magistrate under Section 164 of CrPC. “She reiterated the facts during the case trial. DNA test result was another strong evidence against Arvind,” he said. The PP said there were altogether six prosecution witnesses, including the victim and investigating officer and then Women‘s police station SHO Ravi Ranjana Kumari. The PP said Arvind’s school had classes up to standard VI and was closed soon after the matter came into public domain. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/school-principal-gets-death-penalty-for-students-rape/articleshow/80932538.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 16, 2021||Bhopal||Jobless school teachers in Bhopal eke out living with home tuitions||BHOPAL: With the Covid pandemic shutting school campuses, several school teachers in the state capital have been rendered jobless. Most of these teachers have started tuition classes to eke out their livelihood. Notably, schools from class 1 to 8 are closed till March 31. There are around 2,100 schools in Bhopal district. A majority of them are till class 8. This has made the situation critical for teachers who have been teaching in primary and middle classes. “Whether we have the job or not is a big question in front of us. As schools has stopped paying salary for almost a year, there was no option except to start private tuitions. We have to feed our family,” said Anand Yadav, a school teacher. As a majority of the school teachers are women, they have been affected the most. “There was no problem for me and my family before Covid. Now, my husband is jobless and my school has also stopped paying my salary. Several students had contacted me as they wanted to complete their course. In such situation, running private tuition was the only option left for me,” said Sandhya Prajapati, a teacher. Several teachers have even shifted to other professions. However, these teachers also started private tuition classes in their homes. “I have started a business, but also continued private tuitions. It has been done after my students insisted that I continue teaching them. Where would a student go when schools are closed?” said Prakash Nema, a school teacher. Students said that completing the course online was impossible for them. “It is just not possible to complete the course through online classes. Even school teachers jave accepted this. In such situation, private tuition was the last resort available for the students like me,” said a student, Vikas Sharma. Even parents claimed that school teachers have started private tuitions in the past few months. “This a very odd situation for teachers. I was contacted by several teachers who wanted me to send my kids to their homes for private tuitions. As the schools are closed, there was not much option for me except to send my children to the tuitions classes,” said the father of a student, Nikhil Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jobless-school-teachers-eke-out-living-with-home-tuitions/articleshow/80932560.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nashik||Yeola gets newly upgraded 100-bed sub-district hosp||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said the upgradation of the 30-bed rural hospital (RH) into 100-bed sub-district hospital(SDH) will ensure better services for the citizens of Yeola. Bhujbal the inaugurated 100-bed SDH on Monday after its upgradation from a 30-bed RH. “The upgradation of an RH into the SDH does not only increase the number of beds, but it also brings in a large number of facilities for the people. The facilities will be available at the taluka headquarters,” said Bhujbal. The starting of an SDH-level hospital will bring services of surgeons, gynaecologists, obstetricians, anaesthetist, medical officers, paediatrics, orthopaedics, ophthalmologist, dentists, nurses, other medical and paramedical staff. The system will also bring blood transfusion officer along with X-Ray technicians, ECG pharmacist and many more. “There are 97 posts that have been sanctioned for the SDH and all these will come with the state-of-the-art treatment facilities for the patients at Yeola,” Bhujbal said. Bhujbal also said the for undergraduation and postgraduation courses in the Government Medical College Hospital, Nashik, has been sanctioned. This would mean better treatment facilities will be available at Nashik and Yeola will also benefit from the same. The doctors, nurses and other medical and non-medical staff was felicitated by Bhujbal for the services rendered by staffers and as Covid-warriors in the taluka to contain the spread of Covid. MLC Narender Darade, superintendent engineer of state Public Works Department (PWD) Sharad Rajabhoj, executive engineer Prashant Sonagra, sub-divisional officer Sopan Kasar, tehsildar Pramod Hile, deputy director of health Dr PB Gandal, district civil surgeon Dr Ratna Raokhandey were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/yeola-gets-newly-upgraded-100-bed-sub-district-hosp/articleshow/80936125.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Pune||Fuel prices continue to rise, dealers rue high crude rate||Pune/Aurangabad: A seventh consecutive day of fuel price increase across the country pushed the rate litre of petrol in the city beyond the Rs95-mark on Monday, with the pocket pinch rising for diesel as well. Premium petrol rates also touching or crossed the Rs100-mark in smaller towns and cities of Maharashtra on Monday According to the All India Petrol Dealers Association (AIPDA), a litre of petrol in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits cost Rs95.10 on Monday, while a litre of diesel being sold at Rs84.68. In seven days, the price for a litre of fuel rose by Rs1.62, and diesel by Rs1.92 for a litre. The price of petrol touched Rs 93.14 a litre on February 5 in Pune, which is the highest in the city since 2013. The hike came just four days after the Union Budget was announced in which a fuel cess of Rs 2.5 per litre on petrol and Rs 4 per litre on diesel was proposed. A section of the transporters has already increased charges to carry goods commodities in the city. This has already triggered a rise in the vegetable prices. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan told the Rajya Sabha last week that the Union government had no proposal at hand to lower excise duty on fossil fuels. Instead, he blamed pricing mechanisms by oil producing nations overseas that is pushing up the price of a barrel of crude oil. Union and state government’s taxes and cesses account for nearly two-thirds of the price for a litre of petrol or diesel and the need for revenue generation is stopping both from reducing them, petrol dealers said. “The only reasons why prices are so high is that the price of crude oil is increasing overseas and the Union and state governments are depending on fossil fuel sales as a source of revenue,” said Ali Daruwalla, national spokesperson for the AIPDA. Parbhani recorded the highest prices for fuels in the state once again on Monday, with some of the premium fuel brands crossing the Rs100-mark there. Similar was the situation in some other towns and cities, egged on by transportation costs from fuel depots, and taxes imposed by urban local bodies. At Parbhani, the premium petrol price was highest in the region at Rs101.01 per litre, followed by Nanded (Rs100.88 per litre) and Aurangabad (Rs100.07 per litre). The standard petrol was priced at Rs97.57 per litre in Parbhani, Rs97.44 per litre at Nanded and Rs96.60 per litre in Aurangabad. The diesel prices hovered in the range of Rs87.08 to Rs86.96 per litre in the region on Monday.  The fuel prices in Nashik city continued to increase for the fifth consecutive day on Monday. The petrol prices increased by 25 paise to reach Rs 95.8/litre and diesel increased by 30 paise to settle at Rs 85.4 /litre on Monday. Blaming higher transportation cost for relatively higher fuel prices in the region, Vinay Bathia, a fuel retailer from Parbhani, said different taxes and cess levied by the Union and the state governments on petroleum products should be slashed. “The intervention from both the Union government and the state is needed to put a check on fuel prices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fuel-prices-continue-to-rise-dealers-rue-high-crude-rate/articleshow/80936198.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
February 16, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kappan party’s UDF entry may not be smooth sailing||T’puram/Kottayam: The passage into the UDF of Mani C Kappan’s proposed new party is unlikely to be a smooth one -- as expected. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran made it clear that the final decision on new constituents rests with the Congress high command. Even though opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has already announced that Kappan will be UDF’s candidate in Pala for the upcoming assembly election, according to the KPCC president no decision on new allies has been taken.  “The party high command has to give the nod for a constituent to be included in the front. No such request has been made to the high command,” Ramachandran said on Monday. Mullappally’s misgivings He claimed ignorance over reports that the new party to be floated by Kappan will be given three seats. Ramachandran, according to reports, is strongly in favour of Kappan contesting on the Congress symbol. “I am not aware of news reports about three seats being accorded to Kappan’s [proposed] party. Even if a new constituent is given seats that will have to come from Congress’ kitty,” Ramachandran said. I will object to any such move. It would be ideal if Kappan contests on the Congress symbol, he added. Blessing in disguise Meanwhile, NCP’s order, on Monday, to expel him from the party has come as a blessing for Kappan, who can now speed up formation of a new party without any legal hassles. The sitting Pala MLA was suspended from the party, “with immediate effect”, for “anti-party activities”. Reacting to his expulsion in Kottayam, Kappan said it was just a normal procedure arising from his decision to join the UDF. A ten-member committee formed by Kappan has already begun work on preparing a bylaw for the new party. Though several names, including NCP Kerala, are doing the rounds, sources close to Kappan said the name will be finalized only after the bylaw is prepared. The group has scheduled a meeting in Thiruvananthapuram on February 22 to decide on a name. Disquiet in Congress Congress leaders are upset over the fact that promises have been made to Kappan without even a discussion in the party forum. Many leaders are of the view that it is an individual, and not an entire party, that is coming into the UDF. Hence, it is not going to benefit the front. They believe that there are no winnable candidates in his fold who can be given tickets to contest the assembly election. Chennithala, however, said Kappan has favoured to come to the UDF fold as a constituent. “The UDF will soon take a decision on this,” he said on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kappan-partys-udf-entry-may-not-be-smooth-sailing/articleshow/80932633.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: 2 leopards poisoned, dumped in Bhandara farm well||NAGPUR: Two adult male leopards were found dead in a farm well in Adyal forest range under Bhandara forest division on Monday morning. Veterinarians who conducted post-mortem on the carcasses suspect the animals were poisoned and dumped in the well. According to Bhandara deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) SB Bhalavi, the carcasses were found floating in the well in Kalewada by former sarpanch Mohan Ghogre. The farm is owned by one Saraswata Ghogre and is hardly 600 metres from the protected forest near a lake. Veterinarian Dr Gunwant Bhadke, who was among those who conducted the post-mortem, said, “We found no sign of accident or electrocution. The changes in internal organs of the animals point towards poisoning. Five nails each of the animals are also missing. Of the two leopards, one was aged around five years and another eight years.” The incident occurred when Bhandara forest officials are groping in the dark over presence of a tiger in Ganeshpur-Korambi area near the city. Though the tiger has not been recorded in camera traps, indirect evidence about its presence has been seen. There is spurt in leopard and tiger poaching cases in Bhandara and Gondia districts. On January 5-6, this year, two leopards were found dead with their body parts severed in the Goregaon forest range in Gondia. Prior to that, a tiger was electrocuted in Chutia village in Gondia in November last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-leopards-poisoned-dumped-in-bhandara-farm-well/articleshow/80936179.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man kills sister with axe, flees||JAIPUR: A 21-year-old youth killed his married elder sister with an axe at her maternal home in Peelibanga town of Hanumangarh district on Sunday night before escaping. “After the family had their dinner, Gagandeep accused his 24-year-old sister Indira Kaur of having an illicit relationship. This triggered an argument between the two. As the spat became heated, Gagandeep axed her to death and fled from the scene,” said a senior officer of Peelibanga police station on Monday. After the attack, everyone in the house rushed to the room. “She was lying in a pool of blood and succumbed to injuries right there. Their father Manga Singh lodged a case of murder against his son,” the officer added. Police said the murder was executed in a fit of rage. “Our teams are raiding various places and the accused will be arrested soon. We have recovered the axe used in the murder from the house itself,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-kills-sister-with-axe-flees/articleshow/80939686.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Delay in nod to axe 2,900 trees holds up five STPs||NEW DELHI: Over 2,900 trees are required to be removed for the construction of city’s five new sewage treatment plants by Delhi Jal Board (DJB). A delay in getting permission to cut these trees was cited as one of the main factors because of which the projects— considered key in reducing pollution in the Yamuna—were not started, senior DJB officials said. A DJB report states that the projects can’t be carried out without handing over land that doesn’t have trees to the executing agency. The jal board data shows that 2,901 trees need to be removed for sewage treatment plants at Rithala Phase 1 and 2; Kondi Phase 1 and 2; and Okhla. The maximum number of trees fall in the area where the Kondli projects are planned. As many as 1,052 trees are located in the Kondli Phase 2 site, while Phase 1 has 492 trees. Apart from these locations, permission has been sought from the forest department to cut 409 for Okhla facility, 88 for Rithala Phase 1 and 860 trees for Rithala Phase 2. “The time taken to get tree cutting permissions have ranged from 8-14 months, despite a specific provision in the Delhi Tree Preservation Act, 1994, that if permission is not granted within 60 days, it shall be deemed to have been granted,” the DJB report stated. The work for these STP projects was awarded in 2018 and 2019. A DJB official confirmed that in principle nod from the forest department was granted in some cases and follow-up was being done. Yamuna Monitoring Committee had also held review meetings with stakeholders to figure out the reason behind the delay in getting permissions. “DJB took the stand that forest department has been raising piecemeal queries and in some cases, the girth criterion of the trees was reduced from 30 cm to 15 cm midway for seeking clearance under the Act, after the proposal had been submitted,” the report from the committee to National Green Tribunal stated. It added, “The meeting with the chief conservator of forests found that there have been delays both at the level of DJB and the forest department. The chief conservator had, therefore, prepared a standard operating procedure with timelines for each step in the process to be adhered by DJB and the forest department. He has promised that in future, clearances will be processed within 60 days as prescribed under the Act”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delay-in-nod-to-axe-2900-trees-holds-up-five-stps/articleshow/80932672.cms||Paras Singh
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||One quit job to research ecology, the other joined a global network of climate activists||While Disha Ravi’s concern for farmers and her alleged connection with the “seditious" farmer protest toolkit has landed the 22-year-old climate activist behind bars, the Delhi Police are now chasing two young environmental activists from the state — Nikita Jacob, 29, a lawyer with the Bombay High Court also working as a human rights activist and Shantanu Muluk, 31, an aerospace engineer-turned climate activist from Beed — after the cops procured a non-bailable warrant against them for “absconding”. It was around two years ago when Jacob became a part of Extinction Rebellion, a global community of climate change activists that claims to follow principles of a nonviolent civil disobedience movement. Jacob had been raising awareness while working on COP26 or the 26th United Nations Climate Change conference scheduled at Glasgow in November this year. She was also liaising with experts and activists about the environmental impact of projects such as the Coastal Road project and tree felling at Aarey forest. “Nikita is an outspoken, confident lawyer and not a part of AAP or any political organization.  She’s a climate activist who works of her own accord with multiple movements and uses her legal knowhow and skills to help out,” said a fellow environmentalist. Muluk on the other hand quit his job as an aerospace engineer six months ago to research social ecology and focus on the drought-prone Vidarbha and Marathwada regions. “He’s been part of environmental justice reading groups and helped form alliances between environmental groups in India and support youth-led groups against exploitation of environmental resources,” said the source. Jacob and Muluk are like any other millennial when they’re not saving the planet. If Jacob is geared towards creative pastimes as an “amateur photographer, baker, writer and wanna-be singer”, Muluk whose friends describe him as “shy, quiet and respectful who speaks only when asked” enjoys travelling, reading and sci-fi movies. When Jacob started a blog in the pandemic titled ‘To be myself, come what may’ to “encourage others to do good, achieve peace and a better world”, little did she know those words would come back to test her limits. “Nikita and Shantanu are people who were speaking up for those who don't have the privilege to talk.  For the toolkit, both were collating publicly available information such as articles and videos on what was happening on ground. The idea was to put the focus back on farmers and the environment,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/one-quit-job-to-research-ecology-the-other-joined-a-global-network-of-climate-activists/articleshow/80943032.cms||Mohua Das
February 16, 2021||Bhopal||MP: Chattarpur cops rescue 102 missing girls||BHOPAL: The police in Chhatarpur district recently recovered 102 girls who had gone missing since 2011. The rescue operation was undertaken through Muskan campaign launched by the cops, to recover the girls who had been missing from different parts of the state. Two boys were also rescued through this drive. One of the girls was recovered by cops from a remote village close to Pakistan border in Jammu; she belonged to a remote village in Bundelkhand. Speaking about this operation, superintendent of police Chhatarpur, Sachin Sharma, said, “It was a massive operation; after digging through police records, these girls were located from Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, NOIDA, Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Chandigarh etc.” Many of these girls were minors when they had gone missing for different reasons, which are still under investigation. One of them, a 14-year-old, was kidnapped by a 20-year-old man from a small hamlet in the region. For many days, cops remained clueless as the accused had switched off his mobile phone after reaching Jammu district, barely three kms away from Pakistan border. He chose a remote locality to settle down with the minor girl because of its location. “He was not expecting that police would strike even in a village where the nation’s boundary ends”, said Ashutosh Shotriya, the sub inspector who headed a three-member team, investigating these cases for the last three months. Finally, the cops traced a number of transactions from the accused’s ATM, leading to his arrest with the help of cyber crime police.“ Recovering these innocent girls has been a great satisfaction attained through ongoing operation Muskan,” said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chattarpur-cops-rescue-102-missing-girls/articleshow/80932650.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Aurangabad||2 police bikes stolen from near SP’s bungalow||Aurangabad: Even as the city police have initiated an all-out campaign to bring a check on incidents of vehicle thefts, unidentified suspects have stolen two motorcycle belonging to policemen from outside the residence of Aurangabad (rural) superintendent of police’s official bungalow. Both the policemen belong to Aurangabad rural police and at the time of incident, one of the two constables was on guard duty at the bungalow. The incident has left the police authorities red-faced. Based on a complaint lodged by constable Zuber Shaikh (30), Cidco police station of Aurangabad city has registered a case of theft against unidentified suspects. Shaikh reported to duty on Friday night at 10 pm and had parked his bike with registration number MH-20-DW-2746 outside the SP bungalow on TV Centre road. On Saturday morning, another constable Shivaji Magar, who is posted with Motor Transport section and currently posted as driver on the official vehicle of a senior officer, reported to duty at 8.30 am and parked his bike with registration number MH-20-DM-2578 next to Shaikh’s bike. At 9 am, a team of civic body’s health department reached the bungalow for spraying of disinfectants, this is when Shaikh opened the gate and accompanied them inside. When he returned after 30 minutes, both the bikes were missing. After searching for their bikes for two consecutive days, the police constables reached out to Cidco police on Sunday and lodged a complaint. Crime branch official said that the police teams have already been deployed to check for CCTV footage of the cameras installed in and around the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-police-bikes-stolen-from-near-sps-bungalow/articleshow/80936204.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi gets its third CNG crematorium at Green Park||NEW DELHI: In a boost to eco-friendly cremation infrastructure, Delhi got its third CNG crematorium on Monday as a facility equipped with two furnaces was operationalised in south Delhi’s Green Park. The project has been implemented by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) at a cost of Rs 2 crore. In last June-July, during the worst period of the Covid-19 pandemic, the need for more CNG and electric furnaces was urgently felt as bodies kept piling up, and the infrastructure upgrade process was expedited, a senior municipal official said. Defunct or faulty furnaces at Punjabi Bagh and two additional furnaces at Nigambodh Ghat have also been redeveloped. CNG cremation centres are also being constructed at West zone’s Subhash Nagar and Najafgarh zone’s Dwarka Sector 24. The Sarai Kale Khan facility, which mainly caters to unclaimed bodies, has two electric furnaces, out of which one has been lying defunct for over 15 years, said the official, adding that it would also be converted into a CNG unit. The deputy commissioner of South zone, G Sudhakar, said nearly Rs 2 crore had been spent on the Green park project. “The newly constructed facility has a hall spread over 176sq m area, in which 2 CNG furnaces have been installed,” he added. The facility now also has two prayer rooms and one generator room. “Apart from CNG furnaces, 30-metre-high separate chimneys have also been installed,” he added. Closed environment of the CNG crematoria offers safer, quicker and less costly funerals. While permitting wood-based cremations of novelcorona virus victims, the civic bodies have also specified that the CNG medium will be the preferred option. “When the load on the Punjabi Bagh facility increased to its full capacity, some bodies had to be diverted. The pandemic has highlighted the need for development of more such units. Even under normal circumstances, it will lead to reduced pollution in the vicinity,” the official added. Under normal circumstances, Delhi is estimated to witness 80,000-90,000 cremations in a year. Each traditional-mode cremation utilises 400-500kg wood. While considering that 225-250 cremations take place in Delhi every day, it is estimated that over 3.6 crore kilogram wood is consumed in the crematoria of the capital. While hearing a case in 2016, National Green Tribunal had directed the Union environment ministry and Delhi government to initiate programmes to provide alternative modes of cremation, saying that the “traditional method of wooden pyres emitted hazardous pollutants into the environment”. Local councillor Radhika Abrol said that since CNG furnaces had been installed here, the crematorium would help in avoiding use of wood. “Nearly four-five quintal wood is used for ensuring cremation of one human body, resulting in tree cutting. The initiative taken by SDMC will also help in protecting the environment by reducing pollution,” she added. Abrol was accompanied by New Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi at the inauguration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/capital-gets-its-third-cng-crematorium-at-green-park/articleshow/80936294.cms||Paras Singh
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Trade-off: 14,000 trees need to go for two lifelines in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Over 11,000 trees are slated to be chopped down in the capital as part of Delhi Metro’s Phase IV expansion, an RTI reply has revealed. The urban train network had run into trouble last year when its work on a stretch between Vikaspuri and Peeragarhi, part of the Janakpuri-RK Ashram corridor, was halted by the forest and wildlife department. Stating that work was being carried out in a ‘deemed forest’ without prior permission, the forest department had issued a restraining order. In the RTI reply dated February 7, 2020, Delhi Metro Railway Corporation identified 10,438 trees for felling for the expansion work of the Janakpuri-RK Ashram, Maujpur-Majlis Park and Aerocity-Tughlaqabad corridors. It said it had applied for but hadn’t yet got permission to cut down the trees. In a subsequent reply to another query a few months later on July 20, DMRC said 11,454 trees had to be felled. Delhi Metro’s Phase IV has three approved corridors, covering 61.6km with 45 stations. While the Janakpuri West-RK Ashram section is 28.9km long, the Aerocity-Tughlaqabad and Maujpur-Majlis Park segments are, respectively, 20.2km and 12.5km long. A forest department official told TOI that the restraining order issued last year was still mostly valid. “Only one permission has been given for tree felling so far, and even that is conditional,” the official said. “We will review other permissions as and when the applications reach us. However, no work is being allowed on the Vikaspuri-Peeragarhi road stretch.” When contacted, DMRC said it had received no permissions to fell trees so far and deliberations were still in progress with the forest authorities. “The exact figure of trees to be cut down cannot be shared right now,” said the DMRC spokesperson. “The figure will be available only after the project is executed. In course of the execution of the project, efforts will be made to save as many trees as possible. However, it may be appreciated that DMRC always makes all possible efforts to ensure that its alignment leads to the felling of only a minimum number of trees.” The spokesperson added that in Phase 4, 27km of the total length had been planned underground to avoid chopping down of trees. In August last year, the forest department stopped DMRC from continuing with work on the 5.3-km between Vikaspuri and Peeragarhi on the ground of it violating the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. The department said the area was a ‘deemed forest’, and work required prior permission. Warnings had been issued also in February 2020. “A complaint was also made to the Union environment ministry, which is looking into the matter and has issued instructions to DMRC. We will review other permissions too,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/trade-off-14000-trees-need-to-go-for-two-lifelines/articleshow/80932643.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Man held for sexual abuse in north Delhi||DELHI: A 12-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a man in a jhuggi cluster in north Delhi’s Civil Lines in January. However, a complaint was filed on Sunday, following which a case was registered on Monday. The accused, Sarabjeet, was arrested, while the girl was sent for counselling, police said. The girl’s mother spotted her bleeding and took her child to a nearby hospital. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-held-for-sexual-abuse/articleshow/81011566.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Pune||Pune: Four bikes gutted in fire as petrol theft bid goes awry||PUNE: Two men trying to steal petrol accidentally set fire to four motorcycles in the parking lot of an unguarded housing society in Pashan in the wee hours of Sunday. Police said something went wrong when the duo were trying to siphon off petrol from one of the motorcycles at Tonde building in Sutarwadi, around 2.30am. The fire spread to adjacent motorcycles. Bhausaheb Karbhari Ghodke (36), owner of one of the ruined motorcycles, lodged a complaint with the Chatushrungi police. “CCTV cameras installed at a neighbouring establishment have captured the images of two men entering the premises. Also, residents of the building who rushed downstairs spotted the suspects fleeing on a motorcycle. The four-storied building does not have a watchman,” senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police said. Shewale said the duo carried a pipe and a plastic drum. “They broke open the tank caps of six to seven motorcycles and stole about five litres of petrol. They were stealing petrol from Ghodke’s motorcycle when the fire started. Within a few minutes, three other motorcycles were engulfed. The duo left the drum of petrol and fled,” he said. The fire damaged a few cables nearby, while the walls of the parking lot of the building were blackened by soot, Shewale said. The senior inspector said they were informed by the residents that fuel theft was a common problem in the area. “Whether the suspects stole petrol because of the rising fuel prices is something we would be able to ascertain only after arresting them,” Shewale said. Shewale said a majority of the residents of the building were from the lower-income group and make a living as casual workers. “Ghodke is a casual worker and is worried about the repair cost of his motorcycle,” Shewale said. Local resident Suryakant said residents of nearby slum pockets were a constant menace in the area and did not rule out arson. “They always target motorcycles in the Pashan area. They vandalize bikes, cars and autorickshaws on a regular basis. Police must probe how the fire started — whether it was an accident or intentional,” he said. For the moment, police have registered a against the two unidentified men under the sections 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance), 379 (theft), 511 (attempt to commit offence) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-bikes-gutted-in-fire-as-petrol-theft-bid-goes-awry/articleshow/80936251.cms||Gitesh Shelke
February 16, 2021||Vijayawada||RTC MD charts course for corporation’s future||Vijayawada: The merger of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) employees with state government comes as a boon for the organisation which has been hit hard by the pandemic, said APSRTC vice-chairman and managing director, RP Thakur. Interacting with TOI, he explained his plans to steer the RTC into profits again. Praising chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s for the merger, Thakur said, “It took the burden of salary bill off of APSRTC because of which we will be able to bounce back after taking an economic hit due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown. I could not even imagine what the situation of APSRTC would have been had it continued as before.” The MD pointed out that even when the RTC was operating at its full capacity, previous MDs had a hard time and would have to secure loans just to clear salaries. He said the corporation would have been in deep financial crisis after losing nearly Rs 3,000 crore revenues due to the lockdown. “I am fortunate when compared to my predecessors as I do not have to deal with monthly salary payments and I must thank the chief minister on behalf of APSRTC employees,” he said. Thakur said he is focussing on bringing normalcy in operations and improving efficiency. “Though operations have been restored to 85%, we still have a long way to go as occupancy ratios are still short. We can observe a clear change in mindset of people as they are not travelling often unless it is unavoidable. So our first goal is to bring operations to their full potential and improve occupancy ratios through better delivery of services” he said. The RTC is still behind 14% in revenue collections compared to the corresponding period in the previous year and behind 25% when compared to targeted revenue collections going by the increased fares. Apart from improving operational efficiency, Thakur is also focussed on creating asset light, alternative revenue generation sources for the corporation. He observed that there is a huge potential for expanding cargo handling that could grow by many folds. “With a vast network connectivity at our hand, if we can provide last mile connectivity in cargo, the business can grow exponentially,” said Thakur adding that they are exploring all options to enhance cargo handling capacities. Thakur also wants to ensure optimum utilisation of space to generate additional revenue. “We are planning to modernise bus stations at major cities by creating more commercial space. We are also exploring some innovative methods to generate revenues from advertising space,” he said adding that fuel efficiency and punctuality are two crucial factors that need to be improved. Clear instructions have been given that unreasonable delays will not be tolerated and a monitoring mechanism has been put in place to find out reasons for delays, according to Thakur “On the fuel efficiency front, continuously rising diesel prices are hitting revenue. We are planning to use alternative fuels like CNG and biodiesel to lower our dependence on diesel. Both CNG and biodiesel are cheaper and create less pollution. These measures are for short-term, we plan to shift to electric buses in a phased manner for the long-run,” he said. Thakur further said that they are looking at all possible avenues to make APSRTC a better organisation for people. “I even wrote a letter to all employees to come forward with innovative ideas based on passenger needs as they understand what people want from APSRTC given their interaction with passengers on a daily basis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rtc-md-charts-course-for-corporations-future/articleshow/80932387.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: CSR for Tata hospital’s pediatric cancer patients plunges 75%||MUMBAI: One of the casualties of the Covid-19 pandemic has been a sharp drop— almost 75%—in funding for free treatment of pediatric cancer patients. Tata Memorial Hospital, the department of atomic energy-run cancer hub in Parel, provides free treatment for children under 10 years of age (its network of social workers organizes funding for older children as well). As against Rs 25 crore that the hospital gathered in 2019 through corporate social responsiblity (CSR) funding for pediatric cancer treatment, it has managed promises for barely 25% of the sum. Most such funding in 2020 was channelised to the Covid-19 crisis across the country. Dr S D Banavali, director (academics) at the Tata Memorial centre, said Covid delivered a triple punch to the field of pediatric cancer. “Firstly, there was a delay in diagnosing cancer among children. Secondly, even after the diagnosis, families found it difficult to access treatment as travelling was difficult during the lockdown months,” he said. Thirdly, because of the delay in diagnosis and starting the treatment, most affected children need advanced treatment. “This means more money is needed,” added Dr Banavali. Every year, the Tata Memorial centre treats 5,000-plus children. “We need Rs 35 crore to treat all these children as our institute has been providing free treatment for pediatric cases for many years,” said pediatric oncology head Dr Girish Chinnaswamy. Shalini Jatia of ImPaCCT Foundation that works with TMH’s pediatric cancer department, said the funding comes from corporates, individual donors and NGOs. “But many donors helped out the Covid-19 management. Even we needed a lot of funds to put in place safety practices such as the use of face masks and sanitizers,” she said. Covid affected the centre’s working. If in 2019, Tata centre saw 2,086 new patient registrations, the number dropped to 1,188 in 2020. Roughly 60% patients hail from outside Maharashtra. Movement of patients is almost back to normal now. “In January, we got 110% of the average monthly registrations,” said Dr Banavali. On the occasion of International Childhood Cancer Day on Monday, Dr Chinnaswamy said the focus is on improving cure rates among pediatric patients. At present, their cure rate is 30% across the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/csr-for-tata-hosps-pediatric-cancer-patients-plunges-75/articleshow/80931688.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 16, 2021||Pune||New PCMC chief says no tolerance for irregularities||Pimpri Chinchwad: Newly-appointed Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Rajesh Patil said on Monday that the civic administration would exhibit zero tolerance towards visible irregularities and for that he would need the support of all stakeholders.Patil was addressing a news conference on Monday after assuming charge as the new civic chief from outgoing commissioner Shravan Hardikar. He was accompanied by new additional commissioner Vikas Dhakane. Santosh Patil, the previous additional commissioner, had been promoted to the divisional commissioner’s office in December. The new PCMC commissioner said, “Improvement in drinking water supply in the civic limits will be one of the priority areas.”Vikas Dhakane, additional commissioner, said, “We will work as a team and make sure the issues related to the citizens receive first priority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-pcmc-chief-says-no-tolerance-for-irregularities/articleshow/80936284.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 16, 2021||Kozhikode||Cops assaulted by CPM men in Kerala||KOZHIKODE: Police registered a case against over 50 CPM men in connection with an attack on the police at Kuttiady on Sunday night. Four policemen sustained injuries when a police team went to arrest CPM’s Nettur branch secretary Ambatt Ashokan, against whom there was a court warrant. The police team – led by Kuttiady SI Aneesh – reached his house around 11pm on Sunday. CPM men, who assembled there, forcibly released Ashokan from police custody. Four policemen, including the SI, sustained injuries in the attack and were admitted to a hospital. A policeman sustained an injury on his nose and the police jeep was damaged in the brawl. Kuttiady police registered a case against CPM men for attempted murder, destroying public property and preventing the police from discharging its duty. No arrest have been made, police said. Ashokan is an accused in a 2016 case that is related to a clash between BJP and CPM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cops-assaulted-by-cpm-men/articleshow/80932767.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Vijayawada||CWC study shows dip in Srisailam capacity||Amaravati: A recent study by the Central Water Commission (CWC) to assess the storage capacity of the Srisailam project has raised concerns in the two Telugu states as the project is reported to have lost nearly 30 tmc of its capacity over the last decade. While silt and sand carried by the Krishna from upstream areas and deposited in the lower reaches is not a new phenomenon, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana bear the brunt of a dwindling water capacity as major projects are located at the end of the river’s journey. Soil in the areas through which the river passes is easily carried along, adding to the accumulation of silt. The diminishing carrying capacity of the river is a cause of worry for the two states that are already struggling to share the waters in the Srisailam project and in Nagarjuna Sagar. Sources in the irrigation department said the CWC had indicated that the storage capacity of the Srisailam project had fallen to between 185 to 190 tmc from its existing capacity of 215 tmc. The project had been designed with a storage capacity of 308 tmc. The CWC has been conducting studies on storage capacity and dam safety, among other issues, with the assistance of state governments. Storage levels at Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar were, in fact, revised in undivided AP following a CWC report in 2009. While the storage capacity of Srisailam fell to 215 tmc from 308 tmc, capacity at the Nagarjuna Sagar project was brought down to 312 tmc from its original designed capacity of 405 tmc. Since its completion in 1980, the Srisailam project has lost nearly 93 tmc of storage capacity due to the formation of silt over the first three decades of operation. The project lost another 30 tmc to silt and sand within a span of 10 to 12 years since the study of 2009. Sources said the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) is likely to notify the revised storage capacity of the project shortly as the available water is to be shared by both states. While experts are of the view that the possibility of desilting projects using a scientific method could be explored, governments are yet to focus on the issue. The AP government has directed the irrigation department to study options available for taking up dredging operations in major projects in order to remove sand and regain water storage space. Sources said high costs involved in removal and transportation of silt may be a deterrent in taking up desiltation. “We are looking into the feasibility of dredging of major projects on both Godavari and Krishna rivers to save storage capacity,” said irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cwc-study-shows-dip-in-srisailam-capacity/articleshow/80933098.cms||Samdani MN
February 16, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad civic body gets 953 fresh posts||Aurangabad: The state urban development department (UDD) on Monday issued a government resolution approving 953 posts under the new staffing pattern for the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). It will take the total number of posts to 5,716. The UDD’s directives state that the government will not be granting funds for the posts recommended under the new staffing pattern. The GR, however, permits the AMC to outsource the services, if it feels necessary, and if it is financially feasible. Aurangabad municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey said: “The approval for 953 fresh posts will help us speed up the development works.” With many engineers and other employees retiring in the recent years, many officers are burdened with additional charges. In some cases, even key departments do not have full-time heads. Three years ago, the civic body roped in a private labour contractor to supply staff including junior engineers and project officers on contract. Sometime back, the AMC had submitted a proposal seeking permission to recruit 4,975 personnel for the posts created under the new pattern. However, financial constraints forced the government to consider only a part of the proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-civic-body-gets-953-fresh-posts/articleshow/80936258.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 16, 2021||Thane||MP man held with 7 illegal mauser pistols and 20 bullets||THANE: As many as seven country-made mauser pistols, two magazines and 20 bullets were seized from a 27-year-old Madhya Pradesh boy by the Thane crime branch. The police said that the accused Kailash Singh Chawla(27), a resident of Dhar district in Madhya Pradesh, has been arrested with the cache of illegal arms. Praful Jadhav, the assistant inspector informed, “We had an apt information that one person was coming to near the Mahalaxmi Temple at Saket to sell firearms during the wee hours of Sunday.” Accordingly, a team led by Jadhav laid a trap and Chawla came with a sack containing the firearms. A team of crime branch sleuths waylaid him and upon carrying out the search the police found 07 Mauser Pistols, 2 magazines, 20 live cartridges, all totally valued at Rs 1.8 lakh, Jadhav informed. The officer added during interrogation of the arrested accused, the investigators came to know that it was Chawla who had supplied the fire-arms to one accused Shahrukh Sayyed who along with his two accomplices had fired on one Matka operator Sandeep Gaikwad on October 21. “Gaikwad was chatting with a friend at Sri Ram Chowk in Ulhasnagar, when the accused came in a Verna car and attacked him with an iron rod and fired three rounds from a country made revolver. One bullet hit his leg and sustained multiple injuries due to assault. Two other accused Hitesh Thakur 23 and Sagar Shinde 23 were arrested. Chawla is suspected to be a member of Shikalgar gang of MP who are infamous for manufacturing illegal firearms,” Jadhav said. An offence under sections 3 and 25 of the Arms Act and also MP Act 37(1)(3),135 has been registered against him with the Rabodi police station. The arrested accused was produced before the local magistrate who remanded him into police custody till February 19, the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mp-man-held-with-7-illegal-mauser-pistols-and-20-bullets/articleshow/80945648.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
February 16, 2021||Pune||Pune cops cite robbery as Dattanagar firing motive||PUNE: The city police prima facie established robbery attempt as the motive behind Sunday night’s firing on a wholesale foodgrain trader in Dattanagar near Katraj. The victim, Vishal Punjabi (34), recorded his statement with the police on Monday, after he was discharged from a hospital, following treatment of the injury caused by the bullet that grazed past his head. He told police that he did not know the two men who had entered his shop and raised an alarm when the duo made their robbery intent clear. One of the two men then pulled out a firearm and shot at Punjabi. The CCTV camera footage collected from the establishments around the shop showed that the duo’s accomplice was waiting nearby, police said. Additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde, who once again visited the spot on Monday and is monitoring the entire case, said, “The Punjabi family did not have any dispute with any one. We have verified that there is no angle of vengeance in the case. So, prima facie we believe it was a robbery attempt.” Police suspect the three men might be local residents and must have conducted a recce of the shop before attempting to rob the shopkeeper. They knew where to park their motorcycle and how to avert the crowd in Dattanagar area. Shinde said, “Punjabi (34) was sitting at the counter while two helpers were in the back room of the shop, when the two men walked in. It has been revealed now after studying the CCTV camera footage of the shop that the third man took his position a few metres away from the shop.” The two men, who had walked into the shop, started issuing threats and Punjabi realized something was wrong. He raised an alarm screaming ‘chor chor’ and his two helpers picked up sticks and rushed out, when one of the two suspects opened fire. The duo then ran out of the shop while the third suspect calmly walked away, Shinde said. TOI on Monday attempted to contact Punjabi’s brother Nitin, but he did not answer the calls. The local shopkeepers said they only realized about the firing incident after the shop’s helpers raised an alarm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-cite-robbery-as-dattanagar-firing-motive/articleshow/80936355.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Expect air quality to be poor in Delhi in early morning hours||NEW DELHI: For the next five days, air quality of Delhi is likely to deteriorate during morning hours and improve during daytime. Experts said calm wind was predicted to prevail over the region during morning hours, which might cause accumulation of pollutants. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to Central Pollution Control Board’s hourly-data, PM2.5 concentration on Monday was 190.3 micrograms per cubic metre at 5 am but it started rising during the morning hours and reached its peak at 9 am at 311 micrograms per cubic metre. However, PM2.5 concentration reduced to 199.6 micrograms per cubic metre at 10 am and it further decreased to 67.9 micrograms per cubic metre at 3pm. The overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Monday was 313 in ‘very poor’ category. Experts said the similar condition was predicted for the next few days. Though calm winds generally prevail over the region during night time, Met officials said wind speed might remain zero during morning hours too. According to the forecast, the wind speed may rise to two to eight kmph during the daytime. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Calm winds are predicted for morning hours. However, clear sky is likely during the day along with rise in temperature, which may lift up the pollutants vertically.” He added the calm winds during morning hours might cause shallow to moderate fog. However, there are no chances of dense fog for the next five days. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature recorded on Monday was 9.9 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was 29.5 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/expect-air-quality-to-be-poor-in-early-morning-hours/articleshow/80932785.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 16, 2021||Pune||2 more held on charge of damaging vehicles||Pune: The crime branch of the Pune police on Sunday arrested two more men and detained four minors on the charge of vandalising 13 vehicles at Sathenagar in Mohammadwadi on Saturday midnight. The Wanowrie police had earlier arrested six suspects in the case. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale on Monday said, “The crime branch has taken over the investigation in the vandalism case because of its sensitive nature. Investigations have revealed that the suspects had vandalised the vehicles at the same spot where an incident of attacking and opening fire on a car driver, Nagesh Misal, had taken place on January 19.” Following the incident, the Wanowrie police had arrested a seven-member gang headed by Girish Hiwale. Additional commissioner of police (east region) Namdeo Chavan accorded sanction to prosecute the gang under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). Soon after, a group of 12 armed men went on a rampage and vandalised 13 vehicles on Saturday midnight. Deputy commissioner of police (zone V) Namrata Patil told TOI,“We registered three FIRs, including two relating to vandalism, with the Wanowrie police on Saturday. The third FIR lodged with the Hadapsar police stated that some of the vandalisers, common in all the three cases, vandalised an autorickshaw near Kalepadal railway crossing and also brutally assaulted the autorickshaw driver, Rahul Ghadai, with sharp weapons.” Patil said, “A decision to transfer the two vandalism cases to crime branch was taken to conduct in-depth investigations.” Senior inspector Hemant Patil from crime branch (unit V) said, “The suspects had vandalised the vehicles for spreading terror.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-more-held-on-charge-of-damaging-vehicles/articleshow/80936319.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Covid effect: Little spring in step as dargah readies for Basant Panchami||NEW DELHI: Basant Panchami has been an annual event at the Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya Dargah since the 12th century when the Sufi Saint, grieving for his dead nephew, was cheered by his disciple, Amir Khusro. The latter penned the lines of Sakal ban phool rahi sarson and elevated the mood of the Sufi saint with the song. To be celebrated on February 16 this year, the spring festival has ever since been a special day at the dargah for over 700 years. On Tuesday, however, with Covid-19 protocols to be observed, the festival will be subdued and completed within an hour and a half. On Basant Panchami, the dargah is awash in mustard yellow with the attendants draping yellow scarves and placing a yellow chadar on the grave of the saint. Mustard flowers are also strewn there. By celebrating a Hindu festival, the dargah sends out a message of unity. Historian Rana Safvi said that many visitors to the dargah dress in yellow and offer mustard flowers at Nizamuddin Auliya’s grave. “Even the qawwals who usually sing in the courtyard are allowed to go inside the shrine to the spot where the grave of the saint lies,” sadi Safvi Safvi also pointed out that Basant Panchami was celebrated in many other dargahs in Delhi. “Dargah Quli Khan, a senior officer of the Nizam-ul-Mulk Asafjah from Hyderabad, lived in Delhi between 1739 and 1741 and, in his diary titled Muraqqa-e-Dehli, mentions colourful festivities in many city dargahs,” she said. The tradition of celebration started during Nizamuddin Auliya’s lifetime, said Altamash Nizami, the dargah’s peerzada and descendant of the Sufi saint. Recalling how it began, Nizami said, “His young nephew, Khwaja Taqiuddin Nuh, died after an illness. He was disconsolate for days, and his followers were worried to see him in that state. One follower, the poet Amir Khusro, wrote and sang the Sakal ban phool song on seeing some Hindu women going to the Kalkaji mandir on Basant Panchami. The women were dressed in yellow and were carrying mustard flowers. Khusro also wore yellow and reached Nizamuddin’s chilla close to where Humayun’s tomb today stands. The tradition has continued.” Nizami continued, “The Sufis have a long tradition of adapting to the local culture and language of the places they visited to spread their message. The Chishti Sufis not only tried to relate to the Indian culture and music but they also experimented with and enriched the prevailing cultural forms. The spring festival is a living example of this.” The peerzada rued that in today’s society, with faith used to polarise people, Muslims celebrating Basant Panchami or Hindus taking part in Eid was “like a dream”. Nizami said the celebrations on February 16 would be held from 4.30pm to 6pm with and will follow all Covid protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-effect-little-spring-in-step-as-dargah-readies-for-basant-panchami/articleshow/80936419.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Man snatches gold chain in northwest Delhi, flees on motorcycle||NEW DELHI: An assistant commissioner with the taxation department became a victim of chain snatching when she visited a local market in northwest Delhi’s Kingsway Camp last Saturday. The victim said two bike-borne youth snatched her gold chain when she was busy buying fruits at the market. Police have registered a case in the matter. An assistant commissioner with Bihar government’s taxation department, Nivedita was in the capital to visit her husband — a professor at Delhi University. “In her complaint, the woman said she was standing by a fruit cart while her husband and mother-in-law, who were accompanying her, were at a distance. In the meantime, a man approached her from behind and snatched her chain. Before she could act or raise an alarm, the accused ran to his aide, who was waiting for him on a bike and the duo sped away in no time,” said a senior police officer. According to the cops, the accused men appeared to have been roaming in the area and recceing their target. Locals, too, tried chasing the accused but they managed to flee. A senior police officer said: “Based on the officer’s complaint, a case under appropriate sections of IPC has been registered and efforts to identify and arrest the accused are underway. We are scrubbing through the CCTV footage from the area to trace the motorcycle’s path. Dossiers of criminals active in the area are also being checked to identify the culprits.” In another incident, a doctor’s bag was snatched while she was travelling in a train at Sarai Rohilla Railway Station. The victim was with her children and an elderly mother when the incident took place. The woman was on her way to Rajasthan when a man snatched her bag containing cash and jewellery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-snatches-gold-chain-in-nw-delhi-flees-on-motorcycle/articleshow/80932834.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Kozhikode||Muslim leaders welcome allowing LSGs to take call||Kozhikode: Many Muslim organisations have welcomed the government’s decision to entrust local bodies with the authority to sanction construction of places of worship. This power was earlier vested with district administrations. Sunni leader Kanthapuram A P Aboobacker Musaliar said construction of many mosques was delayed as district administrations sat on the approval process. The government’s decision will now expedite matters, he said. “Places of worship are integrally linked to the lives of people. As society develops and people start spreading to newer places, there is a felt need for more places of worship,” he said in a press release. Kanthapuram added that people are forced to travel to distant places to offer prayers because intricate laws prevented construction of more places of worship. “Things will become easier once local bodies become the deciding authority. The issue was brought to the notice of the chief minister during a recent online meeting,” he said. Jamaat-e-Islami amir M I Abdul Azeez said the government’s decision addressed a long-standing demand of believers and religious organizations. He said, in a statement, the stipulation that made district collectors’ approval mandatory for construction of places of worship had created many hurdles. “This was brought to the attention of the chief minister soon after the government assumed power. The decision, though late, should be appreciated and there should not be any delay in its implementation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/muslim-leaders-welcome-allowing-lsgs-to-take-call/articleshow/80932830.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Two from Nepal get job offer in Gulf, held with fake certificate||Mumbai: Two men from Nepal landed in police custody after paying Rs40,000 each to a Delhi-based agent to help them get visas and an NOC from the Nepal Embassy at New Delhi required to fly from India to the UAE. The two had landed a job in the Middle East. The two —Karan Mahara (30) and Lal Singh Bhat (23)— claimed to be victims. The two were stopped by immigration officials at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport on February 10 before they could board the UAE flight. “Officials found the NOC fake which they got confirmed from the Nepal Embassy... We are getting information about the two agents, Anil Lama and Kapangi from New Delhi, who gave them with the fake NOC,” said a police official. Sahar police senior inspector Dinkar Shilvate said immigration officials found the NOC fake after consulting with Nepal Embassy. In the complaint, immigration official Vijay Chavan said, “We found the seal on the NOC too light. We mailed it to the Nepal Embassy. They replied saying they had not issued them.” Their lawyer Prabhakar Tripathi said, “The two are innocent, they are victims. The agents gave proper visa but the NOC was fake...” —V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-from-nepal-get-job-offer-in-gulf-held-with-fake-certificate/articleshow/80945683.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Over Rs 30 crore collected in Vidarbha for Ram temple, drive till February 28||NAGPUR: Over Rs 30 crore has been collected by way of donations from parts of Vidarbha for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya as of now. The total collection will go up further after smaller donations (below Rs2,000 and cheques) are taken into account. The highest amount given by a single donor in Vidarbha is Rs5 crore, said campaign coordinator for region Govind Shende, without disclosing the name. Over 34,000 persons in the region have donated an amount more than Rs 2,000. The funds are part of the collections done during the month-long door-to-door drive held from January 15 to February 15. The campaign has been extended till February 28 as a number of pockets in the region are yet to be covered, said those involved in the donation drive. The amount can also be claimed as deduction from tax liability under Section 80G of the Income Tax Act, he said. A notification issued on May 2020 brought the temple trust at Ayodhya under Section 80G of the Income Tax Act, which deals with donations to trusts. Shende said so far receipts have been issued to 34,228 persons for amounts of above Rs 2,000. The progress so far has been satisfactory, said Shende. Champat Rai, general secretary of Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Nyas, said except some regions, the general plan was to hold the drive till February-end. The total amount received can only be revealed after that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-rs30-crore-collected-in-vid-for-ram-temple-drive-till-feb-28/articleshow/80936458.cms||Shishir Arya
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi may have found a fix for toxic industrial waste||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s first treatment, storage and disposal facility (TSDF) will come up in Bawana Industrial Area with a proposal receiving environmental clearance from the Union environment ministry and consent under the air and water Acts from Delhi Pollution Control Committee. Delhi’s 1,912 industrial units generate 2,683.5 metric tonne hazardous waste every year, an official said. A huge quantity of hazardous waste is lying on the premises of industrial units and common effluent treatment plants while domestic hazardous waste mostly goes to landfills. As these industries are facing difficulty in accommodating more hazardous waste due to lack of space, National Green Tribunal (NGT) had asked for developing a TSDF in the city. Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (DSIIDC) has appointed an agency through tendering process for setting up the facility. A DPCC official said, “Spread over 14 acres, the city’s first TSDF will come up at Bawana Industrial Area. The plot is adjacent to the waste-to-energy plant and Pragati Power Plant. The facility will cater to both hazardous waste released from industries and domestic households, including batteries, CFL bulbs and paint cans.” Of the 14 acres, around 7 acres will be kept as open space and green belt. “In absence of a TSDF in Delhi, a large quantity of hazardous waste has been stored at industrial units. When the facility will become functional, it will help in treating the stored hazardous waste in a safe and environment-friendly manner,” an official with the environment department said. “The facility will help in reducing environmental liability due to captive storage of hazardous waste on the premises of industries,” he added. Besides, the facility will also help in safe disposal of domestic hazardous waste generated in households. Satish Sinha, associate director of NGO Toxics Link, said, “There are multiple sources of hazardous waste generation in the city and there’s an urgent need to collect and treat them properly. There is currently no process of treating domestic hazardous waste.” Hazardous waste causes danger to human health and environment as it contaminates soil and water. Hazardous waste reflects four characteristics — toxicity, reactivity, ignitability and corrosivity, said an expert. The setting up of a TSDF has been pending for many years. In 2015, DSIIDC filed an affidavit in NGT that the work would be completed in 2015. In 2019, NGT told DSIIDC to complete the construction latest by June 2020. A public hearing on the proposed project was postponed last year due to the Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-may-have-found-a-fix-for-toxic-industrial-waste/articleshow/80932875.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Crude oil royalty mop up falls by 50% to Rs 1422 cr||Jaipur: Royalty from crude oil and gas has fallen by 50% to Rs 1,422 crore in the first 10 months of the current financial year compared to Rs 2,844 crore in the same period previous fiscal year. Despite crude prices bouncing back from lower levels, the royalty revenue has not increased significantly.The recovery in monthly collection figures year-on-year have been patchy even as the royalty mop-up in January 2021 crossed Rs 200 crore mark for the first time in the current financial year. Royalty charges vary based on the prices of crude oil and production. While production has still not reached the pre-Covid levels of around 1.70 lakh barrels of oil per day, the average crude oil prices in 2020 has fallen to $39.68 per barrel from $56.99 in 2019. Cairn is the major contributor of crude oil royalty to the state.Multiple sources in Cairn Oil and Gas said since the Production Sharing Contract (PSC) has not been renewed, some investments have not been fast tracked to ramp up production. The 25-year contract for Barmer in May, 2020. Earlier, the Centre had said to extent it by another 10 years. But the condition to raise the share of government’s profit from oil and gas by 10% has held back the renewal.“Once there is clarity, the company will move full steam ahead with its investment plans. Since the PSC is not there, Cairn is also going slow in ramping up production. Also, the current crude oil pricing are supporting now for ramping up production,” said the sources.When the Cairn fields started producing crude oil 2008-09, the state government received royalty revenue of Rs 8.20 crore. The revenue reached Rs 5,953 crore in 2013-17 when the average price of crude oil was $97.98 per barrel and also Cairn produced 1.75 lakh barrels per day.While the state government has fixed royalty revenue target of Rs 4,750 crore for 2020-21, with two months left, it will fall far short of the level due to Covid pandemic and the historic low prices of crude oil during the year.Hitting Govt RevenueMonth 2019-20 2020-21April Rs314.22cr Rs 66.45crMay Rs328.57cr Rs 33.06crJune Rs316.82cr Rs 135.78crJuly Rs268.98cr Rs 167.79crAugust Rs305.55cr Rs 167.34 crSeptember Rs254.67cr Rs 168.02crOctober Rs289.99cr Rs 139.57crNovember Rs239.38cr Rs 160.13crDecember Rs241.60cr Rs 172.32crJanuary Rs285.06cr Rs 212crTotal Rs2,844.84 Rs 1,422.46cr||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crude-oil-royalty-mop-up-falls-by-50-to-rs-1422-cr/articleshow/80936402.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Developers request tax exemptions in budget||JAIPUR: Realtors’ apex body Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association (CREDAI) has suggested the government to increase tax exemptions in the upcoming budget to boost the realty sector, which is reeling under crisis since long. The association has demanded to reduce the stamp duty on housing units in multi-storied buildings on the similar lines like it was done in Maharastra. Rajasthan CREDAI chairman Gopal Das Gupta said, “The developers constructing a multi-storey project have to pay various taxes three times including stamp duty. In Maharashtra, the government had temporarily reduced stamp duty on housing units from 5 per cent to 2 per cent until December 31, 2020. Similarly, stamp duty from Jan 1, 2021, until March 31, 2021, will be 3 per cent. In a similar manner, we have asked the Rajasthan government to reduce stamp duty to 2 per cent till March 31, 2021 and 4 per cent from April 1 till next financial year.” During the lockdown, the real industry faced a setback after the state government increased the stamp duty to 6% from 5%. With the surcharge increase of 10%, the total stamp duty had gone up to 8.8% from 8.2%. “In the recent excise policy, the state has rolled back the cess imposed during the Covid times. This move should also consider for the real estate industry,” said a developer. As property rates have come down over the past few years, developers have requested the state government to reduce the district lease committee prices by 30 %. “The DLC rates have been fixed much higher than the market price of the land in many areas. The government should revise these rates after examining the existing rates. It should be considered that the DLC rates of commercial properties should not be doubled of residential properties. In 2017, DLC rates (residential) were increased between 10% and 17% in many areas. A developer said, “A DLC rate of an area is decided by a committee that includes the local MLA and the district collector. In the past, it had become a trend that district collectors were increasing the DLC rates without consulting the public representatives, due to which the imbalance was created. We have this time requested to involve participation of all stakeholders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/developers-request-tax-exemptions-in-budget/articleshow/80936428.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Aurangabad||M’wada: 5.9% atrocity cases see convictions in 25 years||Aurangabad: Of the total number of cases decided by the court of law under the Scheduled Caste and Schedule Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989, only 5.9% cases have seen convictions in the past 25 years in Marathwada region.The findings were tabled before a high-power vigilance committee meeting headed by revenue divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar and was attended by collectors,superintendents of police, their representatives and officials of the social welfare department from the eight districts of the region.Special public prosecutor Rajendra Mugdia said, “Investigation officers failing to bring it on record the exact violation under the Act is one of the key reasons for acquital in these cases. Unfortunately, in most of the cases, sections of the Atrocity Act are imposed by the police for the sole reason that the victim of any violence belongs to the SC or ST community.”Senior police officers, even lawyers, unanimously maintained that complainants or witnesses turning hostile was another key reason behind the poor conviction rate.Civil rights lawyer Nihalsingh Rathore, “Witnesses turning hostile is a key concern and it also poorly reflects on the justice delivery system. In atrocity cases, the onus to fairly investigate and simultaneously ensure that the witnesses are not influenced is on the prosecution. There is also a provision for appointing special prosecutors in such cases. We have found that police or the prosecution fails to perform their duty in such cases.”In the offences registered between July 1 and December 31, 2020, a total of 469 offences, including 89 offences in Beed, alone have been registered in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mwada-5-9-atrocity-cases-see-convictions-in-25-years/articleshow/80936408.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: After daylong stir, Eco-Pro warns of hunger strike to save Ramala||CHANDRAPUR: Even as NGO Eco-Pro Organisation staged daylong sit-in agitation on Monday to flay the apathy of district administration towards protection and curbing pollution in 550-year-old Ramala lake, shocking fact that the historic waterbody has nearly lost its dissolved oxygen has come to fore. “Chemical analysis of the lake water, carried out by Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) after thousands of fishes died on January 26, shows there is less than 1% dissolved oxygen left. Dying fishes and flora in the lake shows deteriorating condition of the lake’s ecology. Despite this, the administration is completely reluctant towards the conservation of the Gond era lake,” said Eco-Pro president Bandu Dhotre. Dhotre also pointed out towards bizarre phenomenon of schools of fishes rising to the surface of water to try to breathe. Experts claimed that fishes linger near the surface when they have difficulty in respiration. “Fishes absorb dissolved oxygen in the water. Naturally, these dissolved oxygen levels tend to be higher near the surface, where interaction between air and water takes place,” said the aquatic expert. Also, there are over 150 fishermen families that rely on the lake for livelihood. With fishes dying in the lake, these families are certain to lose their only source of earning, he said. People in the area too are crying foul over contamination of the lake, which gets all the sewage washed from half of the city through Macchi nullah, that meets Ramala pond. “Earlier, people in the area used to go for swimming in the lake. However, now the water is so polluted that simple dip in the water leaves the person with itching all over the body,” said Mahesh Adgudwar, who resides near Ramala. He also complained about foul smell from the water they fetch from borewells and wells in the area around. Dhotre claimed there used to be six ponds in the city. Now, five of them have been completely lost to encroachment and half of the Ramala lake too has been encroached. “The lake left in the city is dying thanks to pollution, encroachment and growing echornia weed. Detailed plan has been submitted for conservation and restoration of the remaining lake, but the administration is not ready to take up measures,” he said. Eco-Pro has warned of indefinite hunger strike from February 22, if the demand for protection and conservation of the lake is not met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-daylong-stir-eco-pro-warns-of-hunger-strike-to-save-ramala/articleshow/80936437.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rural government school staff to be vaccinated soon||JAIPUR: All government education staff posted in rural areas will be vaccinated in the next phase of inoculation. The Directorate of Education, Bikaner, has written a to all the district education officers to send the updated data of teaching and non-teaching staff working in schools in rural areas. The department will use the data available on Shala Darpan portal of teaching staff. According to the order, pregnant and lactating women, cancer patient and people with chronic medical illness will not eligible for the vaccination. Officials have been asked to add the names of the persons left out from the data. The name of the employees, address, pin code and other details have to be mentioned in the data. All the panchayati raj elementary education officers (PEEOs) have been ordered to send the data by 5pm on February 15. Rajasthan Shikshak Evam Panchayati Raj Karamchari Sangh spokesperson Narayan Singh Sisodia hailed the move of the government. “Government teachers have been on duty in Covid wards since lockdown and they must be given preference. This is a welcome move and we hope that the vaccination drive will soon start for the urban teachers as well,” said Sisodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rural-govt-school-staff-to-be-vaccinated-soon/articleshow/80936449.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Modi government creating an environment of fear, says Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has accused the BJP government of creating an atmosphere of fear for the common man in the country in his reply to the governor’s statement in the state assembly on Monday. While hitting out at the Modi government for eroding the faith of common people in a democracy, Gehlot said, “The situation has come to a level that common people are scared of talking over phone and instead, they use WhatsApp call and facetime.” Taking on the opposition for dragging the name of Congress leaders – Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, he said since BJP leaders — Shyama Prasad Mukherjee and Deen Dayal Upadhayaya, doesn’t have any contribution to the freedom struggle they attempt to demean the Congress leaders. “PM Modi has been refraining from recognising and acknowledging the role of Congress leaders in the freedom struggle and shaping modern India. Jawaharlal Nehru spent 10 years in prison during freedom struggle and BJPs role model Savarkar wrote mercy letters to the British. The reason we name welfare schemes after our leaders is for the future generations to know the contributions made by them in nation-building,” Gehlot said. He invited BJP leaders to join him in demanding national status for Eastern Rajasthan Canal Project. “Please support me in getting the status for the lifeline of 13 districts,” said Gehlot. On BJP criticizing the state for NCRB report painting a dismal picture of the state, Gehlot read out a text from the NCRB report stating the difference between registered crimes and rise in crime. “Since we have made FIRs compulsory, we knew it will increase the number of cases, but the other side is that cases through court have declined,” said Gehlot Refuting the claims that the state has imposed heavy taxes on fuel, Gehlot explained that the Centre has not left any scope for states to reduce the price of fuel. “The Union government has reduced the excise duty or components on fuel price which is shared with the state and vice versa. The excise duty on diesel has been reduced from Rs 8 to Rs 1 leaving states with lesser share. This is the reason that the state cannot go below the existing taxes on fuel, else it would affect the revenues of the state,” said Gehlot. He repeated that the state has reduced VAT on fuel by 2% which will reduce the revenue by Rs 1,000 crore. Replying to the opposition’s allegation of handling the Covid-19 from behind the glass wall, Gehlot expressed disappointment that BJP leaders have failed to see what the government has done and how it earned praise nationally and internationally. “Our Bhilwara and Ramganj models, along with the well-coordinated relief work, carried out by us leaving no one sleep hungry and the vaccination drive has been appreciated by agencies like WHO and NITI Ayog,” said Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/modi-govt-creating-an-environment-of-fear-says-cm/articleshow/80936512.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Authorities trying to scare people off issues: Greens||There’s an insane sense of fear. If a comedian is jailed for cracking jokes, think about people like us talking about real issues,” rued an environmental activist on Monday following the detention of environmental activist Disha Ravi and the impending arrest of Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk. “This is exactly what they did at the time of the Aarey dispute. They mostly arrested college kids to scare away those who might want to join the cause. But does it work? It aggravates people to fight more,” said Zoru Bhathena who had campaigned against the previous government's decision to hack trees at Aarey Colony. “Agriculture, climate change, deforestation are closely interrelated, so what’s wrong if young people show concern?” said Bhathena. The sense of outrage was evident in Stalin Dayanand, known for championing wetland conservation and mangrove restoration. “It seems there are only two ways to exist in this country now. Either keep your head down and not interfere in any decision or join the hate army. There’s no third option where one can engage in dialogue or have the freedom to discuss issues.” Afroz Shah, the man behind the clean-up of Versova beach, felt the need for a more "balanced approach" by the system as well as activists. “Young activists in their teens and twenties don’t often have the knowledge, wisdom or wherewithal to handle complicated issues. The system needs to take into account the age and experience of passionate young people who mean well and start a conversation with them while youngsters need to use language that could critique the implication of a certain policy or move but not attack the motive in a way that’s defamatory and could land them on the wrong side of law,” said Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/authorities-trying-to-scare-people-off-issues-greens/articleshow/80943075.cms||Mohua Das
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Traders force govt to negotiating table on GST simplification||NAGPUR: Taking a lesson from farmers, traders have garnered enough numbers to force the government to the negotiating table to simplify Goods and Services Tax (GST) rules. On Monday, trade leaders held a meeting where the government was represented by finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey and chairman of Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) PC Mody. A separate meeting was held with M Ajit Kumar, chairman of Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC). The campaign against GST is being led by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), an umbrella organization of trade associations across the country. CAIT has leanings towards the Sangh Parivar, and had carried out campaigns to boycott Chinese goods along with Swadeshi Jagran Manch. “We held a three-day traders meet at Nagpur attended by over 300 trade association leaders. One of them was Pradeep Singhal, who heads the transporters’ guild. It was decided that traders will go on a one-day strike on February 26. Even Singhal announced they would bring transport to a halt, stopping all deliveries for a day. The very next day we got a message from the government,” said BC Bhartia, national president of CAIT. “It has been decided to hold another round of talks in first week of March. The real talks will happen if representatives of ministry of finance come. CBDT and CBIC are mere executing agencies,” he said. On political affiliation, Bhatia said CAIT is purely a traders association. Some months ago, CAIT had thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a public function in New Delhi for bringing trade-friendly amendments. Now, CAIT has called for the countrywide trade bandh on February 26 against GST, calling it a very complicated tax that has made the lives of traders miserable. They want the central government to immediately simplify it. Bhartia said the Centre introduced GST to make taxation system simple. “However, since its introduction 900 changes have been made, which has made GST the most complicated tax in the world. Moreover, GST officers continue to come to traders’ establishments with warrants and scrutinize records for hours during peak business hours. The government talk about faceless tax system is all rubbish,” he told TOI. Bhartia spoke specifically of two notifications of December 2020 and January 2021, which were detrimental to traders as they restrict a businessman from filing returns and deprive him of input tax credit (ITC), and also his number can be suspended without show cause notice. He also noted there is no provision for claim of ITC after six months from end of the year. “Right to claim ITC should not be restricted by time,” said Bhartia. CAIT is also opposed to amendment to Section 129(1) (a), which enhances penalty from 100% to 200% for releasing detained or seized goods. Other amendments would also punish mistakes by traders in figures in returns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traders-force-govt-to-negotiating-table-on-gst-simplification/articleshow/80936608.cms||Shishir Arya
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Vidarbha: Only 37% healthcare workers show up for second dose on Day 1||NAGPUR: Second dose of Covid-19 vaccine has commenced in 11 districts of Vidarbha on Monday. It is considered crucial phase of vaccination programme as doctors say sufficient antibodies develop only after two weeks of second dose. Only 1,417 (36.51%) of 3,881 healthcare workers (HCW) who took the jab on January 16 and were due for second dose on Monday turned up on the first day in the region. As per guidelines of ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), second dose is to be administered 28 days after the first dose. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi and medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar told TOI, “It is not mandatory that HCW should come and take the jab exactly 28 days later. Co-WIN app has automatically scheduled HCWs who took the jab on January 16 for Monday. The same will happen daily from now onwards. But HCWs can come as per their convenience and get the second dose.” The officials said messages were delivered automatically by Co-WIN on Sunday and Monday to HCWs who took the jab on January 16. “NMC control room and centres also contacted them and reminded them about their second dose scheduled on Monday,” they said. The officials added HCWs could go to any centre and take second dose. “If any HCWs are on tour, they can take the jab at any centre in the state,” they said. Lowest turnout by HCW for second dose was in the city. Of total 509, only 131 (25.74%) availed the benefit. The achievement was satisfactory in Nagpur Rural where 224 (82.96%) of total 270 HCWs turned up for inoculation. Thus, 355 (45.57%) of total 779 HCWs took second dose in the district. As far as division-wise turnout is concerned, Nagpur division did better where 1,047 (48.72%) of total 2,149 HCWs took second dose. It was only 21.36% in Amravati division where 370 of total 1,732 turned up for second dose. In Nagpur division, highest turnout was registered in Bhandara district with 204 (76.98%) of 265 HCWs taking the second dose. In Gondia, 120 (56.34%) of 213 turned up, followed by Wardha— 157 (45.64%) of 344, and Chandrapur—148 (44.71%) of 331. Lowest turnout for second dose was registered in Gadchiroli district where 63 (29.03%) of 217 took the jab. Centres continued to give first dose to HCWs who did not turn up earlier. 1,430 HCWs took first dose on Monday. Vaccination centres for first and second dose were the same. All the districts also continued vaccination of frontline workers (FLW) who are working in departments falling under ministry of housing and urban affairs, home affairs and revenue. 3,122 FLWs took the jab in 11 districts of Vidarbha on Monday. FLW vaccination commenced on February 5. No case of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was registered on Monday in both Nagpur and Amravati divisions. Experts had stated chances of minor AEFI like fever, bodyache etc in HCWs could not be ruled out after second dose. They also said there was nothing to worry as minor AEFI will last for a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-37-healthcare-workers-show-up-for-second-dose-on-day-1/articleshow/80933083.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||State tax adding to fuel prices in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Apart from other factors, an additional state tax levied in Telangana, is also a reason for the soaring prices of fuel here. As per the rulebook, the state collects an extra Rs 4 for every litre of petrol and Rs 2 for a litre of diesel. While the charge on diesel too was initially fixed at Rs 4, it was revised following multiple representations from the industry. Incidentally, this state tax is only prevalent in the two Telugu states, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, across the country. The tax is levied over and above the Value Added Tax (Vat) that is charged on fuel — 33% on a litre petrol and 26% on a litre of diesel. This additional tax, industry sources say, was initially introduced in the neighbouring state, post the bifurcation of erstwhile AP. Subsequently, Telangana too followed suit. Both states charge Rs 4 per of fuel, though the latter has now slashed the tax on diesel. “This tax significantly increases the cost of fuel in these two states. While the collection gets deposited in the government coffers, petrol pump owners do not get a single rupee. Their commission is fixed at an average of Rs 3.40 per litre for petrol and Rs 2.30 per litre for diesel,” said a source. While the continuous escalation in cost — also driven by the extra state tax — has had little impact on the sale of petrol in the state, fuel dealers confess that diesel sales have taken a beating. “The state has been losing business on account of extra tax levied here on diesel. Since the cost in neighbouring states such as Karnataka is less, transport vehicles — or even those who travel there frequently — fill their tanks there. As a result, we lose business and the state losses its income,” said Marri Amarender Reddy, president, Telangana Petrol Dealers Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-tax-adding-to-fuel-prices-in-t/articleshow/80936486.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||BJP pitches ‘ Atmanirbharta’ to counter Congress claims||JAIPUR: The opposition BJP has highlighted the ‘Atmanirbhar’ campaign initiated by PM Narendra Modi to counter the state’s claims of creating a benchmark in development in the state assembly on Monday. BJP state president Satish Poonia in his address said that the country has attained self-sufficiency in digital world by coming up with ‘Koo’ application in place of Twitter and ‘Sandesh’ against WhatsApp. “India is gradually inching towards achieving self-reliance in the defence sector. Our Hunter Killer Tank with modern capabilities is purely indigenous,” he said. To counter Congress’ claims of their leader as the architect of social welfare schemes in the last 70 years, Poonia recalled 70 decisions taken by the Modi government, including abrogation of Article 370, Ram Temple, CAA, triple talaq, Atmanirbhar Bharat and new education policy. The issue of climate activist Greta Thunberg was also raised in the assembly by the BJP to state how conspiracies are being hatched against India from internal and external forces. “The expose made by Delhi police by arresting one Disha from Bengaluru reveals how anti-Indian forces are trying to destabilise the nation to hamper our rising prestige on the global map,” said Poonia. He also accused Gehlot of obstructing the central schemes in the state disrobing the people of the benefits they deserved. “The state’s lax attitude is preventing several farmers from reaping the benefits under the PM Kisan Nidhi Yojana,” Poonia added. Leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria termed CM Ashok Gehlot’s reply in the assembly as hollow and full of rhetoric. He told reporters that it was unexpected for an experienced leader like Gehlot to casually respond to the concerns of the opposition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-pitches-atmanirbharta-to-counter-cong-claims/articleshow/80936467.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Aurangabad||Pvt coaching classes allowed to reopen||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has finally granted permission to private coaching classes to resume physical classes after a gap of nearly 11 months. When contacted, municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey told TOI: “Taking a considerate view of the students’ needs, we have granted conditional permission to private coaching classes within the civic limits.” Pandey said the pandemic had compelled them to put curbs on all places of public movement and gathering including educational institutes. The civic body has made it mandatory for the teaching and non-teaching staff to undergo Covid-19 tests, apart from regular sanitisation of the premises and maintenance of social distancing norms. The decision has come as a huge relief for parents as well as students who were not very satisfied with the online classes. Amjad Shaikh, whose son Adnan is pursuing HSC, said, “It is big relief. We expect the coaching classes to not only clear the doubts but also help revise the syllabus.” As per estimates, there are about 500 coaching classes catering to tens of thousands of students here. Akash Institute’s Aurangabad centre director Mangesh Aswar said: “The academic year has been moved ahead by three to four months. We will utilise the coming months to clear doubts and revise the syllabus. We are resuming the classes from Thursday” Vaidya Academy’s Dhananjay Vaidya said, “We will revise the syllabus during the physical classes that we will resume in eight to 10 days. We fear that due to the reluctance of some parents to send their children to classes, we will have to continue with online as well as offline classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pvt-coaching-classes-allowed-to-reopen/articleshow/80936507.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pumping station to check Golf Green flooding||KOLKATA: For years, residents of Golf Green, Golf Garden and other localities in the Tollygunge-Bijoygarh-Jadavpur belt have dreaded the onset of monsoon as it invariably meant severe waterlogging. Some of these areas would remain inundated for hours even after rain stopped. All that is soon set to change with a new drainage pumping station in Golf Garden that will take care of waterlogging woes in this area and bring relief to nearly 2 lakh residents. A KMC official said the drainage pumping unit is the largest one built in recent years and is expectedto be operational in two months. It has seven pumps imported from Germany. “Four of them are heavy-duty pumps. Each of them can flush out 36 cusec stormwater every second. This will mean prompt relief to residents this monsoon,” the official said. Archana Sengupta, a KMC ward coordinator who looks after Golf Garden Road, said the Rs 40-crore project will address waterlogging woes in wards 94, 95, 96 and 97. Mihir Sarkar, a former Reserve Bank of India officer who is a resident of Golf Garden Road, is looking forward to a normal life during monsoon. “Everyone around here will be spared of the wading through the water,” he said. Piyali Sengupta, another local, said, “It is like a dream come true for us. We can’t imagine a flood-free Golf Garden and Golf Green during monsoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pumping-station-to-check-golf-green-flooding/articleshow/80936560.cms||Saikat Ray
February 16, 2021||Chennai||TN parties form grand alliance to deface public places in Chennai||CHENNAI: The choicest admonitions from the Madras high court and the death of a young girl caused by an illegal hoarding and the subsequent public uproar have not acted as deterrents as political parties in the state continue to encroach walls with political graffiti, and erect banners and cutouts. In September 2019, after Subashri’s death when a hoarding hit her, all major political party gave an undertaking in the high court that they would not put up hoardings. Violation of the undertaking is a plain contempt of court. Times ViewHow many more litres of blood do you want to paint the roads?” This was the anguish expressed by Madras high court hearing a case relating to the death of Chennai techie Subhashri in a road accident caused by a political hoarding on September 12, 2019. One expected political parties to kick the habit of defacing public/private walls, erecting hoardings and cut-outs at least after such an avoidable tragedy and the subsequent public outrage. Instead they have graduated to the next level – of overwriting awareness messages with ugly political graffiti. It is time for the judiciary to take suo motu action. It could threaten parties with derecognition and slap exemplary fines. Police and other authorities concerned ignoring such violations should also be taken to task.Yet, parties have forgotten the court orders and their own undertaking, as assembly polls near. Many public walls have been defaced – so much so parties are erasing awareness messages on walls of government entities and are writing political graffiti, with impunity. Officials in charge of these premises do not register complaints nor do municipal authorities remove the graffiti or proceed against the violators. Public libraries, walls, corporation facilities, parks, flyovers and other government offices have been soiled with political ‘messages’. Greater Chennai Corporation spent more than `2 crore in rejuvenating the Puzhuthivakkam lake and built walkways around the waterbody with fence and bollards, giving the neighbourhood a new look and feel. The corporation, however, could not do much about the defacing of the wall bordering the lake. “The local AIADMK and DMK functionaries have used the compound walls of Chennai Metrowater building and a government school bordering the lake to paint graffiti to mark the upcoming birthdays of their party leaders. It is an eyesore. We complained to the authorities, but they expressed inability to take any action,” said N Kalavathi, a local resident. Similar graffiti could be found across the city, where the ruling party has smeared walls of public buildings with graffiti marking the upcoming 73rd birth anniversary of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa. Very recently, walls were defaced with posters welcoming the return of V K Sasikala from prison. Social activists have decried the practice by political parties, which apart from acting as an eyesore also pose risk to citizens, especially when they are illegal hoardings. In 2015, advocate Elephant G Rajendran filed a PIL before the Madras high court seeking the court to restrain political parties from defacing walls, roadside hills and boulders with graffiti. During subsequent hearings, the court censured political parties and the government constituted a committee to address the issue. Even then, the state contended that complaints cannot be attended to overnight due to lack of official staff and machinery, and that it needs time to carry out the exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-parties-form-grand-alliance-to-deface-public-places-in-city/articleshow/80936614.cms||Srikkanth D
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Greater Spotted Eagle observed in Amravati||AMRAVATI: A Greater Spotted Eagle has been recorded for the first time in Amravati, as per bird watchers. The bird watchers, Prashant Nikam Patil, Sanket Rajurkar and Kaushik Tatte, spotted the rare bird in flight on Saturday in Pohra-Malkhed forest close to the city. “We were delighted and took its pictures. It is the first time that this bird has been recorded in Amravati,” said Prashant Nikam Patil. The bird measures between 62 and 72 centimetres and it has a wing span of 5.25 to 6 feet. The bird watchers said the V-shaped white feathers under the tail lend it a unique identity. According to the birders, the bird feeds on frogs and serpents found near water bodies and marshy places. It bears white spots on its body and wings, hence the name Greater Spotted Eagle. Its scientific name is Clanga Clanga. A native of North India, the bird is seen in Central and South India during the last phase of its winter migration. The bird’s presence has also been recorded in Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Myanmar. Its mating season is April-June. The bird flies at high altitudes. “Instead of keeping jungle treks tiger-centric, if nature lovers also focus on its other elements, much could be achieved,” said Nikam Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/greater-spotted-eagle-observed-in-amravati/articleshow/80936568.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Police seeks nod for anti-bank fraud police station||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Police has sought a state government nod to set up a police station in Lalbazar, the third after Cyber Crime Police Station and Special Task Force (STF), to lodge complaints pertaining to bank frauds. If the proposal is accepted, Kolkata will become one of the first cities in India to have a specific police station handling bank frauds. Sources said talks began last week. Joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma has confirmed that a proposal for the new police station has been sent to the state home department. Sources indicated the proposal for a bank fraud police station was mooted to cut down on the time consumed to probe such cases. “For any bank fraud cases now, the first step is to immediately ask the bank with the beneficiary accounts to freeze further transactions to help recover the stolen amounts. Local cops lack the expertise that lead to delays, which can be detrimental in these cases. The next step involves identifying and prosecuting the beneficiary account holders, or in cases of fake accounts, identifying the fraudsters by their mode of withdrawal. This is why a separate police station is needed for bank frauds,” said a senior officer, refusing to be quoted. “The other reason is that as per regulatory reporting by RBI and Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) by banks in fraud cases, all such cases must be reported to the police. Reporting all FICN cases to police is also mandatory. A bank fraud police station will ease the regulatory compliance by banks and ensure quick probe,” the officer added. Nasscom and Data Security Council of India (DSCI) already trains city detectives on new-age crimes. The decision, claimed highly placed courses, comes in the wake of the spike in online financial crimes both during and after the lockdown. Sources said the police had been registering 10-15 FIRs a month in pre-pandemic times. Now, it is double the number with one case being registered every day. “On our social media handles, we have been swamped by complaints. While not many get duped, the attempts show they are highly organized,” another officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kp-seeks-nod-for-anti-bank-fraud-police-stn/articleshow/80936633.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||No trace of missing sons, family ‘cremates’ their effigies||Dehradun: The hope that they had made it alive was never there. But Budaari Devi did wish she could see her sons Sandeep and Jeevan one last time before they were laid to rest. A week after the Uttarakhand floods, with no word on whether their bodies had been found, their effigies were cremated by the banks of the Yamuna in Haripur on Sunday. “We waited for a week and then gave up. They were working right in front of the dam — they could not have survived, we know. The only thing we wished for was that we would get their bodies. But that didn’t happen either and time was running out,” said Guddu, their elder brother. Among the Jaunsari, if someone is believed dead and the body cannot be found, an effigy must be cremated within 14 days. “It is prepared with utmost care, dressed in the clothes of the deceased and cremated just the way the body would be,” said Balbir Chauhan, their uncle and gram pradhan of the Panjiya village. Jeevan, 21, had left Jaunsar’s Panjiya for Tapovan months ago. There was work to be found at the hydel project which was coming up, he had heard. Money was not too bad. He called his brother, Sandeep, 24, to join him. On January 8, Sandeep did. He was to get married on May 16 this year. “I spoke to them around 7pm on February 6 over the phone. I asked them how they were. They were happy I had called,” said Guddu, choking up as he spoke. When news of the flood reached them — the surging Rishiganga had extensively damaged the hydel project his brothers had been working on — he left for Tapovan. But nothing turned up. So, they held a panchayat and decided that it was time. Guddu got back home on Sunday, got the effigies ready and cremated his brothers. Symbolic surrogates, reminders of those who have passed away and custodians of higher power — effigies as “stand-ins” in death rituals can be found across many cultures. At Kamrao in Himachal Pradesh, wooden effigies of the deceased are prepared and worshipped for six months in a ritual called ‘pavra’. In Indonesia, the Toraja community carves elaborate wooden effigies of those who die and preserve them. And at Owo in Nigeria, effigies of the dead are buried in a second funeral nine days after death in a ritual called ‘ako’. Among the Jaunsari, it’s a ritual of closure. “It has never been done in our village before. It never needed to. Our elders told us it must be done now,” said Balbir. “Or their souls would not rest in peace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-trace-of-missing-sons-family-cremates-their-effigies/articleshow/80933036.cms||Shivani Azad
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Uproar in House after minister calls BJP MLA ‘joker’||JAIPUR: The House witnessed noisy scenes over Makrana BJP MLA Roopa Ram’s reference to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s recent visit to Kishangarh in Ajmer district for a kisan rally and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra calling the MLA a ‘joker’. Participating in the discussion on governor’s speech on Monday afternoon, Ram alleged that the Congress had paraded marble traders as farmers in the rally. He said the Congress leaders have also been portraying folk deities like Veer Tejaji as farm warriors. The BJP legislator’s sarcasm was contested by the Congress members. Industry minister Parsadilal Meena protested and demanded deletion of references to Rahul Gandhi from the House proceedings. They insisted on the member speak on the governor’s address instead of speaking about a non-member of the House. When the BJP member again started deviating from the subject, education minister Govind Singh Dotasra said the “BJP MLA speaks like a ‘joker.’” Dotasra’s ‘joker’ remark led to protests by the BJP members. They started shouting ‘Pappu’ and moved towards the well of the house. However, Rajendra Pareek, who was in the chair, brought the situation under control after some time ordering deletion of all unrelated references to the governor’s speech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/uproar-in-house-after-minister-calls-bjp-mla-joker/articleshow/80936574.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Shanti Dhariwal and Gulab Chand Kataria trade barbs over attack on RSS worker in Kota||JAIPUR: Chaos prevailed in the assembly on Monday following a heated argument between UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal and leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria over the latter’s statement that the former is known to the accused behind the attack on an RSS worker in Kota. Soon after CM Ashok Gehlot completed his reply in the assembly, Dhariwal aggressively asked Kataria to hold an independent inquiry on the allegations that the accused is known to him personally. “The allegations made by the senior politician is ‘uncalled for.’ Anyone can come for a selfie picture with politicians. The opposition has dragged my name on the basis of merely having a picture with the accused. It shows the malice in their intent,” said Dhariwal. Kataria objected to his tone. “I can also respond in a stern tone but I will not. I have just expressed suspicion that if the criminal has any relation with those in power, how would one expect justice,” said Kataria, who made the observation on Friday in the assembly. BJP MLA Ramganj Mandi Madan Dilwar showed pictures of Dhariwal with the accused faced the rebuttal by latter who showed pictures of Deep Siddu, the prime accused behind hoisting a flag on the Red Fort on January 26, with PM Narendra Modi. Dhariwal made a point that if he can be made the co-accused, why cant Modi be treated in the same manner. Dilawar repeatedly attempted to intervene in the debate, but was prevented by speaker CP Joshi. Kataria clarified that he sought response from Gehlot on the issue, not from Dhariwal. Gehlot responded by rejecting the apprehension that by mere having a picture with any accused shouldn’t make the person co-accused. “Anyone can take pictures with anyone, it doesn’t mean we know them personally. The elected representatives shouldn’t indulge in allegations and counter-allegations on the basis of pictures,” said Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dhariwal-kataria-exchange-barbs-in-house/articleshow/80936541.cms||---
February 16, 2021||India||LAC row: China dismantles jetty, helipad on north bank of Pangong Tso||NEW DELHI: China has dismantled its makeshift jetty constructed at ‘Finger 5’ on the north bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, while it is also levelling a helipad as well as all fortifications and gun positions built last year, as part of the troop disengagement under way with India in the high-altitude area. The agreement inked by the two countries, under which the disengagement kicked off on February 10, specifies that all structures built in the ‘Finger’ area (mountainous spurs) by the two sides since last April will be removed and the “landforms restored” as the rival troops withdraw to their old positions. While People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops are withdrawing in batches to east of Finger 8 at Sirijap, Indian soldiers are pulling back westwards to their Dhan Singh Thapa post between Finger 2 and Finger 3. The PLA is also removing the 80-metre-long signage it had created with Mandarin symbols and maps between Finger 4 and Finger 5, which was designed to be visible from the air, to claim it as Chinese territory. After this phase-I disengagement is completed towards this weekend, the 10-km stretch between Finger 3 and Finger 8 will be designated a temporary ‘no-patrol area’ for the foreseeable future. A similar pullback of rival troops is taking place on the south bank of Pangong Tso Kailash range heights in the Chushul sector, from where tanks and other major weapon systems were withdrawn in the first couple of days. Both sides are verifying the withdrawal physically as well as through drones and satellites. The tenth round of corps commander-level talks will be held within 48 hours of the Pangong Tso disengagement being completed to focus on the strategically-located Depsang Plains as well as the continuing ‘friction points’ like Gogra-Hot Springs. Watch Ladakh standoff: ‘Disengagement at LAC slightly ahead of schedule on some positions’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-row-china-dismantles-jetty-helipad-on-north-bank-of-pangong-tso/articleshow/80948535.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Agri traders, farmers urge govt to reduce mandi tax||Jaipur: Agriculture produce trader associations in Rajasthan are urging the state government to reduce mandi tax in the coming Budget which is highest compared to the neighboring states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat.The traders are also demanding scrapping of the farmer welfare cess of 1% as it puts the farmers at a disadvantage. Buyers of agri commodities are paying farmers less because of the taxes they have to pay, said a representative of an agriculture organisation in the state.“Because of high mandi taxes, the rates of various agriculture products like sugar are higher in Rajasthan compared to other states. In addition, wherever possible, mainly in border areas, buyers and sellers are avoiding doing any transaction in Rajasthan because of the tax which results in the state losing tax revenue,” said Babulal Gupta, president of Rajasthan Khadya Padarth Samiti.He also drew attention to the farmer welfare cess levied on the transaction in the mandis. “I don’t think it is benefitting a lot of farmer as of now. But the cess is certainly hurting farmers. Even though buyers of agri products pay the tax, they reduce a similar amount from the rates they pay to the farmers. Ultimately, it is the farmers who are paying the tax indirectly,” said Gupta.Last year, Uttar Pradesh reduced mandi tax to 1% from 2%. With 0.5% development fee, traders pay a total of 1.5% mandi tax instead of the 2.5%. In Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, transactions in the mandis attract 0.5% tax, whereas in Rajasthan it is 1.60% on major agri commodities like wheat and cereals besides the farmer cess of 1%.Gupta said, “Agri products having larger volume are taxed at 1.60%. Including 1% cess, the tax rate comes to 2.60%. We are surrounded by states where the rates are lower. That’s why we need to bring down rates. Otherwise, not only we will lose taxes as people will buy from Rajasthan but our farmers will not get a better price for their produce.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/agri-traders-farmers-urge-govt-to-reduce-mandi-tax/articleshow/80936644.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Businessman Sachin Joshi got crores to clear hurdles in SRA project, says ED||MUMBAI: Businessman-actor Sachin Joshi of JMJ group (that manufactures Goa pan masala) was paid crores of rupees by builder Omkar Group for clearing hurdles pertaining to its slum redevelopment project at Wadala, Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials said. Joshi, who was arrested on Sunday, was on Monday remanded in custody till Thursday by a PMLA court. The remand plea submitted through special ED counsels Hiten Venegaonkar and Kavita Patil said with respect to funds received against various invoices raised by Joshi, it was seen that the purpose mentioned was facilitating settlement of non-eligible tenants and possession of constructed rehabilitation units, besides help in getting consent from society, slum-dwellers, committee members, brokerage toward land deal etc. Omkar Group promoters told ED they paid Joshi Rs 87 crore for evacuating and shifting slum-dwellers from Wadala. Joshi, however, said he received Rs 39 crore to become brand ambassador for their Wadala project. He further claimed to have received Rs 48 crore more from the group as investment in his company. No agreement was signed for both payments. ED said it was established that loans availed from Yes Bank have been diverted and that he had helped the realty firm’s promoters divert at least Rs 87 crore. “This reply of the accused is clearly devoid of any truth and thus evasive. Use of brand name or goodwill for settlement of non-eligible tenants appears to be very far-fetched in light of the fact that neither accused nor his companies had ever done any SRA-related work. Further, it was stated by him that actual work was done by persons of Omkar Group only. Thus for no actual work done or no actual services rendered, invoices were raised and funds diverted,” the ED said. Joshi’s lawyers Abad Ponda, Subodh Desai and Subhash Jadhav opposed the plea for remand and said he had no connection to this case. With respect to part of the funds received as investment, ED said, “No definitive agreement is entered into between Omkar Group and Viking Group (Joshi’s company).” On January 28, ED had arrested Omkar Group chairman Kamal Kishor Gupta and MD Babulal Varma in a Rs 410-crore money-laundering case connected with the SRA fraud case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bizman-got-crores-to-clear-hurdles-in-sra-project-ed/articleshow/80943129.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 16, 2021||Nashik||Fuel prices increase for 5th day in Nashik city||Nashik: The fuel prices in Nashik city continued to increase for the fifth consecutive day on Monday. The petrol prices increased by 25 paise to reach Rs 95.8/litre and diesel increased by 30 paise to settle at Rs 85.4 /litre on Monday. “There has been a continuous rise in fuel prices in the last two to three months. The prices of petrol and diesel have increased eight times between Feb 4 and 14,” said Vijay Thakare, vice-president of the Federation of All Maharashtra Petrol Dealers’ Association (FAMPEDA). The city has registered Rs 2.24/litre rise in petrol and Rs 2.61/litre rise in diesel prices in the last 10 days. The present prices of petrol and diesel are at an all-time high in the city. The previous all-time high of petrol and diesel were recorded at Rs 91.8/litre and Rs 79.3/litre respectively on October 4, 2018. According to the association, people are buying the same amount of petrol but the quantity they are getting has reduced. “Before the outbreak of Covid-19, I would spend around Rs 2,000 per month on fuel. Now, I am spending around Rs 2,500-2,700 on petrol. My monthly budget on fuel has increased but my salary has reduced by 30% due to the Covid-19 outbreak,” said Amol Kulkarni, a private company. “There has been a rise in rates for ploughing and other farming activities in the last six to seven months. The rise in diesel prices in the last few days has only made the farming activities costlier. This will lead to a rise in the production cost of agricultural produce,” said Kuber Jadhav, a farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fuel-prices-increase-for-5th-day-in-nashik-city/articleshow/80936628.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Ex-SC judge P B Sawant passes away||Pune: Former judge of the Supreme Court, Justice P B Sawant, passed away at his residence in Pune on Monday morning due to age related issues. He was 91. He did his law studies from Mumbai University and practised law in the Bombay high court and the Supreme Court on the civil and criminal sides, besides Constitutional, election, cooperation and a range of other matters. As a judge of the Supreme Court, he was associated with several landmark rulings. After his retirement, the state government in 2003 had appointed him as the one-man inquiry commission chief to go into the allegations of corruption levelled by anti-corruption crusader Anna Hazare against the then four ministers, Nawab Malik, Suresh Jain, Padamsinh Patil and V K Gavit, in the state cabinet. Sawant submitted his report in February 2005, indicting Malik, Jain and Patil of corruption and exonerating Gavit. The report had then led to the resignations of Malik and Jain. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-sc-judge-p-b-sawant-passes-away/articleshow/80945815.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Rural bus service scheme to be launched within a month: Minister||Jaipur: The state government will soon launch rural bus service scheme afresh in the state within a month, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas informed the assembly on Monday.During the Question Hour, the minister said that the Gramin Parivahan Seva Scheme, which was started during the Congress rule from 2008-2013, was discontinued after the BJP came to power. He said the government is serious about the scheme and the matter is now being discussed at chief minister’s level.Leader of Opposition, Gulabchand Kataria, said more than two years had passed since the Congress government came to power but there is only talk of “seriousness” and asked the minister when the scheme would finally take off. Kataria sought a time frame.Responding to the opposition leader’s question, the minister said the scheme would be announced within a month.He said he has written to all the legislators seeking their suggestions about the routes in their constituencies where the bus service should be started.“There are several routes where bus services are not available. I have sought suggestions from all MLAs about the rural routes and a comprehensive scheme is being prepared to enhance rural connectivity,” he said.Camel ConservationCongress member Amin Khan raised the issue of dwindling camel population and expressed concern that ever since camel was declared the state animal and restrictions imposed on the movement of the animal, herders have started abandoning the ‘ship of the desert’. He sought conservation of the animal and explore commercial viability of camel products like milk to encourage people to keep camels.Replying to a question, agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria said that camel was declared as the state animal in 2014 and a law was enacted for the prohibition and regulation of migration or export of the animal in 2015. He said that the population of camels has been dwindling since 1992.Kataria said plan of Rs 23.65 crore has been made for the camel conservation in the state in the next three years and sent to the Government of India. As soon as the approval is received, the work of conservation of camel will be done rapidly. Kataria said because of modern farming tools, the use of camels in farming has declined and it is true that herders are leaving camels to fend for themselves. The minister said there is a committee under his chairmanship and asked the members of the House to give suggestions for conservation of camels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rural-bus-service-scheme-to-be-launched-within-a-month-minister/articleshow/80936622.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Kolkata||State sees another round of IPS reshuffle||Kolkata: Monday witnessed another round of crucial transfers of IPS officers before the state assembly elections. Manoj Kumar Verma, who was posted as the IG of the CIF unit in Bengal Police, will be handling additional duty of additional commissioner of Kolkata Police. This is perhaps a rare instance when an IPS officer has been posted in both Kolkata Police as well as Bengal police. IG (armed police) Debasish Boral, too, has been transferred as additional CP of Kolkata Police. Boral had earlier served as joint CP (crime). Among the other transfers, Mehmood Akhtar will join Kolkata Police as joint CP (training). He was serving as DIG (CIF). Niladri Chakraborty, who was serving as a DIG in the West Bengal Fire Services, will join as joint CP (personnel) in Kolkata Police. Ajeet Singh Yadav, who was serving as SP in Bengal STF, has been transferred to CIF in the same rank. S Selvamurugan who was serving as an SS in CID will join fire services as an SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-sees-another-round-of-ips-reshuffle/articleshow/80936645.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Gram Panchayat poll vote to fetch incentives for 105 Gadchiroli villages||NAGPUR: In a bid to reward 105 villages in sensitive areas of Gadchiroli district, residents of which defied Naxal threat and participated in last month’s gram panchayat elections, Gadchiroli collector Dipak Singla has sent a proposal to the state government for granting special incentives to them. The proposal was sent to state home minister Anil Deshmukh, who had earlier suggested rewarding such villages for coming forward to cast vote in the Naxal stronghold. Deshmukh had earlier lauded the spontaneous response of the local population, along with the initiatives of the district administration and district police, for managing to conduct the polls in the cluster of seven villages under Jhaveli Khurd gram panchayat after 57 years of it’s formation in the remote Etapalli taluka, which was earlier known as the den of the Naxals. He had then stated that villages like Jhaveli Khurd must get incentive pay package for local development as reward for stepping out to vote and dismissing the Naxal threats. Deshmukh had underlined the fact that more than 80% turnout was witnessed at 920 booths, including 177 hyper-sensitive ones, in both the phases of the gram panchayat polls. Singla said list of the 105 villages from 12 talukas of the district was sent to the home minister to help the hamlets get funds for development. “The names of the villages where polling percentage was encouraging was sent to the HM. Many of these villages are in remote areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gp-poll-vote-to-fetch-incentives-for-105-gadchiroli-villages/articleshow/80936689.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Transport costs up, prices of all veggies see sharp increase in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Vegetable prices witnessed a sharp rise this week as fuel and transportation charges become dearer resulting in depletion of stocks in the city markets. As per records the agriculture marketing committee (AMC), Bowenpally vegetable market received 15,000 quintals fewer vegetables compared to the previous year. “From October to March local arrival accounted for 60 to 65% of the stock and the rest came from other states. The local arrival also dipped this week,” said L Shreenivas secretary, AMC , Bowenpally vegetable market. Several supermarkets and vendors said that they have purchased vegetables for a higher price this week. “Under contract farming, we are having an agreement with the farmers. The hike in fuel prices is affecting both the farmers and the consumers,” said marketing executive of a chain of supermarkets. Customers also said that authorities should come up with a mechanism to monitor the prices. “There should be a slab fixed by the government to ensure that the essential vegetables such as tomatoes, onions and potatoes are not sold for higher prices, the prices previous week were much less compared to this week,” said P Sarvepally from Road number 12, Banjara Hills. Meanwhile, the prices of edible oils too increased including for olive, sunflower, groundnut, soybean and palm oil. For instance, while the average price of sunflower oil stood at Rs 100 last week, it increased to Rs 150 this week. Similarly, the price of palm oil increased from Rs 90 last week to Rs 130 this week. “I visited Bowenpally market, Gudimalkapur market and Mehdipatnam Rythu Bazar too, but the prices were high. Finally, I brought only selected vegetables as I feared the stock would remain unsold,” said a vendor, who sets up vegetable stall in the weekly market located in Banjara Hills Road number 3. Customers too felt the pinch. Radhika Rao, who lives in Domalguda, said, “Shopping for exotic veggies is out of the question currently, just buying the basics is eating up my entire grocery budget.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/transport-costs-up-prices-of-all-veggies-see-sharp-increase-in-city/articleshow/80936649.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 8,791 beneficiaries get second dose of Covid vaccine||JAIPUR: To ramp up Covid inoculation drive, the state started giving the second jab to healthcare workers from Monday. The health workers were administered the first dose on January 16. According to a health department report, 8,791 healthcare workers received the second dose. The department is also administered first doses to 8,831 healthcare and frontline workers, who had been left out. The number of beneficiaries who received the first dose rose to 6,18,810. A health department official said that 17,622 beneficiaries received first dose and second dose but not a single case of adverse event following immunisation had been reported from any part of the state. Those who received the second dose, not a single beneficiary reported any side effect. In Jodhpur, 807 beneficiaries received the second dose, followed by Ajmer (705), Churu (501), Banswara (442), Bundi (425) and Bharatpur (394). In Jaipur, 142 beneficiaries received the second dose. It was the first day in the state when some beneficiaries got first dose while others got second jab simultaneously at the 228 vaccination sites. While the health department scaled up the vaccination drive, 82 persons tested positive in the state on Monday taking the overall tally to 3,19,005. The toll stood at 2,781 as no casualties were reported in the last 24 hours. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (18), Jaipur(15), Kota (12), Bhilwara (8), Banswara (8), Udaipur (5), Nagaur (4),Chittorgarh (2), Ajmer (2), Alwar (2), Bharatpur (1), Dungarpur (1),Sriganganagar (1), Jaisalmer (1), Jhalawar (1) and Rajsamand (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/8791-beneficiaries-get-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80960865.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: 8,791 beneficiaries get second dose of Covid vaccine||JAIPUR: To ramp up Covid inoculation drive, the state started giving the second jab to healthcare workers from Monday. The health workers were administered the first dose on January 16. According to a health department report, 8,791 healthcare workers received the second dose. The department is also administered first doses to 8,831 healthcare and frontline workers, who had been left out. The number of beneficiaries who received the first dose rose to 6,18,810. A health department official said that 17,622 beneficiaries received first dose and second dose but not a single case of adverse event following immunisation had been reported from any part of the state. Those who received the second dose, not a single beneficiary reported any side effect. In Jodhpur, 807 beneficiaries received the second dose, followed by Ajmer (705), Churu (501), Banswara (442), Bundi (425) and Bharatpur (394). In Jaipur, 142 beneficiaries received the second dose. It was the first day in the state when some beneficiaries got first dose while others got second jab simultaneously at the 228 vaccination sites. While the health department scaled up the vaccination drive, 82 persons tested positive in the state on Monday taking the overall tally to 3,19,005. The toll stood at 2,781 as no casualties were reported in the last 24 hours. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (18), Jaipur(15), Kota (12), Bhilwara (8), Banswara (8), Udaipur (5), Nagaur (4),Chittorgarh (2), Ajmer (2), Alwar (2), Bharatpur (1), Dungarpur (1),Sriganganagar (1), Jaisalmer (1), Jhalawar (1) and Rajsamand (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/8791-beneficiaries-get-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80960867.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 8,791 beneficiaries get second dose of Covid vaccine||JAIPUR: To ramp up Covid inoculation drive, the state started giving the second jab to healthcare workers from Monday. The health workers were administered the first dose on January 16. According to a health department report, 8,791 healthcare workers received the second dose. The department is also administered first doses to 8,831 healthcare and frontline workers, who had been left out. The number of beneficiaries who received the first dose rose to 6,18,810. A health department official said that 17,622 beneficiaries received first dose and second dose but not a single case of adverse event following immunisation had been reported from any part of the state. Those who received the second dose, not a single beneficiary reported any side effect. In Jodhpur, 807 beneficiaries received the second dose, followed by Ajmer (705), Churu (501), Banswara (442), Bundi (425) and Bharatpur (394). In Jaipur, 142 beneficiaries received the second dose. It was the first day in the state when some beneficiaries got first dose while others got second jab simultaneously at the 228 vaccination sites. While the health department scaled up the vaccination drive, 82 persons tested positive in the state on Monday taking the overall tally to 3,19,005. The toll stood at 2,781 as no casualties were reported in the last 24 hours. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (18), Jaipur(15), Kota (12), Bhilwara (8), Banswara (8), Udaipur (5), Nagaur (4),Chittorgarh (2), Ajmer (2), Alwar (2), Bharatpur (1), Dungarpur (1),Sriganganagar (1), Jaisalmer (1), Jhalawar (1) and Rajsamand (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/8791-beneficiaries-get-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80936646.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||CM directs officials to review development projects each fortnight||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday held a review of projects announced by him in the districts of Pithoragarh, Bageshwar and Champawat. To speed up pending works, the CM has directed the district magistrates of three districts to hold review meetings twice a month of the projects announced by him. The details of the meetings revealed that 98 projects out of the 152 works announced by the CM in Pithoragarh district have been completed. Also, 36 declarations of the CM — out of the total of 58 — have been completed. Besides, 53 out of the 88 projects of Champawat have been completed. The legislators of the three districts also provided their inputs for the ongoing development projects. “The projects need to be completed within the stipulated time span and at the same time the authorities have to ensure the quality of works. There is a need to review these projects twice a month,” the CM said. For proper coordination, the CM said that the authorities need to interact with the legislators and take their feedback and opinion. During the meeting, the CM laid thrust on ensuring proper facilities at tourist and religious destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-directs-officials-to-review-development-projects-each-fortnight/articleshow/80933100.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 16, 2021||Nashik||Beed’s Shantanu Muluk moves pre-arrest bail plea before HC||Aurangabad: Shantanu Muluk, an engineer from Beed against whom a non-bailable arrest warrant has been issued in the Toolkit document case, has moved a plea for transit anticipatory bail before the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court. When contacted, Muluk's lawyer Satej Jadhav told TOI, "The plea is expected to come up for an urgent hearing before the high court on Tuesday. We have primarily sought the transit pre-arrest bail on the grounds that our client be allowed to travel to Delhi and put up his case before the Delhi courts and safeguard his rights." According to information posted on the high court website, Muluk's application is in relation to offences under Sections 153-A (promoting enmity between groups) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Referring to apprehension about his arrest, Muluk (34) has stated, among other things, that the police raided one of his colleagues in Mumbai on February 11 and arrested another member of his group from Bengaluru on February 13 and took her to Delhi. Besides, a Delhi police team has been stationed in Beed, his native place, for the past three days and has seized various materials from his home. Jadhav said, "We have prayed to the HC for grant of a transit pre-arrest bail so that our client can travel to Delhi and put up his case before the Delhi courts. He deserves a rightful chance to preserve and safeguard his rights all the while performing his duties and putting the truth before the courts of law in Delhi."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/beeds-shantanu-muluk-moves-pre-arrest-bail-plea-before-hc/articleshow/80929669.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 16, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: 8,791 beneficiaries get second dose of Covid vaccine||JAIPUR: To ramp up Covid inoculation drive, the state started giving the second jab to healthcare workers from Monday. The health workers were administered the first dose on January 16. According to a health department report, 8,791 healthcare workers received the second dose. The department is also administered first doses to 8,831 healthcare and frontline workers, who had been left out. The number of beneficiaries who received the first dose rose to 6,18,810. A health department official said that 17,622 beneficiaries received first dose and second dose but not a single case of adverse event following immunisation had been reported from any part of the state. Those who received the second dose, not a single beneficiary reported any side effect. In Jodhpur, 807 beneficiaries received the second dose, followed by Ajmer (705), Churu (501), Banswara (442), Bundi (425) and Bharatpur (394). In Jaipur, 142 beneficiaries received the second dose. It was the first day in the state when some beneficiaries got first dose while others got second jab simultaneously at the 228 vaccination sites. While the health department scaled up the vaccination drive, 82 persons tested positive in the state on Monday taking the overall tally to 3,19,005. The toll stood at 2,781 as no casualties were reported in the last 24 hours. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (18), Jaipur(15), Kota (12), Bhilwara (8), Banswara (8), Udaipur (5), Nagaur (4),Chittorgarh (2), Ajmer (2), Alwar (2), Bharatpur (1), Dungarpur (1),Sriganganagar (1), Jaisalmer (1), Jhalawar (1) and Rajsamand (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/8791-beneficiaries-get-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80960866.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Prelims to be held online or pushed back as city schools yet to reopen||Mumbai: With the reopening of schools in the city still not in sight, pre-board exams for classes X and XII are either happening online or have been put on hold for the moment. Principals said they want clarity on the timeline to help prepare students for board examinations this year. Schools across the state resumed physical sessions for classes IX to XII in November and classes V to VIII in January. The local governing bodies in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), though, are yet to give a nod to reopening of schools. With Covid-19 cases in the city and the state on the rise for the past few days, reopening might be further delayed. The closure, though, has principals worried. CBSE and Maharashtra state board have scheduled exams for classes X and XII in April. “We had an online prelim examination but haven’t been able to conduct science practicals for our students and we are worried that we won’t be able to do it before the board exams begin,” said the principal of a CBSE school. Practical exams for CBSE’s Class XII students begin from March 1. The BMC in a circular issued on January 12 allowed schools to hold prelims or practicals if mandated by the educational boards. While no boards mandate it, a few schools in the city are calling students in small batches for the purpose. Some schools have also scheduled offline prelim exams in March and are collecting consent forms from parents. “We are keeping our schedule ready and the paperwork in order to hold the prelims as soon as the civic body allows us,” said another principal. School heads said students will have a disadvantage vis-à-vis their peers in other cities. “The students in Mumbai are lagging now. I think the government must at least allow classes X and XII in the classroom. If not all students, at least the ones who are academically challenged or have not been able to cope with online learning,” said Rohan Bhat, trustee of the Children’s Academy group of schools. Experts say there is a need for the government to also start planning HSC and SSC exams. “Since the state board caters to large numbers for exams, they should consider if students can appear in their own schools and if the numbers are still large, they could open up more exam centres similar to how the BMC had made makeshift Covid centres for isolation/treatment during the pandemic,” said Francis Joseph of School Leaders Network, an education NGO. Over 17 lakh and 13 lakh students appeared for SSC and HSC exams, respectively, last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/prelims-to-be-held-online-or-pushed-back-as-city-schools-yet-to-reopen/articleshow/80933096.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Milk prices in Hyderabad may go northwards||HYDERABAD: Rising fuel prices are having a cascading effect, with milk prices set to rise in the city. Nearly 20 lakh litres of milk are supplied every day through 10 major and 70 mini dairies, including government-owned Vijaya Dairy. Managements of dairies are facing financial stress as transportation costs are escalating. Now, Vijaya is selling toned milk for Rs 48 per litre and pure buffalo milk for Rs 62 per litre while private diaries are selling normal milk for Rs 56 and pure milk for Rs 80. “We have incurred huge losses due to the pandemic. Now with the rising fuel prices, the transportation costs have increased and we are left with no option but to increase the price of milk,” said the manager of a private dairy. Meanwhile, Vijaya Dairy general manager K Kamesh said, “The government hiked milk prices a year back. We procure milk through the process of tenders from all over the state. But before increasing the prices, a board consisting of senior IAS officers of the animal husbandry, finance, agriculture and cooperative societies will study the market situation”. Vijaya chairman L Buma Reddy said the sale of milk products, affected due to pandemic, is picking up now. “The annual turnover of the Vijaya Dairy is between Rs 700 and Rs 800 crore. Due to the pandemic, we lost around Rs 100 crore. Our target is to earn Rs 1,000 crore by next year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/milk-prices-in-city-may-go-northwards/articleshow/80936652.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 16, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Why governments must think about what we eat||CHENNAI: Providing legumes, fruits and vegetables through ration shops instead of just refined grains such as rice, wheat and other millets must be a part of the state health policy to reduce health complications and deaths, experts said. They recommend adding dairy products, preferably full fat milk, into the distribution channel. Ration shops supply rice and wheat free of cost, and offer small quantities of toor dal and urad dal at subsidised cost. Most people who depend on the public distribution system cannot afford eggs, vegetables and fruits. Multiple studies across the globe show carbohydrates, particularly refined, increase risks of non-communicable diseases. In 2020, Hyderabad-based National Institute of Nutrition in its report ‘What India Eats’ said most Indians eat carbohydrate-rich cereals in large quantities and less quantity of high-protein and micronutrient-rich food such as pulses, legumes, fruits, vegetables and meat. This puts them at the risk of lifestyle diseases. “Tamil Nadu is among the high incidence states for diabetes, hypertension, cardiac diseases and strokes. We are seeing an increase in diabetes in rural people including those in lower economic groups. Bringing changes to people’s plates must be the government’s priority,” said senior diabetologist Dr V Mohan. Most grains in the market are refined to increase shelf life. “Healthy whole grains such as wheat or brown rice are expensive,” said Sudha Vasudevan, head, department of foods, Madras Diabetes Research Foundation. “Once you break the whole grain, things change. The glycemic index — the relative ability of carbohydrates to increase the level of glucose in the blood — of flour is almost equal to polished white rice,” she said. Whole grains have their nutrients intact as they come with bran and germ, while refined grains are stripped off these. Prospective Urban and Rural Epidemiology study from 21 countries, published in the British Medical Journal in February, showed higher intake of refined grains was associated with higher mortality and heart disease risk. Refined grains are digested quickly, increase sugar levels and make one feel hungry again. It may not help if one changes to upma, idlis, dosas and other dishes made of millets sold in the market as most of them are polished, studies have shown. “Stuffing them with carrots, peas and greens with every meal can make a big difference,” said Meenakshi Bajaj, dietician with Government Multi-super Specialty Hospital, Omandurar. Fat too is necessary. “For long, we have shunned fat, thinking it is harmful. But research has shown two helpings of full fat dairy products a day may lower the risk of diabetes, hypertension and obesity,” said senior diabetologist Dr Anjana Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-governments-must-think-about-what-we-eat/articleshow/80936650.cms||Pushpa Narayan
February 16, 2021||Kolhapur||Follow Covid norms: Satara collector||Kolhapur: Satara district collector Shekhar Singh has cautioned the citizen of a marginal increase in the number of Covid cases during the past few days and appealed to the people to follow all the Covid norms. Singh, through a video message, said the district has witnessed a slight rise in Covid cases in the current month. “This is being seen in parts of Maharashtra. It may be due to casual attitude among some people,”he said. He appealed to people to wear masks to maintain social distancing and wash hands frequently. Meanwhile, Satara district reported 75 fresh cases since Sunday late night, taking the total number of cases to 57,547. As many as 54,738 patients have recovered, 1,839 patients have succumbed to Covid and 970 patients are undergoing treatment. 25 cases in Solapur city Solapur city recorded 25 new cases on Monday. The city has 12,049 Covid cases, including 647 deaths, 446 active cases and 10,956 recoveries. Solapur rural added 17 fresh cases and a 65-year-old man from Pandharpur taluka died due to Covid on Monday. Six of the 11 talukas in Solapur did not report any new case since Sunday late at night. The rural parts have 39,969 Covid cases, including 1,172 deaths, 243 active cases and 38,554 recoveries. Kolhapur adds 9 cases Kolhapur district reported nine fresh cases of Covid. and one death due to the infection on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 50,108. The death toll has now risen to 1,730. The district has 135 active patients. On Monday, 14 patients were discharged after recovering. With this, the number of recoveries rose to 48,243. Sangli reports 10 cases Sangli district reported 10 fresh cases and one patient from Kadegaon taluka succumbed to Covid. The district has 48,288 cases, including 1,754 deaths, 122 active cases and 46,412 recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/follow-covid-norms-satara-collector/articleshow/80929758.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Govt school teacher booked under POCSO Act for molesting minor||Dehradun: A Jwalapur-based state government school teacher has been booked under the POCSO Act for allegedly molesting one of his students sexually. The alleged crime took place on January 21 when the minor student had visited the accused’s residence to study Mathematics. Taking cognisance, the office of the additional director of secondary education (Garhwal) has ordered the chief education officer of Haridwar to conduct a probe in the matter. Meanwhile, the education department has suspended the teacher until further notice. The matter came to the fore after the boy’s family approached Jwalapur police station with the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-school-teacher-booked-under-pocso-act-for-molesting-minor/articleshow/80933144.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 16, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad still waiting for cost effective & green CNG||Aurangabad: Amid rising fuel prices, the option of compressed natural gas (CNG) — hailed as a cheaper and green fuel — continues to elude the residents of Aurangabad.Responding to the long-pending demand, the petroleum and natural gas regulatory board had granted an authorisation for the supply of CNG and PNG (piped natural gas) in Aurangabad district in September 2018. The things, however, could not move further at the official level in more than two years.Yogesh Dharashivkar, a private professional, said CNG could be considered as a viable alternative to traditional fuels. “The rising fuel prices are burning a hole in the vehicle owners’ pockets. The government should offer CNG supply to Aurangabad and ensure lower levels of air pollution in the city that has several heritage sites,” he said.Nisar Ahmed Khan, the leader of autorickshaw drivers’ union, said CNG should be made available in tier II and III cities in the public interest. “CNG has a wide range of benefits for the consumers as well as the environment. Aurangabad is still deprived of this clean and green fuel due to lack of political will,” he said.As per official data, Aurangabad has over 13 lakh registered motorised vehicles.Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad, who is following up on the demand for CNG supply in Aurangabad, said the city is likely to get the desired fuel supply in the next few months. “Aurangabad has been shortlisted for the supply of green and clean energy by the Centre. The oil firms concerned have carried out the necessary surveys and the actual supply of CNG and PNG is expected to start in the near future,” he said.While CNG was priced at around Rs 55.50 per kg in metro cities in Maharashtra, offering a mileage either equivalent or more compared to traditional fuel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-still-waiting-for-cost-effective-green-cng/articleshow/80936658.cms||Prasad Joshi
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Online mode turned off, turnout improves in class||HYDERABAD: With private budget schools discontinuing online classes completely for class 9 and class 10 students, the attendance percentage is said to have increased in these schools on Monday. While 45% to 50% of class 9 students attended physical classes in the last two weeks, the managements said that on Monday about 70% attended classes. When it comes to class 10, 90% of students are said to have attended offline classes in private budget schools. “We informed parents and students well in advance that we will be discontinuing online classes from Monday. Parents reacted positively and many gave their consent to send their children to schools,” said Y Shekhar Rao, president, Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association (TRSMA). He said that majority of those in hostels also returned to campus in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the state on Monday as they did not want to miss any classes. While managements cited lack of an alternative to physical classes as a reason for more students returning to schools, parents said that no Covid-19 positive cases from schools in the past two weeks have given them the courage. “Even now I am a little scared, but convinced myself to send my daughter to school from today,” said J Ravi, a parent of a class 10 student. He said that while attending online classes, there are many distractions. Another parent, E Srinivas, who sent his daughter to a hostel on Monday, said that it would have been better if schools continued with online classes as well. “Definitely there is no replacement for physical classes, but schools should have left it to the parents to decide instead of discontinuing online classes. In a way, this move is good as it forced parent like me, who is unable to decide whether or not to send his child to school, to make a decision,” said Srinivas, whose daughter Lasya Sri is in class 10. An official at the department of school education (DSE), meanwhile, said that schools have no right to make it compulsory for students to attend physical classes. “Parents need not get cornered. They always have an option of falling back on digital classes being telecasted by the state,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-mode-turned-off-turnout-improves-in-class/articleshow/80936679.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||I-T dept raids find Rs 1,500cr unaccounted transactions||Mumbai: Income Tax (I-T) department in a countrywide search on the premises of JMJ group (that manufactures Goa pan masala) seized Rs 13 lakh, Rs 7 crore worth jewellery and found unaccounted transactions worth Rs 1,500 crore and suspicious fund diversion. A press note issued by the I-T department stated the search and seizure action has led to detection of foreign assets lying with a company registered in tax haven British Virgin Islands (BVI) with an office in Dubai and controlled and managed by chairman of the group. Sources stated Sachin Joshi controls the BVI companies. I-T officials stated the net worth of the BVI company is Rs 830 crore, created by siphoning off funds from India. They further added these funds had been round tripped to India in the form of share premium of Rs 638 crore in the flagship companies of JMJ group. An employee of the JMJ group, who was also a shareholder in the BVI company, was cross-examined in the presence of Joshi. The employee told officials he was not aware about being a shareholder in the company and had signed papers on the instructions of Joshi. I-T officials also found the group had availed Rs 398 crore bogus income tax deductions with the help of their two firms in Himachal Pradesh. They also claimed Rs 63 crore false tax deductions in their unit’s name in Gandhidham. Officials also found that the JMJ group produced pan masala worth Rs 247 crore without showing it in their record. The department also put prohibitory orders on the operation of 16 bank lockers and 11 premises belonging to JMJ group and the Joshi family. I-T officials claim to have recovered digital evidence. VijayV Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/i-t-dept-raids-find-rs-1500cr-unaccounted-transactions/articleshow/80943294.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur paediatrician develops models of heart-lung functions for medical students||NAGPUR: City paediatrician Dr Satish Deopujari has developed seven models so medical science teachers can explain cardio-respiratory and arterial blood gas (ABG) functions in a simple way to undergraduate and postgraduate medical students. ABG is the balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide in blood, which is measured to see how lungs are working. The simulation models mimic the functions of a pumping heart and breathing lungs, beside other concepts of physiology of the vital organs. The models were unveiled at a modest ceremony at Deopujari’s Clinic in Dhantoli on Monday. Dr Deopujari announced that the models would be donated free of cost to five AIIMSs, including Nagpur’s, and 10 GMCs of the state. The simulators show the physiology of a working ventilator, oxygen movement from lungs to blood, oxygen transport in blood, level of oxygen necessary for body and how it is used, how the heart works with lungs to supply oxygen and functions of the heart. Dr Deopujari said, “These are 100% made in Nagpur costing at most Rs 1 lakh. The gadgets simplify the complexities of machines used in intensive and critical care areas. Before students see the actual ABG and ventilators, it is necessary they have a fair understanding of their functions.” While the ventilator simulators are mainly for teaching, those for ABG can be put to use in actual hospital settings too. Dr Deopujari, who is also adjunct professor of mechanical engineering at VNIT, said these models are based on the concept of ‘Know, operate and build’. “First comes knowledge about them, followed by learning to operate, and then they can build on them or improvise,” he said. Talking about the purpose behind the innovation, Dr Deopujari said during Covid a lot of fresh doctors had to be drafted into service. “If an intern knows it before hand, it helps in emergencies like Covid,” he said. Well known cardiologists, pulmonologists and laparoscopic specialists, who were invited to see the models, said these were one of their kind and the gadgets would help students understand the body functions better. Dr Aziz Khan said they will improve understanding of the concepts of physiology better. “With this simulation, even a nurse can calculate ABG,” he said. Laparoscopic surgeon Dr Subodh Gupta said when you can visualize basic concepts, they are clearer. “One tends to be a better clinician,” he said. Pulmonologist Dr Ravindra Sarnaik said so far teachers had to rely on internet to get images, but these models will solve that problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-paediatrician-develops-models-of-heart-lung-functions-for-med-students/articleshow/80936701.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 16, 2021||Kolhapur||Poor response to second vax jab, some decide to voluntarily delay||Nashik/ Aurangabad/ Kolhapur: Very few healthcare workers turned up at the vaccination centres on Monday to receive their second jab of the Covid vaccine, leaving authorities wondering about the reason for the poor response. The state government started administering the second dose of the vaccine from Monday to the healthcare workers, who had received the first jab on January 16. Three districts of Nashik division witnessed only 485 healthcare workers taking their second dose of vaccine, against 1,453 beneficiaries who had taken first dose on January 16. Till late in the night, the reports for only Nashik, Nandurbar and Jalgaon districts for the second dose vaccination were received. In Nashik district, 162 out of 745, 165 of 265 in Nandurbar and 158 of the 443 in Jalgaon got the second dose on Monday. Among those who received the second dose were Milind Satish Pawar, a sanitation worker in Nashik civil hospital. “I received the second dose today and I am perfectly fine,”said Pawar. ENT surgeon Sanjay Gangurde from the same hospital also got the second dose on Monday. He did not have any complaints after taking the vaccine and resumed duty for the rest of the day. Dr P B Gandal, the Nashik deputy health director, said that he was yet to receive the information across the division and would check about the feedback from the officials regarding poor response to the second dose. Just 8% of the beneficiaries took the second dose in Kolhapur as 43 out of 567 healthcare workers turned up on Monday. Highest (18) beneficiaries turned up at Seva Hospital in Kolhapur city. Second dose vaccination was planned at 11 centres in the district but beneficiaries did not turn up at six centres. District health officer Yogesh Sale said, “We are finding the reason for less turnout for second dose of Covid vaccination. Those who have taken first dose have to get the second dose to get appropriate immunity level against the virus. So far, around 23,000 beneficiaries have taken their first dose in the district.” There were some senior doctors who decided to voluntarily postpone the second jab. Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital’s cardiologist Akshay Bafna is among them. Bafna said that after reading a research article in Lancet magazine, he decided to check for antibodies. “On Friday, the test showed that there are sufficient antibodies in my body and even if I get infected, it will be of very mild,” he said. Along with him, doctor Girish Kamble of CPR Hospital had also decided to postpone the second jab, said Bafna. In Aurangabad, about 190 healthcare workers received the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine on day one without any major glitches in the laid down procedure, said Neeta Padalkar, health officer with Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). Along with this, 45 healthcare workers took the second dose in the rural areas of Aurangabad district. District health officer Sudhakar Shelke said the target beneficiaries must take the first and second dose of Covid vaccine within stipulated time frame.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/poor-response-to-second-vax-jab-some-decide-to-voluntarily-delay/articleshow/80929713.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nashik||Abduction case: Vigilance enhanced at civil hospital||Nashik: Two days after a toddler was abducted from Nashik civil hospital, the authorities have decided to strictly monitor the movement of relatives of patients admitted there. The one-and-a-half year old girl was abducted from the hospital when her mother, who was accompanying her pregnant sister, made the child sleep on a bench outside the labour room. Kishor Srivas, additional civil surgeon, said “There area a total of 45 security guards at the civil hospital. We also issue passes to the relatives of the patients if they want to enter the hospital premises to visit their relatives or friends.” Ratna Raokhande, civil surgeon of the hospital, said, “The security is already strict and we have instructed the guards to be more vigilant during the visiting hours of the relatives.” The civil surgeon said that till August there were around 400 maternal deliveries in the hospital. However, post-August the number of maternal deliveries have increased to around 650 per month following which there is a huge rush of patients and relatives at the hospital. Meanwhile, police are still struggling to get any leads regarding the identity of the suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/abduction-case-vigilance-enhanced-at-civil-hospital/articleshow/80936672.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 16, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 302 complaints on J Jayalalithaa’s death sent to probe panel||CHENNAI: The Teynampet police station has transferred 302 complaints it received pertaining to the death of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa to the Justice (retired) A Arumughaswamy commission. These complaints were filed by the general public. The commission was constituted in 2017 to probe the circumstances surrounding Jayalalithaa’s death on December 5, 2016. It functions out of its office in Kalas Mahal in Chepauk. Though the complaints were received in the commission’s office on December 20, 2017, the commission sent an acknowledgement letter to the police station on Monday. This was after another such letter was received from the police station last week, documents show. According to sources, the police had requested the commission for a proof that they had forwarded the complaints. Also, a criminal petition filed before the Madras high court by AIADMK member Selva Vinayagam, which was ordered to be probed by the commission, was sent to the commission by the police station. The complaints make several allegations against ministers and close aides of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. Deputy chief minister O Pannerselvam is yet to appear before the commission, while health minister C Vijayabaskar has appeared before it. The commission’s tenure was extended by another six months on January 22. Its proceedings are currently stayed by the Supreme Court after a case was filed by Apollo Hospital before the apex court on the constitution of a medical board to probe the allegations of medical negligence in Jayalalithaa’s death. The state government’s counsel has made efforts to get the stay vacated after the commission wrote to the government stating its unhappiness over the latter’s inactivity, which had led to the commission’s functioning being stalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/302-complaints-on-jayalalithaas-death-sent-to-probe-panel/articleshow/80936673.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Trichy||Trichy: Pick up your stationery at this ‘honesty shop’||TRICHY: Aimed at creating good and honest citizens, a city arts and science college has started an ‘honesty shop’ on its premises on Monday, where students can pick stationery items on their own and drop the money in a cash box with no one to monitor. The shop was started by the Junior Chamber International (JCI) Rocktown in NCT college. JCI coordinator for the college S Prasanna Devi who is an assistant professor from Hindi department said that the shop will have basic stationery material, like pens, pencils and notebooks. “Students who are in need of stationery can come and take the required numbers. The price will be mentioned in front of the material,” she said. She said that they wanted to show the students that they trust them. The message has reached the students and they have reciprocated positively by showing their honesty. “This will become a habit for students when they step out of the college,” she said. “It always feels good when you are trusted. Such initiative creates a positive environment inside the campus. The staffs gave an opportunity to show our honesty and we believe that it is our duty to reciprocate,” said S Vandana, a final year undergraduate student from the college. R Sundararaman, NCT principal said that he came across instances where the students handed over belongings of other students who missed their wallet and other valuables in the college campus. I could hand over the belongings to the respective students by making announcement through the public-address system. When JCI came with the proposal to start honesty shop I readily accepted it as it would inculcate good qualities among students. It will also build mutual trust among staffs and students creating a positive environment in the college, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pick-up-your-stationery-at-this-honesty-shop/articleshow/80940274.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||90% private teachers in Hyderabad sold gold for survival||HYDERABAD: Ninety percent of the female teachers have sold their gold ornaments or mortgaged them to survive the lockdown and 83% of the teachers have to clear five months of rent revealed a survey. The survey, conducted by Bharat Dekho, a youth organization had recorded the responses of 220 budget private school teachers. It was also revealed that none of these teachers have medical insurance and are not even aware of its benefits. “The survey was conducted to understand the mental, physical and financial impact of the lockdown on them and the effect of unemployment on their social standing in their community,” said Romila Gillella, co-founder, Bharat Dekho. Apart from pledging their valuables and falling behind on paying bills, the survey pointed out that 90% of respondents have taken more than Rs 30,000 as a loan from relatives during the lockdown. All the respondents exhausted their savings during the lockdown. Teachers working in private budget schools in the city seconded with the survey and said that many of them had to sell their vehicles, gold, and other belongings or take loans to run their households during the lockdown. “I had to borrow Rs 40,000 against my wife’s gold chain during the lockdown to survive,” said G Chandrasekhar Rao, who has been working as a high school Telugu teacher for the past 20 years, adding that since April 2020, the management has not paid a salary. Another teacher, R Ramu Naik said that he sold his bike in the lockdown to meet daily expenses. “Owing to my financial constraints, I had to sell my bike and move back to my village. I couldn’t even clear my rent dues,” said Naik, a maths teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/90-pvt-teachers-sold-gold-for-survival/articleshow/80936692.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 16, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Cops dump seized vehicles on T Nagar footpath||CHENNAI: The Pondy Bazaar police’s traffic investigation wing has dumped vehicles seized in accident cases on a pavement and encroached the parking lot opposite Panagal Park in T Nagar. Damaged vehicles have been dumped in a heap and those intact are parked outside the police station on parking space meant for public use. The commissioner of police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal has instructed officers to keep police station premises clean. He has asked deputy commissioners to visit each police station once a month for inspection. Even then, confiscated vehicles and damaged barricades have been dumped outside inconveniencing the public. “I used to visit Panagal Park for my evening walks. I stopped using the pavement in front of a cafeteria on GN Chetty Road because of the dumped vehicles,” said Sri Ram, a data analyst. A security guard at a hotel on GN Chetty Road said he found the mess on the footpath convenient. “I park my bicycle amid the mangled vehicles dumped on the platform. It doesn’t have a lock but it is safe and no one touches it even late in the night,” he said. A Greater Chennai Corporation official said the civic body had removed vehicles dumped on the road side while laying the pavement. “We didn’t receive any specific complaint now. We will look into the issue and resolve it,” the official said. The traffic investigation wing police have sought the court’s permission to dispose of vehicles whose cases have been finalized, said an officer. “Once we get the order, we will assign an officer to dispose of the vehicles.” Police sources said they also plan to approach the original owner of the abandoned vehicles and return them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-dump-seized-vehicles-on-t-nagar-footpath/articleshow/80936739.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Kochi||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan launches phase-one of K-FON project||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on Monday, claimed that the state will be able to pivot on K-FON project to achieve the ambitious distinction of being an IT hub and a knowledge society. Launching the first phase of the project, Vijayan predicted that K-FON would soon become the largest internet network in Kerala. A fibre optical network stretching 35,000km is being laid as part of the K-FON project that is a joint venture between KSEB and KSITIL. The project will provide internet connectivity with a speed ranging from 10MBPS to 1GBPS. Around 30,000 government offices and schools would thus get high-speed internet connectivity. “India is one the countries with the biggest digital divide. K-FON is an attempt to bridge that divide in Kerala. This would help the roll out of more internet-enabled services in state,” he said. Also, e-health, e-education and other services will get better bandwidth and the network will also help to modernise traffic management. Installation of HD surveillance cameras will be another major result of the project, he said. Vijayan claimed that K-FON project unfolds with total transparency as all details of project implementation was available on project website. Around 1,000 government offices in seven districts will get high-speed internet connection in phase-I of the project. “Only less than 10% of government offices are currently connected to the state network. Once K-FON starts operations fully, this situation will improve. Offices and households will get better connectivity at an affordable price,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-launches-phase-one-of-k-fon-project/articleshow/80933151.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Burglar nabbed, Rs 10L worth gold, silver seized||Hyderabad: A notorious burglar was arrested and KPHB police recovered Rs 10 lakh worth stolen property from his possession on Monday. The accused, Mohammed Ibrahim Siddiqui, 58, is from Yellareddyguda in Ameerpet. According to Madhapur DCP M Venkateshwarulu, Ibrahim has been involved in 87 burglaries committed in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Sangareddy and Nellore in Andhra Pradesh. Earlier, Ibrahim was detained under the PD Act by Sanjeeva Reddy Nagar police in September 2018. During the past one year, the accused had committed 12 burglaries in KPHB Colony, Chandanagar and Patancheru areas. Police arrested the accused near Sharada cinema hall in Ameerpet on Monday and recovered 19 tola gold and 95 tola silver, all worth Rs 10.2 lakh from his possession. “Ibrahim identifies the locked houses and breaks the locks using an iron rod to steal valuables from the house. He sells the stolen property to lead a lavish life,” the DCP said.  The accused along with the recovered property was produced before court and sent in judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-nabbed-rs-10l-worth-gold-silver-seized/articleshow/80936746.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nashik||Passing out parade of 302 gunner recruits takes place at Artillery Centre||Nashik: The passing out-cum-attestation parade of 302 gunner recruits took place at the Artillery Centre, Nashik Road Camp on Saturday.The smart turns of the gunners and precise marching movements earned them praise and applause from the audience. The passing out parade was the end of training of the gunner recruits at the Artillery Centre, Nashik Road Camp, which is India’s largest training centre. The Artillery Centre has been instrumental in ensuring well-trained and motivated recruits for artillery regiments deployed in various operations and terrain. The rigorous recruit training of 42 weeks, includes 19 weeks of basic military training followed by 19 weeks of specialized training. This task is being executed relentlessly by the training centre even with the Covid situation. Brigadier J S Goraya, the commandant of Artillery Centre, Nashik, appreciated the high standards exhibited by the recruits and exhorted them to uphold the rich traditions and professionalism of the Indian Army. The commandant presented trophies to recruits excelling in various fields of training in their respective trades.Recruit Sankathali Gopinadh was adjudged as the ‘Overall Best Recruit’. On completion of the attestation parade, the recruits were presented with Gaurav Padak as an appreciation to their parents for committing their wards in the service of the nation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/passing-out-parade-of-302-gunner-recruits-takes-place-at-artillery-centre/articleshow/80929790.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nashik||Nashik-151 festival to start on May 1||Nashik: The year-long celebration Nashik-151 — to celebrate 151 years of the district’s formation — will begin on May 1, and the details of programmes will be announced soon. The announcement was made during a meeting chaired by district collector Suraj Mandhare on Monday in the collectorate. “Various programmes will be scheduled for which a central team and some other teams will be formed,” said Mandhare. A large number of people from all fields like arts, culture, the hospitality industry etc. attended the meeting organised by the collector to receive suggestions. The festival will also focus on creating better infrastructure for the district. The collector said a central committee for Nashik-151 will be formed and it will be chaired by district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal. There will also be several committees on arts and culture, literature, sports and various other fields, which will work on the guidelines to make the event memorable. The collector said the Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan will have a time slot for Nashik-151 on March 27 — the second day of the three-day event — when the time table for the events to be organized during the year will be announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-151-festival-to-start-on-may-1/articleshow/80929872.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Trichy||More candidates sit for BDU PhD entrance test||Trichy: There was threefold increase in the number of candidates compared to the last time, who appeared for online PhD qualifying examination for admission to PhD programmes in Bharathidasan University (BDU). The examination is conducted twice a year to admit students to PhD programmes across 39 disciplines in the university. “A total 2,929 candidates appeared for the proctored online examination conducted by the university on Sunday against 874 last time. About 93% candidates out of 3,158, who had registered, appeared for the examination,” said S Srinivasaragavan, controller of examination in-charge of BDU. The overwhelming number this time was attributed to the revised norms introduced recently by BDU making PhD qualifying examination mandatory for M Phil degree holders and candidates working in the sponsored research projects. “Besides them, candidates, who had qualified any national-level test like UGC-CISR/ national eligibility test (NET), state eligibility test (SET) or graduate aptitude test in engineering (GATE) are given exception for only five years. Therefore, those who had cleared these tests over five years ago also took the PhD qualifying test,” said senior officials from BDU. The examination was conducted by hiring a private firm for technology support. Candidates were monitored through web camera of their device giving little room for any irregularity. Artificial intelligence was used to detect and record face emotions, pupil movement and other activities of the candidates during the examination. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-candidates-sit-for-bdu-phd-entrance-test/articleshow/80940341.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||MoD directs Cantt Boards to finalise electoral rolls||Secunderabad: The ministry of defence (MoD) has directed the Cantonment Boards to resume the process of finalisation of electoral rolls which was stopped due to the Covid-19 pandemic about eight months back. With this move, speculation is rife that the Centre is keen on conducting elections in the 56 Cantonments in the next few months. The MoD in its orders said that the final draft of the electoral rolls should be published by April 30, 2021. The ministry also said that the Cantonment Boards must follow all Covid-19 related protocols and guidelines while undertaking this electoral exercise. However, the election wing of the SCB had completed the finalisation of electoral rolls in all the eight civilian wards and was about to publish final draft before the pandemic restrictions were imposed. “We had completed the process last year itself. But now we will conduct a survey again before publishing the final list,” said a senior SCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mod-directs-cantt-boards-to-finalise-electoral-rolls/articleshow/80936799.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Many AIADMK ministers will end up in jail, says M K Stalin||TRICHY/ARIYALUR: The AIADMK was lying to people on its poll promises made during 2011 and 2016 assembly elections, said DMK leader M K Stalin in Pudukottai district on Monday. Stalin also alleged that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was committing irregularities in floating tenders for big projects. He addressed the party’s ‘Ungal Ooril Stalin’ campaign at Thirumayam in Pudukottai and Kollapuram near Ariyalur. He said the last 10-year rule of the AIADMK had pushed back the state by 50 years and the DMK would reverse it and set the state on a growth trajectory, if elected to power. Recalling the AIADMK’s election manifesto for 2011 assembly polls, he said it made a series of promises to farmers from starting a second green revolution, increasing farmers’ income by two to three fold, free agriculture equipment, minimum support price for crops such as sugarcane and setting up drip irrigation free of cost. But the promises were not fulfilled. Similarly, its promises in 2016 such as supply of free cell phones to ration card holders, waiver of education loans, free Wi-Fi at public places, Amma bank cards and one litre of milk at Rs 25 were not implemented. Stalin said the first six years of the AIADMK rule in the state went in handling the disproportionate assets case against former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. Then, the incumbent chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami spent the next four years to retain his post. “They have no time to think about people but claim that Tamil Nadu is progressing. The progress is only for the state ministers who indulge in corruption,” he said. Many of the ruling party ministers would be put behind bars on corruption charges if the DMK was voted to power, he said. Claiming that health minister C Vijaya Baskar hid the data of Covid-19 infected people and deaths in the state, Stalin accused him of mismanaging the fight against the pandemic by not taking early steps to contain the spread of the virus, leading to many deaths. At the campaign for the four assembly segments in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts at Kollapuram, he alleged that the chief minister was floating tenders in a hurry for projects that would take three to four years to finish. Stalin claimed that the CM was aware that he would not be holding the CM’s post in future. Stalin also alleged irregularities in floating a tender for Rs 3,384 crore for the maintenance of the Cauvery irrigation system in Thanjavur and Nagapattinam districts. “To float tenders for projects costing more than Rs 1 crore, a committee comprising engineer-in-chief of the PWD and finance secretary should decide. But the government modified the practice and floated a tender on January 31. This government is brazen in committing irregularities,” Stalin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-lied-to-people-on-poll-promises/articleshow/80940407.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar mum on removal of ‘drought cess’||AURANGABAD: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday refused to comment on whether the state government would do away with the ‘drought cess’ levied on petrol against the backdrop of rising fuel prices. “Wait till the presentation of the annual state budget on March 8. I cannot comment anything as of now,” he said maintaining that the government needed funds for the development works. In October 2015, the state government had declared a drought cess of Rs 2 per litre on petrol to mitigate the situation arising out of the then deficient-run of monsoon. A section of stakeholders has been demanding slashing the cess given that the region has had a fair share of rainfall during monsoon in the last few years. Addressing media persons here, Pawar said the state government has been reeling under a financial deficit of Rs 1 lakh crore due to outbreak of Covid 19. “It will be premature to comment on the proposed tax regime before the annual budget is presented. If I declare what will be in the offing right now, it will be a breach of privilege,” he said. To a query on whether the state would opt for a loan to overcome the financial crisis, Pawar said every state has a right to explore such measures before the annual budget. Referring to the Covid-19 situation in the state, Pawar said guidelines would be framed soon for organising political events amid the current pandemic. “A large number of people congregate for the different events organised by the different political parties. The political leaders are reaching out to the masses after a long period. Therefore, it is not surprising to see huge turnout at different events,” he said. Pawar said he would meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to decide a set of guidelines for holding political events in order to ensure compliance with Covid preventionn orms. The deputy chief minister, who held an annual review meeting for the eight districts in Aurangabad division, said the water issued faced by Marathwada would be discussed in the state cabinet in the near future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/deputy-cm-pawar-mum-on-removal-of-drought-cess/articleshow/80936756.cms||Prasad Joshi
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Muslim group sets up legal cell to fight blasphemous posts||Mumbai: A group of Muslims in the city has decided to fight provocative and blasphemous posts, videos and cartoons through the legal route. Instead of hitting the streets and adopting a confrontational approach, they will counsel youths not to get violent and find remedies within the Constitutional framework. Floating a legal cell under Tahaffuz Namoos-e-Risalat Board (Protection of the Honour of the Prophet Board), the group held its first meeting at Islam Gymkhana on Saturday and decided to counter blasphemous and provocative posts and videos in a peaceful and democratic manner. “It has often been seen that Muslim youths get agitated over blasphemous and provocative posts and hit the streets and clash with the police. This results in arson, rioting and then arrests and harassment. Now we have decided that, whenever such a situation arises, the matter will be handed over to the legal cell to file cases against the individuals or organisations involved in such activities,” said senior cleric, peacenik and spiritual leader Maulana Moin Ashraf Quadri (Moin Mian) who is leading the board. He added the events in Bengaluru some months ago only showed the situation could go out of control if the youth are not guided properly on how to respond to provocative posts and photographs. He also said sentiments of no religion should be hurt and even Sharjeel Usmani should not have said what he said about Hindus at the Elgar Parishad meet in Pune last month. A section of youths gets agitated over allegedly blasphemous and provocative posts on social media and hits the roads and this initiative is aimed at stopping them from taking the law into their own hands while condemning alleged blasphemy. Advocate Yusuf Abrahni, president of Islam Gymkhana, said the best course for the aggrieved party is to approach the courts. “Confrontation will not lead us anywhere and it will only make matters worse. The legal cell will be strengthened and people will be directed to approach it if any blasphemous or provocative posts or videos and cartoons are noticed on social media,” said Abrahni. Saeed Noorie, general secretary of Raza Academy, said such a board and legal cells were long needed and will work to prevent clashes and maintain peace and harmony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/muslim-group-sets-up-legal-cell-to-fight-blasphemous-posts/articleshow/80934372.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
February 16, 2021||Kochi||Online gambling and betting: Kerala high court tells state govt to decide on law||KOCHI: The high court has asked the state government to decide on including online gambling and online betting under the purview of Kerala Gaming Act, 1960. A bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly issued the directive on February 10 after considering a petition filed by Pauly Vadakkan. The court has directed the government to decide within two weeks on including online gambling and betting under the law that bans gambling and betting. The court’s directive was after the state government informed that the state police chief has submitted a proposal to bring online betting under the Kerala Gaming Act and that the government is considering the proposal now. Alleging that online gambling and betting is a growing menace, the petitioner had contended that it targets the middle and low-income groups who are enticed with the promise of easy money. Suicide of a youth after losing money to online betting was also highlighted by the petitioner. High courts of Madras and Gujarat have passed orders against online gambling and governments of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, and Odisha have introduced laws against it, the court was told.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-tells-govt-to-decide-on-law/articleshow/80933208.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Cop dogs to now sniff, alert sans bark||Hyderabad: As sound-triggered bombs are a threat to sniffer dogs during anti-sabotage operations, the Telangana police have now trained these dogs to identify explosives and then confirm their presence to handlers without barking. Officials in Telangana police said that dogs including Labradors, German Shepards, Golden retrievers, Belgian Malinois and Cocker-spaniels were trained to sniff out explosives using this new technique. On Tuesday, a fresh batch of 50 such dogs, from Telangana and Bihar, that were trained for eight months will be part of the passing out parade of 20th batch of Canine and Canine handlers course. They were trained at the Integrated Intelligence Training Academy (IITA) in Moinabad. Since the inception of the institute in 2004, 669 dogs have been trained. The dogs which are trained for Organisation for Counter Terrorist Operations (OCTOPUS), which is an anti-terror commando unit, will have both assault and sniffer dogs. Till last year, the sniffer dogs used to identify the explosives and bark to confirm their presence to handlers. But Intelligence officials felt the need to upgrade the training of the new batch of dogs to handle bombs, which explode due to sound. The newly-trained dogs will just sit near the explosives about making any sound, to confirm their presence. Officials said that this will be useful while dealing with terrorists and working in Naxal-affected areas. The 27 dogs to be used by Bihar police were trained with a specific requirement to identify alcohol and drugs. Alcohol is prohibited in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-dogs-to-now-sniff-alert-sans-bark/articleshow/80936857.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad cops plan smart city hackathon||Aurangabad: In an attempt to provide smart solutions for the day-to-day problems within the police department and to ensure smooth and effective service delivery to the public, the Aurangabad city police have decided to hold a smart city hackathon inviting talents, especially from the engineering colleges. Aurangabad police commissioner Nikhil Gupta said: “We are looking for innovations as well as technology in the areas that have a direct impact on the police and the public. The top three impressive ideas, technologies or innovations will be given cash rewards of Rs 50,000, Rs 25,000 and Rs 20,000, respectively.” Gupta said the evaluation criteria include novelty of the idea, clarity, details in the prescribed format, feasibility, practical application, the scale of impact, user experience and potential for future work Authorities said the project has been titled ‘Idea Generation Project’, for which the city police are looking for smart solutions in the areas of traffic control management, database management and its use in CCTV footage data, handling of law and order situations, prediction of crime, monitoring and management of police vehicles, identification of criminals and police office task automation. Participants are open to choose any of the mentioned areas to provide solutions. They may even propose other technology-based solutions that would eventually, ensure effective day-to-day policing. Authorities have uploaded the pdf of the template on the city police website so that interested applicants can fill up the forms in the prescribed format. A five-slide PPT mentioning the idea, execution and the end result should be there. City police expect every team to have at least two members and maximum of four members, in addition to a mentor, who could be academicians, industrialists or even police personnel. The last date for registration is February 25, while last date for submission is March 3, said a senior officer. Following the knock-out rounds, a grand finale of the shortlisted submissions would be held on March 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-cops-plan-smart-city-hackathon/articleshow/80936833.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 16, 2021||Nashik||Action against those not using masks||Nashik: Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav on Monday directed the health department to step up action against those violating Covid-19 safety protocols in public places. The directives come in the wake of the trend of Covid cases going up in the city in the last few days. The city had reported only 98 new cases daily on an average between February 1 and 7. In comparison, the city has reported 124 cases daily on an average between February 8 and 14. “There has been a rising trend in cases, but we are closely monitoring it. The municipal commissioner has directed us to take strict steps against those not adhering to the safety measures to prevent the Covid spread,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, NMC’s medical superintending officer. He added that they were planning to impose a fine on those caught without the face cover. According to the data provided by the civic body, the areas under Cidco division have the maximum number of active patients at present. The city has over 616 active patients. Of which, 31% are from Cidco division, 19%from Nashik West, 18% from East division. The remaining 32% are from three divisions- Nashik Road, Panchavati and Satpur divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/action-against-those-not-using-masks/articleshow/80929925.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Raigad, Palghar colleges resume after 11 mths, but attendance low||Colleges in Raigad and Palghar under Mumbai University’s jurisdiction reopened after an 11-month-long break on Monday. The turnout was low though. After a go-ahead from local administrations of rural Thane, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri, MU issued a circular on Monday asking colleges in these regions to reopen too. A Raigad college principal said they had called 50% students based on roll numbers. “The second half is called on Tuesday. The attendance was less, but it is too early to comment.” University registrar Baliram Gaikwad said the turnout was low but may rise eventually. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/raigad-palghar-colleges-resume-after-11-mths-but-attendance-low/articleshow/80933322.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: After review, BMC unfreezes Rs 350 crore corporators’ funds||MUMBAI: Under pressure from corporators who want to spend funds on development work in their constituencies ahead of the BMC elections, the civic body on Monday released the Rs 350 crore of corporators’ funds that it had frozen last week. BMC chief Iqbal Chahal confirmed to TOI that the funds have been released. But he has directed additional municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal to examine the misuse of funds in Shiv Sena corporator and standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav’s constituency (no. 209) in Byculla. The BMC had put on hold Rs 350 crore of corporators’ funds that were part of a larger corpus given through the standing committee after a controversy broke out over its use to buy items like food trucks, jute bags, solar street lights, laptops and gym equipment. The amount is the unused part of Rs 750 crore given to corporators to spend on development work in their constituencies. “The funds have been released after a review,” said said P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner. But, a civic official said Chahal had negotiated with civic group leaders on cutting discretionary funds in next year’s budget. “Jadhav was asking for Rs 1,000 crore in the standing panel amendment. But as Rs 350 crore was not used this year, it was decided that only Rs 750 crore will be allocated in next year’s budget. So, a sort of adjustment has been made,” said the official. SP corporator Rais Shaikh demanded that the entire mechanism of area development funds be re-examined. “Not more than 2% of the total budget must be given for such unplanned funds...All corporators’ funds must only be used for creating civic amenities and as part of planned expenditure. Their use must be monitored.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-review-bmc-unfreezes-rs-350-crore-corporators-funds/articleshow/80943424.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 16, 2021||Bareilly||SAP for sugarcane remains unchanged for 3rd year in a row, farmers unhappy||Pilibhit: The Uttar Pradesh government has declared State Advised Price (SAP) for sugarcane crop and kept it unchanged for the third year in a row. There has been no hike in the sugarcane’s SAP since 2017. The announcement was made on Sunday evening. It comes even as 97 of the 119 sugar mills of the state have started making payments to farmers on the last year’s rate. According to officials, over 48% of the total payment has already been made by the mills in the last year’s price. Like previous year, the SAP of Rs 325/quintal was fixed for the early cane varieties, Rs 315 for general varieties and Rs 310 for the rejected cane varieties for the crushing year 2020-21, sources said. The cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA) at New Delhi had in August last year hiked the fair and remunerative price (FRP) of sugarcane for the year 2020-21 by Rs 10/quintal over the previous year’s FRP of Rs 275. The farmers alleged that the state government neglected them and paid attention to safeguard the interests of the state’s sugar industry. The UP Sugar Mill Association (UPSMA) had recently filed a representation to the state government with a request to not increase the SAP for the current season. Explaining the reasons behind this, the industry sources said that the overall recovery rate of sugar production had fallen this season to 10.29% in comparison to 10.96%. This was an outcome of an outbreak of red rot disease in sugarcane in many regions of the state. Sources in Lucknow told TOI that the state cabinet had given its approval to the SAP on Sunday evening. The sources further said that due to dwindling demand of the sugar in the market, its selling price dropped to Rs 3,150/quintal. Contrary to the industry’s claims, the official records of state sugar administration projected, as on the closing of February 14, the average sugar recovery rate at 11.3%. The records reveal that, a total of 120 operational sugar mills in the state crushed as much as 6,320 lakh quintals of sugarcane and produced 651 lakh quintals of sugar. “The state government should at least explain to over 40 lakh sugarcane growers of the state the factual reason behind keeping the SAP stagnant for the last three crushing years,” a farmer leader said. “The price of diesel went up by Rs 20/litre, the labour charges increased by Rs 50/person per day while the prices of fertilizers and pesticides also marked a considerable hike as compared to previous year’s prices. But the government remained negligent over the rapidly diminishing profits of the farmers,” said Param Veer Singh, a local farmer leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sap-for-sugarcane-remains-unchanged-for-3rd-year-in-a-row-farmers-unhappy/articleshow/80933304.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Postings as per provisions of Transfer Act from next fiscal||Dehradun: Bureaucrats in Uttarakhand would be given postings as per the provisions of the Transfer Act from the next financial year (FY). On Monday, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat gave approval to the personnel department, which recommends transfers in the state. It is worth mentioning that the last fiscal was made a zero session for transfers in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. A committee, which met on February 3 this year, decided that transfers will happen from the next fiscal year, starting April 1. Chief secretary Om Prakash, in a meeting with officials, pointed out that assembly sessions are also scheduled in the forthcoming fiscal and the model code of conduct would also be implemented in the last quarter of FY 2021-22 in the wake of assembly elections. The CS added that the state employees cannot be stationed at a location for more than three years, according to the provisions of code of conduct, and therefore, the next session cannot be declared as a zero session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/postings-as-per-provisions-of-transfer-act-from-next-fiscal/articleshow/80933307.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 16, 2021||India||Uttarakhand: 5 more bodies found, 3 from Tapovan tunnel||DEHRADUN: Hopes of finding survivors in the slush-filled tunnel of NTPC’s Tapovan Vishnugad project – where over 30 workers were feared trapped in the floods – faded further on Monday as rescu ers found three more bodies in the debris in the tunnel. A total of five bodies, including one each from Maithala and Srinagar dams, were recovered on Monday, ta king the flood toll to 56, of which 29 have been identified. At least 149 people are still missing, police said. Multi-agency rescue teams said the muckclearing work was continuing and they had cleared the way up to 143 metres in the tunnel. Search operations around Raini village and Tapovan were interrupted on Monday due to bad weather, said an ITBP official. Rescue personnel say, eight days after the floods, the chances of finding survivors among the remaining 26 men believed to be in the tunnel appear very remote. The position in which the bodies were found indicates that the workers were caught off guard and perished when the deluge entered the tunnel. DGP Ashok Kumar told TOI, “The situation looks bleak now. However, the picture will get clearer once we reach the 180-metre point.” Kumar added that the postmortem reports of the bodies also indicates that the men died on the spot after getting buried, not because of hypothermia or any other reason. “A team from CSIR-Hyderabad, which did a survey of the tunnel, concluded that the whole tunnel was full of debris, slush or water and did not have any breathable air,” the DGP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-5-more-bodies-found-3-from-tapovan-tunnel/articleshow/80948919.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Goa||Goa Forward reconstitutes Mayem block||Panaji: On a day BJP inducted several former Goa Forward Party (GFP) office-bearers from the Mayem block, the regional party began the process to reconstitute the body by appointing former Shirgao sarpanch Sadanand Gaonkar as president. GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat said that BJP used the lure of government jobs to convince the workers to switch parties. GFP had already dissolved the Mayem block four months earlier. “The workers who went to BJP have gone there for self-development. We checked with our candidate for Mayem, Santosh Sawant, who said that these workers told him that BJP promised them jobs,” said Kamat, adding that the party has audio recordings of the conversation. Kamat said that the exit of the workers would not impact GFP’s prospects in the elections. “It is good that they have gone as we don’t want such people. At least during elections, we will have honest people,” said Kamat, addressing a press conference. When asked about GFP’s preparations for the upcoming municipal elections, Kamat said that the party would contest the civic polls in select municipalities. “Let the elections be declared, and then we will take a call.” Speaking to reporters, GFP’s face for Pernem constituency, Jitendra Gaonkar, said that chief minister Pramod Sawant’s recent comments at a function in Sindhudurg suggests that he plans to promote Sindhudurg more than Pernem. “The chief minister has created a picture or a scenario where it looks like the people of Pernem will be cheated and robbed of their land, exploited and thrown into jail just so that the people of Sindhudurg can benefit,” said Gaonkar. Gaonkar, who was recently arrested by Goa police for leading an agitation against land acquisition, said Pernem residents had agreed to part with their land for the new airport in the hope that the project would develop the northern-most taluka of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-forward-reconstitutes-mayem-block/articleshow/80940577.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Nashik||Nashik civic chief to present 2021-22 budget tomorrow||Nashik: Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav will present the Nashik Municipal Corporation budget for the 2021-22 financial year before the standing committee chairperson Ganesh Gite on Wednesday.“Municipal commissioner Jadhav has given a letter informing he will present the NMC budget for the next financial year during a special meeting on February 17,” said Raju Kute, the town secretary of the civic body.This year, the NMC is expected to reduce the revenue generation target by Rs 100 crore due to Covid-19 pandemic. Last year, the then civic chief Radhakrishna Game had projected an income of Rs 2,161.7 crore for 2020-21 fiscal, including the initial balance of Rs 318.1 crore, Rs 1,081.8 crore GST grant from the state government, Rs 170 crore from property tax, Rs 350 crore from various taxes to the town planning department, Rs 65.2 crore from water taxes.But the revenue of the NMC through various taxes like property, water and town planning has been badly affected due to the pandemic and it was expected that there will be a drop of over Rs 350 crore in the revenue of the current financial year.Present municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has made it clear that his focus in the budget will be on health, education, water supply and sewage management. Jadhav had also said that adequate financial provisions are to be made in the budget for the proposed postgraduate medical college at the new Bytco hospital. The civic chief is likely to announce some projects to improve the quality of education in the city and may propose a few smart schools and the financial provision of Rs 25 crore are expected to be made.Moreover, there will be no new roads to be proposed in the budget, but the financial provisions are to be made for two new flyover projects near Untawadi towards Cidco and Mico circle on Trimbak Road. The NMC has already completed the process for construction of new 250km tar roads at a cost of Rs 250 crore. The financial provisions are to be made in the budget for the new tarred roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-civic-chief-to-present-2021-22-budget-tomorrow/articleshow/80929983.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Post Covid, patients see rise in rare fungal infection||HYDERABAD: A rare and serious fungal infection called ‘Mucormycosis’ that can affect the respiratory system, digestive system as well as the brain has been on the rise in recent months, especially among immuno compromised Covid-19 patients who have recovered. From barely five to seven cases in a year, the number of cases has jumped to over 60 over the last seven to eight months, say experts. Of these, 10 were seen at the state-run Gandhi hospital alone as several patients who had been treated are returning with post-Covid-19 complications including this infection. The infection, although, rare is a serious one as it can even lead to death if not treated in time. “This infection is an opportunistic one which is seen in immune-compromised patients, especially patients who had a transplant or are on cancer-related drugs. We see this infection in patients who have recovered from viral diseases and since Covid is also a viral disease, it is being seen in the Covid recovered patients too. Over the last seven to eight months we have seen about 10 patients at our hospital,” said Dr M Raja Ram, superintendent, Gandhi Hospital, adding that most of the patients who developed this were diabetics. While pulmonary manifestations of the infection include symptoms like cough, shortness of breath and fever, in Rhino-orbital infection, swelling in the eyes, unilateral nasal discharge, headache, numbness of the face is experienced. While it can manifest as pulmonary Mucormycosis or rhino-orbital-cerebral Mucormycosis, “It generally occurs in patients with diabetes, but the use of corticosteroid treatment in Covid creates a perfect setting for these fungal infections. Before Covid we used to treat barely three to four cases per year, but now around 60 cases have been reported in city,” said Dr Meghna Reddy, consultant pulmonologist, Medicover hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/post-covid-patients-see-rise-in-rare-fungal-infection/articleshow/80936893.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 16, 2021||Rajkot||Four of family booked for woman’s suicide in Jamnagar||Rajkot: Four persons of a family in Jamnagar were booked for allegedly driving a 22-year-old woman to suicide on Monday. The woman Kiran Rathod’s mother Narmada Mangvaniya told police that her daughter hanged herself on January 26 as her husband Navghan Rathod, mother-in-law Manju, brother-in-law Raju and sister-in-law Bhavna harassed her over household chores. Mangvaniya told police that Kiran used to be harassed from the day she got married in February last year. She used to often confide to Mangvaniya about what the accused used to tell her about doing household chores. But every time Mangvaniya used to console her saying that the situation would change soon. Last month too, when Mangvaniya went to meet her daughter, she complained about harassment. Later, Kiran came to her parents’ house at Madhav Township in Jamnagar refusing to go to live with her husband. However, Mangvaniya convinced her to go back. Kiran went back to living with her husband, but as the harassment did not stop, she hanged herself from a ceiling fan on January 26. Based on Mangvaniya’s complaint an offence of abetment of suicide and cruelty was registered. Police said that the accused are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-of-family-booked-for-womans-suicide-in-jamnagar/articleshow/80930116.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Inter student kills self||Hyderabad: An 18-year-old Intermediate student committed suicide fearing that she may not be able to pursue graduation in her favourite subject, Architecture and Fashion Design due to poor financial condition. The victim S Pravallika, is a second year student from Sharada Nagar in Safilguda. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-student-kills-self/articleshow/80936990.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||BJP neta says Jadhav threatened to finish him; Sena man denies it||The Shiv Sena-BJP war of words over misuse of corporators’ funds by Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav intensified on Monday. The BJP alleged that Jadhav verbally abused its party leader in the BMC and corporator Vinod Mishra and threatened to ‘finish’ him on a WhatsApp chat because he had raised the issue of corruption and irregularities in the purchases made by the Sena corporator in his constituency. Addressing the media with BJP corporator Prabhakar Shinde, Mishra said: “Just because we raised the issue of corruption and irregularities in the misuse of the funds, he [Jadhav] threatened me and abused me on WhatsApp chat. He said that he would finish me or finish himself. We will file a police complaint against him... We urge CM Uddhav Thackeray to look into his conduct and the corruption that he is promoting.”  But Jadhav claimed that the allegations were baseless and that the WhatsApp chats circulated by BJP were fake. “...I never sent any such messages, they can get my calls and chats investigated... All the items are being purchased as per norms and by the civic administration...I am open to any inquiry...” — Chaitanya Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-neta-says-jadhav-threatened-to-finish-him-sena-man-denies-it/articleshow/80943545.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Kochi||Unfazed govt goes ahead with regularization in KTDC, C-DIT||Thiruvananthapuram: Unperturbed by the protests organized by PSC rank-holders, government continued the regularization of contract staff in various organizations. Monday’s special cabinet regularized 100 temporary employees in KTDC, 14 employees in Cooperative Academy of Professional Education and 37 employees in youth welfare board; all of them have been working for over 10 years. This is in addition to the order regularizing 114 temporary employees at centre for development of imaging technology (C-DIT) under IT department by creating new posts. Those regularized in C-DIT include scientific officer, programmers, system administrator, technical assistants, coordinators, production supervisors, video production assistant, call centre executives, web designers, video editing-cum-sound assistant, assistant cameraman, office assistants, content developers, news reporters, font designer, assistant producer, faculty-cum-coordinators, animation consultant-cum-trainer, research associate, office assistants, production assistant, junior technician, lab assistants, software support assistant, assistant editor-cum-sound recordist, data entry operators, scanning assistant, clerk-cum-data entry operator, driver-cum-cleaners, helpers, messengers and sweepers. Barring six, the 108 appointments that were regularized now were made during the tenure of V S Achuthanandan-led government (May 2006 till May 2011). The regularized employees will draw a basic salary ranging from Rs 8,200- Rs 13,340 (part-time sweeper) up to Rs 39,500- Rs 83,000 (scientific officer). The order regularizing employees says that hereafter, no contract employee should be allowed to function for more than five years in the organization. The government’s move is aimed at ensuring that no more regularizations can be made by future governments, citing that they have worked over 10 years in the organization. Of late, the SC verdicts against regularizing such appointments were not followed, with LDF government blatantly regularizing contract and daily-wage employees in organizations under various departments. Government is citing ‘humanitarian gesture’ for regularizing such appointments, including the regularizations at C-DIT, for which the Constitution bench of the SC had clearly given an answer. The court, while delivering the judgment in State of Karnataka versus Umadevi, 2006, case, had said that those joining service on contract basis as a contractual or casual worker, and the engagement is not based on a proper selection – as recognized by the relevant rules or procedure, is aware of the consequences of the appointment being temporary, casual or contractual in nature. The court had held that such a person cannot invoke the theory of legitimate expectation for being confirmed in the post, when an appointment to the post could be made only by following a proper procedure for selection in consultation with PSC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/unfazed-govt-goes-ahead-with-regularization-in-ktdc-c-dit/articleshow/80933531.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Goa||Bombay HC issues notice to govt over reservation of wards||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Monday issued a notice to the state government over the reservation and delimitation of wards of 11 municipalities which are likely to go for polls by the end of next month. Six councillors of different municipal bodies in independent petitions have challenged the reservation and delimitation of wards and the notification order which was issued earlier this month. The petitions stated that the reservation of wards was not done in accordance with the rotation policy normally followed in reserving wards for OBC, SC, ST and for women. The high court posted the petitions for hearing and final disposal on Monday. The petition filed by Suryakant Lotlikar from Fatorda has challenged the amendment to Section 10 (1) of the Goa Municipalities Act, and sought the court's intervention to declare the amendment as ultra vires and unconstitutional since it is in violation of the precedents set by the court. The petitioner had earlier filed a petition in 2020 seeking direction to the government to issue the delimitation and reservation notification for Margao Municipal Council at least four weeks prior to the issuance of the notification for the schedule of the election. Following his petition, the court in its order issued on December 21, 2020 recorded statements of the government counsel that the delimitation and reservation of wards of Margao Municipal Council would be notified by the appropriate authorities at least three weeks in advance, prior to the date of the notification of the schedule for the council election. It is the contention of the petitioner that by amending the said section, the government is seeking to alter the direction of the high court by reducing the time period from three weeks to one week. “It is overreaching its legislative powers and enacting a law on an issue already decided by the court,” states the petition. BJP’s Vasco legislator Carlos Almeida has criticised the way wards have been reserved. He also wrote to chief minister Pramod Sawant complaining about the same. Transport minister Mauvin Godinho said he was not consulted in the reservation process at all. Three counsellors – two from Margao Municipal Council and one from Mapusa municipality – were represented by senior council Subodh Kantak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-issues-notice-to-govt-over-reservation-of-wards/articleshow/80940643.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Bareilly||Poachers killed, skinned tiger in core Dudhwa reserve area||Bareilly: Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF) has recovered the decomposed flesh of a tiger that was killed by a gang of poachers in the core area of Dudhwa tiger reserve (DTR) for its skin, nails, hair and bones. This is the second tiger to be killed in the high security core forest area where public entry is banned in seven months of a year. Two youths, who were arrested with the skin and nails along the India-Nepal border in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Saturday, said they had killed the big cat near Lodharia beat of Belraya range of the reserve about 21 days ago. The duo led the STPF team and forest officials to the spot where they killed the tiger and skinned it before dividing the body parts among themselves. The STPF deployed sniffer dogs to find the tiger’s flesh the gang had thrown away. In all, five youths, in their 20s, were involved in the poaching in the core area. Three of them are still at large and a hunt is on to trace them and recover the remaining tiger bones and hair they have, said a forest official. He added, “This is definitely the work of an experienced poacher who must be guiding the new generations as the body was very professionally skinned. All the nails were attached to the skin which made the skin more valuable in the market.” He did not rule out the possible involvement of some notorious poacher out of jail on bail. Manoj Sonkar, deputy director, DTR (core), told TOI, “All the accused belong to Takiya Purva village, which is notorious for criminals and poachers. One of the two arrested accused, Somnath Pasi, 23, had earlier been booked for murder while his accomplice, Vinod Pasi, 22, was booked for kidnapping. One of the accused who is on the run is the son of a notorious poacher.” Sonkar said with just two-three forest watchers, it was not possible to monitor the movement of every person who enters the core forest area. Each beat is about 100 hectares, he pointed out. “The forests are open and we cannot install a fence as it will affect the movement of animals between forests. Whenever we have caught a trespasser or detected any illegal activity, action has been taken immediately. In the past 18 months, more than 100 people have been sent to jail. In this case, we managed to gather information about poaching and arrested the accused red-handed with the tiger skin and nails,” Sonkar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/poachers-killed-skinned-tiger-in-core-dudhwa-reserve-area/articleshow/80933492.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 16, 2021||Nashik||Colleges reopen in Maha maintaining Covid norms||Nashik /Aurangabad/ Kolhapur: After almost 11 months, colleges across the state resumed physical classes from Monday, following all Covid guidelines like maintaining social distancing and wearing mask among others. As per the directions of higher and technical education, various colleges in Nashik district affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University reopened on a cautious note. Day one witnessed an average attendance of 40%, the authorities of various colleges said. VN Suryavanshi, the principal of HPT Arts College said the attendance figures were encouraging. “Wearing masks has been made compulsory for every person on the campus. The students have been asked to either remain in classrooms, libraries or else they are out of the campus,” said Suryavanshi. The online classes are continuing, but the practical classes were posing a problem. Therefore, the focus will on completing the same, said Keshav Salunkhe, a professor in another college. In Aurangabad, colleges resumed physical classes with 50% attendance. A section of students’ unions showered petals and played dhol-tasha at the entrances of prominent colleges to celebrate the reopening. Departments in the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) witnessed moderate attendance on day one. University public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said the attendance is expected to increase in the coming days. Makrand Paithankar, the principal of SB Arts and Commerce College, said students are divided into two batches to ensure 50% attendance is maintained. “The first-year students turned up in large numbers. The syllabi for second-year and third-year are close to being completed and they are also expected to report to classes in good numbers,” he said. Amid enthusiasm over reopening of colleges, students’ unions have reiterated the demand for reopening of hostels and mess facilities. ABVP leader Ankita Pawar said outstation students would hesitate to rejoin the classes unless hostels and mess facilities reopen. Most of the colleges under Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK) also opened with 50% attendance. SUK had appointed a panel under D G Kanase, principal of Dr Patangrao Kadam Mahavidyalaya, Sangli, to implement the order of the state government to reopen colleges. The panel authorised the college heads to take decisions on the number of classes to resume, the number of lectures to start and the timings. Colleges in rural areas have to ensure the students arriving from distant places stay in hostels. The hostels too have to be opened with 50% occupancy, said Kanase. Most departments in SUK had resumed on Monday. However, the turnout of students was lower than anticipated, mainly due to accommodation-related issues. The university has not yet opened the hostels. V D Nandavadekar, the SUK registrar, said, preparations are on to reopen hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/colleges-reopen-in-maha-maintaining-covid-norms/articleshow/80930110.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Goa||Bicholim Cong to field candidates in civic elections||Bicholim: The Bicholim block congress committee has planned to field candidates for the forthcoming municipality elections in all 14 wards of the Bicholim Municipal Council (BMC) area. President of committee, Meghshyam Raut alleged that not a single councillor in the present BJP ruling council is interested in the development of Bicholim town. “Therefore, we have decided to field our candidates to promote all round human and infrastructural development in the town,” Raut told reporters. Basic needs, like proper water and power supply are not being met by the government, he said. “There are open gutters at many places in Bicholim, which are potential mosquito breeding grounds, there is no proper play ground for the children and neither is there a cultural platform through which the talented youth of Bicholim can showcase their talent. It is necessary to address these issues on priority,” Raut said. He called on those interested in serving society to contact the block development committee. “Congress will extend its support to such people if they wished to contest the municipality election on the congress ticket,” Raut said. “Our plan is make BMC a shining example for the state and nation by making it an ideal town,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-cong-to-field-candidates-in-civic-elections/articleshow/80940690.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Nashik||Nashik dam water levels much lower than last year||Nashik: The water levels in the Gangapur dam complex that provides water to Nashik city are much lower compared with last year. The Gangapur dam complex comprises Gangapur, Kashyap and Gautami-Godavari dams with combined capacity of 9,350 mcft. The complex collectively has just 59% or 5,537 million cubic feet (mcft) water in store today, much lesser than the 80% (7,437 mcft) water available during the corresponding period last year. A similar trend has been observed in all the major and medium dams across Nashik district. Dams in Nashik district have a total storage capacity of 65,814 mcft water. However, at present, the current available stock is 43,070 mcft (65%). Last year, on the same date, the storage was 51,073 mcft (78%). The water across these 23 major and minor dams is reserved for drinking and agriculture purposes for entire Nashik district and parts of Ahmednagar, Aurangabad and Jalgaon districts. Resident deputy collector Bhagwat Doifode said, “The lesser amount of water is due to rotation, which is water released for drinking and agriculture purposes, for the parched areas, especially during the rabi season.” The water rotation has started this year since the month of January. Doifode said that in the year 2019, the region received rainfall till the end of December and the requirement of water was felt only in the month of March 2020. “This year, however, there was no rainfall after October 2020 and hence, the need for water supply through rotation was felt in January itself. A large numbers of farmers and villages had demanded the release of water from the various dams and it was done,” the officer said. The water released for the respective areas was as per the reservation decided by the Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA). Whatever water is released, is from the reserved quota for the respective regions and hence, there won’t be any problem for water till July 31, 2021. “The water in the dams has been reserved for appropriate reasons and a time-table has been chalked out for the release till that date,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-dam-water-levels-much-lower-than-last-year/articleshow/80930240.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Fellowships for Unithiri, Valsala; Meesha best novel||THRISSUR: Novelist P Valsala and Sanskrit scholar Prof NVP Unithiri have been selected for the Kerala Sahitya Academy Fellowship for 2019. The fellowship carries a cash prize of Rs 50,000, gold locket weighing two sovereigns, a citation, and a ponnada. The academy has selected Dalit Bandhu N K Jose, U Kalanathan, C P Aboobacker, Rose Mary, Palakkezhu Narayanan and P Apputtan for the awards for ‘total contribution’ to the literary field. This award carries a cash prize of Rs 30,000, a citation, a plaque and a ponnada. P Raman (Rathri Panthrandarakku Oru Thayattu) and M R Renukumar (Kothiyan) bagged the academy award for poetry. S Hareesh’s ‘Meesha’ won the award for novel. Vinoy Thomas (Ramachi) is the winner in the short story section while Sajitha Madathil and Jisha Abhinaya have shared the award in the drama section. Historian MGS Narayanan has been selected for the award in the biography and autobiography section while Gandhian K Aravindakshan bagged the award for translation. RVG Menon and G Madhusoodhanan shared the honour in the informatics literature section. Director and writer Sathyan Anthikkad has been selected for the award for humorous literature while K M Anil bagged the award for literary criticism. BJP flays ‘Meesha’ selectionBJP state president K Surendran strongly attacked the government for selecting the novel ‘Meesha’ for the award. Surendran alleged that the novel was the most defamatory book released in Malayalam. “Selection of such a book for the award was a continuation of the anti-Hindu stance of the LDF government. The government had adopted a similar anti-Hindu stance in the Sabarimala issue too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fellowships-for-unithiri-valsala-meesha-best-novel/articleshow/80933582.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ED summons MMRDA chief in Pratap Sarnaik case||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned MMRDA (Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority) chief R A Rajeev and his junior B G Pawar on Tuesday as part of the ongoing money laundering probe against private security firm Tops Grup and Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik.The ED is investigating the role of MMRDA officials on directions of Bombay high court. The court, while hearing the bail plea of an accused, Amit Chandole, had mentioned that the role of MMRDA officials cannot be ruled out. ED sources said they will question Rajeev about the MMRDA report to the Economic Offences Wing of Mumbai police stating that the agency was not cheated by the Tops Grup. Former director of Tops Grup Ramesh Iyer told ED Sarnaik helped Tops Grup to get an MMRDA contract of supplying private security guards at city foot-over bridges in 2014. It is alleged Tops Grup was providing less than 70% of the total agreed guards but was billing MMRDA after inflating numbers of guards. Tops Grup and Sarnaik were sharing the money they billed MMRDA for an inflated number of guards equally, Sarnaik’s close associate Amit Chandole told ED. In a press note, MMRDA stated that in connection to the tender case pertaining to Tops Security (2014-17), ED has summoned Rajeev for recording evidence. Since the MMRDA commissioner in that period, U S Madan has retired, the current chief Rajeev will be visiting the ED office though the case pertains to his predecessor’s tenure. The ED will inquire if Pawar had received any monetary favour from Chandole or Tops Grup. The ED found a recorded conversation between two arrested accused, Chandole and Tops Grup senior executive M Shashidharan, where they are referring to bribing Pawar. In the audio recording recovered from Shashidharan’s mobile, Chandole purportedly claimed Pawar would ensure that Tops Grup did not get blacklisted by MMRDA. B G Pawar said, “I don’t want to comment on the conversation of the third person. I will give my reply to ED.” Recently, EOW had filed a closure report in court based on the MMRDA finding. But ED opposed the report, stating it is misleading. An official stated Rajeev is not on good terms with Sarnaik. He stated Rajeev had taken several actions against Sarnaik’s company when he was Thane civic chief. Rajeev told TOI, “I will go to the ED with our report to clear their doubts. I have nothing to do with the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-summons-mmrda-chief-in-pratap-sarnaik-case/articleshow/80937302.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 16, 2021||Goa||Shadow Council to field candidates in Margao||Margao: To promote whom they called “people’s candidates” in the forthcoming civic polls for the Margao municipality, the Shadow Council for Margao on Monday announced its plans of fielding and supporting 12 to 15 candidates and work for their victory. The names of three such “people’s candidates” for the MMC elections were announced on Monday. Seoula Vas will contest from ward No 3, while Veren D’Silva and Poma Rajesh Kerkar will be candidates from wards 15 and 20 respectively. “People’s candidates vs imposed candidates,” read the banner unveiled on the occasion, thus setting the tone for the elections. Savio Coutinho of the Shadow Council, said that the sole reason for the initiative of fielding people’s candidates was “the miserable failure on the part of the outgoing council to deliver in spite of the fact that the Magaonkars had given an overwhelming majority to the alliance formed in 2015.” “The genuine issues of Margao continued to remain on the back burner, but personal interests and scams were galore,” Coutinho said. The three candidates revealed their strong desire to work for the community and the city, and “to become a strong voice of the people.” Dr Jorson Fernandes, who spoke on the occasion, highlighted the importance of weeding out corruption which, he said, was the “root cause of all the city’s ills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shadow-council-to-field-candidates-in-margao/articleshow/80940747.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Trichy||AIADMK to train IT wing cadres for campaign||Trichy: The AIADMK has launched an intensive training programme for its IT wing volunteers to take up digital campaigning by promoting the ruling party’s area-specific achievements and to collect demands, ahead of the ensuing assembly election. The AIADMK Trichy rural south district has appointed 1,772 IT wing volunteers to pursue booth-level and location-based election campaigning in social media platforms by using digital toolkits. All the 886 polling booths in the three assembly segments of Thiruverumbur, Lalgudi and Manapparai will get two IT workers for each booth to canvass among 600 to 1,000 voters. The appointed persons will upload digital contents for the assembly election campaign on social media networks like Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. The team will also use Google Adsense to promote chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as the CM candidate. “The digital campaign will be completely run by party workers and functionaries. Experts in social media optimisation will train us, and we will subsequently train our cadres. Three training sessions were conducted so far,” M Suresh Kumar, district secretary, IT wing of AIADMK rural south said. So far, the party was appointing IT wing workers only at the union and district levels, this is the first time workers have been appointed for every polling booth. “Since all the households have at least one social media user, prominence is given to promote our party in every locality through digital contents,” S Raja, ward secretary of the wing said. Sources said that AIADMK’s urban and rural south districts will follow suit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-to-train-it-wing-cadres-for-campaign/articleshow/80940760.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 16, 2021||Bareilly||2,754 couples exchange vows at Moradabad mass wedding||Bareilly: As many as 2,754 couples from Moradabad, Bijnor, Amroha, Rampur and Sambhal districts, mostly construction labourers, tied the knot at a massive wedding ceremony organised by the state labour department at Buddhi Vihar ground near Moradabad’s circuit house on Monday. It was attended by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, state labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya and other party leaders and administrative officials. As many as 2,754 couples from Hindu, Muslim, Buddhist, Sikh and other communities, exchanged vows in the presence of their families and friends, at the mass ceremony which was conducted in accordance with rituals of the respective religions. CM Adityanath reached the wedding venue at around 1.30pm and participated in the ceremony, organised under ‘Shramik Putri Vivaah Yojana’, an initiative for daughters of labourers undertaken by the UP government. After the wedding rituals were concluded, the CM congratulated the newly-wed couples and the labour department for organising the event. Addressing the massive crowd that came to attend the marriage programme, he said lakhs of couples from all communities have benefited from the scheme so far. “Labourers are agents of a nation’s progress and all possible efforts are being made to work for their welfare, and also to ensure that the children of labourers don’t feel neglected in any way,” he added. The CM also announced his governments’ plan to build schools for children of labourers, to be called Atal Awas Vidyalayas, which will be developed across all 18 divisions of the state and for which, Rs 270 crore has already been allocated in the state’s 2020-21 budget. Labour department officials said out of the 2,754 couples who got married at the ceremony, around 1,500 were Hindus, around 1,000 Muslims and the rest from other communities including Buddhists, Sikhs and Christians. Priests from every community, including qazis, were appointed to conduct the weddings as per respective religious rituals. Musical bands were hired and other arrangements including food were arranged by the department for the couples, along with invites to eight relatives per couple. A sum of Rs 75,000 was spent on each couple, of which Rs 10,000 was provided to the couples to buy clothes for the ceremony. At the event, the CM also launched development projects worth crores for Moradabad. Panchayati Raj minister Bhupendra Singh, minister in-charge of the district Mahendra Singh, minister Baldev Singh Aulakh, Badaun MP Sanghmitra Maurya, MLA Ritesh Gupta were among BJP leaders who attended the ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2754-couples-exchange-vows-at-moradabad-mass-wedding/articleshow/80933632.cms||Maria Khan
February 16, 2021||Kochi||Kerala Youth Congress march turns violent, 11 injured||KOZHIKODE: Police resorted to lathicharge and used water cannons to disperse Youth Congress (YC) activists who took out a collectorate march on Monday in protest against the alleged backdoor appointments being made by the LDF government in the state. As many as 11 party activists, including KPCC vice-president T Siddique, were injured in the lathicharge. Two activists who sustained head injuries have been admitted to a private hospital. The march, which started off at 11am from Eranhipalam, was blocked by the police before the collectorate. The trouble began when the workers tried to push through the barricades and pelted stones at the police. Police used water cannons twice and with the protesters unrelenting they resorted to lathicharge. Police said that they have registered cases against 100 persons in connection with the incident. The march was inaugurated by Siddique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/yc-march-turns-violent-11-injured/articleshow/80933626.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Goa||In Borim, farmers follow curious ritual of sculpting a crocodile from silt||Keri: The ritualistic festival of ‘Mange Thapani’ or ‘sculpting a crocodile’ was observed recently in Adkire, Borim. This curious ritual is practised to express gratitude to the crocodile for not causing any harm to locals, and to seek blessings for a good harvest. Adkire, a hamlet on the right bank of the Zuari, was once home to agricultural communities. However, today, fewer persons here actively practice agriculture. However, the ritual has continued nevertheless. On the new moon day of the 10th month of the lunar calendar, Paush or Malun, every year, villagers assemble at the agricultural field of ‘Devati Katar’, who is believed to belong to goddess Navadurga. Here, members of the village community make use of the silt to create a crocodile sculpture and decorate it with shells. An egg is offered to the effigy of the crocodile and a special pooja is performed. “Our ancestors have built traditional bundhs and embankments to engage in agricultural activities. They believed that if the Mange Thapani is performed, crocodiles will not cause any harm and the holy spirit will bless them with a good harvest,” Chandrakant Gaude, a local, said. Another villager Sadanand Malik said that the representative of most of the families residing in the village participate in the ritualistic festival. “If any representative out of the 24 fails to attend the festival, then he has to pay the fine. This festival has been always been observed down the ages.” Today, though autumnal agriculture has been discontinued, villagers of Bori come together at Adkire and celebrate the Mange Thapani. Sanket Naik, a wildlifer from Bicholim, who was present at Adkire to witness the ritual, said, “Crocodiles are large semi-aquatic reptiles. Villagers in the coastal belt believe that if crocodiles are worshipped, this carnivorous animal will not attack them or cause any harm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-borim-farmers-follow-curious-ritual-of-sculpting-a-crocodile-from-silt/articleshow/80940786.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand MLA slams ‘inaction’ against 'corrupt' NHM director despite repeated complaints||Haridwar: A BJP MLA in Uttarakhand has alleged irregularities in purchase of Covid-19 related equipment in Haridwar. Swami Yatiswarananda, MLA from Haridwar (rural) seat, alleged that a chief medical officer (CMO) of the district had facilitated purchase of masks, sanitisers and other equipment at prices which were several times more than the market rate. The MLA also claimed that he had written a letter to the state government about the alleged corruption in the purchase. “But the CMO was given promotion and made National Health Mission (NHM) director,” the legislator said. When contacted, the NHM director, Dr. Saroj Naithani, refused to comment on the allegation against her. “The NHM director had misused her power during her tenure at CMO office in Haridwar. She had given promotion to ineligible workers. She had purchased medical equipment at higher rates during the Covid-19 pandemic. Several complaints were given to the government and senior officials but no action has been taken so far against the NHM director,” he said. Yatiswarananda said that the state’s health secretary also wrote letters to the state’s director general (health) for conducting an inquiry. “But senior officials did not reply.” “I am left with one option and that is to move the court against the health department,” the BJP MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-mla-slams-inaction-against-corrupt-nhm-director-despite-repeated-complaints/articleshow/80933673.cms||MS Nawaz
February 16, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||140 posts created for Wayanad medical college||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state cabinet has decided to create new posts for the functioning of the new medical college hospital at Wayanad. The Mananthavady district hospital will be converted into a medical college hospital. The cabinet has sanctioned 140 new posts for this hospital, of which 115 are faculty posts and 25 are non-teaching posts. The new three-storey building constructed at the district hospital campus will be converted into an academic block. The faculty posts include one principal, six professors, 21 associate professors, 28 assistant professors, 27 senior residents and 32 tutor or junior residents. Apart from this, senior administrative officer, accounts officer, junior lab assistant, among other posts have been created in the non-teaching category. In the last budget, the government had sanctioned Rs 300 crore from KIIFB to set up the Wayanad medical college hospital. The cabinet has also decided to create 55 new posts in coir employees’ welfare board, 60 in the office of advocate general and six in Malabar devaswom board. The cabinet has also decided to take over 10 aided schools in the state. An ordinance will be promulgated to form toddy development board, which is being set up for the welfare of the people who are involved in this industry. The ordinance also aims at promoting and protecting this traditional industry. The amendment brought in the Kerala Shops and Establishments Act will also be promulgated as an ordinance. Pay revision will be implemented for the employees at Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd (TELK), Kerala Coir Workers Welfare Board and Kerala State Power and Infrastructure Finance Corporation, and for the managers and supervisory staff of Kerala Electricals and Allied Engineering Ltd. Probation policyThe government has decided to bring out a probation policy, the draft which has been approved by the state cabinet. The policy intends to bring back those who have been sidelined from the mainstream of the society due to their wrongdoings in the past. The policy aims at making such people the most useful for the society. For this, the government will provide them sufficient training to equip them for finding employment and also by providing financial support for finding own source of living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/140-posts-created-for-wayanad-med-college/articleshow/80933663.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Goa||Members of GFP’s Mayem block step into BJP fold||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) Mayem block president and ex-sarpanch of Piligao panchayat Pradip Naik, Piligao sarpanch Shankar Bablo Jalmi and other GFP members on Monday joined BJP. Jalmi was the convener of GFP’s ST Wing. Naik and Jalmi along with Piligao deputy sarpanch Urmila Umakant Parab Gaonkar, former deputy sarpanch Lalana Shantaram Gimonkar, panch and general secretary of GFP’s youth wing, resigned from the primary membership of GFP. Speaking to mediapersons, BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade welcomed all the new entrants into the party. Tanavade said Mayem is a BJP stronghold and the party has continued to win assembly elections in Mayem. He also said that BJP has a strong grassroots cadre in Mayem. The state BJP president also said that the joining of Goa Forward members will strengthen BJP’s base in Piligao. Tanavade said that the new members have joined unconditionally and the panchayat members who have quit GFP and joined BJP will continue to remain as panchas, and lauded them for their “good decision” to join the party. BJP Mayem MLA Pravin Zantye said that after joining the party, BJP has grown stronger in Piligao and this will help usher in more development in the village. Naik said that they have joined BJP to carry out development in Piligao. He also said that even when they were in GFP, BJP had taken up development works, and added that they have not joined BJP under pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/members-of-gfps-mayem-block-step-into-bjp-fold/articleshow/80940830.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Goa||Bandora locals seek spl gram sabha over hill-cutting approval||Ponda: Questioning the validity of hill-cutting permission issued by the town and country planning (TCP) department to Sanatan Sanstha at Ramnathi in 2004, Bandora villagers have sought a special gram sabha to discuss the legality of developments carried out by the organisation. The issue had also witnessed an uproar in the Bandora gram sabha on Sunday. Alleging that the Sanstha used the same hill-cutting permission even in 2021, the villagers have claimed that several development works are under way by cutting the adjoining hill. The locals were taken aback when the panchayat told them the Sanatan has a hill-cutting permission issued by the TCP in 2004 when BJP-led government was in power. Locals said the permission could be valid up to four years and not for 17 years. According to them, the Sanstha has been carrying out constructions for a long period and that no taxes have been charged for these constructions by the panchayat. This was the main issue of the Sunday’s two-hour gram sabha that consumed around two hours. Disputing the legality of the four buildings constructed by the Sanstha, villagers have demanded a thorough probe by the panchayat and action under Section 66 of Panchayati Raj Act.  Sarpanch Rajesh Naik said the gram sabha could be possible only after two months as the panchayat has to complete some developmental works sanctioned under the 14th finance commission grants by March 31. Villagers alleged that Sanathan Sanstha is using the same hill-cutting permission in 2021 which was issued in 2004. They claim that several development works are under way by cutting the adjoining hill||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bandora-locals-seek-spl-gram-sabha-over-hill-cutting-approval/articleshow/80940818.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Rajkot||Clash over polls lands 2 Cong workers in Morbi hospital||Rajkot: A Congress worker Kanu Ladva and his brother Hari were attacked by eight unidentified men in Morbi on Monday evening. The attack was fall out of an altercation of Kanu with one of BJP’s a candidate contesting for a seat in Morbi municipality Deva Avadiya, said police.According to sources, the unidentified men barged into the brothers’ Vavdi road house and attacked them with sticks and iron pipes. Some of the accused also had sharp-edged weapons, said sources.The police are yet to register an FIR. It said that it is recording the victim’s statement. However, sources claimed that both Knau and Hari has suffered severe injuries and were shifted to Rajkot civil hospital for further treatment. Earlier, the altercation between Kanu and Avadiya had ended in fisticuffs. A video of the incident too had gone viral. In the video the two are seen having a heated argument over campaign and filing nomination before they both started punching and kicking each other. The police on duty intervene and thereafter they both settled issue and refused to file a police complaint. The police are investigating the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/clash-over-polls-lands-2-cong-workers-in-morbi-hospital/articleshow/80930357.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Porn film case: Aspiring model files rape plaint||Mumbai: Another aspiring model and actor has lodged a fresh complaint of rape, unnatural sex, cheating, assault and threats against Yasmin Rowa Khan and her husband Dipankar alias Shyam Bennerji. This is the fourth FIR in the porn racket unearthed last week. Investigation has been transferred to Lonavala police as the porn movie was shot there. On Monday, main accused Gehena Vashist, Umesh Kamat, employee of UK-based company Kenrin, Dipankar Paritosh and Surat-based film director Tanvir Hashmi were remanded to further police custody till February 17. Hashmi was arrested along with three cops in 2015 on charges of raping a model inside Sakinaka beat chowky. The case is pending trial. Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/porn-film-case-aspiring-model-files-rape-plaint/articleshow/80943659.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 16, 2021||Pune||Private electricity firms set to power Pune Municipal Corporation-run facilities||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to rope in private electricity distribution companies to provide power to sewage and water treatment plants. The civic body will soon float a tender for the supply of 1 mega watt (MW) of electricity. Sources said the decision was taken to save money on electricity. “We are exercising a provision in PMC’s electricity policy, which allows us to procure power via open competition if our consumption exceeds 1MW. We will issue tenders this month,” Shrinivas Kandul, head of PMC’s electricity department, said. As per preliminary estimates, PMC can save around Rs6 lakh per day. The civic administration currently buys electricity at Rs8 per watt. The initiative targets to bring down the cost by Rs1-1.5 per watt. PMC officials said they hope for bids around Rs7 per watt. Civic officials said the processing plants consume the most electricity, followed by civic hospitals and ward offices. Municipal schools, street lighting and illumination of heritage structures and gardens also consume a lot of electricity. The administration plans to use privately supplied power at those plants that consume more than 1MW. Currently, three plants are under consideration for this initiative. Further, other options — solar, wind or thermal — are also under consideration. “We are holding basic interactions with all major players operating private plants. The administration is approaching existing as well as upcoming power companies,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/private-electricity-firms-set-to-power-pmc-run-facilities/articleshow/80937332.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
February 16, 2021||Goa||Cabinet to suggest three dates for municipal polls: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: The state cabinet, on Wednesday, is likely to decide on the date to be recommended to the state election commission (SEC) on which to hold the municipal elections. The SEC has proposed that the polls be held in the last week of March. “The state cabinet will discuss and recommend three dates to the SEC,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Elections to 11 municipalities, except Ponda and Sakhali, and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) are now likely to be held along with by-elections to village panchayats and ZPs. The SEC has moved a file to the state government and is awaiting discussions to announce the poll date. A senior BJP functionary said that they are in favour of holding the municipal elections mid-March. BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Monday said that the BJP will win all municipal elections as also the Corporation of the City of Panaji polls. BJP has appointed its MLAs and senior party functionaries as observers to oversee activities pertaining to elections. BJP said it will announce its candidates within two days though the party is against holding polls on party lines In January, the SEC postponed the upcoming elections by three months due to the Covid vaccination drive. The SEC said that it is aware that officials responsible for holding elections — deputy collectors, mamlatdars, etc — are those who would also be engaged in the management of the vaccination drive. So, it wouldn’t be appropriate to burden them with the additional responsibility of holding elections. On January 12, the urban development department sent SEC a letter raising concerns about crowds during the campaign period, which may have implications for Covid management. The government also requested SEC to conduct municipal and CCP elections together to avoid a prolonged code of conduct period, which could halt development works. SEC said the election process involves holding of public meetings, rallies and processions during the campaign period, and enforcing health protocols and regulating the number of participants at these gatherings would be a serious issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-to-suggest-3-dates-for-municipal-polls-cm/articleshow/80940838.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Pune||Pune: Buzz back in colleges, but muted on day one as hybrid mode prevails||PUNE: College campuses in the city reopened their gates to happy faces on Monday, after they were closed for over 10 months due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Around 20% of the students attended classes as most colleges that reopened said they are restarting their offline lectures phase-wise so that campuses are not over-crowded. Meanwhile, online education will continue and a blended model of education would be adopted for the coming months, college managements said. Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce started classes for the master’s in statistics and master’s in science (computers) degree second year with practical sessions. The classes for postgraduate commerce and e-commerce were also started on Monday with 50% students. Principal Rajendra Zunjarrao said,“We have also continued the online lecture platform for students who are not able to make it for physical classes. The attendance for practicals is nearly 80-90% but for lectures it was only about 20-30% attendance on Monday.” St Mira’s College for Women did not reopen on Monday as they decided to reopen a day later from Tuesday onwards. The principal of the college Gulshan Gidwani said, “The Covid test reports of the faculty had not been received till Monday so we could not reopen. The labs were all of a sudden flooded for tests so it took time. But we will be ready to reopen on Tuesday.” The city unit of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) staged a ‘Namaste Students’ campaign and welcomed them with dhol-tasha in different colleges in the city. The students’ union also celebrated the reopening at the Savitribai Phule Pune University. Head of the AISSMS College of Engineering, Pune, V R Patil, said, “Being a faculty member, watching students around the campus with enthusiasm was very appreciable. Students from the first year department were very energetic. The lectures were conducted in both online and offline mode with 50% capacity. Teaching and learning process will improve in the forthcoming days.” Akhil Joshi, assistant professor of the mechanical department, JSPM’s Rajarshi Shahu College of Engineering said RSCOE has commenced offline college for students from Monday. “The staggered conduction of physical practicals is complemented with online lectures in a blended learning environment. We are hopeful and positive that full classes will resume soon and are confident of taking precautions and maintaining standards for the same. It is in the interest of students of Engineering that physical classes resume,” Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/buzz-back-in-colleges-but-muted-on-day-1-as-hybrid-mode-prevails/articleshow/80937311.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 16, 2021||Pune||Pune: Hostels won’t take in students as yet, staggered influx likely||PUNE: Many colleges reopened on Monday, but confusion over the starting of hostels remained among their managements. Adding to the problems, are the guidelines by the University Grants Commission (UGC) telling colleges to permit only one student per room. In Pune, students outrank available rooms in hostels. Some colleges said they have decided to reopen their hostels in a phased manner, others have decided to start from next week so that students have time to find alternative accommodation if they are unable to get a hostel room. Though Savitribai Phule Pune University has also decided to reopen hostels in a phased manner, starting with PhD students, the rooms did not record any students checking-in on Monday. Madhuri Khambete, principal at Cummins College of Engineering for Women, said, “We are starting our lectures from next Monday and are calling our students in phases so that laboratory work can be completed. In the first phase, final-year students will arrive, followed by third-year and then second-year students. We will keep single occupancy rooms, but wherever the rooms are big we can host only two students.” Anurag Kashyap, principal of Dr Bhanuben Nanavati College of Architecture for Women, said the policy on reopening of hostels is still confusing and there are no directives regarding them from the university or local authorities. “We are also thinking of reopening in a phased manner, with three weeks each for one batch starting from the last batch. Currently, only students with practical work are being allowed to come to the hostel. We will continue the online classes. Recently, there has been news that Covid-19 cases are once again rising which is a cause of worry,” he added. R M Jalnekar, director at Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, said they are planning to reopen from the next week so that students can find accommodation and work out other modalities. In view of the government guidelines and UGC directives, hostels will reopen in a phased manner starting from research students, Prafulla Pawar, SPPU registrar, said. PhD students in SPPU are allotted one person per room, unlike PG and other students where even more than five students share a room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hostels-wont-take-in-pupils-as-yet-staggered-influx-likely/articleshow/80937312.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 16, 2021||Meerut||Hundreds of lawyers take to streets & ‘forcibly’ entre SSP office demanding arrest of accused in Tomar suicide case||Meerut: Hundreds of lawyers on Monday came down to the streets and blocked traffic at Commissioner Crossing in Meerut, demanding immediate arrest of culprits, including local BJP MLA, booked for allegedly abetment to suicide of a lawyer.The protesters even “forcibly” entered the SSP office and raised slogans against police. They withdrew their protest only after police officers promised to arrest the accused within 24 hours. BJP Hastinapur legislator Dinesh Khatik is among 14 accused named in the suicide case of lawyer Omkar Singh Tomar. Meanwhile, speaking to TOI, Khatik said, “I have already stated that I have no role in the suicide. Rather I was only helping the two families. I am ready for a police investigation.”Hours after a Meerut resident, Omkar Singh Tomar, 48, allegedly ended his life on Saturday and reportedly named Khatik as one of the people responsible for his death, Khatik and 13 others were booked under IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide) by Meerut police on behalf of the family.According to the deceased’s family, Khatik had allegedly been putting pressure on Tomar to shell out Rs 15 lakh to settle a dowry case registered against Tomar’s son. Khatik had, however, refuted all the charges, saying that he was just “mediating”.Meanwhile, investigations have been started in the case, and according to police sources, CCTV footages of Tomar’s house will be looked into to establish the allegations levelled by the family that Khatik’s men often used to visit Tomar’s house to threaten him to shell out money. “We have begun investigations and will look into all evidence, including CCTV footages, call details and other things based on which arrests will be made,” said SP (rural) Keshav Kumar.District Bar Association president Mahavir Tyagi said, “Our associations have passed three resolutions: first, we want arrest of all accused within 48 hours; second, we will abstain from work until Wednesday; and third, monetary compensation for the deceased’s family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hundreds-of-lawyers-take-to-streets-forcibly-entre-ssp-office-demanding-arrest-of-accused-in-tomar-suicide-case/articleshow/80933761.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 16, 2021||Trichy||Wider smart footpaths shrink roads, add to traffic congestion in Trichy city||Trichy: Smart pedestrian platforms constructed at a cost of Rs 69 crore in several parts of the city are giving more troubles than serving as a utility. The width of the platforms has increased threefold, eating into the roads. Adding to the trouble is the vehicles parked on the roads, which causes frequent snarl-ups on the arterial roads. Smart pedestrian platforms were constructed under the smart cities mission covering 7sqkm area around the Rockfort hillock. Narrow pedestrian platforms on West Boulevard Road, Salai Road and roads near Chathiram bus stand were demolished and widened. The width of platforms has increased threefold by utilising the space between carriageways and stormwater drains. Since a majority of the commercial complexes lack parking space, people used the space between storm drains and roads to park their vehicles. After the conversion, people now park vehicles on the roads leading to frequent traffic bottlenecks. Traffic jams are frequent on roads near Melachinthamani at Chathiram bus stand, Salai Road and West Boulevard Road near Ibrahim Park. Since the platforms are facilitated with multiple ducts to transmit cables, the Trichy Corporation said that the pedestrian platforms needed that space. But the residents and city police opined that it is a misuse of space and urged the local body to convert a portion of the platforms into parking-cum-pedestrian track by earmarking space to park two-wheelers. “Pedestrian tracks are too wide but people hardly use them. But the shopkeepers are using the platforms as a stockyard at many places. A portion of the tracks can be used to park vehicles,” K P Rangaprasad, joint secretary, Satta Panchayat Iyakkam, said. Traffic police sources said their work has doubled after the civic body set up the smart pedestrian platforms on the narrow roads. “Volume of vehicles post the lockdown has increased 30% as the smart platforms have shrunken the road space,” a traffic police officer said. Sources said that the platforms can serve as pedestrian-cum-parking space by facilitating a ramp between the edges of the tracks sliding towards the roads. “It has to be discussed since our proposal had not envisaged such a plan. Once the construction work concludes, we will install ropes to earmark parking space,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/wider-smart-footpaths-shrink-roads-add-to-traffic-congestion-in-trichy-city/articleshow/80940839.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 16, 2021||Pune||Pune: Cobra fatally hurt in NIBM Road society||PUNE: A cobra was fatally injured while it was trying to enter a housing society on NIBM Road on Monday afternoon. The snake got caught in the hinge of the main gate. “When the security guards opened the gate, a part of the snake got stuck in the hinge,” Nisha Monteiro, a resident of Sunshree Kangan, said. Volunteers from Sarpmitra rescued the snake and diagnosed the injury as fatal. “Snakes do not survive spinal injuries. We left it in the forest area behind NIBM,” animal rescuer Anand Waydande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cobra-fatally-hurt-in-nibm-road-society/articleshow/80937356.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM orders probe into Wasim Jaffer row||DEHRADUN: Amid the ongoing controversy around the resignation of Wasim Jaffer from the post of head coach of Uttarakhand senior men’s cricket team over alleged charges of religious bias in selection of players and bringing a maulvi in the dressing room when the team was functioning in a bio-bubble, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has now ordered a probe into the matter. The move comes a day after a delegation of Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) officials met the CM at his residence on Sunday evening. Confirming that a probe has been ordered, media advisor to the CM, Darshan Singh Rawat, told TOI, “The CAU delegation which met the chief minister had a detailed discussion with him over the issue following which the CM has asked for a probe to be done.” The CAU delegation comprised the association’s vice-president Sanjay Rawat, treasurer Prithvi SinghNegi, joint secretary Avnish Verma and member Rohit Chauhan. After the meeting on Sunday, Rawat had told TOI, “It was a routine meeting in which the Jaffer case had also come up. If we receive any complaint, the matter will be probed.” The issue had shot into limelight after Jaffer resigned from the post of head coach of the state cricket team on February 8 citing “much interference and bias on the part of selectors and CAU secretary Mahim Verma in the selection matters for non-deserving players.” The incident gained national limelight after a number of prominent cricketers like Anil Kumble, IrfanPathan and Mohammad Kaif extended support to Jaffer. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in a tweet wrote, “In the last few years, hate has been normalised so much that even our beloved sport cricket has been marred by it. India belongs to all of us. Do not let them dismantle our unity.” In an e-mail, Jaffer had expressed his point of view by saying, “I feel really sad for the players (in the team) as I genuinely think that they have a lot of potential and can learn so much from me, but are denied this opportunity because of so much interference and bias of selectors and (the) secretary in the selection matters for non-deserving players.” Meanwhile, CAU secretary Mahim Verma told TOI that there are “no religious overtones in the matter of the resignation of Wasim Jaffer from the post of the head coach". Verma said: “His (Jaffer's) resignation came purely due to cricketing differences over choice of players in the squad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wasim-jaffer-resignation-row-ukhand-cm-orders-probe-into-the-matter-after-meeting-cau-officials/articleshow/80933773.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Permission sought to bring kumkis to check human-elephant conflict||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore forest division has sought permission from the chief wildlife warden to bring two kumki elephants to the Chadivayal elephant camp here to check man-animal conflict in the region.The forest department had set up the camp for kumki elephants at Chadivayal in 2012. Kumki elephants Nanjan and Pari were brought to the camp from Kozhikamuthi in Topslip in 2012. After Nanjan breathed his last in 2014, the department brought kumki Sujay from the Theppakadu elephant camp in 2015. But the elephants were not effective in kumki operations, officials said. They decided to send back Sujay, which was attacked by a wild elephant and Pari back to their former camps in 2017.In April 2018, kumki elephants Cheran and John were brought to the Chadivayal camp from Theppakadu. After realising that the elephants were not fit enough to chase away wild elephants from human habitations, they were sent back to Theppakadu the next year. In 2019, the department brought Suyambu and Venkatesh from the Kozhikamuthi camp. The elephants were used till September 2020. But as Suyambu was in musth for a long period and the mahout was not able to control the animal, the officials sent Suyambu to the Kozhikamuthi camp. They also sent back Venkatesh, which was losing weight.As the Chadivayal camp has no kumki elephants, forest department officials are tackling man-animal conflict with the help of anti-poaching and anti-depredation watchers, who burst crackers to send back elephants to the reserve forest.“We have sent a letter to the chief wildlife warden. We will bring two kumki elephants from Kozhikamuthi or Theppakadu camps once we get the order,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/permission-sought-to-bring-kumkis-to-check-human-elephant-conflict/articleshow/80937397.cms||A Subburaj
February 16, 2021||Pune||Vasantotsav workshop on varieties of raga Kanada||Pune: A workshop exploring the varieties of raga Kanada will be held as part of ‘Vasantotsav’, being organized as a part of vocalist Vasantrao Deshpande’s birth centenary celebrations. The event is being conducted by the Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Pratishthan. The workshop, called ‘Kanada Kafila’, under ‘Vasantotsav Vimarsh’, will be held on February 18 from 5.30 to 9pm at Jyotsna Bhole Sabhagruha, Hirabaug. The workshop will be open to all on a first-come-first served basis. Offering the audience a feast of diverse music this year, ‘Vasantotsav’ in its 14th year will be held from February 19 to 21. Speaking about the ‘Vasantotsav Vimarsh’ initiative, Rahul Deshpande, classical vocalist and grandson of Vasantrao Deshpande, said, “Every year, a lecture on music or a workshop is organized during ‘Vasantotsav Vimarsh’. This year, we have organized a special event called ‘Kanada Kafila’. All music students, artists and aficionados will get free access with hygiene and safety precautions in place.” In this series, a special workshop on the varieties of raga Kanada will be presented this year. The first part will consist of a lecture with a guided listening session by musicologist Chaitanya Kunte. In the second part, Pandit Sudheer Pote, a veteran vocalist of Jaipur Gharana, will demonstrate some rare varieties and bandish. He will be accompanied by Milind Pote (tabla) and Saumitra Kshirsagar (harmonium).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vasantotsav-workshop-on-varieties-of-raga-kanada/articleshow/80937363.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Pune||Elpro International hosts ‘Pangea The Global Village’||Pune: Elpro International School, in association with its partner school in London, Wapping High School and SkillSphere Education hosted “Pangea-The Global Village,” a two-day online conference. Seven schools from Asia, Europe, South America participated. Inspired by the concept of a single unified supercontinent, Pangea was conceived with the underlying theme of “compassion and collaboration.” Lord David Evans, member of the parliament at the House of Lords, UK, as well as a British publisher, entrepreneur and an advisor to EIS and Claire Ward, former MP of UK, spoke at the inaugural ceremony. Pangea comprised of a wide range of events such El Autor (collaborative story writing), Global Jigyasa (world quiz), among others. Dr. Amrita Vohra, the director-principal of Elpro International School said, “Initiatives such as Pangea, will help students to become better equipped and better prepared for the future. The event has left us enriched and kindled some good life-skills and values in us.” VPMS, Pune student ranks 4th in Int’l Scratch contestSamyag Shand of Std V from Vikhe Patil Memorial School, Pune secured World Rank 4 at the International Kids Coding Competitions-Scratch, organized byMIT, Massachusetts. He scored competing against students from Canada, Indonesia, and other countries. He also bagged special category award for best creative skills in an inter-school competition.He said, “Writing a story and then making an animation was tougher than school projects, where the story was ready. But, after a few attempts, I could write the main story.” MKNS wins Future Glory School Award Mansukhbhai Kothari National School received the Future Glory School Award at the recent sixth annual conference held on the theme “Futuristic Trends in Education” in Noida. It was organized by the MSME- Government recognized CED Foundation in collaboration with the Global Talk Education Foundation. The trophy was accepted by the principal Varsha Kokil, which was handed over by the chief guest of the event Anurag Tripathi, secretary of the Central Board of Secondary Education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elpro-international-hosts-pangea-the-global-village/articleshow/80937375.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Pune||Smart City development plan for more Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation areas||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Smart City Limited will bring underdeveloped areas in PCMC limits under the ambit of area-based development. This includes areas such as Ravet, Kiwale, Dighi and Moshi, among others.  Shravan Hardikar, who headed the special vehicle till Sunday, said, aaeas wold be selected based on a four-point assessment. “The first will see how much development the area has witnessed so far, how many people live there and if there are any ongoing projects. The second point would be to observe the availability of public spaces in an area for general use and entertainment of citizens,” he said. Finally, how much revenue could be generated from that area in terms of property tax or others will be looked at.” The former Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner — who handed over the reins to Rajesh Patil on Monday — said the proposed budget of Rs507 crore for the financial year 2021-22 was approved by the board of directors in the meeting, with an expenditure of Rs504 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/smart-city-development-plan-for-more-pcmc-areas/articleshow/80937425.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Only AIADMK fulfilled poll promises, says CM||Coimbatore: Claiming that only AIADMK has fulfilled promises made in its manifesto in the last assembly election, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami took potshots at DMK for failing to provide two acres of land to landless poor families as promised ahead of the 2006 assembly election.Addressing a mass wedding ceremony organized by the party at Perur Chettipalayam in the district to mark the 73rd birth anniversary of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa on Monday, the chief minister said, “The state government has provided Rs 4,217 crore to people under the marriage assistance scheme. One sovereign of gold under the ‘Thaalikku Thangam’ (gold for marriage) is being given to a couple under the scheme. So far, the government has given 6,085kg of gold under the scheme and allotted Rs 1,896 crore.” The state government has been receiving numerous awards for its development works, he added. The mass wedding shows that AIADMK is beyond religion and caste, he said. The couples cut across all religions and caste groups.Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam who spoke at the function said Kongu region was the bastion of the AIADMK. The AIADMK government had brought 11 new medical colleges to the state in the past three and a half years. “But DMK-Congress alliance failed to bring any welfare schemes to Tamil Nadu when they were ruling the state between 2006 and 2011,” Panneerselvam said.“Our welfare schemes have reached every single household in the state and all our party cadres should work hard to win in the forthcoming election,” he said.Municipal administration minister SP Velumani said the chief minister will retain power in the state after the election. He criticized DMK leader MK Stalin for failing to bring any development for local bodies while he was the minister from 2006 to 2011.As many as 123 couples tied knots as per their respective religious rituals. The couples were provided with 73 types of articles as ‘Seervarisai’.AIADMK deputy co-ordinator KP Munusamy, deputy speaker of assembly Pollachi V Jayaraman, ministers KA Sengottaiyan, Dindigul C Sreenivasan, P Thangamani, KP Anbalagan, Udumalai K Radhakrishnan, MR Vijayabaskar, C Vijayabaskar were also present at the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/only-aiadmk-fulfilled-poll-promises-says-cm/articleshow/80937362.cms||A Subburaj
February 16, 2021||Agra||3 armed men loot Rs 7L from bank in Agra||Agra: In a daring bank robbery, three armed robbers struck at the Canara Bank in Kheria village of Iradat Nagar on Monday, and looted Rs 7 lakh. The suspects opened fire while leaving the bank. However, no one was reported injured. According to police, around 3 pm, when some customers were in the bank, the three bike-borne robbers arrived. While two entered, the third kept watch at the gate. One of them brandished a gun, threatening to kill, said a witness. The other collected the cash. One of the suspects appeared to be drunk and opened two rounds of fire while leaving the bank, said a senior police officerl. No one was injured but a cabin’s glass was damaged. ADG (Agra range) A Satish Ganesh and SSP Babloo Kumar reached the crime spot to assess the situation. Ganesh told TOI that the police had got some vital clues after scanning the CCTV footage of the bank. “Five teams have been formed to work on the case,” he added. In December last year, four armed robbers had looted Rs 57 lakh by holding bank staff of the Indian Overseas Bank hostage in Sadar area. Police had arrested the accused with the help of CCTV footage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-armed-men-loot-rs-7l-from-bank-in-agra/articleshow/80933803.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Ooty govt museum to train students of arts college||Udhagamandalam: The Government Arts College in Ooty and the department of museums will soon sign a memorandum of understanding to train final year postgraduate students of the college.The students will undergo training in preservation and conservation of botanical and zoological specimens, and artifacts at the Government Museum in Ooty, curator K A Murugavel said. “Special lectures and exhibitions will be held at the museum as part of the programme, which will help to stimulate curiosity in research programmes in their subjects,” he said. The government museum had organized such programmes for students of the college in the past, the official said. “Those were organized randomly. Now, a MoU will be signed between the two parties and the programme will be held every year.”The museum houses over 2,000-year-old articles such as palm-leaf manuscripts, bamboo manuscripts and old coins collected from the Nilgiris hills. It has pre-historic rock paintings, artifacts of tribal communities such as todas, irulas, kotas and kurumbas. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-govt-museum-to-train-students-of-arts-college/articleshow/80937415.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Thirumalai Naicker kuttai encroached||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore District Farmers Welfare Association has invited the collector’s attention to the precarious condition of Thirumalai Naicker kuttai in Idigarai town panchayat.The pond is spread across 10 acres of patta land off the road between Athipalayam and Periyanaickenpalayam near GKD Mills, said association president C Duraisamy. “Twenty years ago, some people received patta for lands on its banks. Some of them have now built toilets encroaching the pond and have planted coconut trees there. If this is not stopped, they will encroach further,” he said.The association petitioned the collector and revenue department officials on February 1, requesting them to check encroachments. “The pond’s outlet is blocked by encroachments. If it rains, the bund may suffer breaches and two residential areas will be inundated,” Duraisamy said. “Also, a ditch set up by the Idigarai town panchayat is blocking the pond’s canal. If water doesn’t flow out, Govindanaickenpalayam and two Harijan colonies will get flooded.”While the Annur taluk surveyor visited the place, farmers say that action has to be taken before summer rain begins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/thirumalai-naicker-kuttai-encroached/articleshow/80937365.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Rescued elephant calf dies in tiger reserve||Udhagamandalam: An elephant calf that was rescued died in the Kargudi forest range in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris on Monday.Forest field staff found a 3-month-old male elephant calf abandoned by its herd in Kargudi range on Monday at around 8.30am. Forest department veterinarian Dr Rajesh examined the calf and found it to be highly dehydrated. The calf also had a deep wound with pus on its forehead, according to K K Kaushal, field director, MTR. The calf was then rehydrated orally and its injuries were treated, he said.“The forest field staff took efforts to reunite the calf with its herd, but were not able to locate the herd. The last resort would be to bring the abandoned calf to the Theppakadu elephant camp,” said the official. Around afternoon, the calf succumbed to its injuries without responding to treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rescued-elephant-calf-dies-in-tiger-reserve/articleshow/80937458.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Party keen on Sidhu getting back with CM without further delay: Rawat||Chandigarh: Congress’s Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat on Monday said former Punjab cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu was likely to be back in action at party programmes soon. Rawat met chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday amid speculations that Sidhu could be appointed as the state president or offered a portfolio better than power. He, however, maintained that it was for the two sides to decide the way ahead. Even though Rawat insisted that Sidhu was not on the agenda for the meeting, he said that the chief minister was aware of the party’s central leadership’s view that with just a year left for the next assembly polls, Sidhu should get back with him. “There was only a passing reference about Sidhu, and it seemed that Captain Amarinder ji too is keen that Sidhu should again be working with him closely,” he said. Asked about the new role for Sidhu, Rawat said it had to be agreed upon by the two sides. “The idea is that if there is still any issue, it should be resolved without any further delay. That is what the party leadership wants,” he said. Rawat’s meeting with Amarinder comes close on the heels of Sidhu meeting with party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka in Delhi last week. “I had come to Chandigarh to discuss the civic body polls and the ongoing farmers agitation with the chief minister. Sidhu was not on the agenda,” said Rawat. Party sources, meanwhile, said that while Sidhu has been given the offer to return to the cabinet with the power portfolio, along with a few other departments, there has still been no indication of the local government portfolio being restored to him. Besides, the party is not sure whether all sections of the party’s senior leaders will be comfortable with Sidhu replacing Sunil Jakhar as the state president. Earlier, there were reports of Jakhar offering to quit to facilitate the rehabilitation of Sidhu, but the latter has been keeping his cards close to his chest, limiting his activities to his constituency Amritsar East most of the last year. Sidhu has, however, been actively supporting the farmers’ agitation and also attended party MLA’' protest in Delhi. “Jakhar was instrumental in organising Rahul’s tractor rally in the state last year and the party will not want to replace him ahead of the assembly elections. However, it depends on whether Sidhu is keen on the position as he has already rejected the proposal to return to the state cabinet as the power minister,” said a party leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/party-keen-on-sidhu-getting-back-with-cm-without-further-delay-rawat/articleshow/80937468.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Man brandishes knife on station, threatens rly personnel, cops||Mumbai: A drunk 22-year old man brandished a knife, and assaulted railway police personnel at Sewri station on Central Railway’s Harbour line on Monday morning. The incident led to panic at the station. Accused Naved Khan is a resident of Irani Chawl in Sewri. A CR spokesperson said, “The youth, in an inebriated condition, spoke aggressively to a woman announcer in her cabin and demanded she serve him liquor.” A government railway police (GRP) official said, “The accused was talking in a raised tone to one of our personnel on platform 1. When the GRP constable asked what was he carrying on his waist, Khan warned him against touching his knife. Security personnel amd the home guard managed to bring him to the station’s master office.” The accused again threatened the station official and GRP personnel. — Manthan K Mehta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-brandishes-knife-on-station-threatens-rly-personnel-cops/articleshow/80943916.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 16, 2021||Pune||Pile-up on Katraj–Dehu Road bypass, no injuries||Pune: A pick-up truck applied sudden brakes on a section of Katraj–Dehu road bypass on Monday evening, triggering a chain of collisions that resulted in damage to five vehicles. No one was injured in the accident. Police said that the accident occurred when the vehicles were heading towards Navale Bridge from Katraj chowk. Jagannath Kalaskar, senior police inspector, Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, said, “A pick-up truck applied sudden brakes on the section of the bypass joining Navale Bridge and Katraj chowk. The container truck following it failed to stop and rammed into the pick-up truck. The pick-up truck then collided against an autorickshaw moving ahead of it.” “A speeding SUV then rammed into the container truck from behind and a fuel tanker, heading in the same direction, rammed into the SUV,” Kalaskar said. The accident took place during peak hours, stalling vehicular movement for an hour. Police rushed to the spot and cleared the vehicles from the road. Kalaskar said that police have initiated the process of registering an offence in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pile-up-on-katrajdehu-road-bypass-no-injuries/articleshow/80937446.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Hours after Facebook post, actor found dead||MUMBAI: Hours after he posted a “suicide note” on Facebook, 32-year-old actor Sandeep Nahar was found dead at Goregaon west on Monday. Nahar had starred in ‘Kesari’ and ‘MS Dhoni: The Untold Story,’ which had late Sushant Singh Rajput in the lead role, besides a web series. “Ligature marks are spotted on Nahar’s neck, but we cannot confirm whether he died by hanging. The autopsy will make things clear. We have recorded an accidental death case,” a police officer said. Nahar’s Facebook post and a video clip he had uploaded, recounting his troubled marriage, quickly went viral. The cyber police were alerted and they started tracking down his location, but it was too late. The note states: “…In the past two years, my wife has threatened to kill herself a hundred times...she does not respect me and abuses me.” Nahar repeatedly said his wife was not to be blamed after his death. He also wrote how difficult it was to get work in Bollywood due to the “politics” here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hrs-after-fb-post-actor-found-dead/articleshow/80941112.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Protesting against hydel projects for years, U'khand residents claim Chamoli havoc proved their worst fears true||Nainital: Hydel projects have always been a bone of contention in Uttarakhand, with local residents continuously asking for construction to be stopped on eco-sensitive zones. The Chamoli flash floods have once again raised a question on the viability of such projects in the upper reaches. Apart from the Rishiganga hydroelectricity project which was destroyed in Sunday’s deluge, several other hydroelectricity protests have been at the centre of protests in the state. Sangram Singh, a resident of Raini whose brother Kundan Singh had filed a petition in the Uttarakhand high court against the Rishiganga project, said, “We approached everyone, from the local tehsildar to courts and presented evidence that the firm was blasting boulders on the riverbed in violation of green norms but no one listened. Now our worst fears have come true, with so many lives lost.” Meanwhile, in a communique, NTPC which operates the Tapovan-Vishnugad project which suffered extensive damages in the flash floods, said that it was assisting rescue efforts in every possible way. “The calamity which resembled a tsunami was one of Nature’s rare events where its suddenness and ferocity left people defenceless despite the best safety measures. It is important to note that no project or infrastructure can account for a natural disaster of this scale, which occurs without warning, leaving no time to react. Yet, hydel power projects are necessary to provide electricity to remote communities that will otherwise remain cut off from mainstream development,” the communique said. It added that help was being extended to all those affected by the disaster. “A public Information centre, lodging and boarding, food and medical facilities are being provided by NTPC near the rescue site to the kin of those trapped inside the tunnel. NTPC is extending a compensation of Rs 20 lakh to the immediate family of the victims,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/protesting-against-hydel-projects-for-years-ukhand-residents-claim-chamoli-havoc-proved-their-worst-fears-true/articleshow/80933932.cms||Prashant Jha
February 16, 2021||Bhopal||Covid stress caused more damage to mind than heart||Indore: Indore district has reported 15% more cases of mental illness than acute heart diseases — a lifestyle generated disease, in the first 10 months of financial year at OPDs of health department. The CMHO office record suggested that district reported 922 cases of mental illness at OPD between April last year till January this year. This was higher than those, who visited facilities with complaints of acute heart disease, stroke, and even more than cancer. The number of acute heart disease patients was 805, stroke 592 and oncology (cancer) 585 in the same period, showed records. CMHO Dr Purnima Gadoriya said, “Stress and anxiety are the major cause behind this mental illness problem among people. Stress among people ranged from being affected with workplace problems, family issues, health issues, not getting jobs, losing jobs and others.” So, such things are creating illness in those who are mentally weak, added Dr Gadoriya. The record suggested that even in urban areas the cases are more than in rural parts. Almost 90% of those diagnosed cases are in urban parts. Prof VS Pal, superintendent of Government Mental Hospital and HoD, department of psychiatry MGM about increase in mental illness cases said, “The uncertainty in times of Covid-19 outbreak has increased anxiety and stress among the people leading to psychiatric issues.” “We observed an increase in relapse, new patients with such issues at OPD at hospital and clinics,” said Dr Pal. He added, “In society like ours where mental illness is a social taboo number of people suffering from such issues must be very high. But, they couldn’t be traced by any of the systems.” The medical research showed that around 15-30% of people suffered minor psychiatric illness in their lifetime. But, people prefer faith healing rather than visiting a medical practitioner. Such minor psychiatric issues are self-remitting and get cured after a couple of months so credit goes to that faith in getting relief, said Dr Pal. Dr Pal added, “There are many symptoms like restlessness, sleeping disorder, anxiety, tiredness, lack of concentration persisting for two to three weeks, which are signs of mental illness.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-stress-caused-more-damage-to-mind-than-heart/articleshow/80933935.cms||Antriksh Singh
February 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Covaxin shots to be administered at CMCH from today||Coimbatore: The first batch of 500 doses of Covaxin reached the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Monday evening.Administration of the vaccine will begin on Tuesday, hospital dean Dr P Kalidas said.Health department officials were expecting administration of Covaxin, which arrived in the district on Saturday, to begin on Monday morning at CMCH. “We sent a staff to pick up the vials on Monday afternoon as we were busy coordinating administration of booster doses, which included checking if reminders were sent and keying in details of beneficiaries,” said Kalidas.Beneficiaries will be able to choose between Covishield and Covaxin.On Monday, 723 people got vaccinated, of which 110 were beneficiaries of second dose. The day also saw 136 cops take the vaccine, of which 132 were Central Reserve Police Force staff. Only 587 healthcare workers took the vaccine. The health department needs to vaccinate another 14,500 frontline workers with the first dose to even reach the 50% target. As many as 23,000 people have been vaccinated in the district so far.Meanwhile, with the first batch of vaccines expiring as early as April, doctors in the private sector are urging the government to start opening it up to the public. “We believe that no vaccine must go waste,” said Dr C Palanivelu of Gem Hospitals. “While doctors in advanced countries like the UK and Canada are on a waitlist for their second dose, we have vaccines, but people are hesitating. At this point, registrations are not required. Whoever is willing, must be allowed to take the shot,” he said.There are indications that the government will open it up to the public after February 22, said Indian Medical Association district secretary Rajesh Babu. “That is why they have called all health workers, even if they have not registered in CoWin app, to get it at any PHC or GH,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covaxin-shots-to-be-administered-at-cmch-from-today/articleshow/80937533.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Farm laws won’t shut IKP centres: Kishan||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy on Monday said the new farm laws do not entail closure of Indira Kranti Patham (IKP) centres, which act as procurement centres for paddy. Interacting with party leaders, he said the TRS government is laying the blame on the Centre unnecessarily on this issue. “Farm laws do not prescribe closure of the procurement centres. The opposition parties are making baseless charges on us,” he said. Appealing to the farmers, he said the new agri laws give more flexibility to them. “There is no need to panic,” he said. A few days ago, TPPC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his appointment to seek clarity on closure of paddy procurement centres in Telangana. The TRS government has claimed that only those centres which were opened during Covid-19 have been closed. The BJP on Monday announced the candidatures of G Premender Reddy for the Nalgonda-Khammam- Warangal graduates MLC constituency and N Ramchander Rao for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar MLC constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farm-laws-wont-shut-ikp-centres-kishan/articleshow/80933916.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 16, 2021||Agra||Over 4 quintals of ganja worth Rs 2.5 crore smuggled from Maoist stronghold of Malkangiri in Odisha seized after encounter||Agra: More than four quintals of “high-quality” ganja (marijuana) — estimated to be worth Rs 2.5 crore at least — being smuggled in a truck from Maoist stronghold of Malkangiri district in Odisha to UP’s Mathura district was seized and eight members of an interstate gang were arrested after an encounter by Firozabad police on Monday. According to senior police officers, the eight criminals included gang lynchpin Satyabhan Pandey. Upon receiving a tip-off on Sunday that a truck from Naxal-hit area in Odisha was transporting a large consignment of contraband and after supplying a few packets in Firozabad district, the vehicle would leave for Mathura district, Firozabad police swung into action and started checking vehicles and intensified patrolling across the district, said police sources. Late Sunday evening, a patrolling team spotted a truck parked at a defunct petrol pump in Rapari village under Naseerpur police station and found the accused transferring a few packets to a red sedan car from the truck. Senior superintendent of police Ajay Kumar said, “On being surrounded, the smugglers opened fire at the police team. Following a late-night encounter, eight members of an interstate gang were arrested and 458 kg of high-quality ganja, the estimated cost of which would be Rs 2.5 crore in the international market — was seized from the truck and the red car. Besides, two illegal weapons and live cartridges were also seized from the possession of the smugglers.” “Five arrested smugglers, including gang leader Satyabhan Pandey, are residents of Mathura, while three others are residents of Odisha’s Angul district. Satyabhan and another gang member Kanhaiyalal Pandey have several criminal cases registered against them in Mathura district. We are searching for other members associated with the gang, and have alerted Mathura police, too,” added the SSP. Additional superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar said, “During the preliminary investigation, we found that the gang was operating in Agra region for the past seven years. The ganja was mainly supplied to Mathura district owing to its high demand among foreign tourists. The arrested gang members have named 25 people from Mathura and Firozabad districts associated with them in the illegal business. Several teams have been assigned the task to arrest them. Besides, we are also tracking their networks in other states and investigating the Maoist connection of the gang.” ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-4-quintals-of-ganja-worth-rs-2-5-crore-smuggled-from-maoist-stronghold-of-malkangiri-in-odisha-seized-after-encounter/articleshow/80933882.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 16, 2021||Agra||Priyanka, Jayant slam Centre for action against Disha||Agra: Even as he slammed the Union government for arresting 21-year-old environment activist Disha Ravi, RLD leader and former MP Jayant Chaudhary on Monday said that there was nothing wrong in using a toolkit or any other application for mustering support for an agitation. Every agitation needs publicity for mustering support and using toolkit is not “anti-national”, as being made out by the Union government, Chaudhary told reporters while before participating in a kisan mahapanchayat in Hathras. “Toolkit is basically like using a “hashtag” to address the issue on Twitter and the FIR against the activist will never stand judicial scrutiny,” he said while adding that criticising the Prime Minister doesn’t mean criticising the country or opposing the government. “You don’t become anti-national, if you don’t agree with the ruling dispensation,” he said. Even Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi took a veiled potshot at the BJP-led government and said that “people who carry guns are afraid of an unarmed girl”. “Those who wield guns are afraid of an unarmed girl. The unarmed girl has spread the light of hope,” the Congress leader tweeted in Hindi, using hashtags #ReleaseDishaRavi, #DishaRavi and #IndiaBeingSilenced. Later while addressing farmers in Hathras, Jayant Chaudhary, said, “When Modi does something, it is publicised across the globe as a major achievement, but if anyone criticizes him, he is branded a terrorist.” He added that farmers' agitation has also drawn widespread international attention which is not acceptable to the Modi regime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/priyanka-jayant-slam-centre-for-action-against-disha/articleshow/80933938.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Trichy||Forest dept catches 20 monkeys in Thanjavur after baby’s death||Thanjavur: The forest department has captured 20 monkeys using cages from in and around Thanjavur palace after an eight-day-old baby lost its life two days ago after being flung into a moat allegedly by monkeys. As per the instruction given by district collector M Govinda Rao, a team from the forest department comprising 15 staff, placed cages at various spots in and around the palace and caught 20 monkeys. According to officials from the district forest office, they have decided to let free the animals in Pachamalai hills.The district collector asked the officials to take steps to avert any such incident in the future. However, he told TOI that he could not say anything about the alleged involvement of monkeys in the incident without any proper evidence. “We cannot say anything without evidence. We have also got a case registered. In case of any other aspects, police will take appropriate action in due course after taking into consideration the postmortem report. However, we should not set aside the fact that there is monkey movement around the area. So, I have asked the forest department to have a continuous watch,” the collector said.Revenue officials had visited the parents and consoled them. The district administration is trying to arrange relief under the chief minister’s fund, the collector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/forest-dept-catches-20-monkeys-in-thanjavur-after-babys-death/articleshow/80941092.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Shift Salem GH to collectorate: Activist||Salem: City-based activist A Radhakrishnan written a petition to governor Banwarilal Purohit urging him to shift the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital to the district collectorate premises considering the increasing number of visitors to the hospital.Besides patients from Salem district, people from Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Kallakurichi and Villupuram districts also visit the hospital for treatment, Radhakrishnan said in the petition. “Though the hospital has been expanding since it was upgraded as a multi-specialty hospital in 2010, it still needs several buildings to handle the patients effectively,” he added. Radhakrishnan suggested shifting the hospital to the collectorate premises which could accommodate all the medical departments as it has huge space. He also suggested acquiring parcels of land from veterinary hospitals and old district panchayat office that are functioning near the collectorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shift-salem-gh-to-collectorate-activist/articleshow/80937520.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||HC restrains Pb from making appointments on ETT posts||Chandigarh: Punjab and Haryana high court has restrained the Punjab government from issuing appointment letters for the post of elementary teachers training (ETT)-qualified teachers in the state without permission. However, the HC has made it clear that the counselling process may continue. The court passed these orders observing that there were some contraventions of statutory rules in the selection criteria adopted for these posts. “The state counsel to take complete instructions as regards the weightage contemplated for higher qualifications in the advertisement for preparation of the final merit and which prima facie, runs contrary to the mandate of the statutory rule… In the meanwhile, it is directed that the counselling process may continue but appointment letters shall not be issued without leave of this court,” Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa of the HC passed these orders while hearing Daljit Kaur and others. The matter has been scheduled for further hearing on May 20. The petitioners questioned the advertisement dated March 6, 2020 issued by the state of Punjab inviting applications to fill several posts of ETT teachers. A total of 2,364 candidates were to be selected. Clause 3 of the advertisement provided ‘Mode of Selection,’ explaining that a written objective type test of 100 marks shall be conducted and the final merit list shall be prepared on the basis of the written test and after adding marks for higher qualification. The post in question is governed by the Punjab state elementary education (teaching cadre) border area group ‘C’ service rules 2018. An amendment to the rules was carried out through notification dated February 26, 2020. It provided, “No person shall be appointed to the service by way of direct recruitment unless he qualifies in the competitive test as specified by the director from time to time. Final selection of candidates shall be on the basis of their merit in the said written examination. There shall be no marks for viva voce or interview.” The main issue of the petitioners was against the advertisement clause that provides different criteria to determine higher qualification for candidates. Counsel for the petitioners argued that the language employed in the statutory rule is unambiguous and to the effect that the final selection of candidates shall be on the basis of their merit in the written examination and there shall be no marks for viva voce or interview.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-restrains-pb-from-making-appointments-on-ett-posts/articleshow/80937504.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Coimbatore||123 couples tie knot at mass marriage event||Coimbatore: About five months ago, when 27-year-old J Sumega Banu got engaged to a man from Palani, she was excited and nervous at the same time. Her father had announced that he would give 10 sovereigns of gold as a marriage gift to his daughter at her wedding on January 25. The marriage expenses along with her sister’s educational expenses were beyond the means of her father, who made a meagre Rs 15,000 per month from his job as a cook. Sumega was pushed to distress when her family decided to pledge their house to make ends meet. Around the same time in January, she got a call from an AIADMK member who informed her that the party would conduct a mass wedding ceremony on the 73rd birth anniversary of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. She discussed the matter with her father and mother-in-law, both of whom agreed immediately and rescheduled the wedding ceremony.On Monday, Sumega Banu tied the knot with Amjath Ali along with 122 other couples at a mass wedding ceremony conducted by AIADMK members at a ground at Perur Chettipalayam to mark the beginning of a week-long celebrations ahead of the birth anniversary of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa on February 24.The ceremony was performed in front of priests, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and thousands of other people. As soon as the AIADMK leaders descended from the stage, parents, relatives and friends of the123 couples who had been waiting impatiently rushed to the stage to share their happiness. While some couples were found clicking pictures with their family members and friends, others were found seeking blessings from their parents. Another bride from Anaimalai, S Vijaylakshmi, 22, said her parents are farmhands with a paltry income. “When I was engaged to my husband L Kalimuthu two months ago, we had decided to marry in a simple manner at a temple. But this ceremony has come as a blessing to us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/123-couples-tie-knot-at-mass-marriage-event/articleshow/80937566.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 16, 2021||Salem||PM Modi to visit Coimbatore on Feb 25: BJP leader||COIMBATORE: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Coimbatore on February 25, BJP state president L Murugan said. Speaking to reporters after a party meeting at a private hotel in Chinniampalayam on Monday, he said the Prime Minister will participate in a government function and a public meeting. “We have made arrangements to welcome him in a traditional manner.” He said the party’s other national leaders will be visiting the state in coming days. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will participate in the party’s youth wing meeting in Salem on February 21, he added. On the forthcoming assembly election, Murugan said the party’s campagin was going on as per the schedule. “The BJP’s alliance with the AIADMK was confirmed and the alliance will rule the state for the next five years. Talks on constituency allocation will begin soon. More than the number of constituencies that the party is going to contest, the number of BJP cadres entering into the assembly is important,” he said while exuding confidence that the legistators from the party will be in double digit in the next assembly. Attacking DMK, he said the party is against Hindus, Hindu gods, development of the country and supports corruption. “We have won a large number of seats in the local body election. We are aware of our strength and are constantly growing. BJP is for the people of all religion. Our election manifesto will be released within a week,” he added. Earlier in the day, BJP functionaries from 12 districts participated in the meeting with Murugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/pm-to-visit-city-on-feb-25-bjp-leader/articleshow/80970563.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to help 440 get admission abroad, 110 jobs||CHANDIGARH: After much delay, the Punjab government has finally set the ball rolling for execution of its plan of facilitating youth in securing admission and finding jobs in foreign countries. The state government has set a target of identifying the first batch of 440 students interested in pursuing higher education in foreign countries, and 110 seeking suitable jobs abroad by February 28. The government will provide free counselling service to the youth ,while all the cost pertaining to their fee, travel and stay will be borne by them. To work out the modality, a meeting was held on Monday in which it was decided that to begin with foreign study and placement counselling will be started from Mohali and the authorities have been directed to chalk out half-yearly counselling schedule up to September 30 to be shared with the district bureaus of employment and enterprise (DBEE). All the candidates registered with the department will be intimated through email/SMS and they will also be contacted by bureaus of employment and enterprise in their respective districts. All the colleges and institutes will also be contacted. Those interested in participating in the first round of counselling will be asked to get themselves registered between February 21 to 25 on google links created by the department. Of total registered candidates, each district bureau will scrutinise and identify top 20 candidates for foreign study and top five candidates for job placements. In addition, they will also shortlist 10 reserve candidates. As per the plan, the counselling for top candidates will be held between March 1 to March 31 at Mohali, while the second round will be held in the month of May. The final documentation and processing of the files of selected candidates will be done in August and September. District bureaus have also been entrusted with responsibility of making transport arrangements for the shortlisted candidates. For better coordination, a WhatsApp group of foreign students and placement cell will be created. Employment generation and training secretary Rahul Tewari said all the formalities had been completed and detailed plan of action shared with all districts bureaus. “We are undertaking a pilot from March 1 and in the pilot, we aim to counsel and facilitate 500 youth – 400 for study and 100 for jobs, to move abroad,” said Tewari. The central government has accorded mandatory approvals to the Punjab government for formation of the cell. Many youths have been duped by illegal travel agents on the pretext of sending them abroad. About 700 cases have been registered by police in the last few years against travel agents for cheating gullible people on pretext of sending them on work visa to countries like Canada, America, Dubai, Armenia and Saudi Arabia. BOX Marred by delay The plan of the state government to help youth move abroad for study and jobs has been marred by delays. The government was hoping to implement the plan by mid-2019 to save the youth from falling prey to unscrupulous travel agents. Earlier, the government had planned to hire a private firm to help youth move to foreign countries. Fearing that a private firm might misuse the authority, the government dropped the idea and decided to set up its own placement cell, causing delay in implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-to-help-440-get-admission-abroad-110-jobs/articleshow/80937605.cms||Vinod Kumar
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Cultivate forgotten crops to tackle climate change’||Hyderabad: Forgotten crops have to be readdressed and cultivated to tackle the problem of climate change, speakers at the 21st Mobile Biodiversity Festival of Deccan Development Society (DDS) said at the closing event on Monday at Machnoor in Jharasangam mandal on Sangareddy district.  Co-director of DDS Jayasri Cherukuri said the festival of the women farmers was being celebrated for the last 20 years. Three women farmers were honoured for their contribution towards ecological agriculture and climate. Maisannagari Ratnamma, Moligeri Chandramma and Begari Sangamma have been cultivating millets for several years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cultivate-forgotten-crops-to-tackle-climate-change/articleshow/80933999.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 16, 2021||Coimbatore||PM Modi to visit Coimbatore on Feb 25: BJP leader||COIMBATORE: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Coimbatore on February 25, BJP state president L Murugan said. Speaking to reporters after a party meeting at a private hotel in Chinniampalayam on Monday, he said the Prime Minister will participate in a government function and a public meeting. “We have made arrangements to welcome him in a traditional manner.” He said the party’s other national leaders will be visiting the state in coming days. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will participate in the party’s youth wing meeting in Salem on February 21, he added. On the forthcoming assembly election, Murugan said the party’s campagin was going on as per the schedule. “The BJP’s alliance with the AIADMK was confirmed and the alliance will rule the state for the next five years. Talks on constituency allocation will begin soon. More than the number of constituencies that the party is going to contest, the number of BJP cadres entering into the assembly is important,” he said while exuding confidence that the legistators from the party will be in double digit in the next assembly. Attacking DMK, he said the party is against Hindus, Hindu gods, development of the country and supports corruption. “We have won a large number of seats in the local body election. We are aware of our strength and are constantly growing. BJP is for the people of all religion. Our election manifesto will be released within a week,” he added. Earlier in the day, BJP functionaries from 12 districts participated in the meeting with Murugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pm-to-visit-city-on-feb-25-bjp-leader/articleshow/80937598.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||9 more POCSO fast track courts, sexual assault response teams in Punjab||Chandigarh: To strengthen the investigation and prosecution machinery for handling criminal offences against women and children, the Punjab government has decided to set up nine more fast track courts under the POCSO Act and sexual assault response teams in all the 27 police districts of the state. At a high-level virtual meeting, chief secretary Vini Mahajan directed officials to clear the pendency of cases related to women and children from the period 2016 to 2020 through quality investigations on priority. She also directed the officials to lay down standard operating procedures (SOPs) to fast track the investigation of sexual offences against women and children by specifying the roles and responsibilities of all departments with regard to such cases. Mahajan also ordered the constitution of a state-level committee, headed by the additional chief secretary (ACS) home, to review the monthly progress of pending cases. She directed the health, police and prosecution departments to appoint a nodal officer for better inter-departmental synergy to deal with investigation of criminal cases related to women and child, and also manage the necessary programmes for training of personnel in this regard. The chief secretary announced that the state government will also recruit additional scientific officers and forensic experts to ensure faster disposal of cases pending with the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). She added that the process of approval to provide compensation to the victims will also be eased so that such payments are made without any delay. She also directed the home department to expedite the establishment of nine other fast track courts, for which approval has been granted by the government, in addition to the three such courts already operational in Ludhiana and Jalandhar. Notably, seven fast track courts dealing with rape cases are also already functional in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/9-more-pocso-fast-track-courts-sexual-assault-response-teams-in-punjab/articleshow/80937546.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Trichy||Snarl-ups continue due to hawkers||Trichy: The unregulated presence of street vendors is highlighted as a major reason for the recurring snarl-ups in the city. The constitution of the street vending committee, which could streamline the street vendors by earmarking prohibited zones, has been delayed by Trichy Corporation for the past three years. The formation of the committee comprising corporation, police and health officials apart from representatives of street vendors and NGOs is due in 2017. Six representatives of street vendors have to be elected for the committee, which will survey the arterial roads and earmark vending zones and non-vending zones to eliminate traffic bottlenecks due to encroachments. The civic body and the street vendors are in a blame game on the formation of the committee. It will help the civic body collect user fee from the vendors for facilitating amenities such as toilets. “We had planned to conduct the election in the late 2020, but we were busy with enumerating street vendors for the Prime Minister’s Atmanirbhar scheme. The election is unlikely,” a senior corporation official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/snarl-ups-continue-due-to-hawkers/articleshow/80941161.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Gold saree for goddess on KCR b’day: Talasani||Hyderabad: Apart from planting one crore saplings on the occasion of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao birthday on February 17, various programmes such as special pujas in temples and other places of worship, distribution of sarees, sports activities and blood donation camps will be organised, animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav said. He said a 2.5-kg golden saree will be presented to Balkampet Yellamma Ammavari temple by MLC Kalvakunta Kavitha on February 17.  Similarly, a golden shield (kavacham) would be presented in Bangaru Maisamma in Parsgutta. The minister said celebrations would be conducted in Jal Vihar on Necklace Road. He released a 30-minutes documentary on KCR’s life with 3D graphics. “Special rituals will be performed in temples. Sarees will be distributed to 300 poor women on the occasion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gold-saree-for-goddess-on-kcr-bday-talasani/articleshow/80933964.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Coimbatore||1,000 people will be allowed to take pilgrimage to Jerusalem: CM||Coimbatore: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday said that the state government will allow 1,000 people to undertake pilgrimage to Jerusalem from now on.He was addressing a conference of Tamil Nadu Christian Democratic Federation at CODISSIA trade fair complex in the city. In 2018-19, the state government has increased the number of beneficiaries from 500 to 600 and they were provided a subsidy of Rs 20,000 for their annual pilgrimage to Jerusalem. Based on public demand, the state government has increased the grant given for the pilgrimage from Rs 20,000 to Rs 37,000, he said.Similarly, every year, the government would allocate a sum of Rs 1 crore to carry out repair and maintenance works at the churches. This year, it has been increased to Rs 5 crore, he added.“The demands placed by various Christian organizations will be considered and fulfilled at the earliest,” he said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1000-people-will-be-allowed-to-take-pilgrimage-to-jerusalem-cm/articleshow/80937552.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Warangal teen stabbed by property offender dies||Hyderabad: A 19-year-old labourer, who was stabbed by a property offender on Saturday during an argument over a woman, succumbed while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Warangal on Sunday night. Police arrested the accused and sent him on judicial remand. The victim was S Venkat (19) from Yellandu in Bhadradri Kothagudem district and the accused is R Venkateshwarulu (35) from Khammam. Venkateshwarulu is a property offender and is accused in eight cases registered at various police stations in Khammam district, Khammam I Town Inspector N Chitti Babu said. According to the inspector, Vankateshwarulu has an affair with a woman from Khammam and on Saturday night he saw Venkat talking to the woman at Mayuri centre in Khammam. “Venkateshwarulu was furious that his lover was talking to another man. Venkateshwarulu confronted Venkat and they had an argument. During the argument Venkateshwarulu stabbed Venkat in the abdomen with a knife,” the inspector said. After the assault, Venkat collapsed on the road and locals tried to nab Venkateshwarulu. The accused managed to escape from the spot and Venkat was initially shifted to a local hospital in Khammam before being shifted MGM hospital in Warangal for better treatment on Sunday. “We have arrested the accused on Sunday and sent him on judicial remand,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-teen-stabbed-by-property-offender-dies/articleshow/80934100.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Coimbatore||State to construct memorial for Pollan||Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday announced that a memorial will be constructed for freedom fighter Pollan and his birthday will be celebrated as a government event. He made this announcement while addressing a meeting organized by Adhi Tamizhar Munnetra Kazhagam (ATMK) in Kumarapalayam. Listing out various schemes being implemented for arunthathiyar community by his government, Palaniswami said the government provided Rs 82 crore worth loans to the community to improve their lifestyle. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/state-to-construct-memorial-for-pollan/articleshow/80937624.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||47 Covid cases surface in U'khand in 24hrs||Dehradun: With 47 new cases of Covid-19 reported in Uttarakhand in the past 24 hours, coronavirus tally reached 96,867 on Monday. The number of recovered patients now stands at 93,160 with 99 patients still recovering. The recovery rate in the state is 96.1%, while the fatality rate is at 1.7%. According to the health department, Dehradun reported 17 new cases followed by 16 in Haridwar, eight in Nainital, five in Chamoli and one in Udham Singh Nagar. “No Covid-19 death was reported on Monday,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/47-covid-cases-surface-in-ukhand-in-24hrs/articleshow/80934070.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Man booked for teenage cousin’s rape||Mumbai: A man working in the merchant navy was booked by Aarey police for the rape of his teenaged cousin last year. A complaint was lodged recently after she was found to be six months’ pregnant. Police said she lives with her parents in the western suburbs but last year she had visited his house in Aarey Colony. He had promised to marry her. A case was registered under POSCO Act and it was then transferred to Aarey police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-booked-for-teenage-cousins-rape/articleshow/80944041.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Surat||Fire break out at textile mill in Bamroli, no casualties||Surat: A major fire was broke out at textile dyeing and printing mill in Bamroli early Monday morning. According to the fire department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), about six shanties near the textile mill and about eight vehicles were gutted in the fire. However, there were no casualties in the incident.The SMC’s fire department said the fire at the Manhar Dyeing and Printing Mills was reported at about 7 am. Seven fire tenders were put into service to douse the fire.SMC’s chief fire officer Pareek said, “The fire was caused due to the short circuit. This was the second fire incident in the last 10 days. About half a dozen huts in the vicinity of the mill were destroyed due to the fire.”Pareek added, “None of the officials or the residents were injured in the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fire-break-out-at-textile-mill-in-bamroli-no-casualties/articleshow/80930756.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ludhiana||ED case: CM, son’s revision plea on records inspection adjourned||Ludhiana: A court here on Monday adjourned a revision petition filed by Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh and his son against lower court order allowing ED to inspect fresh records filed by income tax department in the alleged tax evasion cases against them. The next hearing of the case in the court of additional district and session judge Atul Kasana is on March 1. On September 18 last year, the court of judicial magistrate Jasbeer Singh, while allowing ED application, had allowed the investigating agency to inspect fresh income tax records related to the cases of Amarinder Singh and Raninder, and had allowed ED to inspect those on September 28. Later, the court of additional district and sessions judge, admitting two revised petition filed by Amarinder and Raninder against the September 18 order, had ordered stay on ED inspection of records related to the cases. Raninder’s counsel, Advocate Gurmukh Singh, confirmed this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ed-case-cm-sons-revision-plea-on-records-inspection-adjourned/articleshow/80937642.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Surat||Surat textile sector opposes proposed merging of GST slabs||Surat: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has opposed the central government’s decision to merge the goods and service tax (GST) from the current four slabs. The SGCCI has written a letter to the union finance ministry stating that the move to merge four slabs into three would have a negative impact on the textile sector. The Centre has proposed to reduce GST slabs from the current 5%, 12%, 18%, and 28%, to three slabs — 8%, 18%, and 28%.SGCCI office bearers stated that currently GST is levied on 5%, 12% and 16% slabs in the MMF sector. The fabric currently attracts 5% GST, which the government said it was considering to raise to 6% or 12% during the 7th GST Council meeting.But given the opposition of the industrialists, the decision was postponed for a while. However, the issue is likely to be discussed again at the upcoming GST Council meeting. Meanwhile, on the basis of representations received by the SGCCI and FIASWI, the Chamber briefed union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on the situation that could arise in textile sector if the tax slabs were changed and requested not to change the GST rate.If the GST rate on fabrics is increased, the end product can become expensive and this can have a direct impact on demand. In addition, if the GST rate on yarn and fabric is kept the same, the attractiveness of the benefits under the Advance Authorization or EPCG scheme may decrease and this may lead to a decline in India’s exports.Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI said, “Rate of raw materials in the textile sector such as yarn, POY and FDY is likely to go up if GST rates are increased. This can cause weavers a lot of trouble. At the same time, the government may lose revenue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-textile-sector-opposes-proposed-merging-of-gst-slabs/articleshow/80930831.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||BMC: 25% of names on Co-WIN app could be duplicate entries||Mumbai: Duplicate entries of healthcare workers in the Co-WIN app could be inflating the count of beneficiaries in the city. A civic official said upto 25% of the names could be repeat entries, though the extent of duplication is still being evaluated. Over 1.9 lakh health workers are registered from Mumbai of whi-ch 48% have been vaccinated. Civic teams at the ward level, who are calling the recipients to visit vaccination centres, have found duplication to be a recurring problem. “We are encountering this more in the private sector, particularly with doctors or other medical professionals who are associated with more than one facility. There are many instances where each of these facilities have registered their names,” said Dr Sheela Jagtap, immunisation officer. Officials are also questioning how such a glitch could creep in as recipients had to submit their ID proofs, such as Aadhaar number, at the time of registration. “Ideally, an Aadhaar number should have been able to flag a duplicate registration,” said a ward official, who added that more than often the list generated by Co-WIN has names of people who are already vaccinated. Dr Jagtap said the issue has been brought to the attention of the Co-WIN tech teams. “We have now been given archival access that will allow us to remove duplicate names. We are working on it,” she said. Another civic official said that the duplication could pose a hurdle in determining the actual beneficiaries and therefore the actual coverage achieved. Karnataka, too, has flagged the issue of duplicate entries to the Centre. Civic staffers are also grappling with the issue of missing names from Co-WIN. Healthcare workers whose names are missing or those who have missed the registration bus, are struggling to get enlisted. In between, on-the-spot registration or at ward offices was allowed, but even that has been stopped now. An official said they are trying to seek clarity on this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-25-of-names-on-co-win-app-could-be-duplicate-entries/articleshow/80941256.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||59 hepatitis treatment centres established in Punjab: Sidhu||Chandigarh: To offer medical benefits to high-risk groups, the Punjab government established 59 hepatitis treatment centres between 2017 and 2020, said Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. He added that the Punjab model was adopted across the country as the Government of India developed a National Viral Hepatitis Control Programme (NVHCP) to treat such patients. Sidhu informed that Punjab was the first state to initiate free treatment of Hepatitis C in the country. Till date, 1.83 lakh persons have been screened for Hepatitis C and 91,403 patients have been provided free treatment. All the 59 treatment centres are actively functional at 22 district hospitals, 3 GMCs, 13 ART centers, 11 OST sites, 9 central prisons and 1 SDH. He also said that three designated model treatment centres (MTCs), namely department of hepatology, PGIMER, Chandigarh, Government Medical College Patiala and Faridkot have been doing capacity building of medical specialists and doctors of the state in management of Hepatitis C. About 74,000 patients have completed treatment with the cure rate of 93% in Punjab. All baseline tests, viral load test and treatment is being provided free of cost to all patients without any disparity, Sidhu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/59-hepatitis-treatment-centres-established-in-punjab-sidhu/articleshow/80937699.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Bhopal||Petrol bomb hurled at doc’s clinic in Awadhpuri, 1 hurt||Bhopal: Two unidentified bike-borne accused allegedly threw a petrol bomb outside a doctor’s clinic located in front of SOS village on Khajuri Kalan Road in Awadhpuri locality on Sunday night. An employee of the doctor sustained severe burn injuries in the incident and was rushed to hospital. This is the third attack on the doctor in the past three days. Earlier the unidentified accused torched an SUV and a car parked outside the doctor’s house in Awadhpuri in the wee hours of Saturday morning. Next day in the wee hours of Sunday morning the accused threw a petrol bomb on his house and his wife narrowly escaped burn injuries. Awadhpuri police acting on information registered a third FIR in the matter against unidentified accused late on Monday and launched a manhunt to nab them. Police claimed to have scanned around 150 CCTV cameras and traced the accused. The accused are said to be accomplices of a hardcore goon of Old City area and cops claimed that they would nab them soon. The doctor and his family were worried about their safety and have been provided security cover by police. The doctor’s wife and sister are eyewitness in the shocking murder of the doctor’s father DSP GL Ahirwal, 60, who was shot dead at his house in Awadhpuri locality on May 1, 2019. The murder case trial is going on at district court and the incident were committed since two days before the doctor’s wife had to depose before the court to initmidate them. Police sources said that the accused identified through CCTV cameras went to meet the prime accused in DSP Ahirwal’s murder case at jail. Victim Dr Santosh Choudhary, 44, a resident of Sangam Garden Awadhpuri, told TOI that he left his clinic located in Balaji Nagar in front of SOS village around 9.30 pm on Sunday along with SHO Awadhpuri Vijay Tripathi and went home. SHO Tripathi had gone to assure him of safety. Dr Choudhary said that as he reached home, his employees informed him that two unidentified bike-borne accused threw a petrol bomb in front of his clinic. The bomb exploded in front of the counter of his medical shop and his employee Sachin Yadav, 28, who was standing outside the shop, sustained severe burn injuries in his foot. The incident was caught on CCTV cameras. Dr Choudhary said that he immediately informed Awadhpuri SHO Tripathi about the incident but police neither registered a case nor sent his employee for medical examinations. “The worrying thing was that my clinic is located merely a kilometre away from Piplani police station but despite two serious attacks police could not provide me security nor catch the criminals,” said Dr Choudhary. Dr said that his wife Rakhi deposed before the court on Monday. After returning from court he approached police again to file an FIR. ASP Rajesh Singh Bhadouria said that police have registered a third FIR on Dr Choudhary’s complaint and have got some vital clues in the case. The accused will be nabbed soon. DSP GL Ahirwal, 60, was a resident of A-196 Awadhpuri . He was posted in CID at PHQ for the past more than three years. His wife passed away and he resided along with his son Dr Santosh Choudhary and his wife Rakhi Choudhary. His daughter Dr Anita is married in Mandla and she had come to Bhopal to visit him after the bypass surgery. Himanshu reached DSP Ahirwal’s house around 7.15 pm on May 1, on pretext of taking details of his health and an argument erupted between him and the DSP. Hearing the noise Anita came out and asked Himanshu to leave. He got up and while leaving took out the country made pistol which he had brought with him. He shot DSP Ahirwal from point blank range and fled the spot. DSP Ahirwal was rushed to a private hospital where he died within few minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/petrol-bomb-hurled-at-docs-clinic-in-awadhpuri-1-hurt/articleshow/80934153.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Northern Railway set to run trains on Haridwar-Doon rly track||After completion of speed trial for trains running between Haridwar and Dehradun, Northern Railway is set to run the trains at a speed of 100 kmph on this track. However, speed of the trial engine was kept around 50 kmph between Motichor to Kansron range as this area falls under Rajaji Tiger reserve, and elephants often cross the track. Station superintendent, Haridwar railway station, MK Singh, said, "The new track laid from Haridwar to Dehradun railway station aimed at increasing the speed limit of the trains and a trial was conducted of the same on Sunday at a speed of 100 kmph. The speed was determined following the guidelines applicable between Motichor to Kansron range. The trial was successfully completed and no untoward incident was reported. We hope traffic will resume soon on the track.” Four people were killed after being hit by a train near Sitapur village falling under Jawalpur police station during the speed trial on Laksar-Haridwar railway track in January. A magisterial inquiry was set up to look into the matter while parents of the victims filed a criminal complaint against the railway officer for negligence. However this time, the railway authorities alerted those residing near the tracks regarding the speed trial beforehand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/northern-railway-set-to-run-trains-on-haridwar-doon-rly-track/articleshow/80934158.cms||MS Nawaz
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||How two truck drivers at the hydel project site in Tapovan escaped death||TAPOVAN: Even as the Chamoli flash floods claimed several lives, there were some who defied death rather miraculously. One such person is Rajendra Kainthura, a truck driver working in Tapovan, who managed to survive the deluge. “On the fateful Sunday (February 7), I was unloading construction material from my truck. It was then that I saw river waters coming with full force towards the hydropower projects in Tapovan and Rishiganga. Before I could realise anything, my truck was hit by a wave and the truck turned sideways. Water and slush started filling inside the cabin. I broke the glass window on my side and somehow managed to get out.” He added, “Such was the force of water that if I had been a few seconds late, I would have got swept away.” Rajendra KainturaHeera Lal, another driver, had a similar brush with death. “I was close to the riverbank near my truck when I saw the flash floods approaching. I immediately alerted an engineer who was at the site. We were able to escape somehow.” Another survivor Amit Prakash, who works as a daily wager in Tapovan, said, “I was with the team which had to blast a rock when suddenly people started blowing whistles and screaming ‘bahar bhago’ (go outside). I couldn’t understand at first but when I looked back I saw a huge wave coming for us and I left everything to run outside and saved my life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/how-two-truck-drivers-at-the-hydel-project-site-in-tapovan-escaped-death/articleshow/80934180.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC fines runaway couple Rs 25,000 for ‘manipulating’ Aadhar detail||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 on a runaway couple for “manipulating” the date of birth in the Aadhaar card to prove before the bench that the girl has attained the age of majority and their marriage is valid. Justice Avneesh Jhingan passed these orders while dismissing a petition filed by a couple from Faridabad seeking directions to protect their life and liberty against girls’ family. The petitioners claimed before the HC that they are major and have solemnised marriage on January 29, 2021. They submitted copies of their Aadhaar card as a proof of their date of birth along with the petition. “Typed copy of Aadhaar card of petitioner No. 1 (girl) is attached wherein date of birth is mentioned as ‘DOB: 23.1.2003’. On the basis of the said date of birth, it is claimed that at the time of marriage, she has attained majority. On perusal of photo copy of Aadhaar card of petitioner No. 1 (girl), it is evident that date of birth is not mentioned and year of birth is mentioned as 2003. It appears that typed copy has been manipulated in order to portray the picture to the court that both the petitioners are major,” observed the HC in its order after examining the claims of the petitioners. During the hearing of the case, the Haryana government counsel also informed that an FIR against the boy has been registered under Aection 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of the IPC at Police Station Dabua in Faridabad district.  “Considering the conduct of the petitioners, it is not a fit case for interference in writ jurisdiction. The petition is dismissed with cost of Rs.25,000,” Justice Jhingan observed while refusing to grant any relief to the couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-fines-runaway-couple-rs-25k-cost-for-manipulating-aadhaar-card-detail/articleshow/80937788.cms||Ajay Sura
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Remove plaque with Peres’s name: Cong, SP||Mumbai: The Congress and Samajwadi Party on Monday demanded that a proposal to name a junction at Kala Ghoda after former Israeli prime minister and Nobel peace prize laureate Shimon Peres be scrapped and the plaque with Perez’s name be removed since the proposal is invalid. Congress corporator Ravi Raja, the opposition leader in BMC, wrote to mayor Kishori Pednekar, citing that according to a 2010 BMC resolution, names of only Indian nationals who have contributed to the country and Maharashtra can be given to streets and junctions. Similarly, names of such institutions can be given. “...So this proposal was passed despite it being in violation of rules. So it is invalid. It must be rebooked and scrapped,” Raja said in his letter. According to BMC’s records, the proposal was presented by the then BMC chief Praveen Pardeshi and passed by the general body last December. The proposal had also been passed by the civic works committee (city) in August during lockdown. The request to name the chowk after Perez was given by the Federation of Indo-Israel Chamber of Commerce. Samajwadi Party has also opposed the proposal, saying that though Peres had been a friend of India, he didn’t have any specific connection with Mumbai or Maharashtra. “I have written a letter to reopen the proposal and then we will urge all parties to reject it. Since I was not present in the house when this proposal was passed, I can re open it, as per procedure. This proposal has been passed in violation of norms,” said Samajwadi Party corporator Rais Shaikh who is also an MLA. According to a BMC official, BJP had backed the plan to name the chowk after Peres, who served twice as Israel’s prime minister and later as its ninth president. He died at 93 in 2016. As per BMC rules, only the local corporator or a local NGO can suggest a title for a street or a junction. But in this case, corporator Sujata Sanap, from Shiv Sena, didn’t move any application. “It was moved by then civic chief Praveen Pardeshi using his special powers,” said Sanap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/remove-plaque-with-peress-name-cong-sp/articleshow/80944073.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 16, 2021||Hyderabad||FIR against man for illegal water line||Hyderabad: Vigilance wing of Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) filed an FIR against a property owner, Venugopal, for possessing an illegal water connection on his property located at Kalyanpuri Colony in Uppal.  According to the confession statement, the water board had already disconnected the water connection due to property owner defaulting the water dues. But, he took another water connection and drew water illegally, according to a vigilance official. An FIR has been registered with Uppal police against the property owner under sections 269, and 430 of IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fir-against-man-for-illegal-water-line/articleshow/80934185.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||At 15,000, Delhi sees highest single-day vax turnout||NEW DELHI: Over 15,000 people turned out to receive the Covid shot on Tuesday, the highest single-day turnout in the national capital till now. However, the turnout percentage dropped to 50.5% as compared to 55.8% on Monday as the number of vaccination centres increased from 268 to 298. The number of adverse events was only six. Meanwhile, discussions on vaccinating people above 50 years have started. Around 42 lakh people either above 50 years or below 50 but with comorbidities are to be inoculated in the next round. Currently, the vaccination of 2.5 lakh healthcare workers and 6 lakh frontline workers is going on. A total of 15,053 beneficiaries got the shot on Tuesday as compared to 14,965 the day before, taking the total count of the vaccinated people in the city to 2,21,204. The number of frontline workers, such as Delhi Police and paramilitary personnel and sanitation workers, getting the shot is growing. On Tuesday, 9,020 frontline workers were vaccinated as against 8,203 on Monday. The number of healthcare workers taking the second dose also increased from 2,191 to 2,532. Only healthcare workers are now eligible for the second dose, which is given at a gap of at least 28 days. An official said the number of vaccination centres was being increased to make the process smooth when people above 50 and those with comorbidities turn up for the shot. It will ensure that they have centres near home, encouraging them to go for the jab, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-15000-city-sees-highest-single-day-vax-turnout/articleshow/81009631.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Rajkot||Congress candidate among four booked||Rajkot: A Congress member contesting Rajkot district panchayat polls was among four people booked under the new land grabbing law on Sunday. While the Congress candidate Dinesh Patar and another accused Naresh Bhasa are absconding, two other accused Kaushik Korat and his brother Haresh Korat were arrested on Sunday night. Police said that the four had forged documents and seized a 10-bigha land in Gondal which was purchased by a man named Vikram Dangar in 2019. Dangar had made payment for the land through cheque and had registered the sale deed. When Dangar asked them to vacate the land, the accused threatened him and later asked for money. As the demand for money continued, Dangar lodged a complaint with the Gondal City police station. Cops said that Dangar was booked in a rape case too in the past. In Jamnagar too, another case was registered as a six-acre farmland was encroached upon and the accused started a plotting scheme on it. The land owner Iqbal Sheikh, who lives at Hawai Chowk in Jamnagar, said that the accused Ransinh Rajani and Narsinh Kalsariya created a fake sale deed to sell the land to their accomplice Haresh Parekh. Parekh later forged a power of attorney and started plotting scheme under a firm’s name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/congress-candidate-among-four-booked/articleshow/80930912.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Surat||Bird flu: 17k poultry birds to be culled in Tapi district||SURAT: With samples of poultry birds testing positive for avian influenza, the district authorities in Tapi has decided to cull around 17,000 birds as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of the disease. Sources said that about seven chicken had died in the last few days due to some unknown reason. The samples were sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, and it confirmed the presence of the highly infectious H5N1 influenza virus in three samples collected from farms at Uchhal. The animal husbandry department of Tapi district had gone to collect the sample of the dead birds. Uchchhal taluka is adjoining Navapur in Maharashtra's Nandurbar district from where bird flu cases have been reported, said district officials. “We had sent three samples to Bhopal for testing and that three out of the two samples have tested positive of bird flu. We will be culling about 17,000 chicken at the poultry farm in Uchhal,” said RJ Halani, district collector of Tapi. “I have issued a notification banning the sale of chicken and eggs in the one kilometre radius of the farm in Uchhal,” added Halani. A week ago, the Tapi district administration had banned entry and exit of poultry products from its border following confirmation of H5N8 (a strain of avian influenza) in Navapur. Areas falling within 1 to 10 km radius from the affected farms in Navapur were declared a surveillance zone. Culling involves the mass slaughter of domestic poultry birds, such as chickens and ducks, to contain the spread of bird flu. During the culling process, domestic birds in an infected area are slaughtered and their remains buried. Bird flu is a highly infectious and severe respiratory disease in birds caused by the influenza virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bird-flu-17k-poultry-birds-to-be-culled-in-tapi-district/articleshow/80930955.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Daily new cases dip in Maharashtra a day after spike||Mumbai: A day after recording the biggest spike in daily additions in 40 days, Maharashtra reported a dip in daily detections and Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, when 3,365 new cases and 23 deaths were reported. The state’s total tally is now 20,67,643 and toll 51,552. For the last six days in a row the state has reported over 3,000 daily cases. Mumbai also reported a dip in Covid cases on Monday, when 493 new cases were detected and three fatalities were reported, taking the city’s tally to 3,14,569 and toll to 11,422. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that while there was a marginal rise in cases, hospitalisations or deaths have remained stagnant. “We are pursuing people to get tested and are closely following the growth rate in wards. Overall, the city’s growth rate (0.15%) is not alarming and to an extent expected due to opening of sectors,” he said. Mumbai’s doubling rate has dropped to 455 days now. Ten civic wards have a growth rate higher than the city’s average: M-West (Chembur, Tilak Nagar) has the highest, followed by T (Mulund). Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Nair Hospital, said most medical colleges have 5-10% occupancy of Covid beds. “Most positive cases are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic,” he said. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said that some districts, including Mumbai, have reported increases in daily detections and he has appealed to the people to continue with appropriate behaviour and to wear a mask at all times while in public places. “We are following all the suggestions given by the central team. Testing is being ramped up in districts where there was a drop," said Tope. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar too said that people in smaller cities and towns are not keen on wearing masks and maintaining other protocols. He has directed the district administration to ensure that the norms are followed strictly. Active cases in the state reported a slight increase, but Mumbai reported a dip.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/daily-new-cases-dip-in-state-a-day-after-spike/articleshow/80941389.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Covid vax for chronically ill: What you must do||NEW DELHI: The guidelines issued by the Union health ministry on Covid-19 vaccination suggest that those with co-morbidities can take the vaccine. “Vaccine should be administered with caution in persons with a history of bleeding or coagulation disorder (e.g., clotting factor deficiency, coagulopathy or platelet disorder),” it states. “It was reported that people who are on blood thinners can develop side-effects. That’s why I didn’t want to take the vaccine initially. Later, on February 4, I took my first dose on February 4,” Dr P K Julka, who is currently the principal director of medical oncology at Max Oncology DayCare Centre said. He added that many cancer patients undergoing treatment at his centre have similar concerns about taking the vaccine. “In my view, any cancer patient who isn’t undergoing chemotherapy or other therapies for disease management can take the vaccine. The rest can wait for the treatment to get over before taking the jab,” Dr Julka said. People suffering from cancer, auto-immune disorders and multiple other illnesses are often put on medications to suppress their immunity. Dr Uma Kumar, professor and head of rheumatology at AIIMS, said the safety of patients receiving the vaccine isn’t a concern. “The key question is whether the vaccine can mount the desired level of immune status in them. Good quality data isn’t available on the subject. However, in the meantime, I would suggest such patients can take the vaccine under supervision of the treating doctor,” she added. Dr Kumar said persons with auto-immune disorders and other co-morbidities should continue to follow Covid appropriate behaviour even after getting vaccinated and they shouldn’t switch the type of vaccine for the second dose. Vaccine hesitancy or apprehension against it among persons suffering from chronic illnesses and morbidities isn’t restricted to India. It has been seen in other countries like the US and the UK as well. The US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, in relation to the vaccines being administered there, says the Covid-19 vaccines can be administered to persons with underlying medical conditions who have no contraindications to vaccination. “Immunocompromised individuals can receive Covid-19 vaccination if they have no contraindications to vaccination. However, they should be counseled about the unknown vaccine safety profile and effectiveness in immunocompromised populations, and the potential for reduced immune responses and the need to continue to follow all current guidance to protect themselves against Covid-19,” the US CDC says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/c-vax-for-chronically-ill-what-you-must-do/articleshow/81009712.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||Kandivli man arrested with Rs 20 lakh ganja||Mumbai: The Anti-Narcotics Cell of the Mumbai Police on Sunday arrested a 27-year-old man from Kandivli and seized 104kg of ganja worth Rs 20 lakh from him. Acting on a tip-off, the Anti-Narcotics Cell’s Kandivli unit led by inspector Satish Tawre detained a person identified as Salman Shaikh, from whom they recovered 27kg of ganja. Further interrogation led to the recovery of another 76kg of ganja. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kandivli-man-arrested-with-rs-20-lakh-ganja/articleshow/80944258.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Surat||Surat: Businessman to work for estranged wife’s defeat||SURAT: The BJP candidate from ward 15 of Surat, Manisha Aahir (28) is faced with an unusual situation where in her own husband of eight years will be campaigning against her. Manisha’s husband, Mahesh Aahir (32), joined the Congress party at a function held on Punagam Road on Sunday and will be campaigning for the party in ward 15. Mahesh a former teacher turned businessman has been an apolitical person to date. For last few months, he and Manisha have been living separately after they developed some disputes. The couple has a five-year-old son. They had got married as per their family’s wish in an arranged marriage. When contacted Manisha said, “I don't know why my husband joined the Congress. I am not living with him and he might have done this to create problems for me.” Manisha has been an active journalist for a local news channel till recently. She is contesting for the first time in the civic body polls. Meanwhile, Mahesh who is into marketing survey business, told TOI, “I will campaign for those Congress candidates who are loyal towards people and my community. They are opponents of my wife, but I will support them for the betterment of people.” Mahesh who was a school teacher who had lost his job during lockdown. So, he started his own business of doing marketing surveys. Though Mahesh was not offered any post in the Congress he said that he will take part in campaigning for good candidates. He further said that he had also offered to campaign for his wife. “After Manisha got the BJP ticket, I went to congratulate her and offered my support to her in campaigning. But she and her family members turned down my offer. I have been trying to strike a compromise with my wife for past many weeks but she is not interested,” Mahesh claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizman-to-work-for-estranged-wifes-defeat/articleshow/80931046.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 16, 2021||Trichy||Woman, lover hire killers to murder hubby in Trichy||TRICHY: A woman was arrested on charges of plotting her 40-year-old husband murder with the help of her boyfriend near Siruganur in Trichy district on Monday. Police also arrested three more people. The victim was identified as Muthu, a native of Irur near Siruganur, a road contract worker with the highways department. The accused has been identified as Chithra, 35. Muthu was returning to his native place from CR Palayam after visiting his sister’s house in the morning. As he was approaching Siruganur, a three-member gang on two motorbikes intercepted him and attacked him with sharp weapons. Muthu sustained grievous injuries all over his body. He was rushed to the government hospital in Lalgudi. However, he succumbed to injuries there, police said. The Trichy district crime squad and special team took up the investigation. After questioning the victim’s 15-year-old son, it came to light that Chithra was behind the crime. Chithra had plotted the murder along with her boyfriend Silambarasan, 28. Silambarasan pledged Chithra’s gold jewellery and handed over Rs90,000 to Manikandan, 25, a history-sheeter from Samayapuram and his accomplices Muruganantham and Karthik to kill Muthu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-lover-hire-killers-to-murder-hubby/articleshow/80941361.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Dehradun||Work begins on survey of 4-lane road near Nepal border||Pithoragarh: A survey for a 4.5 km-long four-lane road to connect Nepal’s dry port at Dodhara Chandani, located south of river Sharda, with Banbasa in Champawat district of Uttarakhand has been initiated by the Indian side. The proposal has been sent to the central government for clearance, officials familiar with the matter told TOI. The project has been in the pipeline for the past few years and had been getting delayed. In 2016, Nepal had started construction of the dry port at Dodhara Chandani village in the Kanchanpur district of Sudurpashchim Pradesh. Around 100 acre land was acquired and primary cost of the dry port was pegged at 5000 crore Nepali rupees. India had agreed to give four-lane road access to the port through national highway (NH) 9 at Banbasa. Himanshu Kafaltia, SDM Tanakpur, told TOI that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had surveyed a 4.5-km-long road from Jagbuda bridge to border pillar 11 for the project. “Around 21 hectare land will be acquired for the project of which 13 hectare is forest land and 8 hectare is personal land,” he said, adding that the acquisition process has started. “The NHAI has sent a proposal for forest land clearance to divisional forest officer (DFO), Khatima, and a joint survey of forest and NHAI officials will be conducted this week,” Kafaltia further said, adding that two bridges, one on the rail line and another on a canal, will also be constructed on the four-lane road.Villagers of Latakhalla and Bhaisabhoj had opposed an earlier road survey that was conducted for the project as they objected to the four-lane road passing through their agricultural land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/work-begins-on-survey-of-4-lane-road-near-nepal-border/articleshow/80931040.cms||Prem Punetha
February 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Process begins to give 2nd shot against Covid||Ludhiana: After more than 18,000 healthcare workers received the first jab against Covid-19 since January 16, the process to administer the second shot of vaccine to them started here on Monday. Meanwhile, about 25% of the frontline workers registered for the vaccination drive in the district have got the first shot in over 10 days since its start.The health department officials said, “Of about 33,000 healthcare workers registered for vaccination, around 18,200 have received the first shot till Saturday evening. More healthcare workers are expected to get the first shot by February 19, when the process is expected to end.”“Of about 20,000 frontline workers—including police, security forces personnel and revenue department employees, among others —about 4,700 had received the first dose of vaccine till Saturday evening. They will be covered for about next two weeks,” they added. On the first day of the administration of the second dose of vaccine to healthcare workers, 238 of the total 547 received it. The day also saw 27 healthcare and 348 frontline workers receiving the first jab against Covid-19, the officials said. District immunisation officer Dr Kiran said, “The second dose of vaccine was given to healthcare workers at five centres on Monday. Healthcare workers who had received the first dose on January 16 and 18 got the second after 20 days.” Dr Pardeep Mohindra, senior medical officer at sub-divisional hospital in Jagraon, who got the second shot, said, “I didn’t suffer any side-effects. Eighteen healthcare workers got the second dose of vaccine at the hospital on Day One.” Director of Christian Medical College and Hospital Dr William Bhatti said, “All healthcare and frontline workers should come forward and get inoculated as vaccination is the only and effective tool to counter this pandemic.” Dr Jayraj D Pandian, CMC principal who was inoculated as part of the statewide vaccination process, urged people not to pay heed to the rumours, as the vaccine was safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/process-begins-to-give-2nd-shot-against-covid/articleshow/80934427.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Trichy||Cases dip to 57 in south TN; 41 cases in central region||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state on Monday reported 57 fresh Covid-19 cases. There was a marginal dip in the number of active cases from 445 on Sunday to 432 on Monday. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 41 new cases taking the tally to 76,696, which include 411 active cases. The region recorded two deaths in Trichy pushing the toll to 951, while there are no casualties in southern TN. Madurai recorded 12 fresh cases, the highest in the southern region. The district, however, recorded a drop after recording 21 and 20 cases on Saturday and Sunday. Madurai is followed by Kanyakumari (11) and Dindigul (10). Tenkasi (1) recorded the lowest number of fresh cases, followed by Virudhunagar (2), Theni (3), Sivagangai (4), Tirunelveli (4), Ramanathapuram (5) and Tuticorin (5). Though Ramanathapuram (15) recorded the least number of active cases, the numbers have gradually increased over the last few days. Madurai (81) recorded the highest number of active cases, followed by Kanyakumari (65), Dindigul and Tirunelveli (55 each).Among the central districts, Trichy is on top with 12 new positive cases taking the tally to 14,872 on Monday. Thanjavur reported ten fresh cases pushing the tally to 17,912. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Karur (5), Nagapattinam (2), Tiruvarur (7), Pudukottai (4), and Ariyalur (1). Perambalur recorded zero positive cases on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cases-dip-to-57-in-south-tn-41-cases-in-central-region/articleshow/80941386.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Mumbai||JJ to start giving Covishield too||JJ Hospital will become the only centre in the city to administer both Covishield and Covaxin to beneficiaries. “We have been asked to give Covaxin’s first and second doses on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, while Covishield’s first and second doses on Friday and Saturday,” said Dr Lalit Sankhe, JJ nodal officer. The hospital so far was only administering Covaxin, but it was struggling to find takers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jj-to-start-giving-covishield-too/articleshow/80940696.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Delhi||Covid deaths 5 times higher in kidney transplant recipients, reveals study||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 mortality rate among kidney transplant recipients is up to five times higher than the general population, a study conducted by 13 transplant centres in the country suggests. According to the study, which has been accepted for publication in the journal Transplantation, 250 kidney transplant recipients (226 living donors and 24 deceased) were confirmed positive for Covid between March 23 and September 15 last year and 29 of them died. Dr Vivek Kute, corresponding author and head of nephrology at HL Trivedi Institute of Kidney Diseases and Transplant Services, Ahmedabad, said Covid-related mortality was much lower in the general population. “This could be due to immunosuppression and higher rates of comorbidities in kidney transplant recipients,” he said. In the study of the 250 kidney recipients, 94% suffered from co-morbidities. Arterial hypertension was most common (84%), followed by diabetes (32%). Delhi’s Apollo and Sir Ganga Ram hospitals were also part of the study. According to Dr A K Bhalla, chairman, department of nephrology at Sir Ganga Ram, mortality rates of 4.8-33% were reported in Covid-hit organ transplant recipients in recent studies in the developed world. “Recipients in our study had high rates of Acute Kidney Injury, similar to reports from the developed world. However, our transplant population seemed to have a lower mortality (11.6%), potentially linked to younger age of kidney transplant in India,” Bhalla said. Dr Sandeep Guleria, senior kidney transplant surgeon at Apollo Hospitals, said that comparing the outcomes of Covid in transplant patients to that of Covid-positive dialysis patients may be of additional relevance. “Published data from dialysis centres in India put mortality rates between 12% and 37.8%. These numbers encourage transplant centres to remain active during the Covid epidemic,” Guleria said. According to Dr D S Rana, chairman, Institute of Renal Sciences, and of management board at Sir Ganga Ram, 49,155 transplants were performed in India from 2013 to 2018, involving 39,000 living donors and 10,155 deceased donors. Based on 2108 figures, India ranks second worldwide on transplant volumes. He stressed on the need for stricter measures to prevent the spread of infection among transplant recipients and timely medical intervention to save them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-deaths-5-times-higher-in-kidney-transplant-recipients-reveals-study/articleshow/81009840.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 16, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi: A week on, kin of workers missing in Chamoli lose hope||RANCHI: More than a week after the Chamoli glacial break in Uttarakhand, family members of the 14 persons from Jharkhand who are still missing have lost hopes of their return and are trying to come to terms with reality, while battling health issues caused by the shock. Nine persons from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro, who were deployed at NTPC’s project site in Tapovan, went missing in the flash floods triggered by the glacier break last Sunday. From Ramgarh’s Gola block, Birsai Mahto, Kuldeep Mahto, Madam Mahto and Jitendra Kumar who are still traceless. Talking to TOI over phone on Monday, Birsay’s nephew Vikrant said, “We don’t have any hope of anyone returning. All that we are waiting is to get the formalities done so that the affected families can get compensation.” Kuldeep and Madam’s wives were released from the hospital in Ramgarh last night, days after they were rushed in an emergency. Kuldeep’s sister-in-law Devanti added, “Everyone in the family is emotionally exhausted and stressed wondering whether the men will return or not. Our tears have dried up as several days have passed. His wife has become fragile due to severe depression. She has two little girls aged six and four. Kuldeep’s father keeps fainting several times a day.” The thought of bodies remaining traceless is troubling the families. “We don’t even know the condition of their bodies in case they are dead. Kuldeep’s brother Dilip who had gone to Chamoli last Tuesday with four others, gave his DNA samples but they are still to be matched with the bodies that have been found,” she rued. Jhonson Topno, who is supervising with the state control room set up by labour department to coordinate relief and rescue, said 29 persons who were stranded after the incident have returned to the state. People who were stranded hailed from Latehar (10), Ramgarh (7), Bokaro (3), Jamtara (7) and Hazaribag (2). “Except Hazaribag residents, all others have returned. Those from Hazaribag are reported safe as per the recent update,” said Topno. The control room team is in contact with the contractors and NTPC officials. “The paperwork along with documents of the relatives and nominees are under the process of verifications so that actual compensation to be announced for the missing persons from the company. The claimants are under the process of the DNA tests followed by verifications of the needful documents,” said another official of the labour department. Ramgarh labour superintendent Digamber Mahto, who had gone to Chamoli to take stock of the situation on Monday, met the relatives of the four missing workers there. “The documents of the nominees along with photographs have been submitted to NTPC,” Topno said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/a-week-on-kin-of-workers-missing-in-chamoli-lose-hope/articleshow/80939376.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 16, 2021||Ranchi||3 killed, 4 injured in bike collision in Jharkhand||JAMSHEDPUR: Three youngsters were killed and a couple and their two minor children sustained injuries when their bikes collided with each other at Edelbera on Chakradharpur-Kharsawan road under Chakradharpur police station limits on Monday. “The three who died were on a bike without helmets and were traveling towards Chakradharpur when it collided with another motorcycle coming from opposite direction. A couple and their two kids sustained injured,” said Chakradharpur police station in-charge Parveen Kumar. Shatrughan Taisi, Noro Dongi and Laxman Gagrai, between 20 and 22 years of age, died on the spot and their bodies have been sent for autopsy, police said. They hailed from Potka Sai village in Chakradharpur. The injured have been admitted to Chakradharpur sadar hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-killed-4-injured-in-bike-collision/articleshow/80939333.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ranchi||Animal lovers in JSR plan to set up shelter home to save stray dogs||Jamshedpur: The increasing incidents of violence against stray dogs here, especially in the past few days, have upset animal lovers who are now contemplating setting up a shelter home if the local administration provides space. “Every month we receive about 13 calls from several parts of Steel City and adjoining Adityapur related to violence against stray dogs,” Abhishekh Rai, who is a volunteer at the Pets and Animals Welfare Society of Jharkhand, said on Sunday. On Friday night, one Somamundi Purty (45) was killed in Telco and his wife Chandni sustained injuries when they tried rescuing their dog who was being strangulated by a 14-year-old boy. The teenager was allegedly enraged over the dog’s incessant barking. Later the boy was arrested. Similarly, a stray dog was allegedly chased and killed by a few people at Ashiana Garden in Sonari last week. Animal lovers later lodged a case under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act at Sonari police station on Saturday. “If people have a problem with stray dogs then they can approach the dog care organisations online. They should not resort to violence,” animal rights activist Aditya Pathak said. Akash Dey, who is the founder of the Dost Animal organisation, said, “Those who feed the stray dogs are often bullied. Their neighbours accuse them of luring the dogs into their localities with food, which ends up making the area dirty.” Prarambh organisation founder Victor Banerjee said that even though many people came forward to feed the stray dogs during lockdown and the practice continued even after the restrictions were lifted, the incidents of violence against them are increasing alarmingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/animal-lovers-in-jsr-plan-to-set-up-shelter-home-to-save-stray-dogs/articleshow/80933760.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Ranchi||With 2nd hike in LPG price this month, Congress plans agitation||RANCHI: Continuing its ongoing stir against the BJP-led government at the Centre over the new farm laws, Congress, an alliance partner of the ruling coalition government in the state, is now planning to launch a protest against the hike in prices of essential commodities. On Monday, the LPG price was raised by Rs 50 per cylinder, the second hike this month after the increase of Rs 25 on February 4. Petrol and diesel prices are also nearing Rs 90 in the state. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said state party president Rameshwar Oraon will be in Hazaribag on Tuesday to take stock of the preparations for their February 20 state-level tractor rally against the farm laws. A meeting on the party’s protests against fuel price hike will be chalked out during the same meeting, Dubey informed. He said, “When the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government in the state is trying to extend help to the public through its pro-people measures like farm-loan waivers and slash in civil services examination fees among others, the Union government is bent on making the lives of the common people difficult through its uncontrolled inflation.” Dubey further said different wings of the party are gearing up to hit the streets after the February 20 tractor rally to mobilize the public against the rising prices. “The protests are being planned both on social media and on the streets across the state to expose BJP government, whose sole priority is doubling the incomes of their capitalist friends rather than that of farmers, labourers and commoners,” he added. Another party spokesperson, Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, questioned the continued silence of BJP MPs from Jharkhand against the price hike. He said, “In the whole of the Budget session recently, not one BJP MP from Jharkhand raised the issue of price rise, the subject which concerns the common man. Of the 14 Lok Sabha seats in the state, 12 are represented by BJP.” He added, "The BJP MPs must become the people's voice before they are booted out by the voters. The saffron party often brags about distributing crores of LPG cylinders under the Ujwala Yojana to the poor but they will never tell that they have stopped refilling many of them after which such financially backward families have returned to the traditional way of cooking." Meanwhile, BJP MPs are trying to placate the common people by highlighting the salient features of this year's Union Budget. Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth on Monday conducted an awareness camp at BJP's office at Ratu road and hailed the Budget proposals as a stepping stone towards a self-reliant India. In Hazaribag, local MP Jayant Sinha called a press conference to laud the Budget. However, the public has started expressing their views against the price rise. Rashmi Sinha, a homemaker, said she is unable to maintain her kitchen properly because of the price hikes in the recent months. "People were expecting to get some relief after the job losses and salary cuts due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Instead of getting relief, we are hit harder by the hike in prices of essential commodities. I am finding it difficult to maintain even my kitchen now leave alone running my house properly,” she rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/with-2nd-hike-in-lpg-price-this-month-cong-plans-agitation/articleshow/80933930.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ranchi||Jayant blames Jharkhand govt for Hazaribag airport delay||HAZARIBAG: Hazaribag MP and former Union minister of state Jayant Sinha on Monday criticised the Hemant Soren-led government for failing to acquire land for the proposed airport in Hazaribag. Talking to reporters at a press conference here, he said, “The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has already provided Rs 195 crore to the state government for the land acquisition, yet the process has not been completed. The Hazaribag airport can change the economy of the area and usher in fast-paced development.” Hailing the Union Budget tabled in Parliament earlier this month, Sinha said the Budget has laid the foundation to make India an economic super power. “The Budget has provided sufficient funds for the overall development of Hazaribag too, especially when it comes to water supply and sewerage management,” he said. Talking about roads, he said after the completion of the 41.5km stretch of NH-33 between Hazaribag and Barhi, the work on developing NH-100 between Bagodar- Hazaribag-Chatra and Palamu will be taken up. “The Budget has provided ample funds for highway development. The DPR report of this project is being made and after receiving the approval, the construction work will start too. Meanwhile, the Union minister for road, transport and highways, Nitin Gadkari, is expected to inaugurate the Barhi-Hazaribag lane of NH-33 next month,” he said. With the Centre laying emphasis on mega textile parks, Sinha urged the state government to set up such parks to boost local craftsmanship and rural economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jayant-blames-jharkhand-govt-for-hbag-airport-delay/articleshow/80934064.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ranchi||Woman, 2 kids die during sleep in Giridih fire||Bokaro: Three persons — a woman and two minor girls — were burnt alive during their sleep when a barn near the place where they were sleeping caught fire at Saladih under Balgo panchayat in the Giridih district on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. The area falls under the jurisdiction of Birni police station. Giridih SP Amit Renu said, “It was an unfortunate incident. Police rushed to the spot immediately after receiving information about the mishap. We are investigating the cause of the fire.” The incident occurred when Mundrika Devi (55), a widow, her daughter Gudiya Kumari (14), and granddaughter Jhulia Kumari (7), were sleeping in a cot near the barn. Devi’s husband, Hiro Saw, had passed away a few years ago. According to the preliminary investigation, police found that Devi had kept an earthen stove under the cot to warm themselves during the night. “The barn could have caught fire from the flames of the stove. The bodies have been sent for autopsy,” an official at the Birni police station said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-2-kids-die-during-sleep-in-giridih-fire/articleshow/80933713.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 16, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 38 fresh cases, 33 recoveries||RANCHI: The number of active cases in Jharkhand stood at 464 on Monday, as it reported 38 fresh infections and 33 recoveries. Meanwhile, the state reported two casualties on Monday, taking the death toll from the virus to 1,084. A total of eight districts out of 24 reported fresh infections on Monday, with seven districts recording cases in single digits. Only state capital Ranchi reported 22 cases. As per government data, as many as 1,19,354 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,17,806 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.70%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03% against the national average of 0.08%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 2430.80 days against the national figure of 912.79 days. The casualty rate in the state was 0.90%. Meanwhile, a total of 11,136 beneficiaries were inoculated at nearly 200 session sites in the state on Monday. Among 11,136 persons vaccinated on Monday, 3,447 healthcare workers and 7,689 front-line workers were administered the first dose. A total of 1,777 beneficiaries were administered the second dose on Monday. The overall turnout for Monday stood around 61% for first dose beneficiaries and 49% for second dose beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-records-38-fresh-cases-33-recoveries/articleshow/80939404.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi: Educational institutes scale down Puja preparations||RANCHI: Even though the Covid restrictions have been significantly relaxed for Saraswati Puja compared to other festivals, with schools and coaching centres shut, the festival is likely to be a low-key affair this year. Unlike during the festivals of Durga Puja and Diwali when the government did not allow the construction of pandals, the administration, sources said, has allowed the gathering of 300 people in open areas and 200 in enclosed spaces and the use of loudspeakers during Saraswati Puja, coaching centres have decided to keep things simple. Jharkhand Coaching Association’s office-bearer S D Mishra said, “Every year the day before the puja, the students stay overnight to decorate the premises and install the idol. But with no students this time, there’s no point in going overboard with our celebrations.” A coaching centre owner named Raj Kumar Chaubey said, “Almost 90% of the educational institutes are not celebrating Saraswati Puja in a big way. Many of our students have decided to offer puja to the goddess of knowledge at their respective homes.” Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to deploy police force at seven to eight “sensitive places”, including puja venues. ADM law and order Lokesh Mishra said, “We would request the puja organisers to ensure safety norms are followed at their pandals. We would remain alert during the immersion. ” He added that said that even though loudspeakers have been allowed, the organisers must not hurt the religious sentiments of others. Sadar DSP Prabhat Ranjan Barwar said that sensitive points along the immersion routes will be under strict surveillance to prevent eve-teasing and other criminal activities. Ranchi SSP Surindra Jha had on Saturday briefed all the SPs, DSPs and the OCs of police stations in the district regarding keeping a strict vigil on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/edu-institutes-scale-down-puja-preps/articleshow/80939612.cms||---
February 16, 2021||Ranchi||Idol-makers hope for brisk business from Saraswati Puja||JAMSHEDPUR: With almost every household organising Saraswati Puja, the idol-makers in Jamshedpur and adjoining Adityapur are looking forward to doing brisk business during this festival after facing months of hardship owing to the lockdown. The traders are, however, not being unrealistic about their expectations since they know that sales this time will not be like the ones witnessed in previous years as people are scaling down their festive budgets in the wake of pay cuts and job loss. But besides households, the presence of puja committees in almost every locality is keeping the idol-makers’ hopes up. “Unlike Durga Puja which requires planning months ahead of the festival and a high budget, organising Saraswati Puja does not require much and you can make all the arrangements, including buying the idol, the day before the festival,” Gamharia-based idol-maker Ashok Maity said. Another trader named Laxman Kumbhkar said that last-minute sale of idols is expected to pick up in the evening and it’ll continue till Tuesday morning. “This puja is organized more in suburban and rural areas of Kolhan region than the urban areas,” he added. Meanwhile, the cops at Kovali, Patamda and Kamalpur police stations in Potka and Patamda blocks held meetings with members of the local peace and puja committee volunteers on Sunday and on Monday to remind them to abide by social distancing norms, besides wearing masks at their respective premises. Kamalpur police station in-charge Vijay Kumar Singh said, “Puja committee volunteers have been asked not to play loud music and not to take out immersion processions.” The puja committee volunteers said that even though the daily count of the Covid cases have come down substantially, they will abide by the safety guidelines at the pandals. “The festival will be held in a restraint manner with small pandal and idol,” said Rinku Mukhi, who is a member of Maa Saraswati Maa Kali Sarvajanik puja committee at Thakar Bappa Basti in Bistupur. Meanwhile, the district police have increased patrolling and deployed forces in the markets of Sakchi, Bistupur, Kadma, Jugsalai and Sidhgora, among others, to keep eye on miscreants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/idol-makers-hope-for-brisk-business-from-saraswati-puja/articleshow/80934142.cms||---
