February 17, 2021||Business||Focus on infra spending in budget 2021 expected to boost petrochemicals demand: Government||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday said it expects more demand for petrochemicals like polymers and speciality chemicals in the country due to increased emphasis on infrastructure spending in the budget 2021-22. Increased spending on infrastructure development in sectors like agriculture, healthcare and automobiles will result in increased demand for petrochemicals, according to an official statement. That apart, import duty cut on feedstocks such as naphtha for production of chemicals and petrochemicals will make the domestic products globally cost-competitive, it added. "The massive emphasis on infrastructure spending is expected to result in an additional consumption of petrochemicals like polymers and specialty chemicals," the statement said. The agriculture-focused measures like doubling of outlay for micro-irrigation to Rs 10,000 crores will further fuel demand for polymer-based irrigation products and services, it said. The new vehicle scrapping policy will boost the polymer and elastomer consumption in anticipation of requirement of new and additional vehicles. The increased outlay on healthcare and the fund for vaccination will boost polymer consumption with requirements of syringes and other polymer-based healthcare products. "In general, with increased government spending, the requirement of petrochemicals and polymers which are required in a wide range of sectors will also increase and provide a fillip to local demand," the statement added. Further, the government said the roll-out of the production-linked incentive schemes for key end-use sectors will boost petrochemical consumption in the country. Among the sectors earmarked, seven sectors like mobile phone manufacturing, auto components, medical devices and textile products use significant quantities of petrochemicals, it added. In the budget 2021, the government reduced import duty on naphtha from 4 per cent to 2.5 per cent; while on carbon black, it was hiked from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent. Similarly, the import duty on builder's ware of plastics was increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent, on polycarbonates from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent, and on Methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI) from NIL to 7.5 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/focus-on-infra-spending-in-budget-2021-expected-to-boost-petrochemicals-demand-government/articleshow/81006008.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Lucknow||Celebrating 25 jubilant years of love & happiness||Ashish Yadav and Sushma celebrated their 25th wedding anniversary in a grand way, recently. Friends, family and loved ones of the couple joined them in the celebrations. (L) Anurag Yadav and Abhilasha Yadav (R) Dimple Yadav (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)(L) Anurag Yadav and Abhilasha Yadav (R) Dimple Yadav (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) (L) Kshamta and Ashutosh Singh (R) Cheshta Yadav (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)(L) Kshamta and Ashutosh Singh (R) Cheshta Yadav (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) The couple’s party invite also had an interesting video of them riding on a scooter and lip-syncing romantic Hindi numbers in beautiful locales. (L-R) Lovly Shukla, Sangeeta Yadav and Aruna Singh (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)(L-R) Lovly Shukla, Sangeeta Yadav and Aruna Singh (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) (L) Manisha and Anushka (R) Rajendra Chaudhary (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)(L) Manisha and Anushka (R) Rajendra Chaudhary (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) Among those who joined in the celebrations were Dimple Yadav and Rajendra Chaudhary. (L) Raj Kumar (R) Wamiq Khan (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)(L) Raj Kumar (R) Wamiq Khan (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) (L) Ridhima Yadav (R) Aadya Ratan (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)(L) Ridhima Yadav (R) Aadya Ratan (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) Ankita (L) and Anjali Yadav (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)Ankita (L) and Anjali Yadav (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/celebrating-25-jubilant-years-of-love-happiness/articleshow/80985301.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Goa||Had to be patient and wait for my chance: Glan||Panaji:FC Goa had the chance to sign Glan Martins before the start of the season, but they didn’t. The reason? Princeton Rebello. With the experienced Lenny Rodrigues guaranteed of a starting spot and Princeton waiting in the wings, Goa didn’t want to bring in another midfielder and hamper progress of the promising youngster. They allowed Glan to sign elsewhere, but midway into the season, things changed. Lenny was no longer the first choice at the club and as coach Juan Ferrando preferred Princeton, there was turmoil. The Goa vice-captain then opted to join ATK Mohun Bagan and that decision meant Glan was coming home. Well, quite literally. Since joining Goa, Glan has been in impressive form. Nobody really gets tired watching his stunning long-range goal against Mumbai City and his work-rate in midfield against Chennaiyin FC earned more praise from everyone at the club. “I am very happy about Glan,” Ferrando told TOI on Tuesday. “The difference is that he wants to help the team. In the dressing room, there is one rule, everybody works for the team. For me, he is a strong character. His attitude on the pitch and in training is perfect.” It is this attitude that has endeared him to teammates, many of whom are surprised at his abilities. Glan, though, always believed in himself, whether it was during the five years at Sporting Clube de Goa or a year at Churchill Brothers in I-League. “I was just patient and waiting for my chance. I was with Sporting for five years and when I moved to Churchill, had to start all over again, having played I-League before. I had to prove myself. That’s how I am here. I just had to keep working hard,” said Glan. The stunning long-range strike against Mumbai gave him instant recognition. Thanks to social media, the goal was among the most talked about in several parts of the world. “Happy to get my goal, but most important I am happy with my playing time. I have to keep improving with each and every game. I am more comfortable here. Everyone is helping me a lot. “Everyone says there is pressure (on FC Goa to qualify). But for players, it’s normal. There is competition (for places) in every team. There are players in my position as well, so you have to keep working hard and give your best,” said Glan. Goa will need Glan the most against Odisha FC on Wednesday, particularly with captain Edu Bedia suspended. Surely, in his own words, “whenever the team needs you, you have to be there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/had-to-be-patient-and-wait-for-my-chance-glan/articleshow/81010365.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 17, 2021||Goa||FC Goa look to turn draws into crucial wins||For six games in a row, FC Goa have dominated most opponents, only to settle for a draw in the end. In some games, Goa have paid the price for individual mistakes. Coach Juan Ferrando knows that not everything is right, but he is not blaming anyone. He has had a word with everyone and told them that it’s imperative the team minimises the mistakes. It’s all the more important in the next three games of the Indian Super League (ISL) that will decide whether the team is good enough to make it to the playoffs. On Wednesday, Goa will look to be more focussed and get more than a point when they face bottom-placed Odisha FC at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda. “In our mind we are not thinking in draws, never. But at this moment our mentality is to continue working. It’s not possible to change more details. “Last game, we were unlucky due to the actions of (Mohammed) Ali and Dheeraj (Singh), but it is only possible to support them, to work and try to help them. At this moment this is very important,” Ferrando told TOI in an online interaction on Tuesday. Goa have remained unbeaten in 10 games, but it has been over a month they secured a win. Goa’s fighting spirit has been tested more than once throughout the season, especially in the last two games where they roared back for a 3-3 draw against Mumbai City FC and a 2-2 result against Chennaiyin FC. Goa have to thank late strikes from super-sub Ishan Pandita on both occasions, but Ferrando knows his team can’t make it a habit of leaving it so late. Goa are fifth in the standings with 24 points from 17 games with Hyderabad FC and NorthEast United ahead of them in third and fourth spot. Goa’s defensive worries have increased, especially conceding from set-pieces. Against Odisha, Ferrando will have to reorganise his midfield with captain Edu Bedia ruled due to suspension, while Brandon Fernandes is nursing an injury. “In the end, it is necessary to prepare the team. I know this season in all the squads there are problems. We of course have some important injuries, but I’m not so scared because we have a very good squad,” said Ferrando. Goa’s only problem will be the lack of time to prepare. Odisha will have no such pressure and will go out with freedom to perform. In the first leg, Goa had to sweat it out for a 1-0 win. Odisha’s interim coach Gerald Peyton knows Goa’s strengths well and how they play. They have had very little time to prepare as well after their 1-3 defeat against NorthEast United FC on Sunday. Odisha are already thinking about next season and Peyton has stressed the importance of the next three matches. “We are now preparing Odisha for next season. So, what I said to the players is this is your challenge. If you want to be successful next season, you have to prepare now,” said Peyton. Although they were losing their last match, Odisha showed more command in the game in the second session. Goa will definitely not have it easy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-look-to-turn-draws-into-crucial-wins/articleshow/81010891.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
February 17, 2021||Goa||Edu gets notice for Tangri ‘bite’||Panaji: FC Goa will miss their influential captain Edu Bedia for the Indian Super League match against Odisha FC on Wednesday and there are now fears he could miss more games towards the business end of the league. The Spanish midfielder has accumulated four yellow cards that automatically rules him out of the next game. He has now been issued a show cause by the All India Football Federation’s disciplinary committee for “unsporting behaviour towards Chennaiyin FC player Deepak Tangri.” Providing video footage of the incident, Chennaiyin have suggested that Tangri was bitten by the Goa captain late in the game. In his social media post after the game, Edu denied that he bit Tangri. “Tough game. We have to keep fighting to achieve our goal. I want to clarify that on TV it looks like I bite an opponent player when there is only a small struggle and a gesture of anger, but never a bite. Maybe the images make things the way they are but @deepaktangri11 knows what really happened,” said Edu. The incident has invited widespread criticism of the player with many comparing him to what Uruguayan forward Luis Suarez did to Italy defender Giorgio Chiellini at the 2014 World Cup. Suarez was banned by Fifa for nine Uruguay matches and for four months from all footballing activities. Goa, though, are understood to be preparing a defence. According to sources, Edu has told the club that he did not resort to any disgraceful behaviour and that he would fight to clear his name. The disciplinary committee has given Goa’s longest serving foreigner time till Wednesday to reply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/edu-gets-notice-for-tangri-bite/articleshow/81011171.cms||---
February 17, 2021||World||Dubai princess says fears for life as held 'hostage'||LONDON: The daughter of Dubai's ruler says she is being held captive and fears for her life after a foiled attempt to flee, according to footage broadcast on Tuesday. Sheikha Latifa has not been seen in public since she attempted to escape from the Emirate by sea in March 2018. The BBC aired clips it said were filmed roughly a year after she was captured and returned to Dubai showing her crouched in a corner of what she says is a bathroom. "I'm a hostage and this villa has been converted into a jail," she says in one cellphone video. "There's five policemen outside and two policewomen inside the house. Every day I am worried about my safety and my life." In another video, Latifa says her situation is "getting more desperate every day". "I don't want to be a hostage in this jail villa. I just want to be free," she says. The BBC released the video excerpts ahead of its investigative news programme "Panorama". Sky News reported that it had also received the videos but had been unable to contact Latifa for the last nine months. The broadcasters reported that the videos have now been passed to the United Nations by her friends. The Dubai authorities did not respond to a request for comment. Latifa's father, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum, is vice president and prime minister of the United Arab Emirates, of which Dubai is a constituent. He shares a passion for breeding racing horses with Queen Elizabeth II and they have been photographed together. The undated videos were broadcast as Latifa's friends voiced concern that secret messages from her have stopped coming, the BBC said. The videos came from Latifa's Finnish friend, Tiina Jauhiainen, who accompanied her during her escape attempt. The BBC said it had independently verified the details of where Latifa was held. In 2018, Latifa attempted to flee the UAE on a boat that was then intercepted by commandos off the coast of India, according to her companions and the UK-based group Detained in Dubai. "I was holding onto the yacht... They were pulling me off, I was fighting hard as I could," she recalls. "I was up against a lot of people with weapons." In the videos, Latifa says that men from the Emirates sat on her, tried to tie her up and injected her with a sedative. A Dubai government source later said that she had been "brought back" and the UAE released photographs of Latifa, saying she was receiving "the necessary care and support". Latifa said she was held for approximately three months in the Al-Awir central prison in Dubai, until May 2018, before being moved to the villa. In 2019, Sheikh Mohammed's ex-wife, Haya Bint Al Hussein, fled to London, where she applied for a forced marriage protection order relating to their school-age children. The Dubai emir subjected Haya to intimidation, a British High Court judge ruled last year, granting her application for the children to be made wards of court allowing them to live in London with her. Judge Andrew McFarlane also ruled that both Latifa and her sister Sheikha Shamsa, the emir's daughters from a previous marriage, had been forcibly returned to Dubai. He upheld Latifa's account that she was detained at sea by Indian special forces and returned to Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/dubai-princess-says-fears-for-life-as-held-hostage/articleshow/81012239.cms||---
February 17, 2021||India||Security pickets removed from 5 spots in Srinagar||SRINAGAR: A day before the beginning of the two-day visit of an European Union delegation, a series of security pickets were removed from various parts of Srinagar city on Tuesday. A senior security official, however, said that the pickets were removed to ease the flow of traffic in Srinagar areas, including Moulana Azad Road and Rajabagh. “We decided to remove some makeshift pickets that were erected for frisking and other security-related issues,” the official said. At least five bunkers were removed from Srinagar areas, including two from Lal Chowk. Of late, Srinagar city had been witnessing gridlocks, forcing traffic cops to work hard to ensure smooth flow of traffic in the city. Commuters had been complaining of frequent traffic jams within the city, especially in Lal Chowk area, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/security-pickets-removed-from-5-spots-in-srinagar/articleshow/81012248.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 17, 2021||India||NC MP's son booked under UAPA for pre-poll 'hate speech'||SRINAGAR: National Conference functionary Hilal Lone, the son of North Kashmir MP Akbar Lone, was arrested in Bandipora on Tuesday and booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for an alleged hate speech at a rally in his native district ahead of J&K's first district development council elections. Hilal, who had been in preventive detention since December, was freed from Srinagar's MLAs' hostel only on Monday. A senior official said Hilal had been charged with incitement to unlawful activity under Section 13 of the UAPA, besides promoting enmity (Section 153A of the IPC), disobedience of an order promulgated by the authorities (Section 188) and intent to cause fear (Section 505). The FIR against him was registered at Hajin police station. NC vice-president and former CM Omar Abdullah accused BJP of having a different yardstick for alleged hate speeches made by its own functionaries. "They can call for hands to be cut off, people to be murdered & it’s fine. Hilal Lone makes a speech & anti-terror laws are used to book him," he tweeted. Hilal had been detained in Sumbal for some days following the DDC polls before being shifted to the MLAs' hostel on December 25, where he remained until Monday morning. On Sunday, the second anniversary of the Pulwama attack, Omar had gone ballistic over the Abdullah clan being "locked up at home with no explanation". The previous day, PDP chief and former CM Mehbooba Mufti had claimed house arrest by the J&K administration to prevent her from visiting the family of one among three youths allegedly killed in a staged encounter on the outskirts of Srinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nc-mps-son-booked-under-uapa-for-pre-poll-hate-speech/articleshow/81012370.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 17, 2021||India||We demand restoration of pre-Aug 5 position of J&K: Mehbooba||SRINAGAR: Former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday made it clear that they were not talking about restoration of statehood, but demanding rollback of J&K’s status as it existed before August 5, 2019, when the Centre nullified Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution. Talking to reporters at Kupwara on the sidelines of PDP’s first-ever rally in J&K after its special status was scrapped and the erstwhile state was split into two Union territories on August 5, 2019, Mehbooba said the Kashmir issue should be resolved by initiating dialogue with Pakistan and the people of J&K as there has been lots of bloodshed over the contentious issue. The PDP chief also demanded the release of all Kashmiri people, including political personalities, who have been languishing in various jails in and outside J&K over the issue. Criticising the BJP-led central government for its “anti-people policies”, Mehbooba said the Centre is suppressing all those voices which raise concern about the same. “If anyone raises voice against them (the central government), that voice is suppressed. Recently everybody watched how they arrested a 21-year-old girl for raising her voice in favour of the farmers, who are protesting against the three new farm laws,” she said, adding that such voices are not being silenced in Kashmir only, but everywhere in the country. Asked about the future of six-party amalgam People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), she said the alliance is talking about the aspirations of the people of J&K and the people want this alliance to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/we-demand-restoration-of-pre-aug-5-position-of-jk-mehbooba/articleshow/81012498.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 17, 2021||World||Pak Hindus deprived of legal marital rights||ISLAMABAD: Despite the enactment of Hindu Marriage Act in 2017, all Pakistani’s provinces excluding Sindh have so far failed to give the country’s minority Hindu community a right to officially register their marriages, divorces and remarriages. The implementation of the law has been one of the major demands of the Hindu community and rights groups. In order to give them the right, the provincial governments, except Sindh, have yet to draft rules for the implementation of the Act. In 2016, the Sindh province, where majority of the country’s around eight million Hindus live, had framed the law enabling Hindu men and women above 18 years of age to register their marriages. Later, it was amended to add divorce and remarriage rights for couples and financial security for the wife and children after divorce. The Sindh government’s move had prompted the federal government in 2017 to extend the same right to Hindus living in other provinces and the federal capital territory of Islamabad. While the law was implemented in Islamabad, the provinces of Baluchistan, Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa were required to draft the rules of business for this Act. One of the key objectives of the Hindu Marriage Act was to provide a formal registration process of marriages for Hindus in the province given that they had to face many problems due to deprivation of the community members from their basic rights. The act enshrines the conditions for a valid marriage and provides for official documentation that can be used to verify marital status in all government departments and other areas like travelling outside Pakistan. Due to non-implementation of the law, the Hindus have been deprived of their due right. Neither Hindu men nor women in provinces where the law has not been in place, can register their marriage or divorce in official documents. Speaking to TOI, Haroon Sarbdiyal, a focal person for national lobbying delegation for minority rights, said the Hindu community in most parts of Pakistan have no rights to the process of registrations of their marriages, legal divorce procedure, adoption and issues related to inheritance. According to official data, there are hundreds of cases pending in the civil courts across the country due to non-availability of rules for implementation of the Act. As the divorce rate has generally increased across Pakistan, the divorce-related incidents are frequently reported among the Hindus as well. Sarbdiyal said that at present, none of the members of his community can prove the legitimacy of their relationship with their family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pak-hindus-deprived-of-legal-marital-rights/articleshow/81012720.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 17, 2021||India||In open letter, Indian mission flays British MP's farm talk as 'external interference'||LONDON: The Indian high commission in London has published an open letter to Leicester East MP Claudia Webbe, terming her relentless criticism of India's new farm laws, the government's handling of the farmers' agitation and the arrest of activists Disha Ravi and Nodeep Kaur "incendiary" and unwelcome "external interference". "India's internal law & order is a sovereign subject... The Hon MP @ClaudiaWebbe is, once again, invited to obtain facts and correct information from @HCI_London," the high commission tweeted late Monday, sharing a screenshot of her comments on the arrest of Disha alongside Delhi Police's official statement on why she was picked up. "The government of India is more than aware of efforts by vested interests abroad to fuel the protests through misinformation and incendiary assertions that are not helpful in progressing the dialogue between the protesters and government or addressing the issues through the democratic processes that our people have traditionally relied upon," it said. An Open Letter to Hon MP @ClaudiaWebbe https://t.co/JdzyoHPfe8— India in the UK (@HCI_London) 1613423882000The high commission said Webbe would have been most welcome to directly convey the apprehensions of her constituents in regard to the "pathbreaking Indian farm laws", against which "a small section" of India’s farming community had been protesting. On Monday, Webbe had tweeted: "Disha Ravi is 21; a student & climate activist. Nodeep Kaur is 24; a labourer & union activist. Both women were targeted, arrested & imprisoned for peacefully supporting the #FarmersProtest This suppression is driven by authoritarianism & free market capitalism." The day before, she had tweeted that Ravi, who "campaigns for clean air, clean water and a liveable planet", was "now facing state sanctioned violence for peacefully supporting farmers". Webbe wrote, "The farmers' protest is a climate justice protest, a human rights protest, a gender equality protest, a class protest, a protest against food insecurity. Disha Ravi is the latest to be targeted for standing up for her class". She linked that comment to a thread by Canadian poet Rupi Kaur, in which the latter said Disha was "being scapegoated by a regime seeking to use her as a pawn to suppress dissenting voices". Webbe, a close ally of former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, was suspended from Labour in September as she is facing criminal charges, for which she is due to stand trial in March. She chaired the emergency debate at the Labour conference in September 2019, when the anti-India Kashmir motion was unanimously passed. On February 13, Webbe had shared on Twitter an article she had written for a newspaper, attacking India’s farm laws and urging Britain to "lead the international community in holding the Indian government to account" and to cease the sale of weapons to the country, including water cannons, tear gas and batons "which could be used against protesters in India." Responding to the allegation, the Indian mission said, "High Commission of India, London, would clarify that the farmers participating in the protests rallies have been treated with utmost respect and restraint by the government and security forces – more than may have been the case in similar situations elsewhere in the world." Leicester has the largest percentage of Indian origin people in Britain and Webbe’s tweets have not gone down well with some of the diaspora, with many pointing out it is an internal matter of India and she should focus on Britain’s problems. A Twitter user named Kanuv (@AK79) wrote, "So you still not focusing on your constituents in Leicester then? You were voted by them to serve them. Don’t you want to be an actual local MP?" Another called Sushrita (@SushritaR) said, "Stop interfering in our internal matters. Don't misguide your followers. Disha or Nodeep were not supporting farmers' protest. They were trying to break India. And we, the people of India will not let it happen." Webbe responded to the comments with another defiant tweet, "I will not be intimidated and I will not be silenced." Sikh Labour party member stokes farm fire in BBC talk British Sikh Labour Party member Sunny Hundal sparked a furore on Monday night when he appeared on BBC’s Newsnight to discuss the farm laws and claimed the Indian government was turning the farmers protests into a Hindu versus Sikh issue that would raise tensions between the two communities in Britain. "It’s not just Sikhs who are getting involved in these protests. There have been protests all over India from the south to east, west and north. What is happening over there is going to have a huge impact over here, what the government is doing now is trying to make this into a Sikh protest and saying these people (the protesters) are being led by extremists and they are Sikhs and they are trying to ruin the government," Hundal said. "It is turning this whole issue into a Sikhs versus Hindu issue as a way to delegitimise the protests. That is dangerous because there are 500k Sikhs & 500k Hindus in the UK. If there is violence in India, there is going to be violence in this country, that is what worries me and we as the UK government have a duty to tell the Indian government to calm down some of its rhetoric as it is really hate speech over there and it is really dangerous." He also compared the farms laws to "putting a corner shop next to Tesco and saying to them to go and compete against each other" and said "most farmers" across India are opposed to the new laws. Speaking to TOI afterwards, Hundal said, "I don’t want there to be any Hindu-Sikh conflict, but if people keep trying to paint the farmers as Khalistanis or the Sikhs as extremists then it will become a Hindu-Sikh issue and that will be bad for the diaspora."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-open-letter-indian-mission-flays-british-mps-farm-talk-as-external-interference/articleshow/81012904.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 17, 2021||India||Gaganyaan manned mission not before 2023: Minister||NEW DELHI: The Gaganyaan manned mission, hit by the pandemic-triggered restrictions, has been further delayed and India’s maiden human spaceflight launch is not likely before 2023. “First unmanned mission is planned in December 2021. Second unmanned flight is planned in 2022-23, followed by human spaceflight demonstration,” Union minister of state for space Jitendra Singh told the Lok Sabha in a written reply recently. Isro chairman K Sivan told TOI that a “human-rated GSLV MkIII rocket with a modified top portion involving provision for a crew module and a crew escape system is being readied for the first unmanned mission in December and a humanoid to be sent on it will be ready by October”. The minister also informed Lok Sabha that additional Rs 900 crore was allocated to Isro for financial year 2020-21 for developing capacity and launching satellites. On foreign satellites launched by India, Singh stated that the total number of satellites launched till date is 328 from 33 countries and the revenue earned is “25 million dollars and 189 million euros". On Covid restrictions stalling the programme, the minister said in the replythat the astronaut training in Russia was halted over a month “for a period from 28th March, 2020 to 11th May, 2020” and the training “henceforth resumed since 12th May, 2020”. “Isro is striving towards achieving Atmanirbharta in the field of capacity development in launching satellites; therefore, no policy is envisaged for seeking foreign cooperation in this direction,” a Department of Space statement said. The Gaganyaan mission will not be India’s solitary space mission as Isro, for a sustained human presence in space, is coming out with a policy framework and a long-term roadmap. The agency has sought suggestions on its “Draft Humans in Space Policy for India, 2021” by February 28. Sivan said suggestions on the draft will be reviewed by March and a concrete shape to the policy will be given thereafter. “Thereafter, we will work on human space exploration, launch vehicle, national space policies and finally the Space Act,” he said. About another big project, the Isro chairman told TOI that the agency is planning to switch over to the electric propulsion (EP) system in satellites and will soon have all geo satellites loaded with this technology for space manoeuvring. “We will launch a technology demonstrator satellite somewhere in October-December to test three technologies — our own EP system, indigenous atomic clock and travelling wave tube amplifier, a key component for communication satellites. Currently, nearly 50% mass of a satellite comprises chemical fuel. Once the EP is used, it will occupy less space and bigger satellites can be launched,” Sivan said, adding “we are also planning for dual EP and a mini chemical propulsion system for a better thrust with less mass”. On missions scheduled this year, Sivan said, “Besides the unmanned Gaganyaan mission, we are targeting to launch the first demonstration test-flight of a Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (mini-PSLV), two advanced geo satellites, one remote sensing satellite and an upgraded Oceansat this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gaganyaan-manned-mission-not-before-2023-minister/articleshow/81013233.cms||Surendra Singh
February 17, 2021||India||PM bats for PPP, says need to have a meeting of minds||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged private sector players and government agencies to register a “historic jump” in the implementation of budget initiatives for the infrastructure sector in the first quarter of 2021-22. He also urged all government agencies and private stakeholders to see that there is “no loss to the nation due to delay” in implementation of projects. The PM was addressing a webinar with heads of infrastructure departments and major private players on laying the roadmap for implementation of budget proposals from April 1, identifying the challenges and the solutions. The budget for 2021-22 has laid a strong emphasis on the infrastructure sector to help revive demand and overall growth. Modi said this was the first such initiative when he was holding a discussion with industry leaders after the budget. “This is a different effort, because the budget is already there. The government has set its aims, priorities and its expectations. Now we need to have clarity on a roadmap and implementation. There is a need to have a meeting of the mind. This is more important than the pre-budget meetings and this is being done for the first time,” the PM was quoted as saying by a participant in the webinar. Stating that the government has made the highest ever allocation for the infrastructure sector in the 2021-22 Budget, the PM said the government has full faith in the private sector that they will help achieve the government’s aim. The PM said the private public partnership is important for infrastructure development as there is “mutual faith” of the government and private sector. Modi said the government has made changes in norms to meet the ground requirements. The PM said he has directed all the departments to ensure there is no issue of “clearance” for projects under the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) and all authorities must address matters linked to disputes involving private players with “an open mind”. The government has set an ambitious target to implement infrastructure projects worth Rs 111 lakh crore by 2024. “Humein yeh dhyan rakhna hoga ki deri ki bajah se desh ka nuksaan na ho (We must ensure that the nation doesn’t lose due to any delay in infrastructure projects),” the PM was quoted as telling officials who attended the webinar. Modi also said this exercise was important considering that the government was talking to the private sector about the budget implementation when the parliamentary standing committees are reviewing the budget proposals for each ministry. Private sector players welcomed the government’s focus on infrastructure development to accelerate economic activity. CEO and MD of L&T, S N Subramanyan was quoted as saying that it was a “blockbuster” and capex driven budget. Some private industry leaders urged the government to address issues linked to disputes, which have a direct impact on their balance sheets. They also urged the government to ensure quick release of payments so that there is good cash flow for project implementation. Vinayak Deshpande of Tata Projects said the government’s new approach during the Covid pandemic resulted in a three-fold increase in infrastructure projects and the government should continue to follow the same approach for future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/register-a-historic-jump-in-rollout-of-budget-infra-steps-pm-to-pvt-sector-govt-agencies/articleshow/81013458.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 17, 2021||India||PM, Gadkari to flag off construction work on two bridge projects in poll bound Assam today||NEW DELHI: The government will kick off construction work of two crucial and politically important bridge projects in poll bound Assam on Wednesday. While the 19 km bridge on Brahmaputra from Dhubri (in Assam) to Phulbari (in Meghalaya) will be the longest bridge in India, the start of work for the two-lane bridge from Jorhat to Majuli island is significant considering that the government has brought down the cost drastically by redesigning and restructuring the project. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union highways minister Nitin Gadkari will launch the construction of Dhubri-Phulbari bridge, which was a long standing demand and reduce the current road distance by 205 km. The need for this bridge was felt in April 2012, when a boat carrying 305 passengers had capsized on the Brahmaputra. The project would cost the government Rs 4,997 crore. Sources said in the case of the Jorhat-Majuli island bridge project, the cost came down drastically after the road ministry affected several redesigns and restructuring of the project. While in August 2019 the project was estimated at Rs 1,800 crore, the road ministry reduced the width of the 6.8 km bridge and included construction of only 1.2 km approach road to bring down the cost with the project finally being bid out at Rs 687 crore. Sources said this was a political promise that the chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal had made to the people of the world’s largest inhabited river island and hence starting work before the election is crucial for the BJP government. “We reviewed the project at different stages of preparation and it helped us in the best price discovery. Our focus is now to reduce the cost of projects by going for innovative solutions. The bridge is crucial for people living on the island,” Gadkari told TOI. Sources said the ministry prioritised the building of the two-lane bridge over the other proposed roads considering that the bridge construction will take at least four years. “We can subsequently take up road projects in the next two years so that the roads would be ready by the time the bridge becomes operational,” said a ministry official. He added that in 2018, the state government had proposed construction of the 6.8 km bridge and around 140 km of road at a cost of Rs 8,000 crore and later it was decided to take up construction of the four-lane bridge over Brahmaputra and a 20 km road in August 2019 at Rs 2,494 crore. Subsequently, the ministry brought down the width of the bridge to two lanes and proposed to build 20 km of road at Rs 1,800 crore. “Finally, a decision was taken to build the bridge and only 1.2 km approach road. But even then the estimated cost was Rs 1,092 crore. The project underwent several reviews and finally it was awarded at Rs 687 crore to UP Bridge Corporation,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-gadkari-to-flag-off-construction-work-on-two-bridge-projects-in-poll-bound-assam-today/articleshow/81013559.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 17, 2021||India||Kiran Bedi relieved as lieutenant governor on day Congress govt in Pondy loses majority||PUDUCHERRY: On a day the Congress-led government in Puducherry lost its majority following the resignation of an MLA, the Central government relieved lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi of administrative responsibilities, reports Bosco Dominique. Assembly elections are slated to be held in the Union territory in April-May this year. Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundarajan has been given additional charge of Puducherry, a Rashtrapati Bhavan spokesperson said on Tuesday evening. The decision to relieve Bedi is the culmination of a long-running feud between her and chief minister V Narayanasamy. The President has directed that Kiran Bedi shall cease to hold the office of the lieutenant governor of Puducherry and has appointed Tamilisai Soundararajan, governor of Telangana, to discharge the functions of the Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry…,” Ajay Kumar Singh, press secretary to the President, said. Bedi’s removal came a few days after a delegation led by Narayanasamy called on President Ram Nath Kovind and submitted a memorandum urging him to recall Bedi. The delegation accused Bedi of acting in a “typical autocratic manner in violation of constitutional provisions and rule of law” and interfering in the day-to-day affairs of the elected government and blocking all welfare and development schemes. Relations between the two had turned so acrimonious that they took their disagreements to public fora on several occasions. Bedi and the Congress government have been at loggerheads over several issues ever since she assumed office on May 29, 2016. Narayanasamy charged Bedi with failing to redelegate the enhanced financial powers to the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues even after the home ministry’s directive. The two crossed swords over the appointment of the state election commissioner to hold local body polls that were not held since the tenure of the elected representatives expired in 2011. Bedi cancelled the Puducherry government’s appointment of a retired official as state election commissioner (SEC) and ordered for selection of the SEC through a transparent, competitive and fair process inviting applications through an all-India advertisement. The Congress government insisted on providing rice and cloth free of cost to beneficiaries while Bedi insisted on providing cash equivalent of rice and cloth through the direct benefit transfer, depositing cash directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. Watch Kiran Bedi relieved from duties as Puducherry Lieutenant Governor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kiran-bedi-relieved-as-lieutenant-governor-on-day-congress-govt-in-pondy-loses-majority/articleshow/81013918.cms||---
February 17, 2021||India||Sedition law can’t be invoked to quieten disquiet, says court||NEW DELHI: The law of sedition is a powerful tool in the hands of the state to maintain peace and order in society and it cannot be invoked to “quieten any disquiet under the pretence of muzzling miscreants”, a Delhi court has observed. The observation was made in the bail orders of two men, Devi Lal Burdak and Swaroop Ram, who were booked in the same FIR on charges of sedition, spreading rumours, forgery, etc, for allegedly sharing fake videos on social media during the ongoing farmers’ protest. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana observed: “In the absence of any exhortation, call, incitement or instigation to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resorting to violence or any allusion or oblique remark or even any hint towards this objective attributable to the applicant accused, I suspect that Section 124A (sedition) IPC can be validly invoked against the applicant. In my considered opi nion, on a plain reading of the tagline attributed to the applicant/accused, invocation of Section 124A of IPC is a seriously debatable issue.” The judge observed that “evidently, law proscribes any act which has a tendency to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence. Read AlsoSeveral legal eagles question sedition charge against Disha RaviMUMBAI/ DELHI: Legal experts on Monday questioned the invoking of the sedition law in the Disha Ravi case, saying Delhi Police had ‘over-reacted’ and the 22-year-old climate activist’s arrest was ‘unwarranted’. Former chief justice of Bombay high court Pradeep Nandrajogsaid the purpose of usingThe counsel for the two men, Surendra Chaudhary, had submitted that the material alleged to have been shared by the two men was “innocuous” in nature and was, in fact, an expression of emotions uttered in disagreement with government policies. He also submitted that no offence of sedition or forgery was made out and at best a case under Section 505 of IPC was made out against the accused and was bailable. Chaudhary submitted that police had completed the probe and had not sought further custodial interrogation of the accused. The additional public prosecutor opposed the bail applications arguing that the allegations against the men were “very serious” for they had not only made a sensational social media post with an intent to spread disaffection against the state but also committed forgery. It was argued that the accused committed offences under Sections 124A, 505, 468 and 471 of IPC. In one of the orders, the court recorded police’s allegation that Ram reportedly posted a fake video on his social media page with the tagline “Delhi Police mae bagawat, 200 police karmiyon ne diya samuhik istifa. Jai Jawaan Jai Kisan# I_Support_Rakesh_Tikait_Challeng (There is a rebellion in Delhi Police and around 200 police officials have submitted mass resignations. Hail the soldier, hail the farmer)”. The video was actually of a senior officer briefing police personnel at the site and encouraging them to tackle situation properly, police said. The judge said, “I’ve personally seen the video in the courtroom wherein evidently a police officer of Delhi Police is raising slogans, in a very agitated tone, and a group of police personnel are seen standing beside him. The background voices also suggest a very charged-up atmosphere. It was informed by the investigating officer that the applicant is not the author of the said post and he has forwarded it. The applicant/accused is reported to be a 21-year-old labourer.” In Burdak’s case, police alleged that he shared a fake video with the tagline “Delhi Police mae bagawat, 200 police karmiyon ne diya samuhik istifa”, but the video was of home guards venting their grievances against Jharkhand government. The court granted bail to the two men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sedition-law-cant-be-invoked-to-quieten-disquiet-says-court/articleshow/81015573.cms||Aamir Khan
February 17, 2021||India||‘BARC ex-CEO had direct role in TRP scam’||MUMBAI: There is “direct involvement” of Partho Dasgupta, former BARC (Broadcast Audience Research Council) chief executive officer, in the TRP manipulation scam, said special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray on Tuesday while opposing Dasgupta’s bail plea before the Bombay high court bench of Justice P D Naik. The court concluded the hearing. Dasgupta’s counsel Aabad Ponda submitted that it “would be a travesty of justice” if the 55-year-old, incarcerated in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai since his arrest last December, is denied bail. Ponda cited Dasgupta’s health and said once the chargesheet is filed, which it has been in the case, there is no need for his continued custody. On the arguments by the police of “further investigations” pending and the fear that he would tamper with the witnesses and evidence as an “influential person,” Ponda said further investigations can continue indefinitely, and it cannot mean Dasgupta is forever denied liberty. Ponda also said there was not a single complaint from any advertiser. Hiray cited a witness statement to argue an ex-employee of BARC had informed a magistrate that she had “noticed” Dasgupta was involved in the scam so that a “channel could make profits from advertisements.” He cited a legal notice by Times Now against BARC to back his opposition to bail. Hiray cited the purported WhatsApp chats between Dasgupta and Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami, where issues of national security were also discussed, to “show the thick relations between the two”. He said “at one point in (the) chats, Arnab Goswami even said that Dasgupa was his alter ego.” The prosecutor referred to a‘recovery panchanama’ (wit ness document) of December 2020, which he said mentioned money being transferred by Goswami, which was “unnecessary” and could only be a “form of gratification.” Dasgupta’s counsel Ponda objected to any reliance on such historical documents, saying they were “inadmissible.” Referring to the alleged chats between Dasgupta and Goswami, Ponda said, “They can’t be considered as evidence without any corroboration.” When the judge asked about chats allegedly related to the Pulwama attack, Ponda submitted that this had nothing to do with the FIR. “That statement is allegedly made by a person who has been protected by a statement of Mumbai police regarding no coercive action before a division bench.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/barc-ex-ceo-had-direct-role-in-trp-scam/articleshow/81016332.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 17, 2021||Business||Amazon to make devices in Chennai, cut China sourcing||BENGALURU: Amazon India said it will start local manufacturing of its devices here, reducing its dependence on China. This would give a leg up to the government’s Make-in-India push. The e-commerce major will work with Foxconn’s subsidiary Cloud Network Technology in Chennai to make its Fire TV Stick (which helps streaming on smart TVs). The Chennai facility is expected to be operational later this year. Amazon was largely sourcing its Fire TV Stick from China and Taiwan for the India market. Amazon India, in a blog post, said the company is looking to make lakhs of devices in India every year and will consider scaling up manufacturing capacity based on domestic demand. The Indian government recently introduced production-linked incentives (PLIs) for various electronic products. “This further reiterates our commitment to ‘Make in India’, contributing directly to the local economy, creating jobs & boosting Indian innovation,” Amazon India head Amit Agarwal tweeted on Tuesday. Delighted to announce our first device manufacturing line in India. This further reiterates our commitment to ‘Ma… https://t.co/lmbLDp0VB1— Amit Agarwal (@AmitAgarwal) 1613461627000IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who attended a virtual meeting with Agarwal and other Amazon India leaders, also tweeted, saying, “Under the leadership of PM @narendramodi, electronics manufacturing in India has recently attracted some of the biggest investments from global giants. Happy to share @amazonIN is the latest to join this success story of India.” Under the leadership of PM @narendramodi, electronics manufacturing in India has recently attracted some of the big… https://t.co/Ra1tRmJfCB— Ravi Shankar Prasad (@rsprasad) 1613462065000In a series of tweets, Prasad also urged Amazon to help take products made by local artisans and ayurvedic products global through its e-commerce platform. Last month, Amazon India announced setting up an accelerator programme that aims to build and boost exports of locally made consumer brands globally. This is part of its additional $1-billion investment for India to digitise 10 million small and medium businesses, and enable $10 billion in cumulative exports from India. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos had announced the company wants to create a total of 1 million jobs by 2025.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-to-make-devices-in-chennai-cut-china-sourcing/articleshow/81016732.cms||---
February 17, 2021||India||Uttarakhand operations will go on till last person is found: DGP||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar on Tuesday said that the ongoing search and rescue operations will continue till the last missing person is found in the disaster-hit Chamoli district. Presently, search, rescue and relief operations are underway at the flash flood ravaged Raini village, around NTPC’s Tapovan Vishnugad hydro-power project and several other downstream areas along the Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers. “The muck clearing work inside the tunnel is likely to be completed in the next few days,” Kumar said. On Tuesday, two more bodies were recovered from the slush choked tunnel of NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydro-power project, bringing the death toll to 58, while 146 people are still reported to be missing. Till date, 11 bodies — believed to be of the workers of the power plant — have been recovered and over 20 workers who were reported to be working inside the tunnel at the time of the flash floods are still missing, officials said. Chamoli chief medical officer Dr GS Rana said that an analysis of the post-mortem reports of the victims showed injuries on their bodies and presence of slush, concrete and water in their lungs. Meanwhile, NTPC has started releasing compensation to the families of Tapovan workers, who have lost their lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-operations-will-go-on-till-last-person-is-found-dgp/articleshow/81017865.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 17, 2021||Patna||Devotees from Mithilanchal celebrate Lord Shiva’s ‘tilakotsav’ at Deoghar||DARBHANGA: A large number of devotees from Mithilanchal reached Baba Baidyanath Temple at Deoghar on Tuesday to participate in the annual ‘tilakotsav’ ritual of Lord Shiva on the occasion of Basant Panchami ahead of Mahashivaratri to be celebrated on March 11. Mritunjay Purohitwar, a panda (priest) at Deoghar, told this newspaper on phone that people from Mithilanchal consider Goddess Parvati as their sister and Lord Shiva their brother-in-law (bahnoi) and they come on foot to Deoghar and offer ‘tilak’ (a kind of engagement ceremony) to him on Basant Panchami ahead of their marriage on Mahashivaratri. “The devotees from Mithila bring ghee from their houses and pour it on the Shivalinga along with abir and gulal on the occasion of ‘tilakotsav’. After coming out from the sanctum sanctorum of Baba Baidyanath temple, they play Holi with abir and gulal. The celebrations were held with great fervour on Tuesday as well,” Purohitwar said. Maintaining the tradition of participating in ‘tilakotsav’ at Baba Baidyanath temple, a large number of people from Darbhanga had started their ‘kanwar yatra’ on foot on February 5. Before embarking on the kanwar yatra, the locals at Darbhanga and neighbouring districts in Mithilanchal offered the devotees chura (flattened rice), dahi (curd) and gur (jaggery). The kanwariyas reached Sultanganj on Mauni Amawasya day on February 11 and after took the Ganga water from there before heading for Deoghar on foot. They reached the holy shrine on Tuesday and participated in the ‘tilakotsav’ ritual. Manikant Jha, a noted Maithili singer and Darbhanga icon of Election Commission, told this newspaper over phone from Baba Baidyanath temple that a large number of people from different corners of Mithilanchal worshipped Baidyanath Jyotirlinga and joined the ‘tilkotsav’ celebrations. “Centuries ago, one Durmil Jha from Jarail village in Madhubani district started the practice of going to Deoghar on foot from Mithila, naming it ‘kanwar yatra’. From his childhood, Dumil used to go to Deoghar from Sultanganj every year. Following the footsteps of Durmil, kanwariyas from Mithilanchal region move on foot carrying the Ganga water,” Manikant said, adding that he has also been attending the ‘tilakotsav’ at Deoghar since 1989.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/devotees-from-mithilanchal-celebrate-lord-shivas-tilakotsav-at-deoghar/articleshow/81006598.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
February 17, 2021||Business||Credit Suisse upgrades India, Aus, but downgrades China, Thailand||TNN Mumbai: Global financial services major Credit Suisse (CS) has upgraded India and Australia because of expectations of strong economic and earnings recoveries, while it has downgraded China and Thailand. CS analysts believe funds from countries like China and Thailand will move to countries like India and Australia as these economies race to pre-Covid levels in the coming months. The analysts also believe that there is a chance for the RBI to cut interest rates. “The upgrades reflect our expectation that economic and earnings recoveries are just starting their most rapid phases for the two markets. EPS (earnings per share) momentum for the two are among the region’s best, and the pandemic is no longer a major factor for either,” CS analysts wrote in a note titled ‘Shifting from China and Thailand to India and Australia’, released on Tuesday. On the other hand, CS downgraded China from ‘overweight’ to ‘market weight’ in an APAC (Asia-Pacific) portfolio because the analysts believe most the exciting period of its recovery has passed. “China has limited potential for future GDP gains, negative EPS momentum relative to the region, late-cycle valuations and the region’s biggest potential payback from pandemic-related current account windfalls.” CS also downgraded Thailand from ‘overweight’ to ‘market weight’ since the analysts believe that the most exciting phase of its recovery lies too far in the future in the first half of 2022. Taken together, these revisions take funds from early Covid-recovery markets like China where economies are already back to trend GDP and from late-recovery markets like Thailand that will continue to struggle with the pandemic until next year, and move the funds to second-phase recovery markets like India and Australia that can approach normalised output this year, the report noted. CS analysts believe that India is in a sweet spot, it’s much better positioned cyclically and relative to the pandemic. “India suffered a severe outbreak but has seen a dramatic drop in infections, likely due at least in part to achievement of herd immunity in some locations. EPS momentum is among the region’s strongest. Its credit cycle is at an earlier stage than perhaps all other APAC markets. The scope for rate cuts is greater than in perhaps every other market save Indonesia,” the report noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/credit-suisse-upgrades-india-aus-but-downgrades-china-thailand/articleshow/81011656.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Business||Axis Bank, United India Insurance settle cases with Sebi||MUMBAI: Axis Bank has paid Rs 41.4 lakh to markets regulator Sebi to settle its case of non-disclosure of information relating to offloading of the bank’s shares by United India Insurance. The non-life insurer, one of the promoters of the bank, has also paid Rs 10.1 lakh to Sebi to settle the same case. This was revealed by the settlement orders of the regulator. Sebi’s investigation found that between October 1, 2017 and September 30, 2018, the value of securities of the bank traded by the applicant, its promoter entity, on each trading day was more than Rs 10 lakh. The same was required to be disclosed to the bank within two trading days. However, in five instances the said disclosures were made by the applicant to the bank only with a delay of 10-17 days, the report noted. After the adjudication processes were started against Axis Bank and United India Insurance in this case, the two initiated settlement proceedings. Subsequently, Axis Bank paid Rs 41.4 lakh and United India Insurance Rs 10.1 lakh to settle the respective cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-bank-united-india-insurance-settle-cases-with-sebi/articleshow/81010598.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Vijayawada||Jana Sena’s reach in rural AP is growing, says Pawan Kalyan||VIJYAWADA: Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan said the results of the ongoing gram panchayat elections have proved that the Jana Sena has a strong hold at the village level. Kalyan on Tuesday said that the party secured 18 per cent of votes in the first phase, while it crossed 22 per cent in the second phase. “Our strength in rural areas has increased drastically. We have secured more than 250 sarpanch and upa-sarpanch seats in the second phase. We stood in second place in more than 1,500 panchayats and captured 1,500 wards. This indicates the change in mindset of the public,” Kalyan said. The Jana Sena chief appreciated the efforts of Leela Kanakadurga who contested and won as sarpanch in Korukollu panchayat in Kaikaluru constituency. She delivered a baby girl soon after casting her vote. Kanakadurga’s victory is an inspiration, Kalyan said. Kalyan alleged that legislators of the ruling party have been misusing the village volunteer system and threatening voters of removing their names from the list of welfare schemes. He requested the SEC to begin the process for municipal elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jana-senas-reach-in-rural-ap-is-growing-says-pk/articleshow/81007904.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Customs arrests Unitac MD in dollar smuggling case||KOCHI: Customs team – probing the dollar smuggling case – arrested managing director of Unitac Builders Santosh Eappen (49) on Tuesday on charges of ‘abetting smuggling’. His firm had taken the contract for Wadakkancherry Life Mission housing project. Customs found that Eappen was aware that the money he had given to Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry – former finance head of UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram – as kickbacks for granting the LIFE Mission contract was illegally converted to dollars and smuggled to a foreign country. He was summoned to customs office in Kochi on Tuesday morning and the arrest was recorded later in the afternoon. However, he was granted bail by ACJM (economic offences) court, Ernakulam as customs did not oppose the bail petition. Customs submitted in court that as per the statements of key accused, Swapna Suresh and Sarith PS, $1.9 lakh smuggled to Cairo by Khalid via Thiruvananthapuram airport was part of Eappen’s kickbacks for LIFE Mission project. “Santhosh Eappen, appeared before the investigating officer on Feb 11, 2021 and Feb 16, 2021 and gave statements under Section 108 of the Customs Act, 1962, wherein he inter alia admitted that he knew that the amounts he had given as commission for getting more projects for his firm were illegally converted into foreign exchange and further transported abroad by Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, with the explicit support of Swapna and Sarith, among others,” stated the remand report. “Santhosh Eappen has admitted that he was aware that the commission he had given to Khalid was to be taken out of the country by the Consul General. He further admitted the mistake committed by him. Thus it becomes clear that Santhosh Eappen was in the knowledge of the illegal activity of smuggling of foreign exchange out of India and also abetted such smuggling,” it added. Customs also submitted in court that Swapna and Sarith helped the consulate employees in smuggling currency by facilitating clearance at the airport. Chargesheet by end of month Sources with customs said that the chargesheet in gold smuggling case will be submitted by the end of February. However, the chargesheet in dollar smuggling case will be submitted by May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-arrests-unitac-md-in-dollar-smuggling-case/articleshow/81006120.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Patna||lawyers differ on demand for Patna HC circuit bench||PATNA: There has been a demand for establishment of a circuit bench of Patna high court at Bhagalpur for the last several years from lawyers and others. However, legal experts have a mixed response on the issue as the high court is reeling from scarcity of judges. Senior lawyer Yogesh Chandra Verma said people from different areas of Bihar always demand a circuit bench of the high court in their areas. “This is a legitimate demand when seen from the locals’ aspects. But Bihar is a small state. People can reach the state capital from any district headquarter in three-four hours. Circuit benches of the high court, however, can function in large districts like Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and Gaya twice a week or as per requirement,” he added. Verma said, “A circuit bench can be made operational in far-flung district like Katihar, but Patna high court should remain in state capital as the standard served here cannot be attained at those places due to lack of expertise among lawyers,” he said. Another senior advocate, Y V Giri, said there is no requirement of any circuit bench in Bihar. Such benches are formed at places where people require to travel for several hours. Transportation has become much easier in the state,” he said. Giri said the actual requirement at present is to fulfil the 22 vacant positions in the high court. “There is 53 sanctioned posts of judges in high court, which is less as per requirement. At least these vacant positions should be fulfilled first,” he added. Senior advocate P K Shahi, who had been minister as well as advocate general of the state government at Patna high court in the past, said circuit bench could be considered, but first priority should be filling up the vacant posts of the judges. “What would be the use of a circuit bench if posts are not filled. Judges from the available strength would only sit for a circuit bench. It would be of great help if the vacant posts of judges are fulfilled,” he said. Shahi said three more judges are set to retire, which will bring down count of judges at the high court to 18 against the sanctioned strength of 53. Meanwhile, Bhagalpur District Bar Association general secretary Sanjay Modi said they had been demanding a circuit bench of Patna high court at Bhagalpur for the last 15 years. “Former Patna HC Chief Justice L Narasimha Reddy had given assurance for circuit bench at Bhagalpur, but nothing has been done yet. We had met Jitan Ram Manjhi when he was CM. He had also said that Bhagalpur needs a circuit bench of the high court, but to no avail,” he said. Modi said a circuit bench would provide much relief to litigants as large number of cases is pending in Bhagalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lawyers-differ-on-demand-for-patna-hc-circuit-bench/articleshow/81006220.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 17, 2021||Patna||Mild earthquake indicator of high intensity temblor?||PATNA: Geologists have claimed that the mild earthquake that occurred in Patna and adjoining areas on Monday evening may be a precursor to a major temblor likely to hit Bihar soon. Two active fault zones pass through this region, making it quite vulnerable to earthquakes. Geological Survey of India’s former director N Dayal told this newspaper on Tuesday, “While one fault having an east-west alignment runs from Maner to Barh via Danapur, Patna and Fatuha and extends up to Munger, another one running from Patna to Muzaffarpur crosses the major drainage systems of the state. The point of intersection of these two active fault plains where the accumulating strain is released happens to be the most vulnerable site of earthquake. Unfortunately, Patna and its adjoining region lie above this intersection.” Seismologically speaking, the entire state of Bihar is sitting on a time bomb. The state has a history of moderate to severe earthquake occurrences. While its northern part adjacent to Nepal lies in the highest risk zone, Patna and adjoining areas fall in zone IV (high risk zone). “The state has witnessed more than 25 earthquakes having a magnitude above 5.4 in the last two centuries, three of which were quite devastating,” recalled Patna Science College geology department head Anil Kumar. With a magnitude of 7.8, the last major quake to hit the region was on April 25, 2015. Earlier, an earthquake of magnitude 6.6 occurred on August 20, 1988 in the foothills of the Himalayas. It killed over 15,000 people and caused landslides and damage to property over a wide area. The people of Patna were also badly affected. Prior to this, the state witnessed a stronger quake on January 15, 1934 which caused a colossal loss of life and property. Nearly 12,000 people were dead. However, despite the probability of a major earthquake in future, the state has no seismograph station to measure the location and magnitude of tremors. Although the state government had started work for establishment of an advance seismological centre in Patna University, it is yet to be completed. Bihar State Disaster Management Authority’s vice-chairman Vyas Ji said, “Altogether 10 seismic telemetry stations with their headquarters in Patna were to be set up. Of these, the buildings of six stations have already been constructed. However, the unavailability of competent manpower for the purpose is causing delay in commissioning of the telemetric network. Posts of director and other officials have been advertised several times, but no qualified person could be found.” He added, “The instruments will be installed only when the appointments are made.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mild-earthquake-indicator-of-high-intensity-temblor/articleshow/81003890.cms||B K Mishra
February 17, 2021||Vijayawada||Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations in Tirupati||Tirupati: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy will take part in the Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations in Tirupati on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lit the Swarnim Vijay Mashaal (victory torch) at the National War Memorial in New Delhi on December 16, 2020, calling upon the nation to unite in celebrating Vijay Divas, marking the 50th anniversary of the India-Pakistan war of 1971, also known as the Bangladesh liberation war. On the southern leg of its journey, the Vijay Mashaal will leave Hyderabad and reach the temple city of Tirupati on Thursday. Apart from the chief minister, ex-servicemen, outstanding sports personalities, Arjuna/Dronacharya awardees and students will take part in the Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations that will be held at the White House function hall near police parade grounds in Tirupati. According to Chittoor district collector M Harinarayana, the chief minister will arrive in the city at around 4.50 pm on Thursday and will take part in various programmes. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/swarnim-vijay-varsh-celebrations-in-tirupati/articleshow/81007863.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 17, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Shopkeeper killed for gutka of Rs 20||PATNA: A 28-year-old shopkeeper had to pay with his life for not giving gutka of Rs 20 on credit in Supaul district on Tuesday. Gutka is banned in the state. The incident took place around 10.30am at Matkutiya under Triveniganj police station. Three youths arrived at the shop of Mithilesh Kumar and shot at him when he was dealing with customers. He was rushed to the sub-divisional hospital at Triveniganj where the doctors declared him brought dead. Mithilesh’s brother Sarvesh Kumar said he had an argument with the three youths after he had refused to give them gutka of Rs 20 on credit Monday evening. Though the matter was sorted out after the intervention of local traders, the youths visited the shop on Tuesday morning and killed Mithilesh, Sarvesh told the police. Agitated over the incident, some local residents and businessmen blocked the NH-327E near Durga Mandir Chowk and disrupted vehicular traffic for over three hours. The blockade was lifted after the intervention of senior police officers. Triveniganj police station SHO Sandip Kumar Singh said raids were on to arrest the culprits. The body was handed over to the relatives after postmortem, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shopkeeper-killed-for-gutka-of-rs-20/articleshow/81006727.cms||Ramashankar
February 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||‘TDP will support govt in opposing privatisation’||Visakhapatnam: Former chief minister and TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu said the TDP would support the government in its fight to protect Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Naidu on Tuesday visited the hospital where former MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao, who was on an indefinite hunger strike in protest against privatisation of VSP, had been forcibly shifted by the police. Stating that the government has to protect the rights and sentiments of the people, Naidu referred to the government stating, “The public has given them 151 MLAs and 22 MPs. They should fight against the central government’s privatisation move.” Meanwhile, YSRC Rajya Sabha MP V Vijayasai Reddy said he would take up a 25-km-long yatra on February 20 for the protection of the steel plant. The maha-padayatra, the MP said, would start from the GVMC Gandhi Statue at 8.30 pm. Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday, Vijayasai said the steel plant is a matter of sentiment for the entire state and not just northern Andhra. “We will not allow the privatisation of the plant. We would intensify the agitation by roping in the people, workers and employees of the steel plant,” Vijayasai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tdp-will-support-govt-in-opposing-privatisation/articleshow/81007871.cms||Siva G
February 17, 2021||Patna||People above 50 years eagerly wait to get vaccinated||PATNA: Most senior citizens in the city are upbeat over the announcement by Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan that the government will start administering Covid-19 vaccine to third prioritised group, comprising people above 50 years of age, from next month. Starting with healthcare workers, more than 5 lakh people have been vaccinated in the state since January 16. Altogether 3,97,311 healthcare and 98,481 frontline workers were given the first dose of vaccine in the state till Monday. The vaccination of people above 50 years of age is now eagerly awaited. Prem Shankar Prakash (55), deputy manager at a public sector bank, said, “We trust the government and its vaccination procedure. I am ready to get vaccinated. There are many people above the age of 50 who are suffering from various ailments like blood pressure and diabetes. These people need to be vaccinated at the earliest as they are more vulnerable to the virus.” Nirbhay Kumar (75), a retired doctor and resident of Gardanibagh, said, “Everyone should get vaccinated. No serious case of adverse reaction of the vaccine has been reported in the state yet. The side effects are not alarming and life-threatening. It’s common to have local reactions and that can happen in any kind of vaccine.” Few people, however, seem to be apprehensive. Schoolteacher Praveen Kumar (58), a resident of Boring Road, said, “I am not comfortable enough to get vaccinated owing to the possibility of side effects. I have got to know that some people complained of skin rashes, aches and other problems after getting vaccinated. I will instead keep following Covid safety measures.” Yash Adhikar (22), an MBBS student and resident of Kankarbagh, said, “People with severe diseases like high blood pressure and diabetes should consult their doctors before getting vaccinated. Those with no medical history should not hesitate in taking vaccine jab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-above-50-years-eagerly-wait-to-get-vaccinated/articleshow/81003727.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Vijayawada||Fulfil SEC directions on recording counting: Andhra Pradesh HC||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Tuesday hoped that directions issued by the state election commission (SEC) with regard to recording the counting process would be implemented in letter and spirit. Disposing of a petition sought for directions to install CCTV cameras or providing videography at counting centres, the high court observed that as the SEC and state government stated they are taking steps to ensure free and transparent elections, there is no need for further orders. One S Nancharaiah from Krishna district and one M Pratap Naik from Guntur district had moved the high court challenging inaction of officials in implementing directions issued by the SEC to video-record the counting process from the second phase of panchayat elections. Arguing on behalf of the petitioners, senior counsel Dammalapati Srinivas said the SEC recognised the need for recording the counting process as it received numerous complaints after the completion of first phase of elections. Srinivas contended that despite clear directions from the SEC, officials are not complying with the same and the second phase counting was done without CCTV or videography. Arguing on behalf of the SEC, advocate N Ashwani Kumar said directions issued on February 13 were modified on February 15 stating that recording of the counting process should be done in sensitive and hypersensitive areas. Justice D V S S Somayajulu said the SEC and the government have stated they are taking measures to address complaints regarding the counting process. Justice Somayajulu observed that lack of funds or infrastructure should not become a constraint for achieving free and transparent elections. He disposed the petitions stating there is no need for additional directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fulfil-sec-directions-on-recording-counting-hc/articleshow/81007685.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 17, 2021||Patna||Patna: Poor turnout for 2nd dose of Covid vaccine on Day 2||PATNA: After an impressive start with 12,101 healthcare workers taking the second dose of Covid vaccine on Monday, there was a sharp decline in their numbers as only 188 of the registered beneficiaries turned up at the vaccination sites for second shot on Tuesday. Also, no one took the shots of Covaxin and all 188 healthcare workers took the second dose of Covishield. Patna civil surgeon Dr Bibha Kumari Singh told TOI on Tuesday that one of the reasons behind low turnout could be Saraswati Puja. “The second dose of vaccine can be taken any day between 28th and 45th day after the first shot. We’ll be calling the healthcare workers, whose second dose was due on Tuesday,” she said. She said the turnout may continue to be low on Wednesday as routine immunization is carried out on Wednesday and Friday. “Mondays and Thursdays have been designated for administering vaccines to healthcare workers in the district, while Thursdays and Saturdays are for giving the shots to frontline workers,” she said. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer of Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, said the turnout was lower on the second day of the first dose as well. “The vaccination drive for healthcare workers started on January 16, which was Saturday and the second day was Sunday. Consequently, the number of beneficiaries was lower and the same might have been reflected in the low turnout for the second dose on Tuesday,” he said, adding that people eligible for the second dose can take it up to 45 days after the first jab. Incidentally, Bihar is on the top in the country in terms of percentage of targeted healthcare beneficiaries administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. Altogether 3,97,316 healthcare workers in Bihar have taken the jabs since January 16. The percentage coverage of eligible healthcare workers having been administered the first dose of the vaccine stood at 80.92%. The number of frontline workers, including employees associated with home department, revenue, personnel, urban development and housing, district administration and panchayati raj institutions, having taken the vaccination till date stood at 99,827. The vaccination for frontline workers in Bihar started on February 6. Meanwhile, 56 new Covid cases were registered in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the corresponding tally up to 2,61,840. As per the daily Covid bulletin issued by the health department, 78 people recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 99.20%. The heath department reported only one death due to Covid in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poor-turnout-for-2nd-dose-of-covid-vaccine-on-day-2/articleshow/81003816.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 17, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Placement cells at engineering colleges and polytechnics soon||PATNA: There is some good news for the students pursuing engineering courses in the state government-run engineering colleges and polytechnic institutes as the science and technology department has decided to set up dedicated placement cells at all these institutes. During a review meeting on Monday, CM Nitish Kumar had asked the officials of the science and technology department to strengthen the placement cells both at the headquarters and in the institutes to provide job opportunities to the students. “The companies will now visit the campus of the institutes for recruitment,” a senior officer of the department said. The officer pointed out that at present the facility is available only in limited colleges. “It will now be expanded to all the engineering colleges and polytechnic institutes. The main purpose is to attract more and more companies from outside the state for campus selection,” the officer, who was present at the meeting, said. In addition, there will be a dedicated placement cell at the headquarters, which will tie up with the companies willing to hire the skilled students. “We will also prepare a database of the companies and the students for the purpose,” the officer said. Science and technology department minister Sumit Kumar Singh, who was present at the review meeting chaired by the CM, had said on Monday that the placement of the skilled students will be given priority in days to come. There are 36 government-run engineering colleges and 44 polytechnic institutes in the state, he added. During the review meeting, the CM had asked the officials concerned to complete the construction of building of the institutes so that they have their permanent campus at the earliest. Sources in the department said the construction of buildings of 19 colleges would be completed by the end of July this year. Besides, the CM asked the officials to hire quality teachers in these institutes. “The process of recruitment of teaching and non-teaching staff will be expedited,” the minister said, adding the institutes would be developed as centres of excellence. The minister said the focus will be on admission of the students to fill the seats allotted to the institutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/placement-cells-at-engineering-colleges-and-polytechnics-soon/articleshow/81004342.cms||Ramashankar
February 17, 2021||Patna||Devotees seek goddess Saraswati’s blessing||PATNA: Despite the Covid gloom, Patnaites welcomed and worshipped goddess Saraswati with joy and enthusiasm on Tuesday. Wearing yellow-coloured clothes, they sought the goddess’ blessing and prayed for a healthy and knowledgeable life. Also known as Basant Panchami, the festival signals the beginning of the spring season. Jaishreya, who hosted a small get-together at her residence, told this newspaper, “My family and friends participated in the rituals which a priest performed. I also cooked lunch for them.” Hanuman Nagar resident Sangeeta Prakash’s family also celebrates Saraswati Puja every year. “I believe that if you seek knowledge and wisdom, prosperity follows,” she said. Many devotees ensured that they followed Covid safety guidelines while celebrating the festival. The owner of a coaching institute in Kankarbagh, Smita Sinha, claimed that there was no ‘prasad’ distribution this year. “Students came here in a phased manner to offer prayers,” she added. A priest, Dinesh Pandey, who performed puja at a Rajendra Nagar-based institute, said, “Only the employees were present during the ceremony. Everyone, including me, was wearing a mask and maintained proper distance”. However, most schools, colleges and coaching institutes chose not to celebrate the festival. “Both my school and coaching institute were shut. I worshipped goddess Saraswati at home and spent the rest of the day with my family,” said Mrinal Sinha, a Class VI student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/devotees-seek-goddess-saraswatis-blessing/articleshow/81004812.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Vijayawada||16th century idol of Lakshminarasimha discovered in Prakasam district||Ongole: A 16th century sculpture of Lord Lakshminarasimha was found in the bushes at Motupalli village in China Ganjam mandal of Prakasam district. Based on information by farmers, Dr E Sivanagireddy, archaeologist and CEO, Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati (CCVA), visited the spot and had the area cleared. Reddy said the sculpture represents Lakshminarasimha delineated in the Vijayanagara style of art. He added that Narasimha is seen seated in Sukhasana with Lakshmi seated on his left thigh. Both images have elongated headgear, divine drapery and ornaments. Dr Jyothi Chandramouli, a noted historian who also visited the site, said the sculpture belongs to the Vijayanagara period and the two inscriptions of Devaraya at Motupalli attest the fact. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/16th-century-idol-of-lakshminarasimha-discovered-in-prakasam-district/articleshow/81007848.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Patna||Nitish: Everyone will be happy if fuel prices don’t rise||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said everyone would be happy if the prices of diesel and petrol do not rise. “However, the fact is that fuel prices are on the rise these days,” he said. The CM was talking to media persons after offering prayers to Goddess Saraswati on the occasion of Basant Panchami here. When a reporter pointed out that the prices of diesel and petrol are rising on a regular basis, the CM said. “Yes, it is true. You are telling the truth. Right now, the prices are on the rise.” The CM also said it is his wish to see electric vehicles running on roads as they do not have a harmful impact on the environment. “Petrol and diesel vehicles do have some kind of an impact on environment,” he told reporters. He added, “Today is Basant Panchami. I offer my best wishes to the people on the occasion. Today, we have also performed Saraswati Puja which is done to obtain knowledge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-everyone-will-be-happy-if-fuel-prices-dont-rise/articleshow/81004686.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Patna||Patna: Jagdanand stops workers from blocking road near RJD office||PATNA: RJD state president and former minister Jagdanand Singh was visibly angry seeing a group of workers blocking the road near the party office on the Beerchand Patel Marg in the state capital on Tuesday. Singh described the move as a “foolish act” of the state government and also slammed CM Nitish Kumar. “Though the road cuts leading to the offices of other parties have not been blocked, the one in front of the RJD office was intentionally targeted,” he said. The CM wants all road cuts on the Beerchand Patel Marg to be closed so that the vehicles will have to take a turn from the IT roundabout. This is nothing but a foolish act,” he added. The workers engaged in blocking the road had to face the ire of Singh. The former minister also lashed out at the contractor when he told him that the work was being carried out under the Smart City project. The contractor preferred to stop the ongoing work soon after gauging the mood of the RJD state president. The incident took place barely three days after RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav slamming Singh for not receiving him at the party office during his unscheduled visit. Tej had also accused Singh of running the party in an autocratic manner. He alleged that the MLAs, former legislators and workers of the party had to seek prior appointment from Singh to meet him at the party office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jagdanand-stops-workers-from-blocking-road-near-rjd-office/articleshow/81004450.cms||Ramashankar
February 17, 2021||Patna||FASTag fallout: Long queues at toll plazas in Patna||PATNA: With use of FASTag becoming mandatory, 85% of the vehicles crossing the different toll plazas on the national highways in the state on Tuesday paid double the fee applicable to the category of the vehicle according to the NH Fee Rules 2008. The payment of penalty by large number of vehicles led to long queues at many toll plazas. Sanjeev Kumar, manager of a toll plaza on NH-30 (Patna- Bakhtiyarpur), said most vehicles paid double the toll charge for the respective category for not having FASTags. “Today was the first day of compulsory implementation of the rule and many people were clueless about it. As a result, they had to pay double the toll tax. All the 12 lanes on Patna-Bakhtiyarpur highway have now become the FASTag lanes.” In Gaya, more than 400 vehicles crossed the toll plaza at Amas on Grand Trunk (GT) Road on Tuesday, paying double tax as penalty. This included 220 trucks, around 60 light vehicles and other vehicles, a staff at the toll plaza said. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed at the toll plaza. FASTag is an electronic toll collection system that is operated by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). The Union ministry of road, transport and highways on Sunday made it mandatory for all four-wheelers across the country to make digital transaction on NHs from February 15. An NHAI official in Patna said, “FASTag has been introduced for the ease of the people. It will reduce their waiting time at the toll plazas and also save fuel. People should get the FASTag as soon as they can. Otherwise, they will have to pay twice the actual toll fee.” To get FASTag, vehicle owners have to provide the vehicle registration certificate and KYC (know your client) details, along with a payment of Rs 500. Commuters, who paid the penalty, were irked. Abhinav Vats, sales manager at a private firm, said, “I travelled from Patna to Muzaffarpur on Tuesday and faced huge jam at the toll plaza. There were long queues of vehicles in each lane as many people had to pay the penalty for not having the FASTags." Prashant Kashyap, a resident of Kankarbagh, said, “I often travel from Patna to Kudra, my native place. I am planning to get the tag soon as paying twice the toll amount every time is not economically viable. But I am still sceptical about the system being effective as around 50% people have already adapted to it, but not much has changed." (With inputs from Alok Kumar in Gaya)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fastag-fallout-long-queues-at-toll-plazas/articleshow/81004536.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Expressway accident occurred at ‘black spot’ near toll plaza||NAVI MUMBAI: An accident on the Mumbai-bound carriageway of the Expressway in which a container trailer rammed two SUVs and two LMVs killed an NMMC veterinary officer and three of his family around 12.40am on Tuesday. The trailer cleaner and a woman travelling with her husband in one of the SUVs were the other two dead. Five persons sustained severe injuries in the mishap on the accident-prone 3km stretch around Dheku village in the Bhor Ghat section of the Expressway. TimesViewIt is odd that not much has been done to reduce accidents on this spot which has seen many. The fact that the container trailer was in the middle lane does not reflect well on the authorities. Heavy vehicles must not be allowed in the middle and first lanes along such stretches and must keep to the extreme left, and yet they continue to flout the law because the rules are not strictly implemented.The only one to survive from the family of the veterinary officer was Zunjare’s 11-year-old son, Arnav, who sustained grievous injuries and was admitted to Apollo Hospital in CBD-Belapur. A relative of the veterinarian said Zunjare was bringing his family back from his hometown Solapur, where he had sent them for their safety in March last year as he had been assigned Covid duty here. Dr Ajay Garde, a colleague at the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation who was in another car ahead of the car Zunjare was driving, said he never realised there had been an accident and drove on till Navi Mumbai before returning to the mishap spot when Zunjare failed to take his calls. Senior inspector Dhanaji Kshirsagar of the Khopoli police station said Zunjare was with his wife, Vaishali (38), mother, Usha (63), daughter, Shreya, and his son. In the other SUV were Manju Nahar (58), a Goregaon resident, and her husband, Prakash (65), who was severely injured and admitted to Kokilaben hospital in Ambivali, and their driver, Swapnil Kamble (30), who sustained minor injuries. Trailer cleaner Kaluram Jat was crushed under the vehicle as it toppled onto the median. Trailer driver Kishan Chaudhary sustained severe injuries and was admitted to JJ Hospital. “We have booked the Chaudhary for rash and negligent driving causing death,” inspector Kshirsagar said. Assistant police inspector (Highway Safety Patrol) Jagdish Pardeshi said the container trailer was moving in the middle lane and first rammed an LCV ahead of it, after which it veered into the right lane and crashed into the Toyota Innova that the Zunjares were in. The Innova crashed into the road median. The trailer then crashed into a Hyundai Creta, in which the senior citizen couple from Goregaon was travelling. The trailer then went off the road and, as it moved on to the median, crashed into another LCV. “The drivers of the two tempos [LCVs] hit by the trailer escaped unhurt,” API Pardeshi said. Several NMMC officials arrived at the municipal morgue where Zunjare’s body was kept. Superintendent of NMMC hospital at Vashi Dr Prashant Javade said Zunjare was a body builder and adventurous person who would go on road trips as far as Ladakh on a bike. The accident happened in a “black spot”, a 3km stretch that is a concern because of its 3% gradient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/expressway-accident-occurred-at-black-spot-near-toll-plaza/articleshow/81010053.cms||George Mendonca
February 17, 2021||Patna||ECR to replace old signalling system at crowded railway stations||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has decided to replace old and obsolete signalling system by much advanced and foolproof electronic mechanism at each vulnerable and crowded station under its jurisdiction. Union budget has allocated Rs161 crore to the ECR for installation of advanced signalling system. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the old signalling system will be replaced by electronic signalling mechanism first at a stretch of 12km at Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU) Junction railway yard. “It is one of the biggest yards not only in Asia but in the world. DDU marshalling yard is known for its handling both passenger and goods train movements simultaneously,” he said. Dwelling at length upon the importance of newly introduced electronic signalling system, Kumar said railways started with mechanical signalling system during early 1970-80s. “It switched over to panel interlocking under the direct control of route relay interlocking (RRI) system. The greatest advantage of the electronic signalling system is that it has the option for upgradation in future and increasing line capacity as well while there is no such provision in the RRI system,” he said. Electronic signalling system is fully computerized giving full display on the monitor screen about traffic movement and operation. “Switch button is easy to handle and there is hardly any chance of mishaps or accidents on the tracks,” the CPRO said, adding railways is installing a new electronic RRI building at Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction at an estimated cost of Rs190 crore. According to the CPRO, railways intends to link dedicated freight corridor (DFC) route to electronic signalling system at Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction to ensure foolproof safety on tracks. “The advanced electronic signalling system will also be useful to cope with fast increasing speed of passenger and goods trains in future. Railways is likely to increase speed limit from 130km per hour to 160km per hour between Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction and Dhanbad Grand Chord (GC) route by 2024,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-to-replace-old-signalling-system/articleshow/81004741.cms||Kumod Verma
February 17, 2021||Patna||Covid cases on decline, but don’t let guard down: Doctors||PATNA: The rate of Covid-19 infection is on decline in the state, much to the relief of people. Yet, there stands strong chances of the pandemic striking back with unknown intensity, experts feel. Medical experts of the state, who have been fighting tirelessly for over 10 months to save lives of people, are now somewhat relaxed with the declining trend of infection and high recovery rate. Nodal officer for Covid at All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) Dr Sanjeev Kumar said only 1 to 4 cases of the 1,500 tests carried out daily came positive during the last 10 days. Recalling the status during the peak days of the pandemic in July and August last year, he said results of about 60% samples would come positive for the virus then. The AIIMS-P had served for months as a dedicated Covid hospital, where patients from different places queued up for admission and many of them went back smiling after recovery. Some unfortunate ones, however, lost their lives at the hospital. “The good efforts by the government, dedicated services by health workers and people’s cooperation helped in bringing the situation under control. However, there are strong chances of the virus returning in mutant form,” Dr Kumar cautioned. Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) is also witnessing a sharp decline in the Covid positive cases. Hospital’s superintendent Dr I S Thakur said the 36-bed Covid ward had only four patients on Tuesday. Dr Thakur also did not rule out chances of the return of the virus with unknown symptoms and varying intensity. “We need to follow precautionary measures like use of masks and santiser and social distancing for the well-being of the self and others,” Dr Thakur said, adding the ongoing vaccination was building up more confidence in people. PMCH principal Dr V P Choudhary said of 1,200 tests carried out daily, only one to four came positive for the virus this week. He said the rate of recovery in PMCH and other hospitals was around 98%. At Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), which served as a dedicated Covid hospital for 10 months, only four patients were admitted in the 100-bed Covid ward, hospital’s superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said. “Being an RNA virus, there are possibilities of genetic shift and genetic drift in Covid-19. The increasing immunity leads to mutation and changes the genetic material. Hence, there are chances of return of the disease,” Dr Singh said. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said reports reaching her office from different hospitals showed a marked decrease in the number of positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-cases-on-decline-but-dont-let-guard-down-doctors/articleshow/81003645.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Business||Collaboration won’t change due to Covid, it’ll accelerate||By S V NathanIn ‘The Pandemic Is a Portal’, Indian author Arundhati Roy writes, “Historically, pandemics have forced humans to break with the past and imagine their world anew. This one is no different. It is a portal, a gateway between one world and the next.” The pandemic has triggered a lot of discourse about all that will change at the workplace and beyond. But many things, in fact, will not change. Broadly we can classify them into the universes of ‘connect’, ‘develop’, and ‘care’… Connect: After the 9/11 terror attacks, enhancements in security checks meant that one could no longer carry even pocket scissors onboard a flight. And the world still continued to take flights after the initial dip due to apprehensions. A kind word, a smile and a yes, a Namaste will not change. Similarly, in the post-pandemic workplace, water cooler conversations and other connects will still happen. Yes, there may be masks, but that won’t be a strong enough barrier to communication. The workplace is a connected environment and business in any form is about connections and live interactions. Face-to-face meetings are inalienable and invaluable to the work and non-work aspects of office life and the eagerness people have to meet friends and colleagues will ensure that this does not change. As of now, working from home continues to be a significant part of most of our lives. As the dining table became the conference table, we have all gotten trained in picking up the unspoken word, that is, non-verbal cues, gestures, and body language. Interestingly, instead of being less connected due to the physical distance, we have become more connected than ever before — through connects that matter. This will (thankfully) continue. Collaboration — something that came naturally to us during the pandemic — will not change. It will only accelerate. Over two million years, we may have evolved into super-intelligent beings. But still, it’s that primal instinct of survival through adversity that powers us to change. Develop: In this crisis, we made a giant leap forward with digitalisation in an astoundingly short span of time. As the need to progress and develop took control, innovation came to the fore. Technology helped us learn, re-learn and, sometimes, unlearn. When the situation started fading the boundaries between work from home and work for home, we developed ways to prioritise both — office and home. The learning that one takes from this is that our predisposition to find a ‘jugaad’ has not and will not change. Nor will the emphasis on giving a stellar ‘people-oriented’ experience. The democratisation of hierarchies and new decision-making trends will not change. I also think that our inclination to find the middle path, or the-best-of-both-worlds scenario will prevail in the long run. For example, we were moving towards e-onboarding and the pandemic made the change complete. But after things settle, we will go towards a flexible approach. Learning programmes too became online. But again, I don’t think this is a permanent step — we will settle on the sweet spot where technology will substitute and supplement rather than eliminate the in-learning. On something simpler, dress codes — that bane of millennials’ and Gen Z’s professional lives — will also reach a middle path. While ‘wear-your-pajamas-to-work’ may not become the norm, ‘dress for your day’ may certainly. And yes, the new habits of men with their helping hand on household chores will remain. The pandemic has turned the spotlight to what is important in any organisation — care. This is the centrepiece of culture. It infuses trust and a sense of belonging. Care: The pandemic has taught us to be even more caring and sensitive to the needs of our people, and this will not change. As the stress and the demands placed on individuals rose, care moved from welfare to wellness. It’s a subtle change and makes care a more holistic concept. And yes, the online workout sessions will remain. But it’s an evolution, not a change, and because of that, the post-pandemic world will not alter it. About 30 years ago too, people were taught to listen to the smiles or frowns on a telephone call, perhaps even more so since there was no video call. The pandemic got us to go a step further and acknowledge that it is ‘okay to not be okay’, and this empathy defined new policies — such as regularly speaking to and asking after the state of mind of those who were tested positive and staying alone in hospitals or under home quarantine. I am confident that this inborn feeling to take care of each other will not change after the pandemic, even if the way our empathy finds expression in care continues to evolve. Pandemics are life-altering and, therefore, define new behaviour and shape the course of a workplace. What will stay unchanged are the humans at work and humanness at work. (The writer is partner & chief talent officer, Deloitte India)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/collaboration-wont-change-due-to-covid-itll-accelerate/articleshow/81012823.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Patna||CPI defends Kanhaiya’s meeting with JD(U) min||PATNA: The central office of the CPI on Tuesday denied any political move behind its leader and former JNU Students’ Union president Kanhaiya Kumar’s meeting with Bihar’s building construction minister Ashok Choudhary. In a statement, CPI’s central office secretary Roykutty said, “A section of newspapers carried a news item about Kanhaiya Kumar’s possibility to join JD(U) after meeting with minister Ashok Choudhary in Bihar. The news is absolutely baseless. Kanhaiya Kumar met him along with Suryakant Paswan, a CPI MLA, to discuss some people’s issues and development works in his (Paswan’s) assembly constituency.” When contacted, Paswan, however, told TOI on Tuesday that he had met CM Nitish Kumar on February 13 (Saturday) evening at his residence where Choudhary was also present. Paswan denied meeting Choudhary along with Kanhaiya. “Kanhaiya may have met Choudhary separately. I have no idea about their meeting,” Paswan said over phone. Giving the reason behind his meeting with the CM, Paswan said it was to request Nitish to open a degree college at Bakhri, a sub-divisional headquarters in Begusarai district. Paswan, a first-time MLA, represents Bakhri assembly constituency. “The CM had earlier announced that all sub-divisional headquarters will have a degree college. But Bakhri still do not have a degree college. Besides, I also drew his attention for opening a university in Begusarai district in the name of great poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar. Other issues of my areas were also discussed during the meeting,” Paswan said and asked, “Is it wrong if an MLA calls on the CM to raise the issue of his constituency?” Paswan, however, repeatedly denied his meeting with Choudhary along with Kanhaiya. Earlier on Monday, many eyebrows were raised in the state’s political circles after a news came out about Kanhaiya’s meeting with Choudhary, a key aide of Nitish. Recently, Choudhary played a key role in the switchover of lone BSP MLA Zama Khan to the JD(U) and getting the support of independent legislator Sumit Kumar Singh. Both Khan and Singh were inducted into the Nitish cabinet weeks after they announced their support to JD(U) at a press conference held at the residence of Choudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cpi-defends-kanhaiyas-meeting-with-jdu-min/articleshow/81006433.cms||Madan Kumar
February 17, 2021||Patna||Robotic scavenger becomes operational||PATNA: The ‘Bandicoot’ robotic manhole-cleaning machine was finally launched by mayor Sita Sahu and municipal commissioner Hiamshu Sharma here on Tuesday. The machine, according to civic body officials, will go a long way in eradicating manual scavenging. The robotic machine can clean eight to 10 sewage manholes a day and requires only two people to operate it. The machine has been provided to Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) by Indian Oil Corporation Limited under the latter’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. As per a statement issued by PMC, Bandicoot is a robotic machine, which has its monitor and control above the manhole. Its portion goes inside the sewage line and cleans it. The lower end of the machine has four arms fitted with cameras to cart out waste material from the gutter. The sensors in the lower portion of the machine also provide information on emission of harmful gases to alert the sanitation workers. Speaking at the launch, Sahu said PMC is committed to eradicating manual scavenging in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/robotic-scavenger-becomes-operational/articleshow/81004037.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Cops seize bikes with modified silencers in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Bike enthusiasts who have been modifying their two-wheeler by replacing the muffler for a louder silencer have recently come in the line of fire of Vizag city police. Speaking to TOI, additional deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Ch Adinarayana said 139 cases were booked against violators in a special drive for modifying manufacturer-fitted silencers and horns and causing sound pollution. Bikes with such modifications are not legal, he added, stating that section 190 (2) of the Motor Vehicle Act deals with vehicles that do not stick to prescribed standards of road safety as well as control of noise and air pollution. “We have observed the majority of violators are riders of Bullets,” he added. Violators will be produced before court and charged with a fine between Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 or imprisonment. Recent years have seen demand for loud silencers among youngsters go up, attested by the fact that many first choose the silencer before purchasing the bike, said a mechanic at a spare parts shop in the city. Traffic police say sound levels above 65 decibels is injurious to health while levels above 75 decibels can cause hypertension and anxiety. “Apart from violators, we are registering cases against automobile shops and mechanics for selling and fixing modified silencers and horns,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-seize-bikes-with-modified-silencers/articleshow/81008008.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 17, 2021||Business||Tata Group seek CCI nod to acquire Bigbasket||MUMBAI/BENGALURU: Tata Group has sought Competition Commission of India’s approval on its deal to buy a majority stake in Bigbasket, indicating that the two enterprises have inked an agreement, it is learned. Usually, companies announce M&As before seeking regulatory nod. Since Tata Sons and Bigbasket are closely held, the two are under no obligation to announce the transaction. Tata Sons didn’t respond to an email seeking comment, while a Bigbasket spokesperson said they had “no official comments to share at the moment”. India’s anti-trust body looks into competition issues around a deal and clamps down on unfair practices. The Bigbasket transaction will make Tata Group the largest online grocer in the country even though it has a limited play in the space through StarQuik and Tata Nutrikorner. Bigbasket has the lion’s share in the grocery market, crossing $1 billion of annualised gross sales last year. Also, its monthly gross sales, after discount, reached $90-100 million in 2020. These indicate that it is the largest vertical e-grocery player, which would catapult Tatas to the top slot after the completion of the deal. The $200-220 million Bigbasket deal is routed through a wholly owned arm of Tata Sons, the promoter of the $106-billion conglomerate. TOI in December reported that Tatas may end up with just under 70% stake in Bigbasket, valuing the online grocery company at $1.4-1.6 billion. Bigbasket and other e-commerce deals being stitched together by Tatas will intensify competition with the ambitious plans of Reliance Industries, Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart in one of the fastest-growing consumer markets in the world. TOI had also reported that Tatas were nearing a deal to acquire majority stake in e-pharmacy player 1MG. Tatas, through its listed entity Trent, entered the online grocery business through my247market.com in 2015. It subsequently shut down the venture after it acquired the management team and technology infrastructure of the Gurugram-based GrocerMax, now known as StarQuik, in 2017. In 2019, another listed group company, Tata Consumer Products, launched tatanutrikorner.com, which only sells the items it makes. The Bigbasket deal will give wings to Tata Group’s digital play along the lines of a super app, which will provide customers a single point of access to a range of services including Qmin (a food delivery platform), Tata CLiq (a lifestyle online shopping site) and Croma (an electronics e-store). The super app will be launched by Tata Digital, a 100% subsidiary of Tata Sons, in fiscal 2022. There is not much clarity on how the group plans to consolidate the fragmented web operations. Trent, while it plans to list its different brand apps on the super app, intends to pursue its own online play. StarQuik is majority-owned by Trent and its UK partner Tesco. The Bigbasket investment by Tatas will be one of the biggest M&As in the country’s burgeoning consumer internet sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-seek-cci-nod-to-acquire-bigbasket/articleshow/81012489.cms||Reeba Zachariah
February 17, 2021||Business||Atal Pension Yojana takes NPS subscription past 4 crore||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The number of subscribers under the Atal Pension Yojana has crossed the 4-crore mark with the scheme adding 62 lakh subscribers in the last 12 months — an increase of 31%. Launched in 2015, the scheme targeted workers in the unorganised sector. It has seen assets under management (AUM) increase by Rs 4,926 crore to nearly Rs 15,000 crore by end-January 2021 — an increase of 49% over one year. According to data released by the pension regulator, the subscriber base under the National Pension Scheme (NPS) crossed 4 crore in January — a growth of 22% over 3.3 crore subscribers a year ago. Total AUM of the NPS has risen 37% year on year to Rs 5.6 lakh crore. While the subscription numbers are driven by the Atal Pension Yojana, the bulk of the contribution to AUM comes from the pension schemes of state government employees. These account for half of the scheme’s AUM at Rs 2.8 lakh crore of the total. Pension from central government employees accounts for another 30%, and the corporate sector 10%. The Atal Pension Yojana was introduced to replace the Swavalamban Yojana, or NPS Lite, which is closed for a subscription. The NPS has come under focus as it has been able to deliver decent returns to subscribers who have the choice of a fund manager even as the Employee Provident Fund Organisation is struggling to manage yields. For instance, the central government employees’ pension scheme, which came into force from April 2008, has generated a benchmark return of 9.9% since inception.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/atal-pension-yojana-takes-nps-subscription-past-4-crore/articleshow/81010540.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 17, 2021||Vadodara||Andhera in Undera: No end to voters’ woes||Vadodara: Every monsoon, fuel expenses of Mitesh Kalani, who has lived in Undera for the past 20 years, suddenly spikes. Kalani has to refuel his bike more not because of the rise in petrol prices, but because the distance he travels increases during monsoons. In the absence of a stormwater drainage line in Undera, the road outside his house leading to the Refinery Road gets submerged. Despite his house is hardly 500 metres away from Refinery Road, Kalani has to take a detour of 2.5 kilometres to reach Refinery Road. Kalani is not just the only one who suffers every year, but hundreds of other people who live in and around Undera have been facing some or the other civic problems. Until recently, when Undera was merged into the jurisdiction of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), a few metres away from the signboard indicating the end of VMC limit the road used to be strewn with garbage. The civic body now gets the road cleaned regularly but that is hardly an issue that affects the residents. “There are so many problems, but as civic polls neared, we saw some changes. But that is not even the tip of the iceberg,” said Sanjay Patel, who is in a catering business. In some societies, the developers or the nearby public sector companies constructed the roads, but since these were never maintained they are full of potholes. “Driving on these roads during monsoon is like inviting death so we have to take longer routes which are also in a sorry state,” said Kalani. After sunset, residents of some of the housing societies do not prefer to venture out unless it is very urgent as the roads do not have streetlights. “Although safety is the police’s responsibility, having streetlights make a big difference. On Sunday night there was a robbery attempt which could have been thwarted had there been streetlights,” said another resident, not wishing to be named. “We had to install high-definition CCTV cameras and hire private security agencies since the area is not so safe,” said S P Singh, a retired PSU official. “Political party workers have been coming to woo us and we tell them about our problems but whether things will change after polls or not, only time will tell,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/andhera-in-undera-no-end-to-voters-woes/articleshow/81003027.cms||Jay Pachchigar
February 17, 2021||Rajkot||Man murders wife over suspicion of affair||Rajkot: A 27-year-old woman was murdered allegedly her estranged husband in Bhavnagar on Monday night over suspicion of her having an affair.The accused Ghanshyam Chudasama and the woman Shobhana had an altercation at a cowshed in Timana village where she works. The situation soon escalated as Ghanshyam slit Shobhana’s throat with a knife he was carrying and fled from there. Shobhana managed to walk to her employer Hargovind Ladhwa’s house and after knocking on the door, she collapsed. Ladhwa called Shobhana’s father and an ambulance. She was taken to a hospital, but the doctors declared her dead before admission. On Tuesday, based on her father Mohan Makwana’s complaint, an offence was registered against Ghanshyam. Police said that the couple had been living separately for three years as Ghanshyam would not work and ask for money from Shobhana. Whenever she refused money, he used to beat her due to which she went to live with her parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-murders-wife-over-suspicion-of-affair/articleshow/81002235.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Patna||Patna: 16.84 lakh to write Matric exams today||PATNA: As many as 16.84 lakh students, including 8.37 lakh girls, will write the Matriculation exams on Wednesday. The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) will conduct the exams in two sittings amid tight security. The first sitting exam will begin at 9.30am and the second sitting at 1.45pm. According to BSEB chairman Anand Kishore, prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure will remain in force on all days and no unauthorized person will be allowed to enter the centres. The examinees will not carry any calculator, cellphone, bluetooth, earphone or electronic gadget to the examination hall. “If a student’s admit card is lost, he may be allowed to write the examination after proving his identity with the helped of the scanned photograph on the attendance sheet,” the BSEB chairman said. He added, “There will be 10 sets of question papers — A to J — in each subject. Answer books and OMR sheets will be handed over to the examinees simultaneously, but the latter collected earlier. Both will bear pre-printed details and photographs of the students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/16-84-lakh-to-write-matric-exams-today/articleshow/81003973.cms||B K Mishra
February 17, 2021||Business||Cognizant puts up $30 million for employee retention||BENGALURU/CHENNAI: In an unusual move and in a bid to tackle its high attrition rate, Cognizant has set up a $30-million corpus, dubbed as a retention fund, to hold back top performers and digitally-skilled employees. The corpus is used when such employees receive offers from competitors. Cognizant, sources said, matches the competitor’s offer. The company’s annualised attrition rate in the December quarter was 19%, one of the highest among the large IT companies. While overall attrition moved up just 1% compared to the previous quarter, there was a big spike in voluntary attrition — employees leaving for other opportunities. This rose to 16%, from 10%. When TOI asked Rajesh Nambiar, chairman and MD of Cognizant India, about the fund, he said, “As we said on our latest earnings call, the market for skilled digital talent is intensely competitive, creating demand-supply imbalances for certain skills. In key digital areas, there are more open positions than qualified persons to fill those positions. We are therefore heavily focused on maintaining a competitive and appealing employee environment where every person is inspired to achieve, driven to perform, and rewarded for their contributions.” Nambiar said a vital aspect of this is sustained investment in underscoring their employee value proposition, engaging high-performing talent, enhancing their pay-for-performance approach, and reinforcing the career path opportunities created by the company’s growing momentum. Hansa Iyengar, analyst at London-based IT advisory Omdia, said a lot of the attrition stems from the restructuring that Cognizant is going through and its shift to more digital work and a diverse, dispersed workforce that is talent-centric rather than location-specific. She, however, said, “We haven’t heard of any major client issues with Cognizant’s ability to service them and both delivery time and quality have not been significantly impacted.” Under CEO Brian Humphries, who joined in 2019, Cognizant has been undertaking a major restructuring, including getting rid of some businesses. Moshe Katri, MD of Wedbush Securities, said when Infosys was going through management changes and turmoil, the company’s attrition rates spiked to the high 20% levels, also prompting management to adopt aggressive retention measures. “Cognizant’s case is no different, especially in certain digital ‘hot’ skills. Ultimately, a successful turnaround strategy during the next 6-12 months will be critical in bringing down attrition as well as re-rating the company’s stock price/valuation,” he said. Katri thinks high attrition rates have not impacted Cognizant’s ability to service its book. Ray Wang, founder of Constellation Research, said, clients are starting to wonder if Cognizant can quickly staff up for new projects. "The fund will help create a buffer. What has happened are a confluence of factors. The high attrition of long tenured and senior executives. The pandemic has had workers rethink their priorities and some have decided to get out of consulting and the competition for digital talent has been intense. Clients seek experts to run teams in house." Cognizant has increased the workday for its India workforce to nine hours, from eight hours. The company said this was to be in line with its peers’ practices. But analysts see it partly as a move to step up the company’s revenue growth and margins. Revenues declined for the first time ever in 2020. It has also simultaneously increased the number of paid leaves for employees to 36. “These changes will help us level the field with our competitors in fulfilling client expectations of agile and accelerated development, while significantly improving employee work-life balance,” the company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-puts-up-30mn-for-employee-retention/articleshow/81008253.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
February 17, 2021||Salem||Kanimozhi: AIADMK failed to develop Dharmapuri district||DHARMAPURI: Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi on Tuesday hit out at state higher education minister K P Anbalagan for letting his native district, Dharmapuri, lag behind other districts in terms of development indicators. “Though the state’s higher education minister is from Dharmapuri district, the percentage of students enrolled in higher education courses in the district is 67 compared to the state’s overall percentage of 85,” she said. Addressing reporters before starting her campaign, Kanimozhi said the ruling party ministers and MLAs have collectively failed to develop the district and people are aware of it. On Kudimaramathu scheme, Kanimozhi alleged that bureaucrats had swindled funds allotted for the scheme. “The Sanathkumar river in Dharmapuri district had been encroached for 45km. While DMK functionary Thamaraiselvan filed a case in the Madras HC for removal of the encroachments, the ruling party didn’t take any step under Kudimaramathu scheme to restore the river,” she said. When reporters asked about AIADMK leaders’ statements that assurances given by the DMK will remain only on papers, she said Kalaignar (M Karunanidi) announced free colour TV for all and farm loan waiver of Rs 7000 crore and he fulfilled them. “Like him, ‘Thalapathi’ Stalin will also fulfill all his assurances after he comes to power,” she said. Kanimozhi later campaigned across the district. Meanwhile, two hours after a woman requested Kanimozhi to set up a primary health centre at Thalanatham during a grama sabha meeting at Ramiyaanahalli here , officials inspected Thalanatham and assured the residents to set up an Amma mini clinic there by Friday. Later addressing people at Theerthamalai, Kanimozhi, citing the incident, said the AIADMK government has been following DMK footsteps and announcements and implement them as the ruling party’s own idea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/kani-aiadmk-failed-to-develop-dharmapuri-dist/articleshow/81009859.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Salem||28-year-old man dies in bull taming event in Krishnagiri||KRISHNAGIRI: A 28-year-old man succumbed to injuries on Tuesday which he had sustained in a bull taming event in Krishnagiri town. The deceased, K Sakthi from Avathanapatty near Kaveripattinam in the district, had gone to watch a manju virattu event held at Palayapettai on Monday. Eye-witnesses told police officials that one of the bulls, which was running towards a crowd, suddenly knocked down Sakthi, who was merely a spectator at the event. “Onlookers rushed him to the government hospital in Krishnagiri town for treatment, a police officer from Krishnagiri town police station said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/28-yr-old-man-dies-in-bull-taming-event-in-krishnagiri/articleshow/81009893.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Patna||‘Bihar model’ adopted by five states for beggary eradication||PATNA: Even as the state government launched its Mukhyamantri Bhikshavriti Nivaran Yojana (MBNY) way back in 2011-12 underlining it with the compassionate and humane approach to be adopted by treating beggary as a ‘human tragedy’ that falls on a person, its bright spot marked by poignancy appeared four years later, when a strayed old-age ‘crorepati’ was made to join with his family living in Dubai and, still later, an equally old retired DSP-ranked official was also restored. “Back in 2016, this old billionaire was found on a railway track. He was afflicted with Alzheimer’s disease and his feet had cracks and sores and his overall look was that of an abandoned vagrant — a real beggar — who had no idea about his home and relatives,” additional chief secretary of state welfare department Atul Prasad said on Tuesday. “After days of efforts, his memories were somewhat restored. He had somehow strayed from the home of his extended family in India. We, finally, helped him join with his family living in Dubai. Similarly, we also restored to his family a retired DSP-ranked police officer who suffered from the Alzheimer’s disease,” Prasad said without giving other personal details about them. In November 2019, the Centre also decided to launch its programme for the eradication of beggary from the country and invited the representatives of the Bihar government to have a detailed discussion on their approach to the problem. As Prasad said, the Centre early last year finally adopted the Bihar model to tackle the problem and selected 10 cities, including Patna, to make them beggar free by involving the state governments concerned. As to its funding, the Centre and the state governments concerned would share the cost involved in the 60:40 ratio. Five states in the country have already adopted the ‘Bihar model’ for the eradication of beggary in their jurisdiction by “customizing it with their situation and needs”, Prasad said. “The Centre has confined itself to 10 cities, but our programme is for the entire state. The former has taken the individual beggar as the unit for restoration and rehabilitation by giving him or her the suitable skill for self-employment. We, in Bihar, first try restoring the identified beggar to his parent family and then provide benefits from the already existing programme for rehabilitation, so that the man concerned does not revert to beggary again,” Prasad said. “However, if the beggar is unwilling to join the parent family, we alternatively provide food and healthcare and also suitable skill to help in his or her employment, or create self-employment opportunity by providing working capital for sustainability. Their activities are monitored. The government’s existing social security programmes — like old-age pension, skilling and other schemes — are also dovetailed with it,” he said. Prasad said the state government has adopted a holistic approach to attend to the “human tragedy with a complete package” for rehabilitation. “It is not humanely or institutionally possible to give shelter to all the beggars, but efforts are being made to rehabilitate the ones who are not stubborn, incorrigible and habitually given to the practice of beggary,” he said. As to Bihar itself, by now, as many as 14,753 beggars have been identified through survey conducted across the state, while 52 self-help groups (SHGs) involving around 520 beggars have been formed. Further, 982 beggars have been given suitable skills at centres in five districts and 4,820 others have been restored to their families. As many as 363 others were getting skilled. Besides, benefits from matching social security schemes are also provided to them at their homes — like the monthly payment of widow and old-age pension amounts, besides one-time payment of Rs2,000 to the restored beggar or the beggar family, even a child beggar, to start a new life. “We, in a way, have a complete package for their rehabilitation,” Prasad said, adding that some of the SHGs have already been provided bank linkages and making ‘masala’ (spices) and jute-based items for sales. The preparation of Aadhaar cards of the members of the remaining SHGs is on, so that they could also be provided bank linkages for funding by way of loans. “The bank loans are provided to the SHGs, not to its individual members,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-model-adopted-by-five-states-for-beggary-eradication/articleshow/81004615.cms||Abhay Singh
February 17, 2021||Vijayawada||States to be consulted on amended power Bill||VIJAYAWADA: The Union ministry of power is holding consultations with its state energy counterparts on Wednesday on the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The central government had proposed the new Bill in 2020, amending the original Electricity Act, 2003. The Centre has proposed privatisation of power distribution, withdrawal of subsidies in power bills, besides promoting renewable energy. The Bill proposes introduction of private licenses in distribution through which discoms would lease out the distribution network. The Bill also proposes withdrawing subsidies from power bills. Consumers, however, would get direct cash benefit if the government extends the subsidy. Farmers and other sectors that previously were granted power subsidy will now have to pay the total bill amount. Any subsidy will be in the form of a direct cash benefit. Discoms or their private partners will collect the unsubsidised tariff from the consumer. The Bill also proposes a National Renewable Energy Policy that mandates the states to purchase a percentage of renewable energy as fixed by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/states-to-be-consulted-on-amended-power-bill/articleshow/81007784.cms||Gopi Dara
February 17, 2021||Varanasi||Admin mulls road on opposite bankto end traffic jams in cis-Ganga area||Varanasi: The frequent traffic jams and heavy congestion of vehicles on roads leading to the ghats along the Ganga have spurred the local administration into planning to construct a new road on the opposite bank. Officials are also planning a drive to end the menace of beggars who pester tourists and foreigners at tourism and pilgrimage sites. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal took the decisions on the two issues while presiding over a meeting of senior officials of the district on improving facilities for pilgrims and tourists. The commissioner told TOI, “We have decided to send a proposal to the state government and request to appoint a consultant for studying feasibility and finalizing a project for constructing a road between Ramnagar and Padao on the opposite bank of river Ganga.” The need for constructing another road to split traffic load was being felt for a long time. It will help ease traffic load on routes frequented by pilgrims and tourists in cis-Ganga area, he added. “The road proposed on the opposite bank will give easy access to Assi, Dashashwamedh and Rajghat to people coming from Chandauli, Mirzapur and Bihar. The visitors can cross over to the ghats through boats. The traffic load will split, easing congestion on roads in the cis-Ganga side. It will also boost earnings of the boatmen,” he added. Officials also focused on the harassment of tourists and pilgrims by beggars at religious and tourist sites. “A two-pronged strategy has been finalized to tackle the problem of beggars in the city and at Sarnath. We will identify beggars and rehabilitate them while organized gangs of beggars will also be tackled as per legal provisions to end the menace,” the commissioner said. Various measures for qualitative improvement in facilities in Varanasi were also discussed at the meeting, he added. Officials presented reports on the progress of Shivpur-Phulwaria-Lahartara four lane by-pass road construction, proposal for creating integrated terminal at Kashi railway station, connecting Sarnath with ring road, upgrading roads connecting Kashi with neighbouring districts, development of vacant space under flyovers, converting Chandpur industrial area as model zone, developing area between Assi and Ravidas Ghat, better connectivity to Trauma Centre of BHU and improving sanitation. The commissioner directed officials to promote organic farming in India’s first model block of Sevapuri and formation of farm producers organisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/admin-mulls-road-on-opposite-bankto-end-traffic-jams-in-cis-ganga-area/articleshow/81076108.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
February 17, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: E-autos for mothers of special needs kids||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The social justice department is all set to kick-start a scheme in which electric auto rickshaws will be offered free of cost to mothers of children with serious learning disabilities and from poor backgrounds. Aimed at providing families with a means of livelihood, only mothers of children covered under the national trust act (NTA) will be eligible. NTA caters to those with autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation and multiple disabilities. The beneficiaries have been further categorized as mothers below 55 years of age, who are widowed or divorced and have no other source of income. Local-level committees, formed under NTA, were asked to conduct a study in this regard, and they identified 302 eligible mothers in the state. As a pilot, 28 e-autos will be distributed, two each in every district. The government has sanctioned an initial amount of Rs 49 lakh. While the price of an e-auto rolled out by Kerala Automobiles Ltd (KAL) is around Rs 3 lakh, the social justice department has requested KAL to provide the vehicles at a subsidized rate. The department has also laid down some conditions. The tax and insurance for the vehicles will have to be borne by the beneficiary. The vehicle must be registered solely in the name of the beneficiary and its ownership cannot change hands. An affidavit in this regard will have to be submitted to the RTO during registration. Furthermore, the vehicle cannot be sold or pledged as collateral. The applications will be scrutinized by a three-member committee led by district collectors, and the shortlist of beneficiaries will be published, inviting objections. Beneficiaries will then be cross-checked by village officers or local-body representatives. The local-level committees have been asked to review the functioning of the scheme and prepare a yearly report on whether it is meeting its objective of improving the lives of beneficiaries and their children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/e-autos-for-mothers-of-special-needs-kids/articleshow/81006108.cms||KP Saikiran
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Protection of wetland answer to urban flooding||Millions of litres of sewerage mixed rainwater coursed through Hyderabad’s neighbourhoods in October 2020. This event revealed fault lines in the city’s infrastructure that have been neglected for decades. Incremental land use change in Hyderabad has resulted in thousands of acres of similar wetlands across the city disappearing. Yet, strictly in terms of revenue categories, actual shrinkage of lake area is negligible. The trick lies in the way land is categorised. Hussainsagar, the pride of Hyderabad has no aquatic life to speak of anymore. A swampy wetland which once supported fish breeding and protected areas around it as a flood barrier has now become Necklace Road, serving purely aesthetic purposes. This follows the logic of the Wasteland Atlas of India 2020. It identifies 17% of India’s surface area as wasteland. A complex terrain of grasslands, marshes, pastures and water bodies, supporting enormous ecological diversity and livelihoods - all rendered waste with one simple categorisation. It’s time we recognised that in this idea of ‘waste’ lies the key to our urban future. Wasteland is a land category invented in 17th century Europe in the throes of early capitalist production, commerce and land-based empire building. In British India it signified places that did not yield tax revenues or were not amenable to some kind of material extraction. The post-Independence Indian state too adopted this method. Banjar, gairan, gauchar, gomala, gaonthan, poramboke -- places without taxable economic activities became wastelands. But local communities and cultures have always associated a range of use values and cultural significance to these lands. Early revenue codes acknowledged these. Thanks to these codes, we still have forests, scrub jungles, grasslands, wetlands, swamps and rocky slopes in our cities. Over time, land rent, the logic of economic value over social, moral, cultural and ecological value became the overriding concern for all government institutions. Property markets rode roughshod over revenue codes related to ecologically sensitive places. Depending on the nature of the lands, most of what are considered wastelands actually served some marginal economic utility. Rocky slopes of the Deccan plateau supported sitaphal, munjal, ber fruit - supported nutritional needs of the poor in Telangana. Marshy, swampy lands, foreshores of tanks - wetlands were breeding grounds for fish and range of useful grasses and other vegetation. Singhadas - water chestnuts harvested from neighborhood tanks roasted and sold in markets are not yet a distant memory for many Hyderabadis. Civil society actors have often laid the blame for environmental degradation on private builders backed by corrupt governments. While that may be true, environmental degradation is not possible without accompanying erosion of knowledge systems. Wetlands, marshes, commons have all been forgotten because the related revenue categories have been erased from our records. Existing land use classification in India does not recognise wetlands as water bodies. Rendered invisible, wetlands are only meaningful as potential real estate. Fortunately, there is now a new generation of environmental activists in Hyderabad, quietly working away at permaculture, organic farming, rooftop gardens or adventure sports and trekking guides, helping people reconnect and relearn the environment. These new environmentalists need constant support and networking. This is where new hope in civil society lies. (The writer is researcher at Hyderabad Urban Lab)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protection-of-wetland-answer-to-urban-flooding/articleshow/81009873.cms||Aditya Singh
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Inauguration plaque ready: Countdown to Dakshineswar Metro flag-off begins||KOLKATA: The inauguration plaque for Dakshineswar Metro is ready. It reads: “Inauguration of Noapara-Dakshineswar Metro Service extension by Narendra Modi Prime Minister on February 22, 2021”. The plaque in Bengali, Hindi and English adds, “In august presence of Jagdeep Dhankhar, Governor of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, Chief Minister, Government of West Bengal, Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railway … Government of India.” Modi is expected to flag off the 4km extension of the north-south corridor next Monday. An official in Metro Railway, which is in charge of operations of the city’s rapid transit system, said, “The design is being finalized. It’s subject to last-minute changes should the Prime Minister’s schedule change.” Metro Railway and Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), tasked to implement most of Kolkata’s Metro projects, are making a foolproof preparation for D-Day. Railway Board has also approved the fare structure that was proposed by Metro Railway soon after the CRS inspection of the stretch on 5 February. As reported by TOI on February 9, the tariff for end-to-end travel (32km) across Kavi Subhas to Dakshineswar will be Rs 25. The Metro Railway notification read, “Revenue service in Noapara — Dakshineswar section is expected to commence very shortly. Accordingly, competent authority has approved the fare structure of two stations viz. Baranagar (KBAR) and Dakshineswar (KDSW) to be included in north-south Corridor.” KBAR and KDSW are the two codes for the new stations. The fare matrix for Kavi Subhash-Dakshineswar station, along with the applicable fare from Baranagar (KBAR) and Dakshineswar (KDSW) station to the rest 24 stations, is being included in the system. On Tuesday, representatives from the PMO took a train ride from Noapara to Dakshineswar to shoot a video. They also filmed the new stations — Baranagar and Dakshineswar. Officials said Modi is likely to take a train ride along the new elevated stretch after flagging off the train that will link the temple town of the northern suburbs with the city’s central and extreme southern parts. No PM has ever flagged off operations of Kolkata’s Metro, which was India’s first underground corridor when it first rolled out on October 24, 1984, from Bhowanipore to Esplanade. From 3.4km, the north-south line has now grown to 28km, stretching across Kavi Subhas in the south till Noapara in the north. The elevated 2.8km Dum Dum-Noapara section was the last addition — in July, 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/inauguration-plaque-ready-countdown-to-dakshineswar-metro-flag-off-begins/articleshow/81006083.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Posterior is a private part, says court in Pocso conviction||MUMBAI: Observing that the term private part is to be interpreted in the context of what it means in “our society”, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court sentenced a 22-year-old man to five years’ imprisonment for touching a 10-year-old girl’s posterior. The court held it was established that he had touched her body with sexual intent. The accused in his defence submitted that the child had stated he touched her private parts and that the posterior did not fit in that definition. The court, though, said while Google, as cited by the defence advocate, may not interpret it as a private part, it was not an acceptable interpretation as far as Indians are concerned. The court also pointed out that sexual assault as defined under Section 7 of Pocso Act states if the touch is to organs other than those categorised as private parts, then it must be with a sexual intention. “So obviously touching the bum of the girl cannot be said to be without sexual intention,” the court said. The court also cited the case involving late retired IPS officer KPS Gill who was convicted for patting an IAS officer’s posterior at a party in 1988. The court said the Supreme Court had held that by touching the body of the complainant with culpable intention, the accused committed offences under the Indian Penal Code sections 354 (outraging a woman’s modesty) and 509 (insulting a woman’s modesty). “The same analogy is applicable in the case in hand. As the victim was a child of 10 years on the date of the incident, the provision of Pocso Act attracts for the similar kind of his act touching the posterior of the victim. Thus, the prosecution has succeeded in proving that the accused has committed the said act with sexual intention and outraged her modesty,” the court said. The incident occurred on September 17, 2017. The child said that at 6pm when she was out to buy bread, she saw four boys sitting outside a shop. She said they laughed and teased her. The child further stated that later when she was on her way to the temple with her friend, one of the boys, in a black T-shirt, came to her and touched her posterior. The child recalled all the boys laughed at her. She returned home and narrated the incident to her mother. As she was scared, her mother immediately called her father on phone. After the father returned home, the child showed the boy to him. The child also said her father caught the accused and handed him over to the police. She identified him in court. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/posterior-is-a-pvt-part-says-court-in-pocso-conviction/articleshow/81003291.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Deshmukh for conservation of fortress near Ellora Caves||Aurangabad: State minister for cultural affairs Amit Deshmukh visited the historic Maloji Raje Gadhi on Tuesday and pledged his support to the conservation efforts at the historical site.Located around 35km from Aurangabad near the world famous Ellora Caves, Maloji Raje Gadhi is a fortress associated with Maloji Raje Bhosle — the grandfather of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Addressing mediapersons on the sideline of his visit to the historic site, Deshmukh said the state government would allocate sufficient funds for the restoration andconservation of Maloji Raje Gadhi.“I have inspected the entire site very carefully and listed out the areas of intervention. The heritage site is lying in a state of neglect and needs to be promoted at a large scale on the national level,” he said. Deshmukh asked the government officials to erect information boards at the site and make arrangements for audio-visual presentations for the benefit of visitors. “The place can serve as an ideal venue for holding cultural events of the state government. Local artists can also showcase their talent here,” he said. The locals submitted a memorandum of their demands seeking the nod to give a heritage tag to Damdam lake near Maloji Raje Gadhi and open a dedicated study centre for Maratha history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/deshmukh-for-conservation-of-fortress-near-ellora-caves/articleshow/81003244.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Delhi||SDMC to give house, job to kin of deceased Covid-19 warriors||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation has announced that it will provide government housing facilities for free to the families of municipal employees who lost their lives while performing frontline Covid duties. Job to one of the dependents and Rs 10 lakh have already been announced. Leader of House Narendra Chawla said that 16 employees of the south corporation passed away while performing duties in service of the city. To honour these corona warriors, several steps are being taken, he added. Chawla further said that the steps included government housing in municipal staff quarters, Rs10 lakh ex gratia compensation and job to a dependent. A memorial to pay tribute to them is also being planned. The memorial is likely to be set up either at Civic Centre near Minto Road or Waste-to-Wonder Park in Sarai Kale Khan or upcoming Bharat Darshan Park in Punjabi Bagh. “Rs 10 lakh has already been provided to 15 families and one member each has been provided a job in case of nine families. Documents are being assessed in rest of the cases and they will be covered soon,” he added. Chawla said that during the pandemic, sanitation workers, domestic breeding checkers, doctors and teachers served on the frontline in cleaning, disinfection, door-to-door ration distribution among other services and Delhi government should also provide the promised Rs 1 crore by recognising the people who passed away serving the city as corona warriors. “This is the century’s biggest pandemic and the sacrifice of our workers will be remembered by the society,” he said. Besides 16 workers from the south corporation, 20 from the north corporation have lost their lives tackling the Covid pandemic in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-to-give-house-job-to-kin-of-deceased-covid-19-warriors/articleshow/81010010.cms||Paras Singh
February 17, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||KT Jaleel accused of putting pressure on Kerala University||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Close on the heels of backdoor appointments row, state higher education minister KT Jaleel has been accused of putting pressure on Kerala University to approve an aided college management’s request to shift an associate professor in Latin language to the English department. KU had once rejected the request put forward by the management of St Xavier’s College, Thumba on the grounds that UGC rules and regulations were against shifting of faculty from one department to another. The management is seeking permission to shift principal-cum-associate professor in Latin language Dasappan VY to English department where a retirement vacancy has arisen. The management stated that Dasappan has all the required academic qualifications to be appointed as faculty in English department. But, KU had rejected the request on the ground that a candidate, appointed as a faculty in a particular department, cannot be shifted to an entirely different department just because the college management wanted it. However, the management took up the matter with Jaleel who in turn convened a meeting of KU authorities, including vice-chancellor VP Mahadevan Pillai, at his chamber in the presence of college principal; he wanted the university to reconsider the request. KU syndicate discussed the report and referred the matter for the consideration of a sub-committee which is yet to file a report. Now, KU VC has scheduled an emergency syndicate meeting on Wednesday to discuss the matter, allegedly at the instigation of the minister. According to a complaint submitted by Save University Campaign Committee to governor Arif Mohammed Khan, the minister – who had kicked up several controversies by encroaching on the autonomy of universities–was pressurising KU to approve an aided college management’s request as part of some underhand deal. The request, if approved, would prompt aided college managements to shift teachers from one subject to another according to its whims. It would derail the purpose selection committees and rules laid down by UGC, it said. According to the campaign committee, the college management had allegedly appointed a nominee of the minister as assistant professor in the college by overlooking an applicant from the Latin community on the condition that he would get the management’s request approved by the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/jaleel-accused-of-putting-pressure-on-kerala-univ/articleshow/81006204.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Water leakage plugged within 24 hours||Hyderabad: Within a day of it being brought to light by citizen reporter, Veera Sai, authorities fixed the issue of drinking water wastage in L B Nagar. According to Sai, the water was flowing on the road near the Ranga Reddy court. “I was passing through the area when I spotted litres of drinking water being wasted. I immediately reported the issue using the TOI citizen reporter app. When I checked it again the next day (on the day it was published) I was pleasantly surprised to see that the issue was resolved,” said the citizen reporter. The issue was published in these columns on February 10. The road where the pipe was damaged – leading to the leakage -- is a busy main road and a primary route used by people to travel to Vijayawada from Hyderabad. According to officials of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) the pipe was damaged after a vehicle rammed into it. “The drinking water pipeline was damaged after a vehicle rammed into it thus damaging the air chamber. We have fixed the issue by replacing the damaged parts,” said Sharat Reddy, HMWSSB deputy general manager of LB Nagar. A resident from Mohan Nagar located in LB Nagar who uses the Ranga Reddy court road frequently said that the leakage was causing inconvenience to commuters and pedestrians. “In fact, pedestrians were more affected than commuters. Water used to spill on them when vehicles passed through that stretch. The apathy irked motorists too,” said A Gaurav. “Penalty should be imposed on people who are responsible for wasting drinking water,” he added. The water board deployed 10 staffers to fix the problem. The team dug up a part of the road and the damaged parts of the pipelines were replaced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-leakage-plugged-within-24-hours/articleshow/81009987.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Kochi||Tenth accused turns approver||Kochi: As the trial in the actor rape case, which was stopped for the past two weeks after a counsel for accused Dileep tested Covid positive and resumed on Tuesday, Vishnu, the tenth accused in the case, turned approver. The special court considering the case approved Vishnu’s petition seeking permission to be an approver in the case. Vishnu has earlier approached the court submitting that he would admit his role in the case booked against him and reveal all facts. He is accused of smuggling a mobile phone into jail, which he handed over to Sunilkumar, aka ‘Pulsar’ Suni, first accused in the case. According to the prosecution, Vishnu conspired with Suni in jail to extort money from actor Dileep, eighth accused in the case. Using the phone, the accused contacted Nadirshah, Dileep’s friend, and Appunni, his driver. He had submitted before court that he would reveal all details of the conspiracy. Meanwhile, the court will pass an order in the prosecution’s petition seeking cancellation of Dileep’s bail later. The prosecution sought the cancellation of bail, alleging that Dileep tried to influence witnesses in the case. In the trial which started in January 2020, around 82 witnesses have so far been examined and more than 230 witnesses are still to be examined. The trial was affected due to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. In the meantime, the prosecutor who was initially handling the case resigned too. Besides Dileep, 10 other accused persons are facing trial. The case pertains to the abduction and sexual assault of an actress in February 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tenth-accused-turns-approver/articleshow/81006211.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Haridwar MLA makes corruption allegations against ex-Chief Medical Officer on Covid purchases||HARIDWAR: Swami Yatishwarananda, BJP MLA from Haridwar (rural) constituency has alleged irregularities in purchase of Covid-19 related equipment in Haridwar by Dr Saroj Naithani, who was chief medical officer (CMO) of the district at the time the pandemic was at its peak last year. The MLA has alleged that the CMO had facilitated purchase of masks, sanitisers and other equipment at prices which were several times more than the market rate. The MLA also claimed that he had written a letter to the state government, including the CM as well as governor about the alleged corruption in the purchase. “Instead of any action being taken, Dr Naithani has been given promotion and made National Health Mission (NHM) director,” the legislator said. Yatiswarananda further said that the state’s health secretary also wrote letters to the director general (health) for conducting an inquiry in the matter. “Despite this, no action has been taken. I am therefore left with only one option and that is to move the court against the health department,” the BJP MLA said. Dr Saroj Naithani, when queried about the matter, said, “I refute all the allegations being made. I am ready for any probe and will co-operate in it fully.” She further said that there had been no financial irregularities in purchases made during the time of the Covid pandemic in her tenure. “Against the sanctioned amount of Rs 1 crore, I have done payments of only Rs 3 lakh during the Covid pandemic. All the files were approved by the chief treasury officer and a finance officer who was nominated by the district magistrate, Haridwar, that too, on my request. All the documents of financial transactions were also audited by an external auditor called from the AG office.” She added that since she had not paid the full amount, she was being targeted as the people whose payments were pending had lobbied against her. “We have followed all he rules but since I was being threatened, I decided to leave the responsibility of the CMO and asked for a transfer.” Dr Naithani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-mla-makes-corruption-allegations-against-ex-cmo-on-covid-purchases-says-no-action-despite-repeated-plaints-to-cm-governor/articleshow/81003290.cms||MS Nawaz
February 17, 2021||Salem||Woman booked for stealing jewellery||SALEM: A 42-year-old woman was arrested in Salem city on Tuesday for stealing jewellery worth Rs 25 lakh from a house. The accused, S Mythili of Periyakollapatty in the city, was a habitual offender, police said. She was out on bail since February 7. Four days later, she broke into a house in Gorimedu and made away with gold and diamond jewelleries worth Rs 25 lakh, police said. Based on a complaint from K Parvathi, 68, of Gorimedu, the house owner, on February 15, police began investigations. Kannankuruchi police inspector M Nithya told TOI that the accused entered Parvathi’s house to pluck mangoes from a tree on the premises. “Mythili managed to enter the house and decamped with gold and diamond jewelleries,” the officer said. A police team identified the accused with the support of the clues given by the complainant. The accused confessed to her crime. Based on her information, police seized all the jewellery from her house. The woman was sent to the Salem central prison under judicial custody for 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/woman-booked-for-stealing-jewellery/articleshow/81009974.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Coimbatore||Gang attacks traffic cop’s hubby, drives away his car||COIMBATORE: A six-member gang attacked the husband of a traffic police inspector at Marappalam near Madukkarai on the outskirts of the city on Tuesday morning and drove off in his car. The Madukkarai police have formed three special teams to nab the gang. A police officer said the incident took place when Vincent Kumar, an interior decorator from Palakkad district in Kerala, was returning home after dropping his wife Sajini, a traffic police inspector in Gobichettipalayam in Erode district, at Gandhipuram in the city. “She had taken leave for two days to spend time with her family in Palakkad. As she had to rejoin for work on Tuesday, her husband dropped her at Gandhipuram in a car in the morning and immediately left for Palakkad,” the officer said. When Kumar reached Marappalam at Madukkarai around 7.45am, the officer said, the gang members, who came in a multi-purpose vehicle, attacked him with an iron rod and drove off in his car. Police suspect that the gang might have stolen the car, thinking the vehicle was transporting hawala money. Kumar has, meanwhile, been admitted to a private hospital. Based on his complaint, the Madukkarai police have registered a case under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and formed three special teams to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gang-attacks-traffic-cops-hubby-drives-away-his-car/articleshow/81009970.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Trichy||State-level annual bird census to start today||Trichy: The fourth edition of the state-level annual synchronized bird census will start from Wednesday in 22 protected areas across 13 districts in the state. The two-day census will help in understanding the migratory pattern of birds and their nesting behaviour. It will be jointly organized by the Tamil Nadu forest department (TNFD) and biodiversity conservation foundation (BCF-India). About 80-100 teams with a maximum of three members in each team will carry out the census in coastal as well as inland wetlands. Instructions on dos and don’ts in the field and as well as training on how to fill the datasheet and to take birds’ photos were given to the members on Tuesday. The last three years census data was compiled into a book named ‘Birds in protected areas of Tamil Nadu’, which will serve as field guide for volunteers and forest department staffs, who will be part of the census. The book was jointly compiled by TNFD and BCF-India, which was released by S Ramasubramanian, chief conservator of forests, in-charge of Trichy forest circle February 9. Vedanthangal Bird Sanctuary, Chengalpettu district and Karikili Bird Sanctuary in Kancheepuram district, Point Calimere and Muthupettai lagoon are some of the coastal wetlands where the census is happening besides inland wetlands like Karaivetti, Vaduvurand Udayamarthandapuram in central and coastal districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/state-level-annual-bird-census-to-start-today/articleshow/81010063.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Covid dues not paid, contract to be extended||NEW DELHI: Despite being unable to pay the dues of Rs 220 lakh to the contractor appointed for housekeeping, sanitation and transportation of biomedical waste in the Covid care centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has proposed to extend the contractual term for three months since January. The standing committee, which passed the proposal on Monday, decided that the contractor would be paid Rs 50 lakh per month, instead of the previous Rs 81 lakh, for carrying out the services at the temporary centre set up last July. The proposal, tabled in January, will now need the approval of the House. The Covid care centre in Chhatarpur is spread over 70 acres with biodegradable beds, 500 urinals, 450 bathing rooms, oxygen facilities and wheelchairs. SDMC, which was given responsibility for its sanitation services, had appointed a company for the period of June 23-December 24, 2020 at a cost of Rs 490 lakh. “We made the arrangements on the direction of the Centre and was given in writing that the expenditure incurred for sanitation services will be borne by Delhi government,” said Narendra Chawla, leader of the SDMC House. However, Chawla said, despite several rounds of correspondence, there has been no concrete reply from Delhi government. “Somehow we managed to pay Rs 270 lakh to the contractor, but the rest is still pending.” Several councillors have objected to the proposal as the civic body is already going through severe financial crunch. It “was referred back to the commissioner but since the matter was urgent in nature, it was presented in a standing committee meeting again”, stated the proposal. “We can’t stop the sanitation services totally unless we are issued directions by the Centre or Delhi government,” Chawla pointed out. The monthly amount has been reduced as the number of novel coronavirus cases has come down drastically and so is the number of patients admitted to the centre, said Chawla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-dues-not-paid-contract-to-be-extended/articleshow/81010192.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||SC rejects BJP neta’s plea for BMC opposition leader post||MUMBAI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition filed by Prabhakar Shinde, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator and party leader seeking the status of leader of opposition in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as it is the second largest party. The dismissal of Shinde’s special leave petition by a bench headed by the Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde confirm the Bombay high court ruling, by which Ravi Raja of the Indian National Congress (INC), who was appointed in 2017, stands confirmed as the leader of opposition in the civic body. “The law does not contemplate an important post such as that of Leader of Opposition to be occupied temporarily on the whims of any person or party,” a bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar had said last September while dismissing Shinde’s petition. Shinde had then moved the SC to challenge the HC order. The BJP had sought the LoP status after the formation of the MVA government with no backing of legal provisions, it was argued by Raja’s counsel C A Sundaram. The HC had held that the mayor had supported Raja and in doing so, had neither exceeded nor abused her power but had acted legally. Shinde’s counsel before the SC, Mukul Rohatgi, argued that since the BJP was the second largest party in the BMC in terms of number of seats, it had the right to choose the LoP from its party. The Congress is the third largest party in the BMC. The HC had said that having refused to accept the post in 2017, the BJP “cannot now in 2020, seek to be appointed as Leader of Opposition, merely on the ground that it has changed its mind.” The SC too echoed this view. The BJP had expressly declined to accept the post of LOP “when offered to them” and “resultantly in compliance with legal opinion, the post was offered to Raja,” his lawyers had argued. The SC order had just one line for dismissal. The HC in its reasoned order had held that the law does not contemplate “mere change of mind” as reason to change the LoP as it would otherwise “lead to absurd results,” with such a leader changing every time a party changed its mind. The HC said that Raja was appointed in April 2017, which the BJP accepted and it never challenged it for three years. Shinde, appointed as the group leader of BJP during the lockdown, had challenged the mayor’s “arbitrary” decision in not appointing him as leader of opposition in the BMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sc-rejects-bjp-netas-plea-for-bmc-oppn-leader-post/articleshow/81010207.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Trichy||Questions raised over secrecy of VC selection in central univ||Trichy: The Union government’s policy of maintaining secrecy in selection of vice-chancellor (VC) in central universities is being questioned in Tamil Nadu where VC selection for state-run universities happens in a transparent manner. It was after an eight-month-long selection process that the VC selection committee for Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN) in Tiruvarur submitted a list of five candidates to the ministry of education in January.Some of the candidates have already written to the Prime Minister and the governor alleging irregularities in the selection and plan to approach the court seeking a direction to disclose the procedure adopted for shortlisting the candidates. Be it the methodology, the criteria or scoring procedure, no details were revealed even on conclusion of the selection by the committee, they said. Indeed, this has been the case earlier too. When asked, N Gopalaswami, who headed the five-member committee, said no such instructions came from the ministry of education. “We followed the selection process followed by other central universities,” he said. Bharat Bhushan Bhagat, deputy secretary in the ministry of education, told TOI that it has been their policy not to disclose the selection parameters or the list of applicants. “We rely on the selection committee members and the parameters set by them for selection. Disclosing the details of the selection may invite unnecessary confusion and dispute among eminent academicians who aspire for the post of vice-chancellor, especially those who don’t make it,” he said.However, applicants contrast this with the transparency adopted by these central universities in selection of teaching and non-teaching staff. “The break-up of the scores obtained by every applicant on the identified parameters for selection should have been made transparent and published on the website, as done by the central universities for all other recruitments including those of statutory officers,” said some of the five applicants who spoke to TOI. “The committee was asked to select a candidate for the post of vice chancellor and not nominate. Hence, every applicant is entitled to know the methodology adopted,” said one applicant. “The selection process could have been transparent as it happens in the case of state-run universities in Tamil Nadu,” said former vice-chancellor of Bharathiar University S Sivasubramanian. Bharathidasan university too has undergone the process of vice-chancellor selection and the names of 143 shortlisted candidates were released before zeroing in one person. By making the selection process and the shortlisted candidates public, the committee could have established its credibility as well as that of the person to be selected, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/questions-raised-over-secrecy-of-vc-selection-in-central-univ/articleshow/81010097.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 17, 2021||Kolhapur||After hawkers, food truck owners to now face action||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Tuesday claimed that the food trucks that have mushroomed across the city are illegal and appropriate action will be taken against them. The KMC has started taking action against the illegal hawkers — those without biometric cards — and there is a growing demand from the hawkers to act against the food trucks that occupy more space and large number of people frequent such establishments, leading to traffic congestion. Though the hawkers require permission from the KMC’s estate department, there is no policy in place to grant permission or regulate the food trucks. Sachin Jadhav, chief estate officer of the KMC, said, “We have not given any permit to any food truck operating in the city. We only give license to the hawkers to sell pre-made food or non-food items. Preparing food in the vehicle needs lots of permissions. For instance they will need a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department. Our primary survey shows that the food truck operators claim that they have biometric cards which we are going to verify and take appropriate action against them.” The food truck operators also require fresh registration of the vehicle with the road transport office (RTO), license from food and drugs administration (FDA) along with an NOC from the sanitation department of the local civic body. Jadhav said that the KMC will soon write a letter to other civic bodies, mainly Pune and Mumbai, seeking information related to regulations regarding the food trucks. “We will also write to the RTO and FDA seeking details of the NOCs they have given to the food trucks. A joint drive may be launched to act against illegal food trucks,” he said. RTO officer Stevan Alvares said, “In case of parking issues, the traffic department is authorised to take action while in case of occupying space without permission, then KMC has the right. As per my knowledge, we have not given permission or NOC to any vehicle for operating the food truck.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/after-hawkers-food-truck-owners-to-now-face-action/articleshow/81003296.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Varanasi||Vindhyachal corridor projectawaits next tranche of funds||Varanasi: The devotees of Goddess Vidhyavasini, who have not paid obeisance to their deity in the recent past, would be pleasantly surprised on their next visit as the shrine, which was surrounded by buildings, would be visible fully to them. Under Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s dream project of the Vindhyachal corridor, as many as 92 buildings around the Vindhyachal temple in the congested street, have been razed. The demolition of the 92 buildings surrounding the temple has created space for a 50 foot wide Parikrama route also besides allowing devotees to get a full view of the holy shrine revered as one of the Shaktipeeths in the country. “It’s a Rs 150 crore (approx) project to develop Vindhya Dham on the lines of Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) in Varanasi by clearing congestion and setting up world-class facilities for pilgrims,” said UP minister of state (independent charge) for tourism and religious affairs Neelkanth Tiwari while talking to TOI on Tuesday. “It is a dream project of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Rs 20 crore had already been allocated to Mirzapur administration for purchasing the buildings. Rs 33 crore more will be allocated within a week for the second phase work,” the minister added. “With this project, Mirzapur joins the list of districts like Varanasi, Ayodhya, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Braj region, Devipatan and the shrine will be among holy sites Shringverpur and Naimisharanya being developed to facilitate pilgrims,” Tiwari said. Divisional commissioner Mirzapur Yogeshwar Ram Mishra said, “The initial work of removing 92 buildings has been completed. These buildings were removed by utilizing a budget of Rs 20 crore to create 50 feet wide Parikrama route.” We are awaiting more funds to pay compensation to the owners of 206 buildings whose demarcated portions will be demolished for widening of the four routes leading to the temple, he added. The state government has appointed an architect while planning to improve basic infrastructure and develop facilities, like parking zones, guest houses, shopping complexes, retiring rooms for pilgrims and others. On the basis of the survey by the architect, the tentative cost of the project is estimated at Rs 150 crore. If work goes along well, the foundation laying of the project will be done in March, the commissioner said. Devotees who visit the shrine frequently hail the widening of Parikrama route and roads leading to the temple as the area used to get heavily crowded during Navaratra. “The widening of streets to Vindhyachal temple from the Ganga, Sadar Bazaar, old and new VIP roads will be a great relief,” they said. The Vindhyachal corridor is on the lines of KV Dham project in Varanasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vindhyachal-corridor-projectawaits-next-tranche-of-funds/articleshow/81075963.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||When I realised blood is not always thicker than water||The onset of the pandemic made all of us reorganise our lifestyles and reboot our activities in line with Covid protocols. My family’s story was no different. While it started off well – with the lockdown translating into a time for bonding with members of the household -- slowly we began to feel the heat. Also, a cause for concern was my octogenarian mother, living miles away in Kolkata, all by herself. Her two caregivers, Manju didi and Kanchan, were her only support. In fact, they had taken over the charge of my mother’s kingdom with such care, that I had seen my mother slowly shift her dependence from her family members on to Manju didi and Kanchan. Even as the lockdown started tightening its noose around our lives, and we fretted over our mother’s well-being – while being under house arrest in Hyderabad -- the two made all necessary arrangements to continue being by her side. Each worked for 15 days at a stretch (as opposed to regular shifts) to take care of her. Back at home, we were taken aback by their skill of handling a crisis without giving us any trouble. Unfortunately, during this time, my mother’s health started deteriorating. Helpless, I reached out to everyone I knew and explored every avenue I could, to arrange for a trip to Kolkata. But just when I thought a solution was close, we woke up to frantic calls from Manju didi one morning – my mother had passed away, she said, crying incessantly as if she had lost her own kin. After recovering from the initial jolt, I managed to buy one seat on the next flight, through a contact in Delhi. When I reached my house in Kolkata late that night, I found both Kanchan and Manju didi next to my mother – resting in peace in a freezer box, neatly wrapped in wreaths arranged by the two. Kanchan had managed to reach my house even at that critical hour, to bid good-bye to my mother during her last journey, even though she was off duty at that time. The grief in their eyes was all-consuming. That is when I realised that blood isn’t always thicker than water. Ultimately, it is the strength of the bond that you share with a person, which matters. In her last moments, my mother wasn’t holding the hand of her only child. Instead, it was these two great souls who were holding both hands of my mother when her only child was miles away! This pandemic has forced me to discover the real asset of life. As rightly said in Alvin Toffler’s Revolutionary Wealth – it is none other than human resources. (The writer is a retired senior marketing executive)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/when-i-realised-blood-is-not-always-thicker-than-water/articleshow/81010087.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||Price rise continues, litre of premium petrol nears Rs 100||Pune: Nimit Kote sped into a fuel filling station along the Pune-Satara road on his high-end bike on Tuesday, but was visbily disappointed to leave the facility wondering whether or not to bring out his mean machine anytime soon with a litre of premium petrol costing almost Rs100. “A litre of premium petrol cost Rs99.25 on Tuesday. I told the pump attendant to refill my bike with the regular petrol, the cost of which was Rs95.56 for a litre. I bought the bike for Rs1.25 lakh two months ago and use premium petrol because it gives the vehicle more power. I think I will keep the motorcycle at home for some days and use the gearless two-wheeler my sister rides,” the youngster from Katraj told TOI while leaving the filling station with much disappointment. “Premium petrol is mostly bought by people using high-end bikes. But the rising fuel prices have pushed sales down. The customers of premium fuel have reduced by more than 80% at our station,” a representative of the petrol station said. At the petrol pumps along the highways near the city, the rates were higher with a litre of regular petrol and diesel costing Rs95.56 and Rs85.22, respectively. Shanu Datre (28), who lives in Kondhwa and owns a heavy duty bike he bought for Rs1 82 lakh, said, “I am not using the motorcycle much because of its limited fuel efficiency. With a litre of petrol, I can ride 40km. What is the use of having such a costly bike when you cannot ride it due to high fuel prices?” Koregaon Park resident Animesh Chotala, who owns a similar bike that gives a mileage of 45km per litre, said he had switched over to regular petrol. “The high fuel prices are not allowing me to ride freely. I cannot ask for money from my parents every second day. I am stuck, as I had sold off my scooter to buy this bike,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/price-rise-continues-litre-of-premium-petrol-nears-rs-100/articleshow/81006270.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Search operations to continue till last missing person is found: Uttarakhand DGP||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar on Tuesday said that the ongoing search and rescue operations will continue till the last missing person is found in the disaster-hit Chamoli district. Presently, search, rescue and relief operations are underway at the flash flood ravaged Raini village, around NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydro-power project and several other downstream areas along the Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers. “The search operations will continue in the disaster-hit areas of the district till we reach a conclusion regarding each missing person. Besides, the muck clearing work inside the tunnel is likely to be completed in the next few days,” the state DGP said. Meanwhile, two more bodies were recovered by the rescue teams from the slush-choked tunnel of NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydro-power project on Tuesday, bringing the total death toll to 58, while 146 are still reported missing. Till date, 11 bodies – believed to be of the workers of the power plant – have been recovered from the tunnel and over 20 workers who were reported to be working inside the tunnel at the time of the flash floods are still missing, according to the disaster management department officials. Out of the total bodies recovered, 31 have been identified while 27 are yet to be identified, according to a statement released by the Uttarakhand Police. Chamoli chief medical officer Dr. GS Rana said that an analysis of the postmortem reports of the victims showed injuries on their bodies and presence of slush, concrete and water in their lungs. District magistrate Swati Bhadoria also inspected the rescue operations that are underway in Chamoli district. She instructed the officials concerned to conduct search operations at four sites. Later, she met the families and relatives of the deceased and missing persons. Meanwhile, NTPC has started releasing compensation to the families of Tapovan workers, who have lost their lives in the natural disaster that hit the hill district on February 7. The first cheque of Rs 20 lakh was handed over to Vimala Devi, wife of late Narendra Kumar, resident of Tapovan Vihar. A team from the NTPC led by R P Ahirwar, head of the Tapovan project, visited their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/search-ops-to-continue-till-last-missing-person-is-found-ukhand-dgp/articleshow/81006288.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 17, 2021||Nashik||Property row claims elderly man’s life in Nashik, 3 held||NASHIK: A man and two of his sons have been arrested for their alleged involvement in the murder of an elderly man in Shinde village on Monday night. Assistant inspector of police Nitin Kandare said the deceased, Bhaskar Salve (60), and his brother Ramchandra Salve were brothers who resided close to one another on their ancestral land. The two brothers have been at loggerheads with each other for a long time owing to some dispute over the distribution of their ancestral land. Around 9.30pm on Monday, both the brothers got into an argument over vehicle parking. The argument took a violent turn with Ramchandra Salve’s two sons and other family members pitching into the scuffle and beating up Bhaskar. Bhaskar’s son Sandeep also intervened and lost the ring finger on his right hand after he was attacked by a cousin with a sharp weapon. Meanwhile, Bhaskar suffered serious injuries and was declared brought dead at Nashik civil hospital. Since Bhaskar’s relatives also attacked Ramchandra’s family members, the situation became quite tense along the Naygaon Road in Shinde village of Nashik Road. Sandeep registered a complaint against seven members of his uncle’s family with Nashik Road police. Later in the night, an FIR was also registered by Ramchandra family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/property-row-claims-elderly-mans-life-3-held/articleshow/81003306.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Business||Coal India cuts expenses by Rs 1.8k cr in first 9 mnths of FY21||Kolkata: Coal India (CIL) reduced its overall expenditure by Rs 1,838 crore or 3.3% during the first nine months of the ongoing fiscal, ending December 2020, even as the company’s composite OC production increased by 16.1% during the period. This is the sum of the overburden (OB) excavated and coal produced through opencast mines. CIL’s overall expenditure dropped to Rs 54,241 crore, during the referred period, from that of Rs 56,079 crore for the same period year ago, the decrease being 3%. CIL’s expenditure climbed down while the company clocked 6.3% output growth, 9.1% surge in coal off-take and 17.3% increase in overburden removal (OBR) during the third quarter ended December 20. “The major reduction was visible in employee benefit expenses which stepped down by Rs 735 crore. These include salaries of the employees, performance-related pay of executives, performance-linked reward of non-executives, coal mines provident fund contributions etc. Other miscellaneous expenses accounted for Rs 126 crore,” an official added. According to CIL officials, during the Covid-led slowdown, CIL benefited consumers of the power sector to the tune of probable Rs 703 crore as it waived off the performance incentive for increased supplies made above the committed contracted quantity of coal. As most of the customers were cash-strapped, impacted by Covid-fuelled fall in the industrial activity, CIL also did not press for the penalty for lifting lower quantities of coal than the contracted quantity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/coal-india-cuts-expenses-by-rs-1-8k-cr-in-first-9-mnths-of-fy21/articleshow/80938384.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||Fuel rate hike sparks rush at vehicle servicing centres||Pune: Two-wheeler mechanic Kamlesh Takle cannot recall the last time he has seen such a rush of people at his small workshop on Bibwewadi-Kondhwa road to get their vehicles serviced. “I have been in the business for a decade now, but this rush is unusual. I first thought that since vehicular movement has resumed after the lockdown, people are turning up with their bikes for a service. But I subsequently realized that they are opting for servicing to ensure maximum fuel efficiency of their bikes in the wake of the huge rise in petrol price,” he said. The price of a litre of petrol in Pune city rose to Rs95.39 on Tuesday from Monday’s Rs95.10. Similarly, the price of a litre of diesel was Rs85.04 on Tuesday, up from Monday’s Rs84.68. A representative of a two-wheeler service station in the Lullanagar area said many customers on their database would not turn up to get their vehicles serviced despite repeated calls and reminders. “The situation is different since a fortnight. We are witnessing a spurt in the number of customers. All they want is a proper servicing of their vehicles. Once this is ensured, a vehicle runs smoothly and saves fuel,” he said.IT professional Shrikant Dheer was spotted waiting at the service station to get his two-wheeler delivered. “The last time I had given my vehicle for servicing was in March 2020. The lockdown was imposed after that and the work-from-home arrangement followed. The recent rise in fuel prices made me visit the service station and ensure that the motorcycle is in a proper condition and does not consume much fuel.” Standalone mechanics like Arshad Shaikh, who has his shop on M G Road, are also having a busy time. “There are people coming with old bikes wishing for servicing. Last week, a customer came to me with a 1995 make two-stroke bike asking me to service it properly as it was consuming a lot of fuel,” he said.Samad, who has his workshop in the Vishrantwadi area, said, “Before the lockdown, most customers would look for certain design changes. Now, the clients are mostly looking for servicing of the vehicles.”Suraj Dhamale, who has a small bike servicing-cum-repair shop in Kalyaninagar, said, “The customers now look for specifics, such as lubricating the bike chains, checking the setting of the carburettor and changing the engine oil.” Bavdhan resident Prasad Kandekar, who has a couple of two-wheelers, said, “The bike I have given for servicing is 10 years old. My daughter uses the other two-wheeler. I thought it would be wise to get my bike checked so that it consumes less fuel.” Arun Gate, a mechanic in the same area, said, “Most of the customers are concerned about their two-wheelers consuming more fuel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fuel-rate-hike-sparks-rush-at-vehicle-servicing-centres/articleshow/81006286.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 17, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Fraudster uses maths trick to get e-wallet PIN||NAVI MUMBAI: A fraudster conned a Kamothe resident by using a maths trick to obtain the PIN of his Google Pay ID. The fraudster made him subtract the confidential four-digit PIN of his Google Pay ID from the last four digits of his bank account number. After the victim shared the result of subtraction, the fraudster managed to deduce the PIN number and debited Rs 88,421 from his bank account in two online transactions. The victim got cheated after he contacted a mobile number that he found during an online search for the customer care number of an e-commerce site as he wanted to return a T-shirt. In the FIR registered at Kamothe police station, Omkar Sawant (24) has said the incident took place on January 11. He then approached the bank where he has a savings account and submitted a dispute transaction form. The bank conducted an inquiry and sent a report to Sawant after a month with a remark stating ‘customer liability’ and did not reimburse the cheating amount. Hence, Sawant lodged a complaint against the unidentified fraudster on February 15. Sawant has stated he purchased a T-shirt from an e-commerce site in January. But the T-shirt delivered to him was not of his size. Hence, he decided to return it. While looking for the e-commerce portal’s customer care number on Google, he found a mobile number. When he contacted the number, the person claimed to be a representative. He said a cash refund would not be possible, but he asked Sawant to share his Google Pay ID and the mobile number linked to it, claiming that the money would be credited to the bank account linked to his e-wallet. He then used a math trick to obtain his PIN number and fraudulently debited Rs 72,900 and Rs 15,521 in two transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/fraudster-uses-maths-trick-to-get-e-wallet-pin/articleshow/81010283.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Surat||Dog tied with rope, dragged on road for over one km in Gujarat||SURAT: Animal lovers were aghast after a video of dog with a rope tied to its neck being mercilessly dragged on the road for nearly 1.5 km by two persons driving a motorcycle went viral on the social media on Tuesday. Police arrested one of them identified as Hitesh Patel (31), a sanitation worker in the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). Cops are working to trace another person seen along with him. Times ViewThe sight of a dog being dragged along the road has evoked viral horror. The brutality of the act does not diminish even if the dog were dead, as claimed by the perpetrator. The gratuitous cruelty as seen in the clip is in some measure encouraged by police’s reluctance to act in such cases. Authorities must invoke the relevant laws and award exemplary punishment to humans who act like beasts with animals. Saloni Rathi, a resident of Althan, lodged a complaint with Khatodara police station on Tuesday after seeing the video on an instant messaging app. Police identifid Patel from the registration number of the motorcycle which was also seized. Patel is seen wearing his uniform and holding one end of the rope with the other tied around the dog’s neck. His friend was driving the motorcycle. The video was shot ner Bhagwan Mahavir College in Vesu area. Patel was booked under The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and various sections of Indian Penal Code including 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle). “Patel claims that the dog was dead and he was taking the body for disposal,” said Khatodara police.  However, animal activists argued that the canine was alive. “Movement of the dog’s leg and resistance is clearly visible in the video. The dog was alive. There is one agency hired by SMC which is responsible for disposal of bodies,” said Darshan Desai, volunteer of Prayas Team Environment. Around a fortnight ago, a video of three dogs writhing in pain after being fed something poisonous in Pandesara area had also gone viral. Police had arrested two persons for cruelty.  “These incidents are alarming. We, as smart city residents, need to treat our animals in a better way. We need long-term plans for sterilization, vaccination and sensitization of citizens in connection with animals,” added Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dog-tied-with-rope-dragged-on-road-for-over-one-km/articleshow/81003274.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||ZP gears up to reopen primary classes from next month||Pune: After the reopening of the secondary and higher secondary classes, the Pune zilla parishad is preparing to open for the primary section from March 1.The government has been contemplating reopening rural schools. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad discussed the plans with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray two weeks ago. Secondary and higher secondary classes have been running successfully in Pune rural since November in a phased manner, and nearly 90% of the schools for higher classes have reopened. Pune ZP CEO Ayush Prasad said they have begun the preparations. “All facilities are being sanitised and the RT-PCR tests of the teaching and non-teaching staff is also being conducted so that the reports are ready by the time the announcement is made. We are waiting for the government’s orders. Once we have them, we will be ready to reopen the primary schools in Pune district,” he said.Students in rural areas had suffered the most when education went online. Network issues marred their daily classes. Sambhaji Patil, a teacher from a ZP school in Velhe taluka, said they had started many innovative methods to reach out to children during this pandemic especially those who were facing connectivity issues. “Volunteers were appointed to teach in villages while retired teachers took up the job to teach the children in their vicinity. The reopening will definitely boost the students and we will be able to have some classes offline,” he said.The students will get two months of physical classroom sessions if the schools are given permission to reopen as the exams are usually held in April.Vishwas Kadam, a teacher from a ZP school in Bhor taluka, said, “We will not be able to cover all topics, but important ones can be taught to the students during these two months. We should have a good turnout and parents should be willing to send their children.”Sanitisation work in the schools is being conducted by non-teaching staff under supervision of teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-gears-up-to-reopen-primary-classes-from-next-month/articleshow/81006289.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 17, 2021||Pune||Ex-teacher alleges 17 ‘illegal’ appointments in Garware||Pune: A magisterial court on February 25 will hear the criminal complaint filed by a former temporary teacher for biology at Abasaheb Garware College who alleged that 17 teachers were appointed illegally on a grantable basis from 2014 to 2019 when the freeze on appointments was imposed by the state government in 2013. The teacher said the inquiry would bring out a bigger fraud in teachers’ appointments by the institution. The college principal rejected all the claims and said the allegations were “false” and “baseless”.The teacher, in her complaint, has named 36 others, including education officers, apart from the alleged 17 illegally appointed teachers. She said, “Before 2012, the educational institutions made appointments at their own level, but following malpractices the state government banned teachers’ appointments in the entire state from May 2, 2012 onwards. The MES then gave back dated appointments as Shikshan Sevak and in the following three years of appointment, these teachers were made permanent in the college.”As per the government rule, the teachers have to serve as Shikshan Sevak in the institution for three years continuously before they get a permanent appointment. The teacher also alleged the institution had in the process violated several rules with respect to the appointments, including a no-objection certificate from regional directorate of education, publishing advertisements regarding recruitment and others.The teacher alleged that the appointments were conducted by the institution with the involvement of the college principal for financial gains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ex-teacher-alleges-17-illegal-appointments-in-garware/articleshow/81006303.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Bodies of three sailors dead in fire arrive in city||Mumbai: Offshore vessel Greatship Rohini was towed with the charred bodies of three crew members early on Tuesday. The bodies of Anit Antony (31), Akshay Nikam (25) and Ranjit Sawant (49) were sent to the state-run JJ Hospital for DNA tests for identification before they are handed over to their families. Officials of Yellow Gate police station said that DNA samples of the family members of the deceased have been collected to match with the bodies that are charred beyond recognition. Anit’s father TD Antony told TOI, “My son’s body will be handed over to us soon, based on the DNA report.” The vessel, now docked at Mumbai Port, became non-functional due to the fire that broke in on February 13. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bodies-of-three-sailors-dead-in-fire-arrive-in-city/articleshow/81006295.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 17, 2021||Trichy||Farmers who opted for loan conversion in 2016-17 seek waiver||Trichy: Farmers who availed of crop loan conversion from short term to medium term during 2016-17 have appealed to the government to include them also in the loan waiver announced by the chief minister recently. Thousands of farmers coming under the category have dues pending with primary agriculture credit cooperative societies (PACCS) running into several crores of rupees. After the CM announced Rs 12,110 crore loan waiver for 1.64 lakh farmers by cooperative banks in the assembly, a notification was issued by the government. Farmers say the 1.64 lakh beneficiaries do not include those who got loan conversion privilege from the government during 2016-17. Following the worst rainfall in 140 years, the government had at that time declared Tamil Nadu as drought-hit and allowed conversion of short term loans to medium term. Thus instead of repaying the loan within 8 to 10 months, farmers could pay back in three years. However, most farmers have not repaid the loan to the tune of up to Rs 482 crore till today. Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association secretary Swamimalai S Vimalnathan these farmers should be brought under the present loan waiver list. P Murugesan, a farmer from Umbalapadi village in Thanjavur, got Rs 31,940 as crop loan from Kabisthalam PACCS during 2016-17, said: “I am cultivating crops on 1.8 acres. Due to debt burden, I could not repay the loan. I was overjoyed when the CM announced the loan waiver, but was shocked to know that my name was not on the list.” The pro-CPI Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam’s district secretary, P S Masilamani, said the pending dues to farmers who availed of conversion would be meagre and hence the government should include their names too. The government had not mentioned any period during which the farmers should have received the loan to avail of the waiver. “As per the notification, farmers who have dues pending till January 31, 2021, will be exempted. So, the government should consider their pleas also,” N Veerasekaran, state spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Sangam, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-who-opted-for-loan-conversion-in-2016-17-seek-waiver/articleshow/81010270.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Setback for BJP ahead of next year’s civic polls||Mumbai: The SC’s dismissal of BJP’s plea seeking the leader of opposition post in the BMC has come as a setback for BJP ahead of next year’s civic elections. “The BJP was offered the post in 2017 but they didn’t shoulder the responsibility. The BJP only plays politics of convenience. Now they have lost in SC also. We will continue to raise our voice as the principal opposition party in the BMC against all irregularities and issues that matter to people,” Raja said. BMC elections are scheduled for February 2022. Political analysts said that the SC order has come as a boost to the Congress which is looking to fight BMC elections on its own. “We have already announced that Congress will fight BMC elections on its own. We have already started our preparations,” Raja said.  A BJP functionary said the verdict was a setback. “The city BJP will have to now chalk out a new plan of action to take on the MVA in the BMC. It looks like the party didn’t study the issue well before rushing to SC even after losing in the HC. It looks like the BJP legal team is not advising the leadership well. This loss will have a major implication as it will hurt the morale of corporators,” the functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/setback-for-bjp-ahead-of-next-years-civic-polls/articleshow/81010290.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 17, 2021||Trichy||22 peafowls found dead near Trichy||Trichy: As many as 16 peahens and six peacocks were found dead on a 1.5-acre agriculture field near Manapparai in Trichy district on Monday. The forest department suspects that it is a case of poisoning and booked Rasu, 60, and his wife Ponnammal alias Chinnaponnu, 55, the owners of the land on prima facie evidence under Section 9 of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. The forest officials recovered traps from their agriculture field at Keela Poigaipatti village where the birds were found dead. While Rasu is absconding, Ponnammal was arrested and produced before Trichy district court. She was later released on condition bail by the court. On Monday, the Manapparai forest range office received information on the dead peafowls. A team of forest officials rushed to the spot and recovered carcasses of 22 peafowls, which include 16 peahens and six peacocks. According to A Maheshwaran, forest range officer, Manapparai range, the duo had set traps on their fields to capture wild hare, which is a punishable offence. “We suspect that some of the birds could have fallen prey to the traps. However, the major cause of death appears to be poisoning,” he said. The population of peafowl in Trichy forest has increased in recent years across Manapparai in the absence of predators such as fox and jackal. They often fall prey to road accidents and electrocution. Poaching too has been taking a toll on their numbers. Rasu had sown groundnut on his plot and the forest staff suspected that he could have poisoned the birds to save his crops. Speaking to TOI, Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha said such a number of peacocks dying at one place hints at poisoning. We have taken samples of the birds for forensic tests to ascertain the death cause, she said. The forest staff buried the birds after performing a postmortem. The officials said that death of at least 40 peafowls was reported in the last two months in Manapparai in separate incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/22-peafowls-found-dead-near-trichy/articleshow/81010237.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Woman, 2 accomplices booked for extortion||Aurangabad: The city police have booked a 35-year old woman and two of her accomplices on the charges of threatening to frame a businessman in a rape case and demanding Rs 51 lakh in cash and a fully-furnished 2 BHK flat. A case has been registered at Pundaliknagar police station. The complainant, Ateeq Motiwala, alleged that in order to get rid of her harassment, he also paid her Rs 11 lakh through different people. Assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne said they have have booked the woman and her two accomplices. In his complaint, Motiwala stated that he came across the woman in 2014 when he first went to a leading car showroom for purchasing an SUV that was delivered in 2015. Motiwala interacted with woman sales represntative during this period. “Over a period of time, the woman lost her job and would frequently seek help from me. Starting from November 2020, the womans tarted harassing me in one or the other manner,” stated Motiwala. He further said that the woman started sharing edited photos of her with him apart from taking to social media and falsely claiming to be his wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-2-accomplices-booked-for-extortion/articleshow/81003317.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 17, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Won’t extend last-grade, CPO rank lists, says CM||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday unleashed a scathing attack on UDF leaders, especially former chief minister Oommen Chandy, for trying to mislead the protesting rank holders for political gains. The chief minister ruled out the possibility of extending the tenure of the last grade rank lists and reviving the lapsed civil police officer rank list, that have been the demand of the protesting rank-list holders. Chandy had visited the rank holders to support them in front of the Secretariat on Tuesday and had also put forward a formula for giving more appointments from PSC rank lists. Referring to the kneel-down protest and rank holders falling at Chandy’s feet, the chief minister said that it should be the former chief minister who should be falling at the feet of the rank holders, holding himself responsible for the latter’s current plight. He said that the UDF leaders should be the ones kneeling down. The chief minister, while addressing a news conference on Tuesday, said that official-level committees have recommended a reduction in the number of last-grade posts as governance has switched over to e-file system. But the government has not taken any such decision and new posts in the last grade are being sought at this juncture. He said that Congress has been taking a stand against civil service, in the state and also while it was ruling at the Centre. Vijayan said that extending the rank list indefinitely would benefit only those who are in that list, which is usually published by including five times the number aspirants against the actual number of posts. But there are thousands of youth waiting outside, and extending the rank list would be an injustice to them. Vijayan requested the rank holders not to fall in the trap of UDF, which is supporting them for petty political gains. “The society should realise the attempt to utilize the emotions of rank holders for political gains. You should not fall in the trap of petty politics and go to dangerous levels. The government will always be with you, but employment can be provided only through established rules and guidelines,” he said. However, the chief minister did not commit to holding the talks with the protestors. Government is doing everything, and we expect the protestors to take appropriate steps to end the protests, he added. The CM reeled off statistics — the number of rank lists published, number of appointments made in various posts and creating new posts during the tenure of LDF and UDF. He said that the numbers speak for themselves on what the LDF government did in favour of job aspirants as against steps taken during UDF government’s tenure. He said that the protesting youth will understand the sincerity of government’s interventions in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/wont-extend-last-grade-cpo-rank-lists-says-cm/articleshow/81006310.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Parents to hold protest today for school fees||MUMBAI: After several protests at the school-level, parents of students from across the city will gather at Azad Maidan on Wednesday to demand reduction in fees collected by private schools and action against schools targeting students over non-payment. Organised by Forum for Fairness in Education, a parents’ association in the city, the protest is expected to see participation of parents from Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. Among the demands put forth by parents are 50% reduction in tuition fee, 100% waiver of term fees collected twice a year and ensuring that access to online classes continues even in case of non-payment of fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/parents-to-hold-protest-today-for-school-fees/articleshow/81006308.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||E-registrations begin for PIFF; film fest to be online & offline||Pune: Online registrations for the upcoming 19th Pune International Film Festival (PIFF), slated to be held from March 4 to 11, opened on Tuesday. Film enthusiasts will also be able allowed to spot-register from February 25. This year, the annual film festival, organized by Pune Film Foundation and the state government, will be held online as well as in theatres.A statement issued by the organizers said that the registration fee would be different for the online festival and that 26 selected films would be screened. Registration for watching movies in theatres will enable a delegate to watch about 150 films.This year, the films will be shown on seven screens at three venues — PVR on Senapati Bapat Road, NFAI on Law College Road and Inox in Camp, the statement said. Those interested will be able to register online at ‘www.piffindia’. Spot-registrations will be done at the screening venues from 11am to 7.30pm. The statement added strict Covid-19 safety norms would be followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/e-registrations-begin-for-piff-film-fest-to-be-online-offline/articleshow/81006307.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Bengaluru||Except Bengaluru, class 6-8 will reopen from February 22||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Tuesday decided to reopen on-campus learning for Class 6, 7 and 8 students from February 22 in the state, barring Bengaluru and taluks bordering Kerala. The decision applies only to state-run and state-aided schools since discussions with private schools were called off. In Bengaluru and areas bordering Kerala, where Covid-19 pandemic is said to be spreading, only class 8 students will return to campus. The decision followed primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar’s meeting with the Covid technical advisory committee. Attending offline classes is voluntary. Govt favouring Vidyagama route for classes 1 to 5The minister said the rules introduced to reopen classes 9 to 12 will kick in here too. “Effectively, students must produce the permission letter from their parents before attending offline classes,” said the minister. Offline classes have seen an enthusiastic response, with up to 75% attendance. The government is said to be favouring Vidyagama route for classes 1 to 5, and will make a decision on February 24 or 25 after a meeting with the technical advisory committee, he said. As a precautionary measure, the government said it has asked students and teachers coming from Kerala to undergo Covid tests and produce a negative certificate. 2021-22 academic year to begin from July 15Education minister S Suresh Kumar on Tuesday said the next academic year will start on July 15 and that he will hold a video conference with district deputy commissioners on Wednesday to ensure strict adherence to Covid safety guidelines at schools. Also, the transport department has been instructed to provide adequate bus services, and the departments of social welfare and backward classes welfare have been asked to create enough hostel accommodation for students, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/except-bluru-class-6-8-will-reopen-from-feb-22/articleshow/81018625.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||WR to begin launching girders for Delisle ROB next month||MUMBAI: Western Railway will start launching girders above the railway tracks for the Delisle Road Over Bridge (ROB) reconstruction at Lower Parel station in March and hopes to complete the work by April 2021. BMC, though, will be able to open the bridge for traffic only by May 2022. The ROB has been shut for traffic since July 2018 when it was declared unsafe by IIT-Bombay experts. TimesViewLower Parel’s Delisle bridge has been shut since August 2018 when it was demolished. The closure has inconvenienced thousands of office-goers, motorists and pedestrians as the area has several corporate offices. Traffic passing through N M Joshi Marg is shut too, leading to traffic snarls across central Mumbai. BMC officials have admitted work on the bridge is slow. BMC must fast-track it and ensure the bridge is opened as scheduled. There must be no further delays.WR’s chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said, “Work on the railway portion of the ROB is targeted to be completed by April 2021. The assembling work for the first girder along with temporary works for launching the others is in progress at the site. We will have to go in for blocks (for railway services) so that work can be carried out without any risk to train operations.” WR took up dismantling of the bridge portion over the railway tracks in June 2019. The design for the bridge was approved by the Research, Standards and Design Organisation (RDSO) in March 2020. Thakur said, “The contract for rebuilding the railway portion of the ROB was awarded at Rs 87 crore in February 2019 and work on the ground commenced in November 2019. Considering the priority and importance of the work, its execution continued despite Covid-19.” BMC had awarded a tender for dismantling and rebuilding of approaches to the bridge on January 27, 2020. “The work is slow and we will issue a showcause notice to the contractor soon. The approaches will be constructed by BMC and it is a difficult task since we have to go by time sequencing. We can’t carry out work on both the approaches at the same time due to traffic issues,” said P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects). Velrasu said though the bridge work is slow, it will pick up pace soon. Officials from BMC’s bridges department said two approaches will be ready by May 2021 and the third only by May 2022. The entire bridge will be thrown open for traffic thereafter. The approach on the eastern side is not yet demolished as it is required for the assembly and launching of steel girders, each weighing 1,100 metric tonne (88 metre in length, 16m width and 12m height). Such heavy girders cannot be lifted and launched with cranes and need to be pushed from the eastern approach of the ROB, Thakur added. This eastern approach will be made available to BMC after launching of the girders by March 2021 and till that time MCGM can complete dismantling and rebuilding of two approaches on the western side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wr-to-begin-launching-girders-for-delisle-rob-next-month/articleshow/81010285.cms||Manthan K Mehta
February 17, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra Tourism to host festivals to promote lesser-known destinations||PUNE: The Maharashtra tourism department will host a three-day grape festival in Junnar from February 19 to 21. The festival is aimed at promoting grape agro-tourism. “We plan to host such events in 20 places across the state, with 3-4 to be held in Pune district. The first is the grape festival to be held at Junnar with tour of wineries and vineyards. Tourists will be able to enjoy farm-fresh grapes, purchase beverages on the spot, and witness the entire wine-making process,” said Supriya Karmarkar, deputy director, Pune region. Some of the key attractions include Junnar heritage walk, Naneghat, boating, Ozar Ganapati temple etc. The second in the series will be the Panhala festival to be held near Kolhapur from February 26-28. It will be inaugurated at the Interpretation Centre, where an impressive set of historic weapons and vintage cars will be on display. “The objective is to showcase the cultural heritage of the region. Throughout last year, local artisans and self-help groups have suffered as tourism was badly affected by the pandemic. This initiative will give them a platform to showcase their work,” she said. “Local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) were hosting the festival in Junnar for the last four years, drawing a footfall of 700-1,000 people, but now since we are doing it on a bigger scale, we expect the count to go up to 5,000. We expect around 15,000-20,000 visitors daily in Panhala,” she added. Visitors need to register on https://bit.ly/3tUCoQL by February 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-tourism-to-host-festivals-to-promote-lesser-known-destinations/articleshow/81006321.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Kolhapur||Blood banks seek appointment of non-allopathy docs||Kolhapur: Blood banks in Kolhapur district are seeking appointment of non-allopathy doctors as blood transfusion officers in the banks. The district blood bank association recently shot a letter to minister of state for health Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar after facing shortage of qualified MBBS doctors with six-months’ experience or MD with Pathology expertise in the banks. The blood transfusion officer plays an important roles from screening the blood donors to testing their blood and it’s separation into various components. Prakash Ghunghurkar, president of the association, said, “We have to appoint three officers, meaning three qualified doctors, for every blood bank. There is a dearth of qualified doctors as working with the blood banks is the last preferrence of the medicoes.. Therefore, we have demanded that non-allopathy doctors, who have qualified with a degree in Bachelor of Ayurveda, Medicine, and Surgery (BAMS) and have some certificate course in blood bank, be roped in as blood transfusion officers.” The blood banks are run as not-for-profit business since the rates of whole blood and its components are fixed by the government. Hence, the MBBS or MD doctors do not get enough remuneration from the blood banks and are reluctant to work in uch facilities. “During the outbreak of Covid-19, most MBBS doctors were hired by government. Now, the government is planning to recruit more allopathy doctors to boost the medical services. In such a situation, no allopathy doctor will be willing to work as blood transfusion officer. The blood banks run 24×7 and strict vigilance is required at every stage — from donation to administration. The non-allopathy doctors are allowed to be recruited as blood transfusion officer, the banks will function more effectively,” said Ghunghurkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/blood-banks-seek-appointment-of-non-allopathy-docs/articleshow/81003328.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Trichy||Cash looted from shops; burglary bid on bank||Trichy: Unidentified people attempted to burgle a nationalised bank situated in Veppanthattai in Perambalur district on Monday night. While no valuables were stolen from the bank, three shops situated nearby have reported Rs 1.2 lakh cash stolen. Protesting against the failure of police to check the burglary attempts which were rampant in the locality, the traders staged a road blockade. Sources said that the burglars after managing to gain access into the bank situated near the Veppanthattai union office failed to break open the lockers and abandoned their attempt. They are then said to have attempted to steal valuables from a private finance company adjacent to the bank but failed to gain access into the safe room. Meanwhile, a total of Rs 1.2 lakh was found to be stolen from a fertiliser shop, mobile service centre and a textile shop in the vicinity on the same night. Locks of these shops were found to be broken. Condemning the lack of safety for traders in Veppanthattai, the traders staged a road roko protest on Athur road. The traders claimed that a few shops in the locality had been burgled the previous week but the accused had not been nabbed by the police yet. Perambalur police reached to the protest site and assured to end the spree of burglaries targeting shops in Veppanthattai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cash-looted-from-shops-burglary-bid-on-bank/articleshow/81010286.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Bhopal||233 new cases take state Covid tally to 2,57,646||Bhopal: With 233 new Covid-19 cases reported in the state on Tuesday, the tally of Covid-19 patients reached 2,57,646. Apart from the fresh cases three deaths were also reported in the state on Tuesday. With these new deaths, the death toll due to Covid-19 reached 3,841 in MP. On Tuesday, new cases were reported only from 29 of the 52 districts of the state. Districts where no new cases were reported on Tuesday include Hoshangabad, Shivpuri, Vidisha, Morena, Balaghat, Shahdol, Khandwa, Katni, Chhatarpur, Anuppur, Singrauli, Datia, Shajapur, Seoni, Bhind, Alirajpur, Mandla, Ashok Nagar, Panna, Dindori, Burhanpur, Niwari and Agar Malwa. Of the 29 districts where new cases were reported, fresh cases were reported in double figures from four districts. The highest number of cases were reported from Indore, where 93 people tested positive, followed by Bhopal where 39 tested positive and Jabalpur where 19 tested positive. On the brighter side, 221 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new recoveries, the count of total people who have recovered so far in the state reached 2,52,385. A total 13,729 samples were tested on Tuesday, of which 221 tested positive, thus the positivity rate—which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Tuesday stood at 1.6 per cent. As on February 16, there were 1,856 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/233-new-cases-take-state-covid-tally-to-257646/articleshow/81003329.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Palghar man torched 5 stray puppies alive?||MUMBAI: A Palghar resident has been booked for allegedly setting on fire seven newborn stray puppies on a ground last week. While two puppies were rescued, five are missing. In a police complaint lodged on Monday, another Palghar resident, Prathamesh Rane, has stated that the accused, Harshal Sankhe, stood outside his (Rane’s) bungalow in the evening on February 10, threatening to kill the puppies that were on a vacant plot nearby. Rane said that Sankhe, who lives in the same locality, had claimed that the mother canine dog, who had littered recently on the open plot, had been preying on chickens that he (Sankhe) rears. Rane said that Sankhe took heaps of garbage from the plot, and dry grass and lit a fire that spread. Rane, who took pictures of the “massive” fire, told the police that it spread across on the plot. After it subsided, Rane and his family rescued two puppies that had burns. Activist Jayesh Padhye expressed fear that five of the pups have been burnt alive. The police did a panchnama, but no one has been arrested. TOI reported on February 6 that anyone who injures or kills an animal may soon have to pay up to Rs 75,000 as penalty and faces up to five years in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/palghar-man-torched-5-stray-puppies-alive/articleshow/81006395.cms||Sandhya Nair
February 17, 2021||Bhopal||2,154 get the jab, Bhopal covers 65% of target||Bhopal: As many as 2,154 beneficiaries, mostly frontline workers, were vaccinated in the state capital on Tuesday. Of the targeted 4,382 beneficiaries, 49% turned up at 13 session sites across Bhopal. So far, since the Covid vaccination drive began on January 16, 65% of 67,367 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Bhopal. Overall, 44,461 beneficiaries, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, have got vaccinated. 13% or 8,972 of them — mostly policemen — have been administered Covaxin. Since, February 8, each day, more than 5,400 people have been vaccinated in the state capital. Overall 43,785 have been vaccinated in the last eight days in 891 sessions held across 218 sites. Around 23,582 people have till February 18 to get their first dose. From February 19, the second dose of vaccination would be initiated for health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2154-get-the-jab-bhopal-covers-65-of-target/articleshow/81003331.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Oommen Chandy challenges LDF convener to prove allegations||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Former chief minister Oommen Chandy has said the LDF government cancelled the rank list for the 31 posts and if these rank lists were extended for one-and-a-half year more, then it would have given appointment for 350 more candidates in the list. Chandy said the previous UDF government had extended the tenure of the PSC rank lists when there was no new list to replace the old ones. This was the policy adopted by the UDF government. “Now, the LDF convener alleges that Oommen Chandy had taken bribe to extend these lists. I am challenging him to prove his allegation. If he can bring at least one candidate who have given bribe to extend the list, then I am ready to end this job,” Chandy said. Chandy, who continued to pledge his support for the candidates who are agitating before secretariat, said the LDF and the UDF governments have different policies while dealing with the PSC rank lists. The UDF government has never cancelled a rank list. It had only extended the lists if there are no other lists to replace the expiring one. The UDF government had extended many rank lists up to one-and-a-half years. However, the present LDF government has cancelled all the rank lists which have completed three years and 133 such rank lists have lapsed due to this policy. The interesting part is that the government had no new rank lists to replace them. This has resulted in the backdoor recruitments, he said. However Chandy was not ready to echo the same sentiments of other Congress leaders like Ramesh Chennithala and Mullappally Ramachandran that if the UDF comes back to power it will review all the decisions taken by the LDF government to regularize the temporary posts. “The UDF is not ready to wreak vengeance on those who have been regularized by the LDF government,” he said. “What the chief minister is saying about the placements made during his tenure is not the exact number of people who have joined the service. But it is the number of advice memos which the PSC had sent to the candidates who are in the rank lists,” said Chandy. Chandy visited the protesting candidates on Tuesday too. He also visited the satyagraha pandal of Youth Congress leaders and MLAs Shafi Parambil and K S Sabarinadhan who are on an indefinite fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chandy-challenges-ldf-convener-to-prove-allegations/articleshow/81006389.cms||---
February 17, 2021||India||Posterior is a private part, says court in Pocso case conviction||MUMBAI: Observing that the term private part is to be interpreted in the context of what it means in “our society”, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court sentenced a 22-year-old man to 5year jail for touching a 10year-old girl’s posterior, reports Rebecca Samervel. The accused in his defence submitted that the child had stated he touched her private parts and that the posterior did not fit in that definition. The court, though, said while Google, as cited by the defence advocate, may not interpret it as a private part, it was not an acceptable interpretation as far as Indians are concerned. The court also pointed out that sexual assault as defined under Section 7 of Pocso Act states if the touch is to organs other than those categorised as private parts, then it must be with a sexual intention. “So obviously touching the bum of the girl cannot be said to be without sexual intention,” the court said. The court also cited the case involving late retired IPS officer KPS Gill, who was convicted for patting an IAS officer’s posterior at a party in 1988. The court said the Supreme Court had held that by touching the body of the complainant with culpable intention, the accused committed offences under the Indian Penal Code Sections 354 (outraging a woman’s modesty) and 509 (insulting a woman’s modesty). “The same analogy is applicable in the case in hand. As the victim was a child of 10 years on the date of the incident, the provision of Pocso Act attracts for the similar kind of his act touching the posterior of the victim. Thus, the prosecution has succeeded in proving that the accused has committed the said act with sexual intention and outraged her modesty,” the court said. The incident occurred on September 17, 2017. The child said that at 6pm when she was out to buy bread, she saw four boys sitting outside a shop. She said they laughed and teased her. The child further stated that later when she was on her way to the temple with her friend, one of the boys, came and touched her posterior.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/posterior-is-a-private-part-says-court-in-pocso-case-conviction/articleshow/81018492.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Bengaluru||Covid -ve certificate must for Kerala returnees: Karnataka||BENGALURU: With Covid cases increasing in Kerala, the Karnataka government has mandated that all returnees from the neighbouring state produce Covid negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours. A circular to this effect was issued by Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, on Tuesday. “The district commissioners will take a call on implementation. Border surveillance may be done and there will be random checks in districts,” he added. Besides, all those who have come from Kerala to Karnataka in the past two weeks shall compulsorily be subjected to RT-PCR test. Cluster of 5 or more cases to be declared containment zoneExemption will be given if only they have RTPCR negative certificate. “Anyone who does not comply will immediately be reported to the nodal person/authorities and made to strictly stay in designated quarantine in the facility till the RT-PCR report is negative,” the circular reads. If there are a cluster of five or more cases in hostels, boarding or residential, educational institutions, such places will be declared ‘containment zones’ by local health authorities and special surveillance measures initiated. After seven days of notifying of a containment zone, students and staff should be re-tested. Strict enforcement of precautions like compulsory wearing of face masks, physical distancing, use of hand sanitisers, monitoring of symptomatic cases in hostels and educational institutions is very important, and heads of institutions will be held responsible for lapses. The swab samples of Kerala-bound passengers when they test positive shall be sent to Nimhans for genomic sequencing. The government has mandated that inmates of hostels and colleges should not be allowed to have visitors/relatives without obtaining express permission from Covid nodal officers. Also, day scholars travelling from Kerala to schools/colleges in any part of Karnataka will be subjected to RT-PCR testing every fortnight. Precautions in hostelsStudents must stay in separate rooms. Any potential for super-spreading avenues such as crowding in dining areas, waiting halls, reading rooms, playing areas, gymnasium, should be prevented in hostels, colleges/schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-ve-cert-must-for-kerala-returnees-ktaka/articleshow/81018638.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Trichy||CM lays foundation stone for food park in Manapparai Sipcot||Trichy: Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation (Sidco) on Tuesday formally handed over land at Panjappur in Trichy city to Trichy Trade Centre private limited for the construction of trade felicitation centre, during the launch of Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021. Simultaneously, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, through video conferencing, laid the foundation stone for the food park proposed at the State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (Sipcot) industrial park at Manapparai.The chief minister awarded the land transfer certificate issued by Sidco to N Kanagasabapathy, chairman of Trichy Trade Centre. Sidco and Trichy District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (Tiditssia) were appointed as nodal agencies. The special purpose vehicle (SPV) formed for construction of the trade centre will now initiate the preliminary work. The SPV which presently has a strength of 50 members will have more members added to it for generating funds for the construction of the trade centre on 9.42 acres of land at Panjappur situated on the Trichy-Madurai national highway. “Entrepreneurs are keen to be a part of the SPV. Soon, we will proceed with the paperwork to avail permission from the local planning authority and Trichy corporation for commencing the construction work. We have the layout ready,” Kanagasabapathy said.The foundation stone for the food park on about 125 acres at Sipcot Manapparai was laid by the chief minister after the site identified was cleared on Tuesday. “We have floated a tender for facilitating road and water connection. Amenities will be provided at the earliest,” Sipcot official sources said. Once the Sipcot board approves the layout proposed for the industrial park on 1,077 acres of the Trichy-Dindigul national highway, officials said they will expedite efforts to invite investors to use the land. Apart from the food park coming up, Sipcot has also identified 95 acres for general engineering companies such as automobile spare parts manufacturers. With both the trade centre and industrial park taking shape, entrepreneurs said they will urge stakeholders to complete the ongoing semi-ring road project for better access between the two facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cm-lays-foundation-stone-for-food-park-in-manapparai-sipcot/articleshow/81010303.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Constable booked for animal cruelty||A constable with Hill Line police station in Ulhasnagar, Vitthal Thackeray, has been booked for allegedly relocating six stray puppies to avoid disturbance to his brother’s family in Ulhasnagar. A local, Raj Chotwani, who used to feed the dogs said Thackeray told him his brother’s family was fed up of the dogs and so he was moving them. —Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/constable-booked-for-animal-cruelty/articleshow/81006494.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 17, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Kharghar cop hangs himself||NAVI MUMBAI: Constable Santosh Patil (47), attached to Kharghar police station, allegedly died by suicide at his Kharghar residence on Monday night. Senior inspector Shatrughna Mali said Santosh hanged himself when his wife and two daughters were at home, at 11.45pm. An assistant inspector had died by suicide after he shot himself on Sunday at APMC police station in Navi Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/kharghar-cop-hangs-himself/articleshow/81010346.cms||George Mendonca
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Everyone worked together to showcase Delhi’s glory: CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: With the AAP government 3.0 completing its first year in office on Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal recalled the difficulties faced by all in the past one year due to the pandemic. He stressed that everyone worked together to showcase Delhi’s glory to the world. Delhi government’s home isolation model, setting up of the first plasma bank and oximeter distribution were discussed across the world, he added. “After defeating Covid-19, Delhi government now aims to clean the Yamuna in the next three years and set an example for the world. We continued to provide free electricity and water amid the challenges. Government school students made us proud by scoring 98% in the board examination. This government is of all two crore Delhiites, works round the clock to make the life of every citizen easier and will continue to do so,” said Kejriwal. In his video message, Kejriwal stated that Delhi government came up with a remarkable solution to the stubble burning problem, the key reason behind air pollution. “Now, Delhi’s farmers do not burn stubble anymore,” he added. “The city’s progress in the past six years has given a new hope for the future of the country. We hope to make the life of people easy, give good education to children and brighten India’s name in the entire world,” Kejriwal tweeted. The CM underlined that Delhi government fed millions of people during the lockdown, distributed free rations and arranged transportation for trapped migrant labourers to their hometowns. “Delhi’s progress in the past six years has ensured good education to children of the poor, good healthcare services to the sick and 24x7 electricity. I assure everyone that I will continue to serve you in the same manner even in future,” stated Kejriwal. Health minister Satyendar Jain said Kejriwal had given clear instructions to clean the Yamuna as soon as possible. “We are working day and night to clean the river in the next three years and set an example for the world. Nearly 13.6 lakh people got zero water bills last year and 73% of people didn’t have to pay electricity bills,” he added. “We are pushing the electric vehicle policy to minimise vehicular pollution. We are setting up 100 stations where 500 charging points will be made to facilitate owners of electric vehicles. We are at war against pollution. Since AAP formed the government, pollution has gone down extensively, except in November and December when stubble burning occurs in the neighbouring states,” said Jain. The minister mentioned that Delhi government not only effectively managed the pandemic, but also provided 37 people with financial assistance of Rs 1 crore, including nine Corona Warriors. “No city in India and the world prepared as many hospital beds (18,800) as Delhi. We had almost 7,000 vacant beds when nearly 8,600 patients were reported in a single day. The roads of New York got flooded with patients when the number of cases crossed 5,600 in a day. Delhi government not only provided services to the capital’s residents, but also to those from other states. Financial aid of Rs 5,000 was given to 1.56 lakh auto and taxi drivers, while 44,000 construction workers were paid Rs 10,000 each during the lockdown,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/everyone-worked-together-to-showcase-delhis-glory-cm/articleshow/81010337.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 17, 2021||Kozhikode||Disha Ravi’s arrest shows Centre’s increasing fear: Tharoor||Kozhikode: Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said that the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi (21) was a sign of the Centre’s increasing sense of dread. During an interaction with students of St Joseph’s College, Devagiri, Tharoor said that the incident was also a reflection of the weakness of those in power. Along with arrogance, fear was also rising in the central government, he said. “How can a 21-year-old destabilize a government? Such incidents are a shame to Indian democracy,” he said, adding that the whole world was watching the incidents in the country. Tharoor said that for freedom of expression to prevail in the country in its true sense, BJP government should be voted out of power. “But, the youth of the country should not remain silent till then and should make their voices heard,” he added. He was also seeking the views of the students for the UDF manifesto on Tuesday. At the interaction held at Sarovaram Biopark in the afternoon, Tharoor interacted with people from all walks of life. Among those who participated, director VM Vinu called for setting up a ‘Film City’ in state, MSF national vice-president Fathima Thahiliya suggested passing an Act to protect the freedom of expression of social media users. Other suggestions which were placed for consideration included the setting up a dedicated department for traders, a welfare board for transgenders and setting up a tribal university in Wayanad. Tharoor said that the meeting on Feb 24 would consolidate the suggestions and give a final shape to the UDF manifesto. Earlier in the day, he also visited shopkeepers and traders at SM Street to gather their views as part of the exercise.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/disha-ravis-arrest-shows-centres-increasing-fear-tharoor/articleshow/81006569.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Trichy||Four child labourers rescued from construction site||TRICHY: Four minors, who were employed as labourers at a construction site in Trichy were rescued by a team of officials during an inspection on Monday. The joint inspection was carried out by officials from the labour department, anti-child trafficking unit (ACTU), national child labour project (NCLP) and Bachapan Bachao Andolan (BBA). The boys aged between 15 and 17 from Odisha and Bihar were handed over to the child welfare committee, the officials said. A complaint has been filed under section Bonded Labour Abolition Act against the building owner and two agents who brought the minors here at the Thillai Nagar station, the officials said.According to officials, the boys were brought here by giving Rs 2,000 as an advance for three boys from Odisha each to their family and Rs 5,000 to the family of the boy brought from Bihar. The building owner had given Rs 280 as wager per day including for food and they had been residing at a shed on the worksite. The minors were produced before the RDO and district collector S Sivarasu where they gave release certificates. Program manager of child labour elimination and effective rehabilitation society (CHEERS) S Gowtham of Trichy said that the inspection was part of the pledge against the abolition of bonded labourers and the ‘Operation Smile’ drive that was going on from February 1 to 15.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/four-child-labourers-rescued-from-construction-site/articleshow/81010340.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Automatic elevated chair installed at Har-Ki-Pauri, Uttarakhand for disabled pilgrims||HARIDWAR: Days after TOI published a report highlighting how the disabled were facing issues in reaching Har-Ki-Pauri, an automatic elevated chair has now been installed at the ghat. The chair will help the disabled and the elderly who wish to take a holy dip in Ganga. Earlier, there was no ramp at the ghat. The elevated chair has been installed under the Namami Gange project. So far, only four river banks — out of the total 107 — in Haridwar had ramp facilities for the elderly and physically-challenged pilgrims. Mela officer Deepak Rawat told TOI, “An elevated automatic chair has been installed at the Har-Ki-Pauri ghat under the Namami Gange project. We have also constructed ramps for the newly-developed river banks. Also, we will reserve some river banks for the disabled and the elderly pilgrims in the Kumbh Mela.” Meanwhile, the Kumbh Mela police has announced that its teams and volunteers will be deployed on the river banks during the bathing festivals for helping the disabled and elderly pilgrims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/toi-impact-automatic-elevated-chair-installed-at-har-ki-pauri-for-disabled-pilgrims/articleshow/81003388.cms||MS Nawaz
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Pujas to documentaries: 1,000 events for K Chandrasekhar Rao’s birthday today||HYDERABAD: Over 1,000 programmes — ranging from distribution of food and fruits to screening of documentaries to organising blood donation camps and sports events and offering special prayers and a gold saree to the presiding deity at Balkampet Yellamma temple — have been lined up to honour chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on his 67th birthday on February 17. Giving a green touch to the celebrations, TRS MP Joginapally Santosh Kumar is planning plantation of one crore saplings across the state in one hour on Wednesday. Women and child welfare minister Satyavathi Rathod is also chipping in. “I have decided to gift three lakh saplings to KCR garu by planting them in tribal welfare residential schools and women and child welfare homes,” she said. As supporters and activists of the TRS who call KCR as ‘Telangana Jathi Pitha’ (Father of Telangana) are planning to celebrate the birthday in a grand manner, ministers, legislators and other elected representatives of the ruling party are equally gung-ho on the celebrations. Wednesday’s plethora of events come in the backdrop of KCR himself putting to rest speculations about a change of guard in Telangana and declaring that he would be the CM for 10 more years. A nursery (Palla Venkanna Nursery) in Kadiyam in AP’s East Godavari district greeted KCR by preparing a portrait of the CM using various flowers. They did this as they were inspired by the Haritha Haram programme initiated by KCR to increase green cover in the state. Animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav is organising a programme at Jala Vihar on Necklace Road where a 30-minute documentary with 3D graphics, highlighting key events in KCR’s life, will be screened. MLC, KCR’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha will offer a gold saree, weighing two kg, to the goddess at Yellamma temple. Special pujas will be performed at Ganapathi temple, Bangaru Maisamma temple and Ujjaini Mahankali temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pujas-to-documentaries-1000-events-for-kcrs-birthday-today/articleshow/81010377.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Trichy||R K Nagar will repeat across state, says TTV||Trichy: AMMK will replicate the victory it tasted in the R K Nagar byelection across the state in the ensuing assembly elections and bring back Amma’s rule, party leader T T V Dhinakaran has said. “The ultimate aim of launching AMMK was to retrieve AIADMK in a democratic way and we will take forward the task in a democratic way,” he told reporters in Trichy. “Somebody was saying AMMK has vote bank only in delta and southern districts. But we have supporters across the state. Just as we won in R K Nagar, we will win all over Tamil Nadu and bring back the rule of Amma. Because people of Tamil Nadu know very well what will happen if the present rulers come to power again.” he said. Asked about chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s comment that those who trust and follow Dhinakaran will be on the road, he said the cadres who followed him have principles. “If the DMK comes to power, nobody knows what the condition of the present AIADMK rulers will be. Now, because of the power they hold, they think they will come to power again. However, that will never happen,” he said. Asked about Sasikala’s appeal to cadres that they should come together, Dhinakaran said, “The cadres referred to was AMMK’s, because all members of AMMK are Amma’s cadres. Those who gathered to receive Sasikala from Bengaluru to Chennai were not arranged with money,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/r-k-nagar-will-repeat-across-state-says-ttv/articleshow/81010382.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Kozhikode||Police probing NRI bizman’s abduction||SLUG: TWO-DAY ORDEAL Kozhikode: District crime branch (rural) is investigating the alleged kidnapping of a Nadapuram-based businessman, who was released unhurt on Monday after a two-day ordeal. M T K Ahamed’s abduction on Saturday had created panic in the area. Ahamed, an NRI businessman, told mediapersons that he was waylaid by a gang of five at around 5am while on his way to the mosque for morning prayers. “They tied my hands and legs, covered my mouth with duct tape and blindfolded me with a piece of cloth. They then forced me into the boot of a car and drove away,” Ahamed said. He was kept in the room of a house in an undisclosed location. “I was continuously questioned by my kidnappers who kept their faces covered. They wanted to know whether I owe anyone money. From their conversations I realized that they were well aware of my background,” Ahamed said. Most of them spoke Malayalam with different accents. Ahamed said he believes the ‘quotation’ was given by his former business partners in the Gulf. He added that he had settled all financial dealings in 2016 before handing over the firm to his brother. His abductors were issued ‘orders’ to release him. Ahamed was taken to a place near Ramanattukara and handed Rs 500. He reached home by bus. Ahamed denies that he or his relatives paid any ransom for his release. He said he is not aware of the circumstances of his release. However, his relatives had received a message demanding Rs 1 crore as ransom. The police team led by DSP (crime branch) reached Ahamed’s house on Tuesday to collect preliminary details. #||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/police-probing-nri-bizmans-abduction/articleshow/81006705.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Aurangabad||HC grants 10-day transit anticipatory bail to Beed engineer||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday granted 10-day transit anticipatory bail to Beed engineer Shantanu Muluk against whom a Delhi court has issued a non-bailable arrest warrant in the Toolkit document case being investigated by the Delhi police.Muluk had moved the HC on Monday apprehending his arrest by the Delhi police, citing that the latter had on February 13 arrested one of his group members from Bengaluru and had raided another colleague in Mumbai on February 11. He had also cited that a Delhi police team had been stationed in Beed for the last three days and had seized various material from his residence while asking for him.Muluk had contended that he should be given a fair chance to present his case before the Delhi courts and, for that, he needed a transit anticipatory bail.His plea came up for hearing before the bench of Justice Vibha Kankanwadi who initially questioned his lawyer Satej Jadhav’s plea for a three-week transit anticipatory bail. The bench sought to know why a transit bail of three weeks was needed when the applicant could reach Delhi in a matter of two hours (by air).Jadhav submitted that his client needed sufficient time to meet and consult his lawyers in Delhi and prepare his case for anticipatory bail before a Delhi court and also needed time to meet and present facts before the law-enforcing agencies in Delhi. Hence, an apt period of transit bail was required, he said.Additional public prosecutor Sandip Mahajan opposed the plea, arguing that the HC had no jurisdiction over the matter as of now. Mahajan cited a couple of judgments by the Supreme Court and the Patna high court in support of his argument, but Jadhav countered that the same were not applicable in the instant matter.Jadhav submitted that his client had to approach the HC bench in Aurangabad with valid apprehensions about arrest as a Delhi police team had visited his residence early on February 12 morning, asking for him.After hearing both sides, the bench granted Muluk 10-day transit pre-arrest bail.Muluk, along with two others, is facing charges of collaborating with an anti-national group for the creation of the `Toolkit' document, which was shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg in support of the ongoing farmers' protest, to "spread disaffection against the Indian state". Delhi police have claimed that Muluk and the two others created the document and passed it on to others for editing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-grants-10-day-transit-anticipatory-bail-to-beed-engineer/articleshow/81003386.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 28-year-old doctor ‘ends life’ in hospital by injecting himself, no suicide note found||MUMBAI: A 28-year-old doctor allegedly died by suicide after injecting himself with a concoction of medicines at BYL Nair Hospital on Monday night. Aurangabad resident, Dr Bhimsandesh Tupe, was a first year post-graduate student in the anaesthesia department of the same hospital. This is the second instance of a suicide being reported from the institute in less than two years. Dr Payal Tadvi, a second year gynaecology student, had died by suicide in May 2019, which her family had alleged was driven by casteism. Hospital authorities said Tupe had returned from Aurangabad on Sunday after visiting his father, who had suffered a paralytic attack. He resumed work on Monday and even assisted in four to five surgeries through the day. A police officer said Tupe, who was on duty in the wards, returned to his hostel room on Monday evening after informing colleagues that they could call him whenever needed. However, when calls went unanswered, colleagues broke open the door of his hostel room and found him motionless with two vials lying nearby, said an officer.  “A C-section was to be carried out for which he was needed. When he didn’t respond to calls, his colleagues went to his room and broke it open to find his body,” said dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal. He said Tupe was known to be a jovial person and excelled at work. “We haven’t got any complaint of ragging from his family,” the dean said, adding the drastic step taken by Tupe has come as a shock even to his older brother, who is an orthopaedic surgeon. A Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors representative said they don’t suspect foul play as of now. “No suicide note has been found. His phone is locked and we will call an expert to examine it,” added the officer. The officer said they found two vials from the room. He had injected himself in both the arms, said police. Police said last week a PG student from the same hospital had attempted suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/28-yr-old-doctor-ends-life-in-hospital-by-injecting-himself-no-suicide-note-found/articleshow/81010435.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 17, 2021||Kozhikode||Chandy govt took bribe to extend PSC lists: CPM||Kozhikode: LDF convener and CPM acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan on Tuesday alleged that Oommen Chandy government had accepted a bribe for extending rank lists prepared by the Public Service Commission (PSC). Addressing a news conference in Thalassery, on the sidelines of the ‘Vikasana Munnetta Yatra’, Vijayaraghavan said the ongoing agitation in front of the secretariat was organized by those whose rank lists had lapsed, and they are trying to arm twist the government into making illegal appointments. The Youth Congress is looking to create trouble. “This government did not take bribes to extend the PSC list,” he said. Vijayaraghavan said UDF is playing a dirty political game to thwart LDF’s chances of returning to power. “Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala lied when he said three lakh temporary staff were regularized under LDF rule,” he said. Vijayaraghavan challenged Chennithala to make public documents to prove his allegation. Congress has been buffeted by infighting, which has given rise to multiple factions and interests, he said. “A high-power committee has been constituted and its chief [Chandy] was named to ensure that Chennithala does not become chief minister.” Vijayaraghavan said Congress leaders Chennithala, Mullappally Ramachandran and Chandy are speaking in different voices. “All of them are trying to hoodwink the public.” Chennithala is leading a yatra of people who will ultimately join the BJP. The developments after his rally in Malabar point to such a possibility, he said.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/chandy-govt-took-bribe-to-extend-psc-lists-cpm/articleshow/81006759.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Madurai||Classification has no place in God’s abode, says Madras HC||MADURAI: Classification among men has got no place in the abode of God and if such activities are permitted, it will strike against the very spirit of the Constitution, the Madras high court has observed. Dismissing a petition filed by M Padmanaban, who sought to conduct a peace meeting between three communities for organising a temple festival of the Sri Eraniamman Thirukovil in Trichy district, the court observed: “Temple is a place of religious worship and when people go to there out of faith, there cannot be any difference based on colour or creed.” The Eriamman temple comes under the control of the executive officer of Jambukeswar Akilandeswari temple at Thiruvanaikovil. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that a writ petition was filed in the previous year and pursuant to the orders passed, a peace committee meeting was conducted and as per the decision made, the temple festival was conducted. The temple’s counsel submitted that such a meeting was conducted this year also, but no consonance was arrived. Hence, he submitted that the temple authorities had decided to conduct the function themselves. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed: “We are dealing with a very unfortunate case. In the case on hand there is a difference among the persons belonging to three communities for conducting a temple festival.” The judges observed, “God does not recognize any community and only recognizes a human being, who goes there to pray. We are constrained to note that a temple shall not be a place for perpetuating communal separation leading to discrimination. On the other hand, it should facilitate all those persons having common faith to come and worship.” The judges observed that we are not inclined to interfere in this matter, leaving it to the discretion of the temple authorities to conduct the festival. In any case, the prayer sought for by the petitioner has worked itself out, since the peace committee meeting was conducted on February 10 and no consonance has been arrived at.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/classification-has-no-place-in-gods-abode-says-hc/articleshow/81010405.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Blanket ban on plastic bag manufacture in Uttarakhand; defaulters to be fined Rs 5 Lakh||DEHRADUN: Reinforcing the blanket ban on single-use plastic, the state has this time decided to penalise plastic users at all stages and in particular, has come down heavily on plastic manufacturers. If caught manufacturing plastic bags, cutlery and recycled plastic containers in Uttarakhand, owners of the factories will have to shell out a hefty fine of Rs 5 lakh, the Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB) said on Tuesday. According to officials, Uttarakhand is the first state to take such a move. Those found transporting single-use plastic will have to pay a fine of Rs 2 lakh, those caught selling it Rs 1 lakh and end users caught with above-mentioned plastic items will have to pay Rs 100 per piece. Only bio bags which are environment friendly and approved by central pollution control board (CBC) will be allowed, UEPPCB officials said. While the ban on selling and using the specified plastic items will be effective immediately (as of February 16), manufacturers have been given six months to stop operations. “We are the first state to completely ban plastic bags. Since there is no definition of single-use plastic, we are starting with any kind of plastic bag, plastic cutlery as well as recycled plastic container – all of these are banned for manufacturing in the state. With this, selling of solid or liquid food and drinks in plastic packaging is also now banned,” said UEPPCB secretary SP Subudhi. He added that simply stopping the manufacture of plastic in Uttarakhand will not help, as it will then simply come from neighbouring states which is why, this time, users at all stages will be held accountable. “Departments of transport, income tax, police and forest have been given the power to nab defaulters under the Uttarakhand Plastic and Other Non-Biodegradable Garbage (Regulation of Use and Disposal) Act, 2013,” Subudhi said. An office communication signed by the principal secretary of Uttarakhand forest and environment department Anand Bardhan, a copy of which is with TOI, reads, “Plastic waste and micro plastic endanger species of fresh and marine water biodiversity. Spreading such pollution in and around eco systems, tourist places, heritage sites, ecologically fragile areas like ‘bugyals’ (meadows), high-altitude areas as well as agricultural and forest lands is very harmful.” “The ban covers polythene bags of any shape, with or without handles, any thickness, size, colour as well as non-woven polypropylene bags,” the communique adds. According to data available with Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board, every year, industries of the state generate 1.5 lakh ton of plastic and consumers produce 30,000 ton of plastic waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/blanket-ban-on-plastic-bag-manufacture-in-ukhand-defaulters-to-be-fined-rs-5l/articleshow/81003405.cms||Shivani Azad
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||MP distributes medicinal plants||Hyderabad: Over 1,000 medicinal plants were distributed to passengers arriving at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport by MP J Santosh Kumar as part of one crore tree plantation drive ‘Koti Vrikshaarchana.’ Srinivas and Sumalata, who arrived from Kochi, received the first plant. Arun Gupta and Seema Gupta from Punjab and two kids Arya and Zahar from Mumbai were among who received the plants. Santosh Kumar, who launched the Green India Challenge programme three years ago, said CM KCR is keen on improving green cover in the state. The MP said Koti Vrikshaarchana is being taken up with the intention of giving a green gift to the CM. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mp-distributes-medicinal-plants/articleshow/81010408.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Madurai||CBI seeks time to file counter in bail plea of accused cops||Madurai: The CBI on Tuesday sought time before the Madras high court to file a counter in the bail plea moved by two accused cops who were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district during last year. The court was hearing the bail petitions filed by two suspended policemen - head constable S Murugan and constable Muthuraj. After the assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri appearing for CBI sought time to file counter in these bail pleas, justice M Nirmal Kumar adjourned the hearing in these bail petitions to February 23. It may be recalled that the earlier bail applications of Murugan and Muthuraj were dismissed by high court Madurai bench last year on the ground that prima facie materials are available on record to show that these policemen played a vital role in the custodial torture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cbi-seeks-time-to-file-counter-in-bail-plea-of-accused-cops/articleshow/81010444.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Madurai||Plea to fill up vacancies in forest dept||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the state government on a plea seeking to fill up the vacancies of forest guards and watchers in the forest department across the state.A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by A Veronica Mary, a resident of Madurai district.The petitioner stated that Tamil Nadu has been a pioneer in protected area management and development of forest resources and wildlife. The total extent under the protected area management is 7,072.95sqkm which comes to 30.92% of the state’s forest area.She stated that it is of utmost importance that the forest department should be fully equipped without any vacancies in order to safeguard the natural resources and wildlife in the state. She stated that frontline staff such as forest guards and forest watchers play a vital role to keep wildlife habitats free from threats that could cause decline of the species.Mary stated that based on a RTI reply she came to know that 396 posts of forest watchers are vacant of the total sanctioned strength of 787 in the state. Similarly, 248 posts of forest guards are vacant of the total sanctioned strength of 913 in the state.Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-fill-up-vacancies-in-forest-dept/articleshow/81010473.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||T govt wades into citizenship row, says it must have a say||Hyderabad: The state government on Tuesday made a sudden entry into the citizenship row between Vemulawada MLA Chennamaneni Ramesh of the TRS and Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) and sought four weeks from the court to file its counter in the matter. Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili gave the state two weeks to explain its case. Originally a native of Karimnagar district, Ramesh was working in Germany prior to his entry into Telangana politics a decade ago. He acquired German citizenship and was living there. For returning to India and to enter the political fray here, he had to re-acquire his Indian citizenship. He applied for the same and secured it and has been winning as MLA for the last three consecutive terms. Adi Srinivas, Congress candidate, who was defeated by Ramesh, moved a complaint against the latter saying that the TRS MLA suppressed vital information about his mandatory stay in India before re-acquiring his Indian citizenship. He filed a separate election petition against Ramesh with the hope that he would be declared as a winner in the event of Ramesh getting disqualified on grounds of citizenship. Ramesh’s counsel has been saying that he has relinquished his German citizenship voluntarily. Earlier, the high court has asked the central government to take a liberal view of the matter as the Citizenship Act deals with its citizens. “It is better placed to tell whose continued presence is harmful and whose presence is not harmful,” state’s additional advocate general J Ramachandra Rao argued. The case will come up for hearing after two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-wades-into-citizenship-row-says-it-must-have-a-say/articleshow/81010529.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Madurai||DMDK expels functionary after wife sides with DMK||Madurai: Hours after the opposition DMK emerged victorious in the contest for the post of Periyakulam panchayat union chairman with the help of a lone DMDK councillor, the DMDK on Tuesday expelled her spouse and Periyakulam north secretary, K C Kannan from the primary membership of the party. The development has caused much embarrassment to ally AIADMK. A lone AMMK councillor too backed the DMK. The district and state-level functionaries of the DMDK in Theni had tried to convince Kannan to get his spouse, K Pakkiam, to vote for the AIADMK until Monday, considering that Periyakulam was the home constituency of the deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam. “The AIADMK district functionaries also called up the leadership in Chennai, however, Pakkiam cast her vote in favour of the DMK,” said a DMDK leader. This comes against the backdrop of DMDK leadership demanding that the AIADMK commence early talks on alliance for the assembly election. DMDK leader Premalatha had openly supported V K Sasikala on her release. Kannan said he had communicated his decision to his party (DMDK) leadership to vote for the DMK as soon as the court ordered for the elections to be held. “The AIADMK does not respect us and adhere to the ethics of alliance dharma,” he said, justifying his spouse’s action. The election to the post of chairman was announced thrice but could not be held due to lack of quorum. The AIADMK councillors boycotted the election thrice. In the 16-member union, the DMK bagged eight seats, the AIADMK six and the DMDK and the AMMK one each. Soon after the election in 2019, a DMK councillor switched allegiance to the AIADMK, thus causing a tie between the two parties. Panneerselvam has been in Theni since Tuesday, after attending a mass wedding in Coimbatore in the morning. “He is upset. But the incident exposed the AMMK’s secret pact with the DMK against the ruling party,” said an AIADMK district functionary. It is interesting that the AMMK councillor Maruthaiammal was elected unopposed to the post of the union vice-chairman as the AIADMK councillors did not participate in the election. A section in the DMDK in Periyakulam is also against having an alliance with the AIADMK and wanted to contest alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmdk-expels-functionary-after-wife-sides-with-dmk/articleshow/81010507.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP to have one incharge for every 25 voters in MLC polls||Hyderabad: The BJP is leaving no stone unturned to win the graduates MLC constituency elections. Towards this end, hectic pre-poll preparations are on. Not only is the party involving senior leaders in devising poll strategies, but it is also appointing in-charges for every 25 voters. The personal contact with 25 voters from each booth will be taken up by state-level leaders. “All the leaders have been given specific tasks. The party is also conducting intellectual meetings with booth-level voters to educate them on why they should vote for the BJP in the MLC elections,” V Chaya Devi, Hyderabad central district general secretary, told TOI. Sources said Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, party senior leader Chintala Ramchandra Reddy and others are very much in the scheme of things for the MLC polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-to-have-one-incharge-for-every-25-voters-in-mlc-polls/articleshow/81010565.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Forest offices of Uttarakhand to go all-green; plastic furniture & other plastic items to be banned in premises||DEHRADUN: In a bid to promote greener options, plastic furniture in the state forest headquarters will shortly be replaced either by bamboo or wood furniture. The decision was taken in a meeting between state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat and forest officials. “Being a department that guards and nurtures green cover, we have decided to take this initiative. It will also give out a message to other departments and probably they, too, would follow suit,” said Harak Singh Rawat. Earlier, the minister had announced that the culture of giving water in plastic bottles and flower bouquet wrapped in plastic sheet needs to be stopped in the department. Eventually, the execution of the directive was complied to some extent in the departmental meetings. Uttarakhand has about 1,000-plus small and big forest offices and van chowkis (beat posts) across its forests spread over an area of 38,000-square kilometre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-offices-of-uttarakhand-to-go-all-green-plastic-furniture-other-plastic-items-to-be-banned-in-premises/articleshow/81003447.cms||Shivani Azad
February 17, 2021||Madurai||Couple murder kids, die by suicide||Kanyakumari: A couple from Kanyakumari district murdered their children by feeding them poison-laced food before taking their own lives by hanging. A suicide note left behind stated that they took the extreme step as they could not bear the sufferings of their son due to a health problem. The deceased were identified as Kannan, 45, Saraswathi, 37, Anushka, 11, and Vivas, 5 from Parakkai near Ethamozhi in Kanyakumari district. Kannan was a carpenter. Police sources said that Kannan did not go to work on Tuesday. His elder brother received a call from his workplace asking about Kannan’s whereabouts. When his brother went home to check, the door was locked from inside. He broke into the house with the help of neighbours and found the children lying dead on the bed, while the couple were found hanging. A police team from the Ethamozhi police station, led by inspector Meena reached the spot and conducted an inquiry. Meena said based on a complaint a case has been registered and an inquiry is under way, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/couple-murder-kids-die-by-suicide/articleshow/81010588.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Teen held for firing over Rs 1 crore extortion demand in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two weeks after three men demanded Rs1 crore from a businessman and then fired four rounds at him and his shop in southwest Delhi when he refused to pay up, police have apprehended a 17-year-old boy for the crime. The teenager claimed that he had acted on the instructions of jailed gangster Sunny Issapur. The teenager’s helpers have also been identified. One of them is a local criminal named Ritik and the other is Vivek, a gunman of jailed gangster Sunil Tajpuria alias Tillu, who was also involved in the gunning in public view of Jitender Gogi henchman Yovin near Rohini last year. Sources said that Issapur had joined hands with Tillu in their battle against the Gogi gang and had been demanding protection money from businessmen to fund arms and ammunition. Police are probing how Sunny passed on the instructions to his shooters and whether he had access to a phone in Tihar jail. It was on February 2 when the victim was in his shop when the teenager and his pals approached him and demanded money. They had earlier left a letter asking for Rs1 crore for protection and threatened to kill him and his family if the money was not paid. When the victim refused, the accused assaulted him and then fired at him. Hearing gunshots, the victim’s brother and locals chased the attackers. The cops scanned footage from CCTV cameras to identify the attackers. The content of the extortion letter was analysed and raids were conducted accordingly. “Finally, a joint team comprising special staff sleuths and personnel from Jafarpur police station was able to apprehend the juvenile shooter using technical surveillance and a tip off from informers,” said Santosh Meena, DCP (Southwest). Police are now in pursuit of the other accused. The minor has been sent to a reformation home after being produced before the juvenile justice board. The cops will also interrogate and seek remand of Issapur from jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teen-held-for-firing-over-rs-1cr-extortion-demand/articleshow/81010572.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Madurai||Human rights activists seek scrapping of UAPA||Madurai: Human rights activists on Tuesday in Madurai said that the anti-democratic Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), which was strangling the rights of the people to voice their opinion and threatening the fabric of the nation, should be scrapped. Members of the collective of human rights activists expressed concern over the use of the UAPA to silence the voice of the society in a planned manner. Human rights activist, Henri Tiphagne, national secretary PUCL, R Murali, M T Pandian, president Tamil Desa Makkal Munnani, advocates Vanchinathan, John Vincent and Jeyaramachandran among others said that the ruling governments were using UAPA and NIA to silence those who raised their voices against them and put them in prison. R Murali said that the recent toolkit case, in which a 21-year-old environmental activist Disha Ravi was arrested, was something that was a matter of serious concern, and he hoped that she would be released soon. Filing a complaint against the actress Oviya for her twitter post was also not acceptable, he said. They said that there were many incidents where the Act was used wrongfully. Balan of the Tamil Desiya Makkal Munnani and members Srinivasan, Selvaraj and Sithantham, who had conducted a press meet in Chennai in connection with a movement called ‘Defeat the anti-people facist BJP in the Assembly election’ were arrested under the UAPA. Similarly on February 4, the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), from Kerala arrested a dentist Dinesh, as a most wanted criminal. Dinesh participated in the democratic protests. The house of Popular Front of India, Mohamed Yusuf was searched without prior intimation. The activists demanded the release of all those, who were wrongfully arrested under the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/human-rights-activists-seek-scrapping-of-uapa/articleshow/81010549.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Madurai||Muslim outfits seek action against BJP||Madurai: Members of various Muslim outfits in Madurai staged a protest at Madurai district collector office demanding action against BJP members for trying to create an unrest in Thirupalai by instigating the Muslim community in the area. The protest was organised by district secretary of SDPI, Mujibur Rahman. The protesters later submitted a petition to the district collector, T Anbalagan. Mujibur Rahman said that the BJP conducted an event called ‘Thamarai Pongal’ in Thirupalai on January 10. Rahman claimed that BJP members tied their party flags to the windows of a mosque in the locality. While welcoming the party’s state president, L Murugan, to the venue of the event, they took out a rally while raising provocative slogans against Muslims, Rahman added. A complaint was filed the following day at the Tallakulam police station by the members of the Jamaat in Thirupalai. Rahman said that the police registered the complaint in the community service registry on January 13 but no action has been taken so far. He sought action against BJP members from Thirupalai-Selvam,Arumugam, Karthik, Gokulam Muthumarai-and the party’s state president L Murugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/muslim-outfits-seek-action-against-bjp/articleshow/81010653.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Madurai||‘80% of total accidents take place in only 20% of the roads’||Madurai: The civic body is working towards making the roads safe as 80% of the total accidents in the city take place in only 20% of the roads, commissioner of Madurai Corporation, S Visakan said on Tuesday. Visakan, who took part in a road safety awareness event organised by the Madurai city traffic police on Tuesday addressed autorickshaw drivers and government bus drivers. He advised them to be more careful in accident-prone zones. “Accidents can be avoided only if all the road users follow the traffic rules religiously,” he said. He also asked the public to call up corporation’s round-the-clock complaint number 8428425000 to register complaints on potholes. “Patch works will be carried out to set right the problems,” he said.All the top officials in the city such as the district collector, city police commissioner and corporation commissioner are working in close association to sort out the issues faced by the residents, Visakan said.Deputy commissioner of police,traffic, Madurai city K Sugumaran said that Madurai is undergoing a lot of changes as various projects are being carried out under the smart city scheme. People will be relieved as most of the projects are to be completed in a month or two. He said that they have approached the corporation to find appropriate spots for autorickshaw stands to avoid bottlenecks in traffic movement.During the event, a short film by the traffic police to create awareness on the importance of following traffic rules such as helmet, redlight jumping, overloading, cell phone driving, overspeeding and drink and drive to avoid accidents, was released. The month-long road safety awareness programme ends on Wednesday, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/80-of-total-accidents-take-place-in-only-20-of-the-roads/articleshow/81010692.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Madurai||Lab technicians protest proposed move to outsource lab testing||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Government Medical Lab Technicians Association on Tuesday protested in front of the Madurai Medical College condemning the state government’s proposed move to outsource lab testing at the new government medical colleges to be established in the state. Around 25 members took part in the protest. They further said that additional vacancies for lab technicians must be created, pointing out that the number of postings have remained the same for many decades. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lab-technicians-protest-proposed-move-to-outsource-lab-testing/articleshow/81010748.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Delhi cops seized articles without showing any warrant: Shantanu’s father||Aurangabad: Shantanu Muluk’s father, Shivlal, on Tuesday made a representation to Beed Superintendent of Police (SP) R Raja urging the latter to look into the issue of a two-member Delhi police team carrying out a search and seizure exercise at his residence early on the morning of February 12 without showing him any warrant/document. Shantanu has been named by the Delhi police as one of the suspects in the Toolkit document case being investigated by them and a Delhi court has issued a non-bailable warrant against him. Shivlal (54) stated that as a law-abiding citizen he was bringing the matter to the notice of the Beed police as the Delhi police team seized a computer hard disk, a book, a cell phone cover and an environmental poster from Shantanu’s room, orally assuring him that they would return the material at the time when they would go back to Delhi. “Since then, the Delhi police team has called him on two to three occasions at the Beed government guest house for questioning about Shantanu’s activities,” he stated. When contacted, Raja told TOI, “We have received the representation and we will inquire into the matter. We have not received any official intimation from the Delhi police about their operation in Beed nor we have any information about the seizure done by them. We also have no intimation about Shivlal being summoned for questioning at the guest house.” “Two men knocked on the door of our house around 5.30am on February 12. They identified themselves as Delhi police officials and showed us their identity cards. They told us that they were at our house to inquire about Shantanu as he had committed an anti-national act and was in contact with pro-Khalistani elements. They proceeded to search all rooms of our house and collected the computer hard disk and other material from Shantanu’s room without showing us any search and seizure warrant. Though they did not harass us, they are calling me time and again for questioning at the government guest house,” Shivlal said. “Throughout these events, we did not see any official from the local police or the administration accompanying the two men. As such, we thought it appropriate to bring the matter to the notice of the Beed police as already all kinds of news and speculation is going around in the print and electronic media for the last few days.” Beed police authorities said that under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), an investigating agency or an investigating officer has the powers to search and seize articles and even make an arrest without alerting the local police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/delhi-cops-seized-articles-without-showing-any-warrant-shantanus-father/articleshow/81006996.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 17, 2021||Vadodara||Cong candidate’s nomination rejected||Vadodara: The candidature of a Congress party member for Chhota Udepur district panchayat polls was rejected by the returning officer on Monday, as she has three children. Premila Tadvi filed nomination form for the Sankal seat, which came up for scrutiny. The BJP candidate raised objections over her candidature as she gave birth to three kids, in 2002, 2008 and 2010. The law states that any candidate who has more than two children after the 2005 amendment is disqualified. The returning officer upheld the objection and rejected the candidature. However, Congress party will remain in contest as the nomination of its dummy candidate Sumitra Tadvi was accepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cong-candidates-nomination-rejected/articleshow/81003252.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||ATS arrests man with 7kg heroin worth Rs 11 crore in Barmer district||JAIPUR: Rajasthan police’s anti-terrorism squad (ATS) has arrested a man in Barmer district and seized about 7kg of heroin worth Rs 11 crore in the international market. According to the ATS, the man had brought the contraband from Pakistan on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. Acting on a tip-off, the ATS sleuths raided a house at Arbi Ki Gafan Chouraha in Barmer and recovered the consignment from local resident Bachaya Khan. The packets were found buried in the house. The hamlet is located very close to the international border and the ATS is ascertaining whether the accused had crossed the border illegally or someone gave him the packets. “The possibility of heroin being thrown from across the border cannot be ruled out. This is one of the preferred ways used by smugglers. Khan’s criminal history and his movement in the last one year are being traced,” said an ATS officer. Officials are interrogating the accused to find out the extent of the network in the region and across the border. Sources said from here, the heroin is taken to other states especially Punjab. Police said a case had been registered against Khan under sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the Bijrad police station of Barmer. The ATS is interacting with their BSF counterparts to know about the seizure of 5kg heroin at Hindumal Kot area of Sri Ganganagar earlier this month. Bijrad police are also working with the ATS and has been preparing the list of suspicious persons who were involved in similar cases in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ats-seizes-7kg-heroin-worth-r11-crore/articleshow/81010757.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Rajkot||Woman stopped from talking to kin ends life||Rajkot: It was love lost in less than 60 days for a 19-year-old woman who fled home in Ahmedabad to get married to her love and then killed herself at his home on Sant Kabir Road in Rajkot on Monday evening when he stopped her from talking to her parents. The deceased identified as Disha Khediya was found hanging from a ceiling fan by her husband, Harshad, after he returned home from work on Monday evening. Disha’s father Purshottam Patel, who lives in Detroj in Ahmedabad, lodged a complaint of abetment of suicide against Harshad on Tuesday. In his plaint, Patel has alleged that his son-in-law disliked the fact that his wife calls up her parents or even that they call her up. After they came to know about her wedding, Patel accompanied by another daughter went to Rajkot to meet the deceased. However, the accused allegedly did not allow his wife to go with her kin to Ahmedabad for a few days. Patel further told the police that he even questioned Disha why she make up excuses whenever they would call, to which she replied that her husband not only disliked her talking to them, but also would scold her. “The complainant has alleged that this led his daughter to remain unhappy and ultimately take her own life,” said a police official. Disha, who has studied up to Class XI, fell in love with Harshad, an imitation jewellery designer, after they started chatting on a social media platform. She left home to get married to Harshad on December 21 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-stopped-from-talking-to-kin-ends-life/articleshow/81002363.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Kochi||Ernakulam district panchayat budget lays stress on basic infrastructure development||KOCHI: The newly-elected governing body of Ernakulam district panchayat on Tuesday presented its first budget giving thrust to basic infrastructure development. The budget for 2021-22, presented by district panchayat vice-president Shiny George, envisages revenue of Rs.180cr and expenditure of Rs.176cr. A major portion of the budget, Rs.64cr, has been allocated for maintenance of existing roads and Rs1cr for laying of new ones. Other major allocations are for construction of new buildings, renovation of existing ones, agriculture, Life Mission, health and education. The governing body, headed by Ullas Thomas, claimed in the budget that district panchayat would start its own rice mills and introduce its own branded rice in the market. Of the Rs.9.71cr allocated for agriculture sector, Rs.2cr is for an agriculture development package. The budget also earmarked Rs.1cr subsidy for labour charge to be met by farmers during rice cultivation. A farmer will get Rs.17,000 per hectare under labour wage subsidy. Besides announcing a number of projects for patients suffering from cancer, hemophilia and those who are undergoing dialysis, the budget has allocated funds for buying medicines to hospitals in the district panchayat. Of the Rs.6cr announced under various health-related projects, Rs.2.8cr has been allotted for dialysis and Rs.1cr for setting up solar roof in Aluva district hospital. Rs.4cr has been earmarked for ‘addressing’ garbage issue and Rs.1cr for constructing modern crematoriums in Nayarambalam, Sreemoolanagaram, Malayattoor, Mulavukadu and Kadamakkudy panchayats. However, an irony in the budget was that instead of taking measures to bring down the use of plastic among public, it proposes to set up plastic bottle disposable bins at busy junctions and areas in panchayats. Besides allocating Rs.10cr for Life Mission, Rs.4cr has also been earmarked for various projects of the social welfare department. Another Rs.10cr has been announced for Geham housing complex project. A labour bank or district panchayat employment exchange will be set up with the support of labour banks. The panchayat’s own organic fertilizer units will also be set up and would be run by women. Moreover, the budget has decided to give 25% reservations for NRKs in new entrepreneurship entities including in proposed industrial park and floating restaurants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/district-panchayat-budget-lays-stress-on-basic-infra-dvpt/articleshow/81003548.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Madurai||53 fresh cases in southern dists, 41 in central region||Madurai/Trichy: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases continued to be around 50 on Tuesday in the southern and central districts of the state. With 53 Covid-19 cases and one death, the tally in the southern region has climbed to 1,36,953 cases, which include 447 active cases, 1,34,370 recoveries and 2,136 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 41 new cases for the second consecutive day on Tuesday taking the tally to 76,738, which include 404 active cases. With no deaths, the region maintained the toll at 951. Kanyakumari reported 12 cases, the highest in the southern region, followed by Dindigul (11) and Madurai (10). Except for Tirunelveli (6), all other districts in south TN reported only 2-3 cases each. Madurai (81) has the most number of active cases, followed by Kanyakumari (68) and Dindigul (60). Except Tirunelveli (59), all other southern districts have less than 50 active cases. Ramanathapuram has 16 active cases, while the remaining southern districts have at least more than 20 active cases. The lone casualty in the region is a 78-year-old man from Tuticorin. The regional death rate is 1.56%. Trichy and Thanjavur reported 10 new cases each, the highest in the region, pushing the tally to 14,883 and 17,923. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur district recorded six new cases taking the tally to 11,289. Nagapattinam reported five new cases pushing the tally to 8,553. Karur recorded four new cases, while the tally touched 5,474. Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts reported three fresh Covid-19 cases each as the tally has climbed to 4,716 and 11,621. Perambalur recorded zero positive cases maintaining the tally at 2,279.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/53-fresh-cases-in-southern-dists-41-in-central-region/articleshow/81010779.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Govt staffer can’t get full pension, if 20 yrs service isn’t completed in original job: Nagpur bench of Bombay HC||NAGPUR: In a significant ruling, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court ruled that full pension wouldn’t be applicable for the Maharashtra government employee, who claimed to have gone on a lien to another post having a fixed tenure, but failed to complete 20 years of mandatory uninterrupted service. Petitioner Sheshrao Surjuse, a former Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum president, had applied for full pension from the government on the basis of his past experience as a civil judge and assistant legal adviser in the Law and Judiciary Department. He was then offered a post of a consumer forum judge for five years and he went there on a lien from an earlier post. “The petitioner’s lien on assistant legal adviser’s post wasn’t suspended. On the contrary, there was termination of lien under the Maharashtra Civil Services (General Conditions of Services) Rules, 1981. Coupled with non-fulfilment of requirement of the Maharashtra Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1982, leads us to the irresistible conclusion that he’s not entitled to pension,” a division bench comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and justice Pushpa Ganediwala ruled. The petitioner was appointed as a civil judge on December 3, 1990. He was appointed as an assistant legal adviser-cum-under secretary on December 12, 1994. After over seven years, he applied for consumer forum president’s post, having a tenure of five years and was selected. He then requested the government to relieve him from service, retaining his lien on the earlier post. Though he was relieved from July 31, 2002, and he joined the next day, nothing was committed regarding retention/suspension/termination of lien. As per the terms and conditions of his new appointment, the petitioner would continue for five years or till he completes 65 years of age. After his first term ended on July 31, 2007, he was offered an extension. He continued till October 31, 2012, till he attained 60 years of age. If he would have been in judicial service, he would have retired in 2010, according to assistant government pleader Kalyani Deshpande. Earlier, Surjuse wrote to the government requesting to release his retiral benefits as he was due to retire on October 31, 2010, as per his judicial service. When he was denied full pension, he knocked HC’s doors. “The petitioner accepted the forum president’s post for two consecutive terms with the result that he could serve for two additional years. It might not have been possible had he continued to serve the judiciary. In view of benefits that he received as president, he can’t now claim pension benefits, which he would have otherwise been entitled to,” the judges said. Rejecting the plea, they added that petitioner’s conduct can’t be overlooked. “As an assistant legal adviser, he was receiving less pay than what was received by him in the appointment. We can’t despise him pursuing a better career option, but the corresponding loss of benefits of pension, if he was to continue as president till attaining 60 years, ought to have been comprehended by him,” the judges added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-staffer-cant-get-full-pension-if-20-yrs-service-isnt-completed-in-original-job-hc/articleshow/81007071.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 17, 2021||Patna||J&K cops to take Saran man on remand in arms supply case||PATNA: The Jammu and Kashmir police will take Javed (25) of Saran on transit remand for his alleged involvement in supplying firearms to Jaish-e-Mohammad terror network. Javed was picked up by the anti-terrorist squad (ATS) of Bihar Police from Dev Bahuara village under Marhaura police station area in Saran district on Monday after the inputs received from J&K police, an ATS source said. The J&K police team is likely to reach Patna by late Tuesday night, he added. J&K police chief Dilbag Singh on Sunday said the seven pistols recovered had been supplied from Chhapra in Saran to the outfit of Hadaitullah Malik, who was arrested for planning a terror attack in Delhi and had also conducted a recce of National Security Adviser Ajit Doval’s office and residence. Malik is reportedly the head of Lashkar-e-Mustafa, which is a JK-based terror front created by Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorist organization of Pakistan, DGP Dilbag had said. He said Malik had procured the weapons from Saran by using some Punjab-based Kashmiri youths. Javed has been detained by SWAT (special weapons and tactics) team of ATS. Sources said nothing incriminating had been found from either Javed’s possession or his residence. “He has been detained and being interrogated. We expect a Jammu and Kashmir police team to reach anytime soon to formally arrest Javed and take him on transit remand in their case,” an ATS source said on Tuesday. When asked, ADG (law and order) Amit Kumar told TOI on Tuesday that they were in constant touch with the J&K police. “We are taking all necessary follow-up actions in connection with the case,” Kumar said. He refused to comment anything further on the matter. A senior IPS officer, preferring anonymity, said the state police ATS is also taking necessary actions as per leads obtained from the Jammu and Kashmir police as well as from Javed. “Saran is not the only place linked with the entire matter. The state ATS is trying to know the backward linkages of Javed, which could be at other places in the state as well,” he said. The officer also said as nothing incriminating has been found from his possession, the state police would neither arrest him nor take any action against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jk-cops-to-take-saran-man-on-remand-in-arms-supply-case/articleshow/81007084.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 17, 2021||Kochi||Trace metal presence high in coastal zones: Study||Kochi: A recent study by researchers of Cochin university of science and technology (Cusat) on the geochemical presence in sediments has revealed enhanced levels of trace metals (heavy metals) in Vypeen and Munambam coastal zone. The researchers had looked at Vypeen and Munambam in Ernakulam and Chettuva in Thrissur districts. Trace metals are the metals present in small but measurable amounts in animal and plant cells and tissues. Ingestion of, or exposure to, excessive quantities can be toxic. Sediment samples evaluated from this region showed strong cadmium contamination in the region especially in Vypeen and Munambam, both of which have industries, agricultural regions, fishing zones and are densely populated with busy waterways. The heavy metals detected included cadmium (Cd), nickel (Ni), lead (Pb), manganese (Mn), copper (Cu), iron (Fe), cobalt (Co) and zinc (Zn). According to the results, the mobilization potential of heavy metals in sediments are in the decreasing order: Cd- Mn- Pb – Cu- Zn- Co- Fe- Ni. However, in most of the sites in the Vypeen zone situated near the industrial belt, a significant proportion of metals were associated with the non-residual fraction. Therefore, additional attention should be paid in the future for pollution control, the study by Prof C H Sujatha and P A Shibini Mol, department of chemical oceanography, emphasised. The rivers in Kerala have been increasingly becoming polluted from the derived source of industrial and domestic waste and also from the immense use of pesticides and fertilizers in the agriculture sector. Industries discharge hazardous pollutants like heavy metals into the downstream reaches of the rivers and this may consistently retain within the water bodies or are consumed by organisms such as plankton, benthos or fish and finally magnified and transferred to humans. Therefore, trace element pollution exists as a key environmental problem in Kerala, the study further said. The metal pollution assessment indicated that heavy metals in sediments from central Kerala have been low to highly enriched. The results revealed that Ni, Co, Zn, Pb, Mn, Cu and Cd originated mainly from human interference. There is evidence of this even in the micro-organisms in the area. Munambam is an area of robust fishing and tourism related activities. This site is connected to prawn farms in the locality and is in the close proximity of human habitation. Meanwhile, Vypeen zone is suffering due to the extensive industrialization as well as consequent urbanization and the related anthropogenic activities produced a large quantity of sewage and effluents burdened with toxic contaminants that are discharged into the waterbody through the Cochin backwaters. Extreme adverse environmental impact on the Vypeen has been observed mainly from the industrial hub area, Eloor, one of the world’s ‘top toxic hot spots’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/trace-metal-presence-high-in-coastal-zones-study/articleshow/81003650.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Kin still seek those who vanished in 2013 floods||NAINITAL: With undying hope, Saurabh Bhatt travels the 500km from Kanpur to Kedarnath every year. He has been doing that since 2013. That year, his wife Rashmi and daughter Astha, nine then, had been on the Char Dham pilgrimage route when the catastrophic floods hit. To this day, Saurabh does not know what happened to them. So, he goes looking, in search of family and closure. “Losing your family can be devastating. But to not know what happened to them breaks me,” Bhatt, now in his mid-40s, told TOI from Kanpur. He visits police stations and district offices, talks to locals for clues. “I can’t just give up on them.” Hundreds like Bhatt have been trapped in this warped uncertainty for eight years now. In 2014, a PIL was filed in the Uttarakhand high court seeking to ensure the state found the missing bodies. The estimate at the time was of some 4,000 missing people, presumed dead. In 2018, the HC asked the Uttarakhand government to collect DNA samples, trace missing bodies and perform their last rites. “I provided my DNA samples for reference but there has been no news,” Bhatt said. In 2019, he had announced a reward of Rs 5 lakh for any information about his wife and daughter. “I am still looking.” More than 900 families have shared DNA samples with district administrations but only atiny fraction has been matched. The state’s progress in finding the bodies, meanwhile, has been slow. By October last year, the state had found just over 700 bodies. About 3,300 people are still missing. Each year, barring 2019, the state sent out search teams with widely varying degrees of success. The first year, 2013, they found 545 bodies. In 2014, they found 63. But the next year, they found just 3. In 2016, again, they found 60 and then just 7 in 2017. The following year, they found 21. In 2019, there was no search operation and last year, they found 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kin-still-seek-those-who-vanished-in-2013-floods/articleshow/81019108.cms||Prashant Jha
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Bharat Biotech to get award at BioAsia||Hyderabad: In a recognition for India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, its developers Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will be conferred awards at the two-day BioAsia 2021 that kicks off on February 22. While Bharat Biotech led by its CMD Dr Krishna Ella and joint MD Suchitra Ella will be awarded the Genome Valley Excellence Award for the year 2021, ICMR director general and secretary of the department of health research at the Union ministry of health & family welfare, professor Balram Bhargava, will be bestowed the FABA special award for his exemplary contribution to medicine and healthcare. FABA (Federation of Asian Biotech Associations) is a partner organisation of BioAsia. According to BioAsia, Bharat Biotech is being awarded for its breakthrough, research, development and commercialization of several vaccines. Recent awardees of the Genome Valley Excellence Award include Nobel Laureates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharat-biotech-to-get-award-at-bioasia/articleshow/81007136.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Four file nominations for MLC election||Hyderabad: Four aspirants, including three candidates for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar Graduates’ constituency, filed their papers on the first day of nominations for graduate MLC elections on Tuesday. The Election Commission has issued a notification for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ constituencies. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) commissioner Lokesh Kumar said Congress candidate G Chinna Reddy and two independents —Syed Fariduddin and Adapa Surender— have filed their nominations. The commissioner said nominations would be received till February 23 and clarified that there was no online nominations facility. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-file-nominations-for-mlc-election/articleshow/81010878.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Trial court must examine evidence independently: SC||Aurangabad: The Supreme Court has said that the trial court is ought to examine the evidence against each accused in a 2007 alleged custodial death of a 50-year-old woman in Ahmednagar district, independent of the observations made by the Bombay high court (HC) in Aurangabad in a judgment made on January 13 this year.  “We are only inclined to clarify the obvious in law. Findings and observations by the HC are tentative and not binding ruling on facts. The trial court would independently examine evidence and material against each accused, including the aspect of presumption, if any, which can be relied at the time of framing of charge and subsequent stages,” the SC bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna said on Monday.  The apex court passed this order while dismissing two special leave petitions (SLPs) seeking permission to appeal against the HC ruling and grant of an ad-interim ex-parte stay on the HC ruling.  On January 13, the high court had directed a trial court in Ahmednagar to consider framing of charges of murder, attempt to destroy evidence and criminal conspiracy against seven policemen and one private medical practitioner in relation to the woman’s death.  “One of the seven policemen and the doctor had filed the SLPs in the Supreme Court,” lawyer Nishant Katneshwarkar told TOI. “As of now, the case is at the stage of framing of charges and the process is expected to commence soon before the trial court,” he added.  In the SLPs, the petitioners had contended, among other things, that while passing the impugned (under challenge) order, the HC did not consider the well settled position of law i.e. it should not embark upon an inquiry whether the allegations in the complaint are likely to be established by evidence or not. This is the function of the trial court when the evidence comes before it, they stated. The petitioners contended that the HC had “literally conducted a mini trial” and suggested the sessions court to proceed in the trial in a particular way. “The impugned order depicts that the high court has suggested the trial court to frame charges in a particular way, to consider the evidence on record and to arrive at a conclusion that the death of the deceased was a homicidal death. Considering the law laid down by the SC and reiterated from time to time, the impugned order deserves to be quashed and set aside,” they argued and said that the HC observations would affect the trial and the same would be prejudicial to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/trial-court-must-examine-evidence-independently-sc/articleshow/81007106.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||BJP’s copy-paste manifesto: Repeats its 2015 promises||AHMEDABAD: The BJP’s manifesto released on Tuesday sounded an old wine in new bottle. Except for two new hospitals — a 100-bed super specialty in the eastern part and a major hospital for western part of the city — the party repeated its 2015 poll promises. The Covid pandemic had only exposed the city’s unpreparedness and a neglected health infrastructure. The Vadil Sukhakari Yojana, a scheme for regular check-up of senior citizens to reduce Covid mortality will continue and so will Dhanvantri Rath that will provide ‘fever clinics’ on wheels. Rest, a referral hospital in all zones, robust health staff were all promised in 2015. Several promises like “green Ahmedabad”, “slum-free Ahmedabad”, “smart and garbage-free city”, were tall promises made in the 2015 manifesto too. The other promises, a railway crossing-free city, more flyovers and underpasses have just taken off. Then there were promises of free wi-fi, smart schools, green and clean city, metered 24x7 water supply to all old and new areas, which are pipe dreams since 2015. BJP in the 2019-20 budget had announced a 100-bed hospital in eastern part of the city. The manifesto also announced a new hospital in the new west zone of the city. Jagdish Panchal, the party’s city president, when asked about the several repeats in the poll manifesto said, “The project announced in the budget has got nothing to do with the manifesto. These are over and above the projects already announced. This is what we intend to do in the next five years in the city and not what we have done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjps-copy-paste-manifesto-repeats-its-2015-promises/articleshow/81007329.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||No clean chit for Tops Grup: MMRDA chief||Mumbai: Enforcement Directorate (ED) recorded the statement of MMRDA chief R A Rajeev on Tuesday related to a money-laundering case against Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik and Tops Grup, a private security firm. While leaving the ED office, Rajeev told the media that MMRDA had not given a clean chit to Tops Grup. ED called MMRDA joint commissioner B G Pawar for a questioning on Wednesday. It will probe if Pawar had received monetary favours from Sarnaik’s associate Amit Chandole or Tops Grup. ED found a recorded conversation between two arrested accused in the case, Chandole and Tops Grup senior executive M Shashidharan, which refers to bribing Pawar. The audio recording from Shashidharan’s mobile, in which Chandole claimed Pawar would ensure Tops Grup should not get blacklisted by MMRDA. Tops Grup allegedly cheated MMRDA by providing less guards than mentioned in an agreement but billing them after inflating the number. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-clean-chit-for-tops-grup-mmrda-chief/articleshow/81006626.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Text from Delhi corporation: Your death certificate is ready||NEW DELHI: “When you are busy completing your daily chores and you suddenly get a message regarding death registration, wouldn’t you be shaken!” exclaimed 56-year-old Vinod Sharma, who runs a private engineering firm in south Delhi’s Aya Nagar. The message to him from South Delhi Municipal Corporation read, “Your request for death registration has been approved. You can download the certificate from the link given below”, followed by a link from the civic body’s website. “I didn’t even touch the link. Here I am alive and healthy. No one in my family has passed away either,” the nonplussed engineer said. “Nobody has applied for such a certificate and SDMC is sending us a death certificate.” Screenshot of the message sent to 56-year-old Vinod SharmaOn Monday, Aya Nagar councillor Ved Pal raised the issue of erroneous messages sent to people in SDMC’s standing committee meeting. “When a person in my ward received a message about a death being registered, there was panic in the family. They thought some relatives had died and began phoning their near and dear ones. Eventually, they realised it was a wrongly delivered message,” Pal said. The standing committee has directed the public health department to change the format of the message sent to the phone number registered for the death certificate. Leader of the House Narendra Chawla agreed that a technical glitch of this sort would shock anyone, especially since the message says ‘your request for death registration has been approved”. Chawla instructed the health department to ensure that the new message provided the details of the deceased and the name of the person who had applied for the certification. “In this way, even if the message gets wrongly delivered, it does not create panic,” said Chawla. A senior municipal official said that similar mobile phone numbers might have been fed in the automatic system, leading to the error. Besides changing the message text, Chawla said the health department also needs to make it more flexible for families to download birth/death certificates. “In many families, there are disputes among siblings and if only one registered mobile phone can download the certificate, the disputes could worsen because the death certificate is required in property cases too,” the leader of the House said. “Many such cases have been brought to our attention.” TOI had earlier highlighted how the archaic internet setup and slow speed were creating a huge backlog in issuing birth/death certificates. The standing committee has instructed the IT department to increase the LAN speed. “We aren’t satisfied with the progress; 5,000 certificates are still pending,” Chawla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/text-from-corpn-your-death-certificate-is-ready/articleshow/81011014.cms||Paras Singh
February 17, 2021||Rajkot||PSI suspended for negligence in duty||Rajkot: A police sub-inspector (PSI) at Junagadh was suspended on Tuesday for negligence in performing duty. Senior officials said that the PSI, Vidhi Unjiya, did not conduct proper investigation in a rioting case registered by Congress party workers against BJP workers. Supporters of the two political parties had scuffled in ward 15 of Junagadh during campaigning. Following the ruckus an offence was registered at A Division police station. “The officer did not conduct proper investigation and did not perform her duties well so she has been suspended until further orders,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/psi-suspended-for-negligence-in-duty/articleshow/81002234.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||ED summons actor Armaan Jain in money-laundering case||MUMBAI: Enforcement Directorate (ED) summoned actor Armaan Jain, grandson of late actor-director Raj Kapoor, on Wednesday in a money-laundering case connected with private security firm Tops Grup and Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik. Recently ED had searched the house of Armaan, who lives with his mother Reema (daughter of Raj Kapoor) at Pedder Road and collected case-related evidence.  Armaan had acted in few movies and is a close friend of Sarnaik’s son, Vihang, who is also under investigation for money-laundering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-summons-actor-in-money-laundering-case/articleshow/81006641.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Goa||Bainguinim plant gets three bids||Panaji: The state government has finally received three bids for the setting up of the Rs 200 crore solid waste management facility at Bainguinim. The companies that have expressed interest are Hindustan Waste Treatment Pvt Ltd, Maaviya Engineering Consultants Pvt Ltd and Three R Management Pvt Ltd. Due to inadequate offers, the state government had extended the time limit for accepting bids four times, the last being on January 31. Managing director of Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) Levinson Martins said that the tenders were opened on Monday. “Now the documents of these companies will be scrutinised and, after technical evaluation, request for proposal will be sought from the selected companies,” he said. Four companies — Organic recycling system, Hindustan Waste Treatment, Three R management and Landsky Engineers — participated in the pre-bid meeting for the plant. In 2008, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) had acquired land at Bainguinim to set up the plant and in 2017 it was handed over to GWMC. A public hearing was also held by GWMC and the environment clearance was also obtained. The plant is expected to cater to the entire Tiswadi taluka. The corporation had also invited a request for qualification (RFQ) for the proposed plant. GWMC has decided to undertake the project through a public-private partnership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bainguinim-plant-gets-three-bids/articleshow/81011029.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Aurangabad||3.8 tonne of banned plastic seized||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), as part of its ongoing all-out drive against banned plastic bags, has seized over 3.8 tonne of prohibited polythene bags over a period of last 10 days till Monday. In the latest crackdown, the civic officials seized 27.5 kilogram of banned polythene bags from Chikalthana area. The ongoing drive has witnessed one of the biggest seizure in the form of recovery of 2,190 kilomgram of banned polythene bags from a few traders on February 6, followed by another major recovery of 1,060 kilogram of banned polythene bags on February 15. Nandkishore Bhombe, head of AMC’s solid waste management cell, said the drive against banned plastic would continue it future too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-8-tonne-of-banned-plastic-seized/articleshow/81007138.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Compose song for Kumbh, win Rs 1 lakh: Uttarakhand Govt||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government has invited entries for an official ‘Kumbh song’ for the upcoming Kumbh Mela in Haridwar and announced a prize of Rs 1 lakh for the winning composition. Talking to TOI, Deepak Rawat, Kumbh Mela officer, has said that the interested candidates can get themselves registered on the official page of the Kumbh Mela or on mygov.in portal. The applicants will not have to pay any fees for participation. Those who wish to send their entries can record the song in “high-quality sound” either in Hindi or English and with a word limit of 500. “Every contestant, be it an individual or group/organisation, can send a maximum of two entries. The song — including lyrics, composition, and music — must be 3-to-5 minutes long,” added Rawat. The last date for sending entries is March 25. So far, the Kumbh Mela authorities have received over 350 entries. The contest is open only for Indians and the participants will have to upload their entries as high-quality audio files to any media platform such as SoundCloud, YouTube, Google Drive, or Dropbox. The participants will also have to enter the publicly accessible link using the Audio Link icon on the MyGov contest page. The Kumbh Mela officer said that the songs must capture the mood and essence of Haridwar Kumbh 2021. “The selected entry will be the copyright property of the Mela Adhikari Office and the Government of India. The concerned authorities will be allowed to make any changes in the composition. The authenticity of the composition will also be verified,” added Deepak Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/compose-song-for-kumbh-win-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/81003852.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Exams online or offline? Testing times for parents||HYDERABAD: Choosing between offline or online end semester exams has become difficult for parents, with each having its own set of requirements. While schools are asking parents to ensure uninterrupted power, internet, and cameras to make sure that children are not cheating in online exams; offline students are being asked to come in full gear including head cover, shoe cover, face shield, gloves, and masks. “Initially, I was inclined towards opting for online examinations for my son. However, after seeing the guidelines, we decided to take the risk by sending him to school for examinations,” said Ram M, parent of class 8 student. He said that the school asked them to arrange two cameras, place a mirror behind the child in such a way that his answer paper is visible, and have a parent sitting beside the child, visible in camera, for the entire exam duration (two hours). “We were told that exam will be nullified if the child goes offline in case of a power cut or problem with internet connectivity,” he added and said that they did not want to take any risk by appearing for exams online. As per the Right to Education Act (RTE) and state government guidelines, exams should be conducted only for students of classes 9 and above. However, many schools are conducting exams even for younger kids, especially for students of class 8. When TOI contacted parent associations, they said that about 80% of students are appearing for the exams physically and only 20% are taking exams in the online mode. “The school is preparing two question papers — one hard, one easy. It is giving the hard question paper to those appearing for exams online. Students are comparing question papers and are feeling bad for not taking the exam in offline mode,” said Vipin Kumar, whose daughter is appearing for exams in online mode. He said the school is indirectly forcing students to appear for exams physically by making everything difficult for those appearing online. Meanwhile, parents of those appearing in offline mode said their kids are unable to give their best in the exams while wearing full gear. They questioned the need for a head or shoe cover and added masks and sanitizers were enough.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exams-online-or-offline-testing-times-for-parents/articleshow/81042630.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 17, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Gangster Marne held after return from Taloja jail in 500-car convoy||PUNE: An air of expectancy filled the area outside the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai on Monday evening. Soon, a sports utility vehicle arrived from under an arch near the prison premises and a bespectacled man, his upper torso emerging from the sunroof of the car and his face wreathed in broad smiles, acknowledged the greetings of the hundreds gathered there. Clad in a white shirt and blue jeans and sporting a ‘tika’, the man in focus was gangster Gajanan alias Gaja Marne (50). His supporters were there to celebrate his acquittal in two murder cases in 2014. They showered him with garlands and flowers, burst crackers and even had a drone camera at ready to capture the proceedings. What followed was a cavalcade of around 500 vehicles accompanying Marne right from the prison to the Urse toll post near Talegaon. Most of the vehicles dispersed after that and around a dozen followed Marne to his home in Pune, a stone’s throw away from the Kothrud police station. The police were not in the least amused. First, the Talegaon Dabhade police filed an FIR on Tuesday morning under sections 188 (disobedience), 143 (unlawful assembly) and other offences against Marne and his supporters. Later the same evening, the Kothrud police registered another FIR for similar offences and detained Marne and 27 others. In the night, the Kothrud police arrested Marne and eight of his supporters. “We will not tolerate such nuisance and will act tough especially in instances of show of strength, which can be seen as a challenge to law enforcers,” joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve said. “The videos of the celebrations are on social media sites and the police have downloaded a few of them. All seen in the video clips will face action,” Over the last seven months, gangsters like Sharad Mohol, Nilesh Ghaywal, Ganesh Marne and others have come out of the Yerawada prison here after securing bail. About three weeks ago, Mohol’s release had triggered a similar celebration. His posters and celebration videos had gone viral on social media sites. “While we had taken cognisance of Mohol’s activities, we have also registered a similar case against him on Tuesday after collecting necessary evidence,” Shisve said, adding “no one will be spared”. Marne has so far been arrested in 22 cases for offences ranging from murder, attempt to murder, extortion, dacoity bid, riots and under the Arms Act. However, he has been acquitted in most of the cases. The city police’s crime register shows the presence of 32 gangs in the city, 11 of whom are active. These gangs are involved in offences like land grabbing, issuing threats to grab land, extortion, murder, dacoity, robbery and other serious crimes. Meanwhile, additional director general of police Sunil Ramanand has ordered an inquiry by the inspector general of police (prisons) for Mumbai region to examine if and how Marne’s SUV illegally entered the Taloja jail premises. “Video clips circulating on social media and news channels showed Marne standing inside the SUV, sticking his head out through the sunroof, and waving to the crowd as it moves under an arch. The inquiry will establish if the arch was on jail property and if Marne’s SUV had illegally entered the premises. Also, we will check how the crowd was allowed near and inside the arch,” Ramanand told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gangster-marne-held-after-return-from-jail-in-500-car-convoy/articleshow/81011038.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Protest at UoH over fees for amenities||Hyderabad: Questioning the need to pay fees for amenities such as lab, sports, internet and development charges when they have not used any facilities on the campus in the academic year 2020-21, students of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) staged a protest in front of the admin block on Tuesday. While sports and internet fees are common for all students, development and lab fees differ from course to course.“When we have been out of campus for the major part of the academic year, why should we pay development, lab, sports, or internet fees? The varsity should scrap these fees,” said Gopi Swamy, general secretary, Student Union 2019-20, under whose aegis the protest programme was organized. The Students Union termed the fees as ‘anti-student’ and asked students to not pay the fee and register for semester until administration decides in favour of students. The varsity said it has given an option of paying last semester fee while taking no dues certificate. “Students need not pay both the semesters’ (odd and even semesters) fee now. They can opt to pay the last semester fee while obtaining no dues certificate end semester,” said Vinod Pavarala, spokesperson, UoH. About other fees, he said, the varsity may discuss and make a decision in heads and deans meeting on February 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protest-at-uoh-over-fees-for-amenities/articleshow/81007184.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Rain, thundershowers likely in parts of Marathwada||Aurangabad: Parts of Marathwada, including Aurangabad, are likely to receive rain or thundershowers over a period of next three days As per forecast issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD), Aurangabad may witness partly cloudy sky in the morning hours with possibility of rain or thundershowers accompanied with squall or hail till February 19. As per advisory issued by farmers from Parbhani-based Vasantrao Naik Agriculture University, Parbhani, Jalna, Hingoli, Nanded and Beed districts are also expected to witness such adverse weather conditions along with Aurangabad. The rabi crops which are yet to be harvested as well as mango trees bearing ripe fruits may take a blow if the weather conditions become too extreme. KK Dakhore, agricultural meteorologist with Vasantrao Naik AgricultureUniversity, said chickpea, wheat and sorghum along with orchards could bear the brunt of adverse weather conditions. “These crops are yet to be harvested at some places due to late sowing or cultivation. The farmers who have already harvested their crops must not keep the produce in open in farms,” he said. At 19.3 degrees celsius, Aurangabad’s minimum temperature was five units above normal on Tuesday, with partly overcast conditions attributed to abnormal mercury level. At 32.2 degrees celsius, the maximum temperature was well in keeping with the normal range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rain-thundershowers-likely-in-parts-of-marathwada/articleshow/81007170.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Maximum temp 3C above normal on 12 days of February||New Delhi: The maximum temperature has remained at least three degrees above normal on 12 of the past 16 days of this February, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). This February has been warm due to fewer western disturbances affecting the plains. The maximum temperature is likely to hover around 29-30 degrees Celsius for the next five days, Met officials said. There has been no prediction of western disturbance in the next seven days, they added. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The day temperature this month has been warmer than the last few years. Only one western disturbance has affected the region this month, while six had impacted hills and plains last February.” Western disturbance leads to cloudy sky, blocking the sunlight. “However, due to less number of western disturbance in the current month, there has been clear sky on most of the days,” he said. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature was 29.4 degrees Celsius, five degrees above normal. The highest maximum temperature was reported on February 11 at 30.4 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above normal. The highest single-day maximum temperature in February 2020 was 27.8 degrees Celsius and 28.1 degrees in 2019. According to IMD, the minimum temperature on Tuesday was 11.6 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal. The minimum temperature is likely to remain around 11 in the next three days. Mist or shallow fog has been predicted during morning hours in the next seven days. Meanwhile, the overall air quality index (AQI) in Delhi was 327 in the “very poor” category. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, a central forecasting body, said, “Surface winds are low and forecast to improve. AQI is likely to stay in the lower end of ‘very poor’ for the next three days, mainly due to faster surface level winds and better ventilation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/maximum-temp-3c-above-normal-on-12-days-of-february/articleshow/81007293.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana SSC exams: Reduce math syllabus for SSC exam, Forum||HYDERABAD: Members of the Telangana Mathematics Forum have requested the director of government examinations (DGE) to reduce the syllabus for the subject for SSC exams further as students have to prepare all 14 chapters for the final examinations. They said that although the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has reduced the syllabus by 30%, removing a few topics or concepts from chapters, students are worried. When it comes to other subjects, at least two chapters have been completely removed. In Social Studies, six chapters have been removed from this year’s syllabus. Times ViewWith the SSC exams around the corner, and little time for teachers to complete the vast math syllabus, the school education department should reconsider plans in view of the pandemic. Reduction of syllabus across subjects should be uniform and the board should allay fears of examinees who missed physical classes the entire year.“When we see the syllabus, it looks like students have to study everything. Even model papers uploaded by SCERT on their website gave the same feeling. It would be better if the state reconsiders its decision and removes chapters instead of topics. Doing so will give confidence to students,” said P Narendra Swamy, president of the forum. Some teachers also alleged that the state did not plan the year properly, as the syllabus for the final exam was made public only after the reopening of schools. Students, meanwhile, said that it is not fair to expect them to study everything in three months. “I am worried this year as I barely understood anything in online classes. I don’t think I’ll be able to cover all 14 chapters,” said Lasya Sri, a class 10 student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reduce-math-syllabus-for-ssc-exam-forum/articleshow/81046067.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Three violations noted amid crowds of risks||GANDHINAGAR: Though the state election commission (SEC) has announced stringent anti-Covid protocols for local body polls, there has been rampant flouting of the guidelines during campaigning. Surprisingly, only three cases of violation of the code of conduct have been registered for the elections to six municipal corporations in the state. Two of these are in Ahmedabad and one in Surat. All three cases — one each against the BJP, the Congress, and the AAP — are related to organizing rallies without permission. The SEC had issued an elaborate set of instructions to political parties and their cadres as the elections are being held amid the pandemic. But the SEC has no mechanism to monitor adherence to Covid guidelines. Over the past two days alone, chief minister Vijay Rupani and three other senior leaders of the state BJP parliamentary board have reported Covid infections. Leaders and workers of all parties have been seen openly violating Covid guidelines. However, the SEC has not taken any suo motu action so far against any leader or party in this regard. In fact, the SEC does not maintain any data of violations of its guidelines. Sanjay Prasad, the state election commissioner, said: “We do not maintain separate data of violation of Covid-19 related guidelines. So far three cases of election code of conduct violations have been reported.” Data shown by the SEC claims that between January 23 (the date of the announcement of elections) and February 15, various city and district authorities fined 66,286 persons for not wearing masks and spitting in public places. Also, the SEC data says that during the same period, 4,449 cases were registered under the Disaster Management Act, the Epidemic Act, and other laws. However, the SEC has no data on how many of these offenders are leaders or workers of political parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-violations-noted-amid-crowds-of-risks/articleshow/81007309.cms||Kapil Dave
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Another lockdown if Covid SOPs not followed: Maharashtra CM||NAGPUR: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday warned of another lockdown if citizens failed to follow Covid norms in the wake of sudden spike in daily cases. The warning came during CM’s video conferencing with divisional commissioners, municipal commissioner, collectors, and police commissioners. Nagpur and Amravati are among the two prominent places where increasing cases have become a concern for the state government as well as local administrations. Nagpur officials told TOI that the CM expressed displeasure over non-compliance of prevailing norms and the administration’s failure in properly implementing SOPs. “The CM told us to implement all Covid protocols more rigorously including social distancing, use of masks and sanitizers. Besides we are also told to check congregations, marriages, social gatherings, restaurant, hotels and resorts for violations,” district collector Ravindra Thakre said. Civic authorities said they immediately revised guidelines for mass gatherings and marriage ceremonies following the online meeting with CM. “Observations that cases were increasing as entire family members were testing positive after attending marriage in most of the zones were shared with the CM. We submitted the immediate measure of revised guidelines,” said a top civic officer. Marriage ceremonies were also found to be superspreaders in Amravati district and some places in Achalpur town. Amravati authorities too were asked strictly implement norms. Amravati divisional commissioner Piyush Singh told TOI that they informed the CM that testing has been increased. “Crowding is taking place at social gatherings. Distancing and masks norms are not being followed. There was no specific restriction on number of guests here at the moment,” he said. Singh added that they were planning a cap on number of invitees during functions. “More cases are being reported only from particular localities in Amravati and Achalpur and not entire district. Home isolation is not being followed. So we plan to keep these people in Covid care centres. Bond will be taken and those found violating will be fined,” he said. Singh added that sufficient kits were available with the division. Asked about movement restrictions, Singh said hotspots would be identified and the area would be cordoned off. “Close contacts will be tested and those found positive will be shifted to CCC,” he said. Authorities in both Nagpur and Amravati divisions ruled out lockdown or creating containment zones unless a widespread area is affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/another-lockdown-if-covid-sops-not-followed-cm/articleshow/81007245.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||HSC exams likely from Apr 23, SSC Apr 29||Mumbai/Pune: Maharashtra State Board of Secondary & Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Tuesday announced a tentative schedule for Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams. As announced by education minister Varsha Gaikwad on January 21, Class XII board exams will be tentatively held from April 23 to May 21, while class X board exams will be between April 29 and May 20. The board on Tuesday made a detailed schedule of exams at www.mahahsscboard.in. Authorities warned students not to believe in any timetable circulating on social media or any other platform. “The probable schedule of written exams for April-May 2021 has been announced for curriculum planning for schools/junior colleges and students to reduce exam stress. Prior to exams, the schedule given to schools or junior colleges in printed form will be considered final,” said MSBSHSE secretary Ashok Bhosale. Any objections must be sent to the board by February 22. “If schools or junior colleges have suggestions/objections against the schedules, they should be sent in writing to the divisional boards and state board by February 22,” the board said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hsc-exams-likely-from-apr-23-ssc-apr-29/articleshow/81006653.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Goa||Sr citizen falls into well, dies||Saligao: Lakshami Korgaonkar, 75, died after she fell into a well at Arradi, in Parra, on Monday. Personnel of the fire and emergency services at Mapusa said they rushed to the spot after they received a call from local residents stating that the woman had fallen into a well at around 1.45pm. She was brought out of the well with the assistance of the locals and her relatives and was rushed to the district hospital at Mapusa, where she breathed her last. Rescuers said Korgaonkar, whose vision was poor, might have fallen into the 50-metre-deep well accidentally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sr-citizen-falls-into-well-dies/articleshow/81011035.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||1 dead, another hurt in road accident||PITHORAGARH: A 25-year-old man, Manohar Singh, died after the car he was driving fell into a deep gorge on the Thal-Munsiyari road on Tuesday. Bhagat Singh, 18-year-old, who was onboard the car when the accident took place, also sustained injuries and is undergoing treatment. Both of them hail from the Chetabagar village in Bageshwar. The two were going towards Pithoragarh’s Shama village to attend a wedding when Manohar lost control of the wheels and the car slipped into a 100-metre-deep ditch. While Manohar died on the spot, Bhagat was rushed to the primary health centre of Gauchar. Later, Bhagat was referred to a higher centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1-dead-another-hurt-in-road-accident/articleshow/81003924.cms||Prem Punetha
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||It’s EC’s duty to use power to ensure free, fair polls: HC||Ahmedabad: In an important order, the Gujarat high court on Tuesday said that the Election Commission is duty bound to deal with unprecedented and unforeseen situation, for which there is no law, in order to ensure free and fair elections. The bench headed by Justice J B Pardiwala observed that the Constitution provides the EC with plenary powers and it should rise to the occasion to deal with situations, which cannot be dealt with existing laws. The court said so in connection with the unruly incident of tearing of Congress party mandate papers for municipality polls in Palitana town in Bhavnagar district on the last day of filing nominations on Saturday. The HC said, “The object of providing a State Election Machinery is only in such direction to ensure purity in the electoral process. In a contingency of this nature, could it be said that the State Election Commission is helpless and has to be a silent spectator? To our mind, the State Election Commission is not without power to remedy the situation.” The court further observed, “The Election Commission is not only entitled but duty bound to exercise certain powers under Article 324 itself on its own right, in an area not covered by the Representation of the People Act and the Rules or any other enactment or Rules framed therein. Situations may arise which enacted law may not have provided for. The Legislators are not prophets but pragmatists. So it is that the Constitution has made comprehensive provision in Article 324 to take care of situations like the one on hand.” Following the HC’s intervention, the State Election Commission accepted the party mandate forms after the deadline was over and the candidates can contest the polls scheduled on February 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/its-ecs-duty-to-use-power-to-ensure-free-fair-polls-hc/articleshow/81007347.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s AQI was ‘cleanest’ this year on Tuesday; temperature may dip||MUMBAI: The city’s Air Quality Index (AQI) improved from 118 on Monday to 98 on Tuesday, making it the cleanest this year. Researchers at SAFAR forecast that pollution conditions would remain similar over two days, while Met department is expecting a dip in city temperature due to rain in Raigad and Ratnagiri in the coming days. Track the pollution level in your citySystem of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) says an AQI of 51-100 is satisfactory and poses no risk to human health. “The air quality of Mumbai is in moderate category and predicted to remain moderate for two days due to mixing of oceanic air with emissions from west India,” said a short-range forecast by SAFAR. AQI had been in ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category until recently due to winter-like conditions but clean ocean wind cleared up the air over the past few days. Among 10 locations monitored by SAFAR, Mazgaon was the cleanest with an AQI of 70, while the most polluted was Andheri (190). With rain forecast in the state and adjoining areas Raigad and Ratnagiri on February 18, maximum temperature in Mumbai was already dipping on Tuesday. The maximum recorded by IMD Colaba was 29 degrees, and at Santacruz was 28.9. Weathermen said there was a strong wind discontinuity in lower levels over Central India with moisture inflow from Bay of Bengal. This is likely to move south-westward and persist till February 18. Under its influence light to moderate rainfall is forecast with isolated thunderstorms and lightning. Shubhangi Bhute, scientist, IMD, said, “Mumbai will be partly cloudy and maximum temperature will drop by 1-2 degrees but minimum will be 19-20 degrees. On Tuesday, the minimum recorded at Colaba and Santacruz was 21.5 and 20.5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-aqi-was-cleanest-this-year-on-tuesday-temp-may-dip/articleshow/81006667.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Ascendas India to acquire aVance 6 SEZ building for Rs 506 crore||HYDERABAD: Ascendas India Trust (a-iTrust), a property trust set up by Singapore-based real estate player CapitaLand Ltd, is acquiring Phoenix Group’s aVance 6 IT SEZ building in HITEC City for a consideration of Rs 506 crore (SGD 92 million approx). The property has a total floor area of about 6.4 lakh sq feet with over 98% of the space being leased to Amazon Development Center (India) Pvt Ltd. The definitive agreement for the deal was inked by Singapore-based Ascendas Property Fund Trustee Pte Ltd, which is the trustee-manager of Ascendas India Trust, with Phoenix IT Infrastructure India Pvt Ltd. Commenting on the proposed acquisition, Sanjeev Dasgupta, CEO, Ascendas Property Fund Trustee Pte Ltd, said, “The proposed acquisition provides a-iTrust an opportunity to scale up presence in HITEC City and will add Amazon as a tenant to its IT park portfolio.” He pointed out that the improving connectivity and enhancement work being carried out at aVance project in HITEC City would benefit its tenants in the future. “We have already started seeing some leasing traction, with a large US based MNC having executed a Letter of Intent to lease aVance 5, which is currently under construction,” he explained. The latest deal marks the fifth Phoenix Group IT SEZ building to be acquired by a-iTrust. While in February 2012 a-iTrust acquired aVance 1 and 2, spread across a total area of nearly 4.28 lakh sq feet, it went on to acquire aVance 3 spread over nearly 6.83 lakh sq ft in July 2015. It followed this up with the 3.9 lakh sq ft aVance 4 in April 2017.The a-iTrust is one of the six real estate investment trust (REITs) owned and managed by diversified Singapore-based real estate player CapitaLand Ltd, which had a global portfolio worth nearly SGD133 billion as at September 30, 2020. Ascendas India Trust, which was the first Indian property trust to be set up in Asia and was listed on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Ltd (SGX-ST) in August 2007, had assets under management worth over SGD2.1 billion as at December 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ascendas-india-to-acquire-avance-6-sez-bldg-for-rs-506cr/articleshow/81007254.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Buoys to test seawater for beachgoers soon||CHENNAI: Soon, city residents and tourists visiting Marina beach could, at the click of a button, know if the coastal waters are clean enough to soak their feet to cool off. City-based National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR) will deploy three buoys to monitor and forecast coastal water quality in three locations along the east coast of India including one off the Chennai coast by February end. Data from the buoys to be deployed on the Chennai, Puducherry and Visakhapatnam coast will be used to generate a five-day forecast on water quality through a computer model. The data will be available for anyone using a smartphone app. NCCR scientists said the water quality buoys, which will replace the existing one that is off Chennai coast since 2019 for a pilot study, are bigger in size and are capable of withstanding rough weather conditions including six-metre high waves. The existing instrument is around 2km off the Marina beach near Cooum and anchored at a depth of more than 10m. “Our data will help people visiting beaches to know if the water quality is good. It will also help in monitoring during incidents of oil spill or sudden increase in pollution in the coastal waters,” said NCCR director M V Ramana Murthy. “For government authorities, our data will inform the levels of coastal pollution — including those caused by establishments along the coast — and measures to be taken,” he said. The solar-powered buoys will measure parameters like dissolved oxygen, water temperature, conductivity (salinity), depth, blue-green algae, turbidity, pH and chlorophyll. It will also study weather parameters like atmospheric temperature, humidity, wind speed and direction, besides wave speed and direction of speed and direction of currents. At present, NCCR collects water samples manually in more than 22 locations along the 7,500km Indian coast every month to measure water quality. Labs like INCOIS in Hyderabad have plans to install similar buoys on the west coast, scientists said. Over the years, NCCR has recorded many episodes of toxic algal blooms, foams, oil spills and fish kill in and around Chennai coast. “The primary data we have been collecting over the years show that the cause of such incidents is pollution and its main source is sewage discharge. If that can be controlled, we can prevent such episodes,” said Pravakar Mishra, NCCR scientist. The existing buoy has proven the capability to measure and transmit accurate data, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/buoys-to-test-seawater-for-beachgoers-soon/articleshow/81007260.cms||U Tejonmayam
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Saraswati Puja makes up for missed festivity this year||KOLKATA: Long considered a puja held at individual households, Saraswati Puja was celebrated as a community revelry at major housing complexes this year. The reason was apparently to make up for the fun that resident missed out during Durga Puja due to the restrictions that had been imposed last year to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus. While some complexes hosted community lunch, others held cultural functions and get-togethers that are usually associated with community pujas, like Durga and Kali pujas, but seldom seen during Saraswati Puja. At Sarosi Apartments in Kasba, a community lunch replaced the usual bhog distribution. Hundreds of residents took off their masks and ate with each other for the first time after several months. “We had never organised Saraswati Puja on such a large scale ever in our complex. But this year we have organized it on a par with community pujas,” said Sujata Ghosh, a senior member of the flat owners’ association at the complex. At Silver Spring Complex off EM Bypass, the association celebrated Saraswati Puja after a long gap to bring back the festive fervour. They hosted a sports event, along with a cultural programme, to boost community participation. “There was an overwhelming response at the sports event as well as at the puja rituals, like pushpanjali and arati. The residents have been working together in the pandal since Tuesday, like they used to do during community pujas,” said Indranil Chowdhury, the association secretary at the complex. Some complexes organized various cultural events and competitions, instead of community lunch. For example, at Ruchira Residency, the residents participated in a photography competition that was inaugurated and judged by film director Buddhadeb Dasgupta, also a resident of the complex. “We delivered packed bhog to the flats,” said Kaushik Mitra, a resident of the complex. Lakeview Housing Complex in Howrah also conducted multiple cultural programmes and celebrated the puja rituals together but preferred packed food, instead of a sit-down lunch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/saraswati-puja-makes-up-for-missed-festivity-this-yr/articleshow/81007265.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad in phase 1 final of Cycles4Change Challenge||Aurangabad: Aurangabad has become one of the 25 cities in India to be shortlisted for the second phase of nation-wide Cycles4Change Challenge, organised under the Smart Cities Mission of the Centre. “A total of 107 cities participated in the challenge and Aurangabad has made it to the phase one finals by leaving behind many other major cities,” said an official release by the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (ASCDCL). “Aurangabad has superseded cities like Pune, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivili, Ahmedabad and Varanasi to figure among 25 cities in the country-wide challenge. Now, the city has to give a presentation to the jury to get selected among 11 cities which will receive a scale up support of Rs 1 crore,” the ASCDCL said. Notably, the ASCDCL has created 6-km-long cycle track from Kranti Chowk to Railway Station and back as part of the challenge with more such tracks are in the offing to promote non-motorised transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-in-phase-1-final-of-cycles4change-challenge/articleshow/81007250.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Freshers step onto campuses for first time in Covid months; school students offer anjali in batches||KOLKATA: In colleges across the city, Saraswati Puja infused life into campuses that have been deserted since last March. Though some faculty members have been attending college, it was only on Tuesday that students stepped into the campus after a year. In schools, restrictions on junior kids continued, while classes IX to XII, who had been allowed to return to the campus, attended the puja in batches. It was the colleges, where the excitement was palpable as students at Asutosh, Maulana Azad, Seth Anandram Jaipuria, Basanti Devi and South City, arrived in festive fineries. In fact, first-semester students got the chance to step into the campus for the first time. “Students were allowed to offer prayers in small batches. We packed the bhog and handed it to students,” said Rohit Sonkar, a student at Jaipuria College. Physical classes are yet to open in colleges but the government let students organise Saraswati Puja following all distancing norms. The rituals were also livestreamed for students and teachers who could not come to campus. At J D Birla Institute, arrangements were made by the teaching and non-teaching staff, while the session was livestreamed for students who were not allowed on the campus. Videos of students’ performances were also shared. “Teaching and other college employees were dressed in orange and yellow. They also made the arrangements for the puja. After the rituals, everybody had khichudi but we missed the students,” said J D Birla principal Deepali Singhee. Schools prepared rosters for students of classes IX to XII to visit campuses for anjali. At Jadavpur Vidyapeath, a big mobile took the centre stage with the theme being Shikshar Nabarupayan, an ode to online learning. “No one can stop education from overcoming a hurdle. We have survived, thanks to the virtual mode,” said Somsuvra Dasgupta, teacher who brought the puja alive with a few students. “It was such a relief to be here despite the restrictions,” said Arnab Manna of Class XI. Girls from a neighbouring school turned up at Hindu School to offer anjali as no puja was held at their school. Principal Subhrojit Dutta allowed it after ensuring distancing measures. The live streaming of the DPS Ruby Park puja had hundreds of visitors as only the students’ council was called to the campus. Even former students logged in. “Fruit sanitisers were used and only whole fruits were given as prasad, along with packed bhog,” said vice-principal Indrani Chattopadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/freshers-step-onto-campuses-for-first-time-in-cov-months-school-students-offer-anjali-in-batches/articleshow/81007357.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 550 housing societies in Chembur, Tilak Nagar get ‘sealing’ warning||MUMBAI: With the spike in Covid-19 cases in M-West ward, that covers Chembur and Tilak Nagar, the BMC, in the last five days, has pasted notices outside 550 housing societies threatening to seal them in case of high prevalence of positive cases among residents. This decision was taken as most active cases in the ward are from non-slum areas, said civic officials. According to the latest BMC data, M-West ward has the highest case growth rate at 0.26%, higher than even Mumbai’s average of 0.16%. “As many as 98% of cases are from highrises,” Dr Bhupendra Patil, medical health officer, M-West ward, said. “Last month, post New Year celebrations, we saw a spike in cases, but the numbers came down by month-end. However, since the first week of February, we are again seeing a rise in cases. So, we decided to issue notices to ensure that they take adequate precautions.” He added that in several cases, people delayed testing by which time, other fam-ily members got infected too. The BMC, in its notice, said it was able to contain the spread of coronavirus in Mumbai, but due to citizens’ “complacent attitude, negligence and ignorance of the situation” there has been a rise in cases since a week. “At present, M-West ward is reporting the highest daily cases...there are chances that we might have to impose local lockdown measures. We have started sealing buildings/societies having a high prevalence of positivity. If the same is observed in your society, the sealing restrictions can be imposed,” the notice stated. The BMC’s instructions include restricting the entry of outsiders, including maid/milkman, implementing thermal screening, and ensuring that families of positive patients follow strict 14-day quarantine and get themselves tested. Rajkumar Sharma of M-West ward’s advanced locality management and networking action committee said cases are rising due to non-adherence to Covid protocols, like wearing masks. “Citizens need to be alert and follow the Covid norms for their safety and also that of others,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/550-hsg-societies-in-chembur-tilak-ngr-get-sealing-warning/articleshow/81007301.cms||Richa Pinto
February 17, 2021||Goa||Over 7,000 canines vaccinated in January||Panaji: Mission Rabies vaccinated over 7,000 dogs across Goa in January. However, taking a different route this time, they also focused on vaccinating dogs at jetties that have come to be semi-owned by the migrant labour who work. “The Mormugao taluka, in particular, has many fishing jetties and harbours where humans and dogs coexist in proximity. It highlights the human-dog relationship and why vaccinating owned and semi-owned dogs in local communities is equally important as vaccinating stray dog populations,” Mission Rabies said. The surveillance team had a great start to the new year with zero rabies cases in Goa in January. However, suspected rabies cases were reported and 20 necropsies were performed. Of these, 19 were stray dogs while one was a pet cat. None of the 20 animals were detected with rabies. A total of 7,317 dogs were vaccinated in January in addition to which the Mission Rabies team responded to 67 calls for the rescue of sick and injured animals. Of these, 29 stray dogs had open wounds with some even suffering from maggot infestation and ten of them had tumours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-7000-canines-vaccinated-in-january/articleshow/81011074.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Mth on, only 55% Maha healthcare staff got jabs||Mumbai: Maharashtra is unlikely to meet the Centre’s deadline of vaccinating all healthcare workers at least once by February 20. A month into the nationwide drive, the state has managed to vaccinate 55% of its registered health workers. Eight districts have failed to vaccinate 50%, even as there is rising demand to speed up vaccination as cases again rise. Across the state, of the 10.5 lakh registered healthcare workers, 5.8 lakh have got jabs. Districts such as Aurangabad, Sangli, Buldhana, Jalgaon, Latur, Beed, Jalna and Parbhani have all vaccinated between 43% and 48% of registered health workers. This is despite these districts having 10,000 to 40,000 registered recipients, unlike bigger districts that have beneficiaries running into lakhs. Among bigger states, MP has vaccinated 75%, UP and Odisha have vaccinated 74% each, while Rajasthan has covered 70% till Tuesday. The experience with frontline workers, though, has been quite the contrary. Less than a fortnight since their vaccination started, the state has vaccinated over a quarter of the 6 lakh registered. The state’s coverage of 28% is as good as the national average. Although, the performance of some of the bigger districts such as Pune -- 6% coverage -- has been sluggish. Even Mumbai has covered a little over 15%. In all, 1.65 lakh frontliners have been covered in the state. District-level officials said the reasons for average to low coverage of healthcare workers range from hesitancy to misconceptions about vaccination. Officials from Sangli, which has the lowest coverage in the state besides Aurangabad, even blamed it on data duplication. Civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Salunkhe said that of the 34,599 registered beneficiaries, at least 4,000 entries are duplicate. “Some are also triplicate. This has inflated our overall registered numbers. If we remove these entries, our coverage would rise to 50%,” he said, adding that the district has vaccinated nearly 15,000. An official from Jalgaon, who did not wish to be named, said the factor of hesitation was “quite strong”. “It’s a new vaccine that has been developed in record time. Hence, health workers are sceptical, but the recent spurt in cases could push up the numbers. It has come as a reminder that the pandemic is not over,” he said. But according to Dr Shyamsunder Nikam, civil surgeon from Amravati, overall vaccination among healthcare workers may not exceed 70% in many districts after all. About the dwindling coverage, public health officials argued that Maharashtra had the highest registered healthcare workers among states, almost accounting for 11% of national numbers, and hence 55% coverage cannot be called poor. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said it was not much of a concern. “Coverage in the organized health sector, that is big hospitals and nursing homes, is very good. It is single doctors or small clinics who have got their names included and so the state’s denominator increased; they are now taking time to come forward,” he said, underlining that the vaccine was new and vaccination was voluntary. Taking a dig at Bihar, where a recent expose showed several fake entries in testing data, Vyas said, “We are doing it systematically and not like dummy phone number issues in some of the states.” Incidentally, the Centre on Tuesday said that Bihar’s vaccination coverage was 81%, the highest among states and UTs. Among good performers, Bhandara and Palghar have come at the top, having covered 75% of their 9,193 and 18,381 beneficiaries respectively. In absolute numbers though, Mumbai has vaccinated the most (91,627).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mth-on-only-55-maha-healthcare-staff-got-jabs/articleshow/81014060.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 17, 2021||Goa||Rights panel issues notices on Sancoale outpost plans||Panaji: The Goa Human Rights Commission has called for reports from the director general of police and chief secretary over a complaint that the government is hurriedly trying to convert the ill-equipped Sancoale police outpost into a full-fledged police station. The police outpost is housed in a cramped shed measuring around 80sqm and cannot properly accommodate the outpost with its five staff, the complainant Aires Rodrigues stated. It will not be able to accommodate a police force of 40 to run a police station, he said. “…this premises does not even have separate toilets and barracks for lady staff and that even power supply to the current outpost is being illegally drawn from a neighbouring petrol pump while water supply is courtesy of Zuari Agro Chemicals,” Rodrigues stated. He said that the outpost can be converted into a police station only after all required infrastructure is in place, and without violating human rights of public and police personnel who will have to cater to a population comprising 25,000 residents of panchayats of Sancoale, Cansaulim and Velsao-Pale. The police outpost is housed in a cramped shed measuring around 80sqm and cannot properly accommodate the outpost with its five staff, the complainant stated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rights-panel-issues-notices-on-sancoale-outpost-plans/articleshow/81011048.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||Chaos, anger at toll plazas on eway & Satara highway||Pune: A day after FASTag became mandatory on national highways, chaos, confusion and anger bubbled over at toll places on the Pune-Mumbai expressway and the Pune-Satara highway. Motorists expressed their displeasure with having to pay double the toll (in case of those who didn’t have FASTags), and faulty scanners. In many cases, FASTags with insufficient balance added to the confusion. At the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza, a man — car blocking a lane, causing a long queue of vehicles — was seen arguing with toll plaza officials on being asked to pay double toll as he didn’t have FASTag. A few minutes later, he walked back to his vehicle, cursing the officials. “He didn’t have the FASTag and was told to pay double the toll. This angered him and he argued for over 15 minutes. We have seen many people like him since the morning,” an official told TOI. To avoid such problems, officials have allowed cash payments as a temporary measure. “In two lanes, we have allowed payment by FASTag and cash to avoid problems,” an official said. Till 11am, many people without FASTags were forced to shell out excessive toll payments. “The rush at many FASTag kiosks put up near the toll plaza shows several people ignored the directive to get FASTags,” a toll booth operator at the Khed-Shivapur plaza remarked. The crowd at the kiosks selling FASTags increased through the day. “So far, at least 40 people have stopped after paying double toll and got the FASTags. I expect this number to increase in the next few days,” a representative at one kiosk said. Shyam Khara, en route to Pune without a FASTag, claimed he was unaware about the new rule. “They didn’t believe me when I tried to explain I was unaware. I didn’t argue with them. I am now getting a FASTag and hope I don’t face further trouble,” he said. At the Talegaon toll plaza on the Pune-Mumbai expressway, many commuters said toll wasn’t deducted from their FASTags due to snags in the scanners. However, some did not have adequate balance. “We charge such drivers double toll, but they would argue that they would recharge immediately. We would tell them to come back once they recharge and ask for a refund of the excess toll,” Ravi, a toll booth operator, said. As the day progressed and the number of vehicles increased, operators began carrying hand-held scanners to manually scan FASTags. “These are teething issues. They should be sorted out in a day or two,” an operator said. Jatin Patel, who was on his way to Mumbai from Kolhapur, said he was unaware about the FASTag mandate and that he would get a FASTag sticker soon. “I had to pay double the toll while crossing toll plazas from Kolhapur. I will get a FASTag in Mumbai,” Patel said. Those selling FASTags said that they were running out of the RFID tags. “There are so many vehicles without tags. We are activating the cards via mobile phones and using the vehicles’ registration and PAN card to link the card,” Sameer Khole, a FASTag seller, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chaos-anger-at-toll-plazas-on-eway-satara-highway/articleshow/81011221.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid re-infection sans mutation also possible, finds study||HYDERABAD: The novel coronavirus, even without mutations in its spike protein, is capable of causing reinfection, according to Hyderabad-based researchers. They have cited two examples of reinfection, one confirmed and another possible case, from India. So far it was believed that different strains with changes in the spike protein could cause reinfection. Though the researchers did not mention the city from where the cases of reinfections were reported, it is believed that the patients are from Hyderabad. Researchers from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and Apollo Hospitals, Hyderabad, say their study of reinfection without changes in the spike protein highlights the need for further research to understand the genetic and molecular underpinnings of Covid-19 reinfections. The result of the study was published on Tuesday night in the Oxford University publication, Clinical Infectious Diseases. The study was carried out by Onkar Kulkarni, Suneetha Narreddy, Lamuk Zaveri, Irawathy Goud Kala, Karthik Bharadwaj Tallapaka, and Divya Tej Sowpati. “Two cases of SARS-CoV-2 reinfections from India, along with corresponding whole genome sequencing data, confirmed using two orthogonal sequencing technologies. Nextstrain analysis revealed that all the four viral genomes belonged to the 20B clade, and carry the D614G mutation in spike. However, in both cases, no variation from S or E genes was identified between reinfections,” the study said. While one case is a clear case of reinfection backed by a negative test between episodes and 10 unique variations between the viral strains, the second case remains a bit unclear. It had three unique variations in 18 days and this is higher than expected based on current estimates. “But we cannot rule out the possibility of prolonged viral shedding and accelerated viral evolution due to immunocompromised state,” they added. Most reported reinfections show the presence of at least one unique variation in structural proteins between episodes, particularly the spike protein, they said adding that the two cases reported by them showed no difference in the spike protein of the virus between episodes, the study said. A 61-year-old, apparently immunocompetent, male healthcare worker tested positive on August 31, 2020. After an episode of asymptomatic infection and home quarantine, he tested negative subsequently. With no travel history in between, he complained of weakness in the second week of November, and developed a cough two days later. He again tested positive for the virus on November 14, 2020. There were no other symptoms during this episode, and it was a mild disease overall. Sequencing revealed the presence of 10 unique variations between the viral genomes of both episodes. No variation was observed in the spike protein. The second case pertains to a 38-year-old male with symptoms of headache and fever tested positive on November 4, 2020. After a day of symptoms, the patient was symptom-free. On November 22, 2020, the patient had fever again. Sample collected on that day tested positive. Other than five days of fever following the test, there were no symptoms during the second episode, the study added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-re-infection-sans-mutation-also-possible-finds-study/articleshow/81014076.cms||Syed Akbar
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Court takes cognisance of chargesheet against Kanhaiya for ‘sedition’||New Delhi: A Delhi court has taken cognisance of a chargesheet filed against former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students Union (JNUSU) president Kanhaiya Kumar and nine others in the 2016 sedition case. Chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) Pankaj Sharma has summoned them on March 15. The court took cognisance nearly a year after Delhi government granted sanction to Delhi Police to prosecute the accused, including Kanhaiya, former JNU students Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya, Kashmiri students Aquib Hussain, Mujeeb Hussain, Muneeb Hussain, Umar Gul, Rayeea Rassol, Bashir Bhat and Basharat Ali. Some of them were then studying in JNU, Aligarh Muslim University and Jamia Millia Islamia. As many as 36 others, including Communist Party of India (CPI) leader D Raja’s daughter Aprajita, Shehla Rashid (then vice-president of JNUSU), Rama Naga, Ashutosh Kumar and Banojyotsna Lahiri, all former students of JNU, have been named in column 12 of the chargesheet due to insufficient evidence against them. On February 9, 2016, “anti-national” slogans were allegedly raised on JNU campus during a programme called to protest against the execution of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru, on his death anniversary. The 1,200-page chargesheet states that the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory (RFSL) retrieved the SMS sent by Khalid to Kanhaiya to arrive at Sabarmati dhaba, JNU, as their permission (to hold the protest) had been cancelled by the JNU administration. The final pages of the chargesheet also confirm the presence of Kashmiri students during the protest and that they were in contact with Khalid. Police had lodged a case on February 11, 2016 against unidentified persons following complaints from BJP MP Maheish Girri and ABVP, the student wing of the RSS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-takes-cognisance-of-chargesheet-against-kanhaiya-for-sedition/articleshow/81007395.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Goa||Goa vaccine drive slows as frontline workers give the jab a miss||PANAJI: Despite the propaganda by government officials, the Covid vaccination drive in the state is yet to pick up pace. Though about 18,000 healthcare workers (HCWs) have registered on the portal, only 10,405 have been vaccinated. After the initial rise in numbers, participation by HCWs in the drive has dropped since the past few days. On the other hand, attendance of frontline workers has also been abysmally poor, although around 16,000 had registered on the portal to receive the vaccine shots. About 3,668 frontline workers have been vaccinated since the second phase began a week ago. Last week, CM Pramod Sawant had acknowledged that the response to the vaccination drive was unsatisfactory since people have a misconception about the vaccine. Awareness was needed to debunk the wrong notions about the vaccine, he said while launching the month-long campaign on Covid vaccination. A senior healthcare officer said that it is not surprising that very few frontline workers have reported for vaccination. “When even doctors and health staff who have more knowledge about the vaccine are reluctant to get the jab, I’m not at all surprised that others are hesitant to come forward. Vaccination among HCWs itself is about 52% so far,” the healthcare worker said. A Goa Medical College (GMC) doctor said though doctors are not advising medication, politicians and bureaucrats are asking HCWs to take the new vaccine which they themselves are not willing to accept. “There are doubts about the vaccines. Some fear adverse effects. The propaganda of the anti-vaccine lobbies is holding people back. The stories of deaths reported in foreign countries regarding other Covid vaccines may have triggered these fears here as well,” he said. The government, he said, is yet to publish information if any of the top bureaucrats have taken the vaccine. The publicity will induce confidence among frontline workers who may be having doubts about the vaccine, he added. Corporation of city of Panaji (CCP) mayor Uday Madkaikar said most of CCP’s frontline workers have received the jab. “Officials were slated to receive the jab. I was told to take the shot, but then someone advised me that since I had contracted the virus, the vaccine may not be useful,” said Madkaikar. Though the mayor had tested positive along with his wife, he has expressed willingness to take the vaccine. Madkaikar said he was puzzled by people’s attitude towards the vaccine, even as 7-8 months ago, many were reluctant to even visit Altinho because of rising Covid cases in that locality. “Many stopped visiting Altinho then. I had to intervene when people were refusing to go to the Covid care centre after testing positive. Those were the days of high tension and drama. But it looks like people are no more apprehensive of Covid as they are not following Covid appropriate behaviour now, and on the contrary, they are fearing the vaccine,” he said. The health department has set a target to complete the first phase of vaccination involving HCWs by March 12, but there are doubts that it will successfully cover all those who have registered on the portal as many have dropped out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-vax-drive-slows-as-frontline-workers-give-the-jab-a-miss/articleshow/81011113.cms||Bindiya Chari
February 17, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Man held for grabbing Rs 6 crore plot owned by actor Vanisri||CHENNAI: The city police have solved two cases of land-grab including one involving a 9,102 sq ft plot worth Rs 6crore at Aminjikarai belonging to veteran actor Vanisri with the arrest of three suspects on Tuesday. Police said that the actor had bought the land on Nelson Manickam Road in 1970 to expand her husband's factory to manufacture batteries for cars. While the factory was closed due to loss in the business the land remained vacant. She recently came to know it had been sold to a man named Iqbal for Rs 4 crore by a man named Tamim Ansari who managed to get a patta in his name for the plot. Based on her complaint, the anti-land grabbing cell of the CCB registered a case and inspector Mahalakshmi Venkatraman arrested Ansari. Investigation revealed that the accused first created a general power of attorney in the name of Vanisri’s husband for another plot in 2010 and later included Vanisri’s land through a rectification deed. While he obtained anticipatory bail in an earlier case, he sold the land to Iqbal in 2018. While Ansari has been sent to jail, police are trying to arrest other suspects involved in the land grabbing case. Police said that a land-grabbing mafia is behind the offence and added that all would be nabbed soon. Police also arrested two men for illegally taking possession of a land worth Rs 1.5crore at Sholinganallur. A man named Ragu Raman created a general power of attorney in his name without the knowledge of the owner, M Subramanian, and sold it to another person. After the arrest, Ragu Raman and Vijayakumar, who signed as a witness, were produced before the magistrate court concerned which sent them to prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-held-for-grabbing-rs-6cr-plot-owned-by-vanisri/articleshow/81007320.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Goa||Gold safe, only chain stolen: House owner||Ponda: Initial investigations in a house breaking theft case at Khadapabandh Ponda has revealed that most of the gold is safe in a bank locker and only one gold chain was stolen from the bungalow. Some unknown thieves had broken into a bungalow at Khadapabandh between Saturday and Monday and had allegedly decamped with valuables worth Rs 2.5 lakh. However, the house owner informed the police that their gold is safe in the bank locker and only one chain is missing, Ponda police inspector Mohan Gaude said. The theft occurred when the bungalow owner Dilip Kamat along with his family had gone to Margao for his wife’s medical appointment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gold-safe-only-chain-stolen-house-owner/articleshow/81011150.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Nitin Patel tests Covid negative||Gandhinagar: Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said on Tuesday that he has tested negative for Covid-19. He opted for a Covid-19 test as he had met CM Vijay Rupani on Sunday night and several times last week. Rupani tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. Patel announced on his social media handle on Tuesday, “My coronavirus RT-PCR test sample given on Monday, February 15, has reported negative with the grace of God and your well wishes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nitin-patel-tests-covid-negative/articleshow/81007365.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Narayanpet sees just 1 Covid case, second time in a week||HYDERABAD: In a significant improvement in the Covid-19 scenario, Narayanpet district in Telangana recorded the lowest number of new cases in the past seven days. From nearly 30 to 40 cases which were being recorded in June and July last year, the cases have come down to less than one or two now, the district officials said. On Tuesday, Narayanpet reported just one Covid-19 case, while two cases were recorded in the entire week. “The decrease in the number of cases was possible due to heightened awareness programmes and strict implementation of Covid-19 safety protocols. We are still conducting 500 tests each day,” said Dr Jaychandra Mohan, DMHO Narayanpet. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the State reported only 129 Covid-19 cases, 161 recoveries and one death. There are as many as 1,643 patients under treatment but with improving recovery rate in the state which has now touched 98.90%. So far, a total of 83,36,255 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state out of which 2,96,802 have tested positive and 2,93,540 persons have recovered. The data released by the health department officials on Tuesday states that a total of 24,851 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the state while reports of another 516 samples were awaited. The GHMC limits saw 23 new cases followed by nine new cases in Rangareddy district and seven new cases in Medchal Malkajgiri, Warangal Urban and Karimnagar districts. On Tuesday, the State reported only 129 Covid-19 cases, 161 recoveries and one death. There are as many as 1,643 patients under treatment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/narayanpet-sees-just-1-covid-case-second-time-in-a-week/articleshow/81007286.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Vid on high alert after 1500+ new Covid cases||Nagpur: With more than 1,500 new cases on Tuesday, the Covid-19 situation in Vidarbha is going from bad to worse. As per the state government’s data, the top five districts in Maharashtra having highest rate of increase in new cases are all from Vidarbha region. Amravati, Akola, Wardha, Yavatmal and Buldhana have been included in the districts on special alert as the rate of increase in Covid-19 patient was highest in these five districts during the week that ended on February 14. Amravati, Akola, Wardha and Buldhana also found place in the list of top five districts having highest positivity rate. All these factors are enough to put Vidarbha on Covid-19 high alert. The 1,538 new cases on Tuesday include Nagpur (535), Amravati (485), Akola (183), Wardha (90), Buldhana (82), Yavatmal (81), Washim (34), Bhandara (21), Chandrapur (18), Gondia (5) and Gadchiroli (4). The total cases in the region are now 2,87,645. On the other hand, 877 patients recovered in a day from Nagpur (382), Amravati (180), Akola (99), Buldhana (76), Yavatmal (74), Wardha (16), Bhandara (15), Chandrapur(15), Washim (12), Gondia (8) and Gadchiroli (0) which took total recoveries to 2,71,323. As cases are increasing at an alarming rate, the recovery rate has gone down to 94.3% now which is less than the state and national average. The only relief factor for Vidarbha could be the controlled case fatality rate. Even after reporting a spike of more than 1,500 cases, the death toll of the day in Vidarbha remained at 12. These included Nagpur (6), Amravati (3), Wardha (1), Yavatmal (1), and Buldhana (1). The overall toll of the region is 7,132. But the case fatality rate is 2.48% which is less than the state average. The number of patients under treatment is now increasing and heading towards the 10,000 mark again. This also indicates more hospitalization. Apart from Nagpur, Akola and Amravati too have more than 1,000 patients under treatment. Wardha, Yavatmal and Buldhana have 500+ patients under treatment. Akola: Out of 600 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, Akola detected 183 new Covid-19 positive patients. This took the total number of patients in the district to 12,664. With 99 recoveries, 11,289 have recovered. No death was reported on Tuesday which kept the toll at 344. Total 1,031 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: Total 82 new cases, 76 recoveries and death of a senior citizen was reported in Buldhana district on Tuesday. This took the total caseload in Buldhana above the 15,000 mark at 15,026. In all, 14,221 have recovered. The toll is 178. Total 627 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district saw 34 new cases, 12 recoveries on Tuesday. No death was reported. Now, Washim has 7,373 total cases, 7,074 recoveries and 156 deaths. Total 142 patients are under treatment. Gondia: Five new cases and 8 recoveries were reported in Gondia on Tuesday. No death was reported. The district now has 14,305 cases, 14,043 recoveries, 183 deaths and 87 patients under treatment. Bhandara: Total 21 new cases and 15 recoveries marked Tuesday in Bhandara. No Death was reported. Now the district has 13,405 cases, 12,976 recoveries and 326 deaths. Total 103 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 4 new cases and no recoveries and deaths on Tuesday. Now, 9,416 cases, 9,282 recoveries and 105 deaths have been reported in Gadchiroli. Total 29 patients are under treatment. Amravati: A spike of 485 cases and three deaths on Tuesday has taken the caseload to 26228 and toll to 442. Yavatmal: The district witnessed death of a 59-year-old man which took the toll to 442. Out of 408 reports, 81 tested positive. Currently, there are 612 active positive patients undergoing treatment. Chandrapur: Detection of 18 new cases and discharge of 15 left 110 active patients on Tuesday. There was no death reported during, keeping the toll stable at 393. Wardha: District collector Prerana Deshbhratar issued an order to keep colleges shut till February 28. In all, 90 patients were reported positive, taking the caseload to 10,831. After a death on Tuesday, the toll reached 323||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-on-high-alert-after-1500-new-covid-cases/articleshow/81007374.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Woman attacked, robbed in train at Vasai||Mumbai: A 29-year-old woman commuting alone in the ladies compartment of a local train was attacked and robbed by a man at Vasai. Government Railway Police (GRP) are scanning CCTV footage from railway stations between Vasai and Naigaon to identify the man. The woman was left bleeding from the head and had to take stitches. The Vasai resident was out to meet a friend as it was her day off from work. Around 7.40pm, she entered the second-class middle ladies coach of an Andheri slow local from platform 1 of Vasai station, and was seated with her back to the door. As the train started, a man boarded the compartment and tried to snatch her phone. “The woman was taken by surprise as she had not seen him enter. He repeatedly hit her on the forehead and her face with a hard object. She resisted and while grappling with her, he flung it outside the train,” said a police officer. The man then snatched her gold chain, which broke, so he picked up part of it and jumped off at Naigaon. The woman, who was bleeding from her forehead and was traumatised, alighted at Naigaon and went to a hospital, where she got stitches. After consulting her family, she approached Vasai GRP post and lodged a complaint on Sunday. “The man had been roaming on the platform at Vasai before noticing her seated alone in the ladies compartment. We suspect he is a habitual criminal,” said an officer. A case of robbery has been registered under IPC. In November 2020, a 22-year-old woman was molested and robbed by two men in the general compartment of a local between Borivli and Kandivli stations close to midnight. Neither of the accused were previously acquainted with each other but teamed up on the spot. One of the accused, Omprakash Dikshit, was held. In another incident, a physically challenged woman commuter was punched in her face in the handicapped coach at Ram Mandir station by an offender who fled with her purse. The woman’s lip was bleeding. Within hours, the accused, Samadhan Shendge, was picked up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-attacked-robbed-in-train-at-vasai/articleshow/81006676.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 17, 2021||Goa||PMC mulls pay parking in Ponda||Ponda: In a bid to deter unnecessary obstructions to traffic and pedestrians, Ponda Municipal Council (PMC) is mulling pay parking at some places across the town. PMC chief officer and a municipal engineer have been assigned the task of identifying the spots where pay parking could be implemented. The monthly meeting of the council has also resolved to construct an additional building in an open space adjacent to the existing PMC building. PMC chief officer Pradeep Naik said they would complete identification of the areas before the next council meeting. With the rising population of vehicles, this has been creating obstructions to traffic flow and pedestrian movement. PMC expects the pay parking would reduce the use of vehicles that will decongest the town. However, the plan is in the primary stage, and the chief officer and municipal engineer of PMC have been assigned the task of identifying the possible spots where the council could introduce pay parking system, PMC chairperson Vishwanath Dalvi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pmc-mulls-pay-parking-in-ponda/articleshow/81011103.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||India||Covid-19: 38% of eligible recipients have got 2nd shot so far||NEW DELHI: The second round of vaccination against Covid-19 has picked up pace with 37.5% of healthcare workers who were given their first shot between January 1618 receiving the repeat dose in the past three days, health officials said on Tuesday. Some states and UTs have done well with eight having administered a second dose to more than 60% of eligible health workers. Goa stood out, achieving a 100% coverage among such beneficiaries. Gujarat, Tripura, Telangana and UP have so far covered over 80% of eligible beneficiaries. Administration of the second dose poses a new challenge for the Centre and states as it not only requires more logistics in terms of vaccine supplies and human resource but also needs following up with eligible beneficiaries to ensure they comp lete the vaccination in time. At present, India has approved two emergency use vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — to prevent Covid-19. Both are two-dose vaccines and are approved with a dosing gap of four to six weeks. “We must appreciate that in a country of India’s size, complexities and varying level of healthcare facilities, we have been able to ensure that in 14 states and UTs, 7080% of healthcare workers have been given their first dose,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. While Indiacompleted a month since the rollout of the vaccination drive on January 16, over 60% of healthcare workforce and 26.3% of frontline workers in public and private sector have already received the first dose of the vaccines till Tuesday, taking the total vaccination count to 88.57 lakh, which includes 2.16 lakh health workers who are now fully vaccinated. “The efficacy and effectiveness of a vaccination programme should be judged by the fact what proportion of the population was due for second dose and against that due population, how much population has been covered,” Bhushan said. Fourteen states and UTs have over 70% coverage of first dose among health workforce, whereas eight states vaccinated over 40% of frontline workers. The fact that states with higher coverage also include those with significantly large beneficiary pool indicates the campaign is progressing well. Eleven states and UTs, including Delhi (42.3%), Punjab (36.4%), Andhra Pradesh (49%) and Karnataka (49.9%), have administered first dose to less than 50% of registered healthcare workers. “We have asked these states to organise more sessions to increase their coverage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-38-of-eligible-recipients-have-got-2nd-shot-so-far/articleshow/81019466.cms||Sushmi Dey
February 17, 2021||Chennai||Price war leads to cracks in the construction sector||Battle lines have been drawn between cement makers and builders. The flashpoint was when the cement makers asked for a full blown investigation into the affairs of builders over false tax credit claims, while the builders sought the government’s intervention to control the unbridled increase of cement prices. Both the sides want the government to check the affairs of the other. "There is an old adage: Respect the customer. We were doing that, till now. But the builders keep complaining of rising cement prices and cry foul to the governments — both state and Union — accusing us of operating like a cartel. This is rubbish and we will not tolerate this anymore and take blows on our chin. Enough is enough," said N Srinivasan, president of the newly formed South India Cement Manufacturers Association (SICMA). SICMA said the cost of cement as a component of the construction cost is minuscule. To construct a square foot of space all that one needs is a half a bag of cement."This means even if cement prices rise from the present `400 a bag (in some markets) to `500, the impact on construction cost would be only `44.85," he said. The major cost of flat price being land, he said they checked the guideline rate for land in high-end markets in Chennai. "It is `10,000 a square feet and given an FSI of 2/2.4 the cost of land would work out to just `4,200 per sqft. Add another `2,500 to the construction cost which will be `6,700 while sale price is `10,000. Obviously the builder lobby is not allowing the prices to slide," SICMA charged and called for PM’s intervention to break the lobby and ask each builder to come out with the costing structure. Developers don’t agree. "This is rubbish. Who sells land at guideline rates anywhere? Market prices are way above guideline rates. Cement makers are making a fundamental mistake in calculations," a leading developer said. Concurring with the opinion, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) president S Sridharan said they were doing a tightrope walk. "How can we pass on price increases to buyers who have locked their deals because of a mindless price increase of input items like cement and steel?" By the theory of demand and supply, when there is no demand, as claimed by cement makers, there is no justification for a price increase. Lower demand should mean lower prices, but that is not the case. Cement makers differ. "How can we sell below our cost? We cannot allow our shareholders’ money to be pocketed by the builders. If input costs are increasing for builders it is also increasing for us. Royalties due to MMDR Act, pet coke prices and fuel costs are rising, making us increase prices," said Srinivasan (also the MD of The India Cements). Housing projects, mainly in the `40 lakh-`1 crore bracket, are stuck. "Land owners who are our JV partners in the projects are knowledgeable. Do you think they will leave anything on the table without factoring in these things? While 65% of project cost is land cost, the rising prices of input items will have to be borne by the house buyer. And this is not easy to pass on," Credai’s Sridharan said. "In a market where cement is available between `290 to `410 a bag across 30 brands, how can anyone say that a cartel is at play? A buyer has a choice of brand and pricing," Srinivasan said. "You cannot get Spencers Soda for the price of a Goli soda."Builders are showing the mirror to cement makers. "They have been charged with collusion and operating a cartel (by fairplay watchdog Competition Commission of India) They are on appeal," Sridharan said. For government projects, cement makers say they sell below market prices. "In TN for ‘Amma’ cement we sell at `210 where the market price is `400 a bag, while in AP we sell at `238," Srinivasan said. Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari had asked cement makers to hold back prices saying it was impacting road projects. SICMA wrote to the minister: "A tripartite arrangement among the railways, road projects and cement units from south may be a win-win formula for all. This may be an out of the box idea for the government to ponder over. While all of us have a responsibility and duty to put our best foot forward when it comes to government-initiated projects, we are pained when builders and real estate monarchs complain of cement prices. They are all into cartelisation under Credai and the Builders Association of India."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/price-war-leads-to-cracks-in-the-construction-sector/articleshow/81007435.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
February 17, 2021||Goa||Will rectify power woes in Benaulim: Min||Margao: Power minister Nilesh Cabral on Tuesday assured to address the electricity issues of Benaulim in the next couple of months. Interacting with villagers in the presence of local MLA Churchill Alemao, Cabral told them that a new transformer would be installed by March 15, which, he said, would help reduce voltage fluctuation issues. The streetlighting problem in the village would also addressed, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-rectify-power-woes-in-benaulim-min/articleshow/81011212.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Winter of discontent: Local factors play a bigger role in fouling up air in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A study of fine particulate matter characterisation and organic aerosol sources in Delhi conducted at three sites established that local sources play relatively greater roles in pollution than regional influence in the winter months. According to the study led by professor S N Tripathi of IIT-Kanpur, PM2.5 particles were composed mostly of organic compounds (43-44%), followed by chlorides (14-17%), ammonia compounds (9-11%), nitrates (9%), sulfates (8-10%) and black carbon (11-16%). PM1 particles comprised 47% organics, 13% sulfates and ammoniums, 11% nitrates and chlorides and 5% black carbon. The data from January-March 2018 was analysed for the study titled ‘Real-time characterisation and source apportionment of fine particulate matter in the Delhi megacity area during late winter’, recently published in Environmental Pollution Journal. PM2.5 was studied at two urban sites, IIT-Delhi and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology-Delhi, while PM1 characterisation was tested at downwind Manav Rachna International Institute of Research and Studies in Faridabad. The study also conducted organic aerosol source appropriation. Of these, oxidised organic aerosol (OOA) accounted for the maximum of the total organic mass, while hydrocarbon-like organic aerosol (HOA) constituted the lowest concentration at three sites. “HOA mostly comes from vehicular exhaust, while OOA is formed when pollutants are emitted sometime earlier but hang in the atmosphere and oxygen keeps getting added to it,” said an expert. The study said, “Significant differences in the absolute OOA concentration between the two urban sites indicated the influence of local emissions on oxidised organic aerosol formation. Similar PM chemical composition, diurnal and temporal variations at the three sites suggest similar type of sources affecting the particulate pollution in Delhi and adjoining cities, but variability in mass concentration suggest more local influence than regional.” The average black carbon concentration was highest at IIT-Delhi, indicating the site was most affected by combustion-related emissions such as traffic and burning of solid fuels. The study said minimum PM concentrations were observed between 3pm and 5pm and the maximum late at night and early morning hours (6-9am). However, the urban study site exhibited more distinct diurnal patterns compared with the downwind site, which could be attributed to the proximity of the urban site to primary emission sources and mixing and aging of air masses during transport to the urban background site located in the downwind direction. Traffic-related emissions were more dominant at IIT-D with total organic aerosol mass reaching up to 40 at midnight, while solid-fuel burning emissions were more dominating at IITM-D and Manav Rachna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/winter-of-discontent-local-factors-play-a-bigger-role-in-fouling-up-air/articleshow/81007866.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 17, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Auto driver hands over bag with Rs 1.7 lakh to cops, rewarded||CHENNAI: An autorickshaw driver was on Monday rewarded by police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal after he handed over a bag containing Rs 1.7 lakh he found on a road off Marina Beach to police. The autorickshaw driver identified as L Subramani, 56, a resident of Triplicane, who spotted the bag left unattended on the road close to Queen Mary’s College on Kamarajar Salai around 10am on February 12. He collected the bag and informed the traffic police personnel nearby. They found cash inside the bag, and asked him to go to Marina police station where he handed over the bag to the cops on duty there. Police collected the autorickshaw driver’s contact details. Police are yet to receive a complaint from the person the bag belongs to. Police informed the commissioner about Subramani’s honesty. Following this, the commissioner's office invited Subramani where he was awarded with a shield and a reward appreciating him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-auto-driver-hands-over-bag-with-rs-1-7-lakh-to-cops-rewarded/articleshow/81007390.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||17L taking WR, 20L on CR daily now||Mumbai: Fifteen days after suburban services were thrown open to the general public, the average passengers per day stood at 37 lakh, including 17 lakh on Western Railway (WR) and 20 lakh on Central Railway (CR). General commuters were permitted to travel during non-peak hours (before 7am, between noon and 4pm, and after 9pm). CR chief PRO Shivaji Sutar said the was more or less steady on CR. On WR, the number has been hovering around that mark. Before Covid-19, there were 35 lakh passengers on WR and 45 lakh on CR per day. WR and CR have been taking action with the help of civic authorities against passengers without masks. WR’s chief PRO Sumit Thakur said ,” Since February 1, 2,558 people were penalised. We got around Rs 3.3 lakh in fines.” On CR, 2,060 were fined, earning of Rs 1.2 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/17l-taking-wr-20l-on-cr-daily-now/articleshow/81006685.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Mid-sized Hyd pharma scrips set blistering pace on bourses||Hyderabad: At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has unleashed the potential of pharma players, stocks of quite a few mid-sized Hyderabad-based pharma companies have outperformed the BSE Sensex since the start of the current fiscal. While the BSE Sensex has nearly doubled to 52,104 points from 28,265 points on April 1, 2020, players like Neuland Labs and Laurus Labs sprung the biggest surprise with their scrips and subsequent market capitalisation rising over six times. While the Neuland Labs scrip has pole vaulted over seven times from Rs 275 on April 1, 2020, to a closing price of Rs 2114.9 on February 16, 2021, the Laurus Labs share has shot up nearly six times from Rs 64.69 on April 1 last year to Rs 372.45 on February 16, 2021. Another midsized player, Granules India, has seen its scrip rise nearly two and a half times from Rs 141.30 on April 1, 2020, to Rs 351.1 on February 16, 2021. By contrast, stock prices of pharma biggies such as Aurobindo Pharma more than doubled, while that of Divi’s Labs went up nearly two times. This even as the scrip of global pharma major Dr Reddy’s Labs and Natco Pharma rose nearly one and a half times. According to analysts, one of the key reasons for the rally in scrips of mid-sized companies, which are engaged in the production of basic products, is the acquisition buzz around some of these players. Another reason could be these players are getting more orders as part of the global Plus One strategy to develop supply chains outside China, which dominates the global supply chains of basic raw materials today. “Pharma and healthcare companies have been early participants in the stock market revival from the Covid-19 challenges. All this thanks to these players putting behind their regulatory woes, contributing to global healthcare efforts and now participating in the China Plus One strategy and benefiting from the government’s PLI scheme,” said pharma industry veteran and senior investment consultant VS Vasudevan. According to KVRS Babu, equity analyst, Vishar Portfolio Investment Pvt Ltd, the primary reason for the robust investor interest in mid-sized pharma players is the heightened PE interest in acquiring mid-scale pharma companies, which is also spurring the interest of HNIs in these scrips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mid-sized-hyd-pharma-scrips-set-blistering-pace-on-bourses/articleshow/81014163.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Tie up Durga Puja with travel circuit to boost economy: Study||Kolkata: A joint study on Kolkata’s Durga Puja by British Council, IIT Kharagpur and the UK’s Queen Mary University that pegged its financial impact at Rs 32,377 crore has recommended steps to leverage the festival and tie it up with tourism destinations in the state to further increase economic activity. The study that mapped 10 industries associated with the festival (art & decoration; idol-making; lighting & illumination; literature & publishing; retail; crafts & design; film & entertainment; sponsorship; food & beverage; and advertising), suggested strengthening communication and connectivity and development of premium properties to offer high-end tourists a package that includes an experience of the Sunderbans, Santiniketan, Purulia and Darjeeling as a circuit along with Kolkata’s Durga Puja. It has also called for an environment impact assessment study of the festival. “At present, the seven days of Durga Puja generates economic activity that is 2.5% of the state’s gross domestic product. The potential though is much higher. The art and craft that transform Kolkata into a veritable art gallery with street installations can attract high-end tourists from Europe and America. To do so, one needs direct flight links with Europe and US and a seamless package that wows tourists with not just the Durga Puja but also the Sunderbans and Darjeeling,” an official associated with the study said. Commissioned by the state, the study was carried out during the Durga Puja in 2019. The methodology used to carry out the economic impact study was the same one that had mapped the Edinburgh festival in the UK. The study, led by Queen Mary University, received support from IIT-Kharagpur and The Smart Cube, an analytics firm based in Bengaluru. “This complex research combines quantitative and qualitative analysis of the ecosystem of the economy that feeds the festival. It was done based on the same methodology that maps the Edinburgh and Rio festivals,” said Barbara Wickham, director of British Council in India. The report has also called for another study of the unorganized retail industry in Gariahat and Hathibagan that transform into major shopping hubs for a month ahead of Durga Puja. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said her government would urge United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to declare Durga Puja as an intangible cultural heritage of humanity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tie-up-durga-puja-with-travel-circuit-to-boost-economy-study/articleshow/81007567.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||3 constables suspended||Hyderabad: Three constables of Narayanguda police station — Vishal, Nagaraju and Shiva Prasad — were suspended by the police commissioner Anjani Kumar for consuming liquor while they were on duty in the second week of February. They assaulted another cop for video recording the incident. Based on Special Branch police inquiry report, Kumar suspended the three. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-constables-suspended/articleshow/81007406.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Rajkot||DyCM tests negative||Gandhinagar: Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, said on Tuesday that he has tested negative for Covid-19. The deputy chief minister opted for a Covid-19 test as he had met CM Vijay Rupani on Sunday night and several times last week. CM Rupani tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. Patel announced on his social media handle on Tuesday, “My coronavirus RT-PCR test sample given on Monday, February 15, has reported negative with the grace of God and your well wishes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dycm-tests-negative/articleshow/81002360.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Activists cry cruelty over shooters’ snap with wild boars culled after govt order||HYDERABAD: Shooters posing with wild boar carcasses after shooting them has irked Telangana forest department officials as well as wildlife activists. The forest department has decided to issue an advisory to all shooters on the issue while activists claimed these kinds of incidents encourage trophy hunting which impacts wildlife. Shooters — Nawab Shafat Ali Khan and Pervaram Santaji — on Monday posed with guns and wild boars in Gopalpet village of Wanaparthy district. Though the sarpanch has granted permission to cull wild boars, wildlife activists said posing with the kills is unethical and amounts to cruelty towards animals. Telangana principal chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden R Sobha told TOI, “Posing with the wild boar carcasses is unacceptable. It is a violation of orders issued to cull wild boar in agriculture fields. We will take action.” Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society founder Imran Siddique said wild boars are considered as “farmers of the forests” for digging, tilling land, seed dispersal and scavenging. “They are important prey species and it is unfortunate that wild boars are being culled. Posing with dead animals is ugly British legacy of cruelty and barbarism,” he told TOI. A senior official of wild life wing said, “Any wild animal hunted is government property as per section 39 of Wild Life Protection Act. The service of shooters is requested for killing wild boars that are damaging crop. Wild boar is not declared as vermin. It is a schedule animal and protected under the act. It has to be shot with a rifle and killed as per the conditions laid down in the order. Wild boar can’t be photographed after killing as it is not trophy hunting. It is not an act of bravery. It is killing an innocent animal. The wild boar after killing has to be buried in dignified manner. It comes under Prevention of Cruelty towards animals.” Nawab Shafat of Wildlife Tranquil Force said posing for the picture was part of the process of ‘panchanama.’ “It is definitely not a trophy hunt. We are doing it as a social service, free of cost, to help the poor and suffering farmers. It is to enlighten the farmers that the government has made the process of culling simple so that more farmers can benefit,” he said. Santaji of Wild Boar Menace Farmers’ Association said the noise made over the picture was unwarranted. “The blind see only shooters in this picture. There were farmers who lost their entire crops for decades. Only now they have been empowered by Telangana government. Wild boars have grown into a monster size due to abundant consumption of groundnut. This is part of farmer education that monster boars have to be shot and not pose a threat to lives. I was speaking to press persons in front of a killed wild boar and not certainly posing,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/activists-cry-cruelty-over-shooters-snap-with-wild-boars-culled-after-govt-order/articleshow/81014251.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 17, 2021||Goa||Goa CM Pramod Sawant may induct Babush into cabinet||Panaji: Just a year before the scheduled assembly polls, chief minister Pramod Sawant may go in for a minor reshuffle by inducting Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate into his cabinet. BJP sources said the move comes after Monserrate showed “keen interest” in joining the cabinet and had approached Sawant to induct him before the CCP elections. Sources said as and when Sawant decides to induct Monserrate into his cabinet, he would replace Taleigao MLA and wife Jennifer, who was made a minister at the last minute in July 2019 when 10 rebel Congress MLAs joined BJP. Sources said if Monserrate joins the cabinet, it may also lead to reshuffle in portfolios. Though Jennifer currently holds revenue and IT portfolios, it is not clear whether Monserrate would be satisfied with those ministries. Monserrate, however, has denied the move. “I have never asked for a cabinet berth, nor am I interested in joining the cabinet. Even if they call me to join the cabinet, I will not,” he told TOI. But senior BJP functionaries confirmed to TOI that Monserrate had indeed approached Sawant seeking a cabinet berth. In July 2019, Monserrate played an important role when 10 Congress MLAs (including himself) switched sides to BJP, lending stability to the Pramod Sawant-led government as its strength went up to 27 in the 40-member House. That led to a cabinet reshuffle, in which Sawant dropped three ministers from Goa Forward Party (GFP) including former deputy chief minister Vijai Sardesai and independent MLA and former revenue minister Rohan Khaunte, to accommodate the rebel Congress MLAs. “If there is cabinet reshuffle, it will be done before the CCP election so that Monserrate and the BJP panel can win all 30 seats,” a senior BJP functionary said. TOI had earlier reported that Monserrate said he would try to win all the 30 seats. Another functionary said that Monserrate thinks that if he became a minister, it would be easy to convince people that he can do a lot for Panaji. Last year, rumours were swirling in political circles of an impending cabinet reshuffle that would involve dropping “non-performing ministers”. However, with Covid and the financial crunch, BJP’s ‘think tank’ decided against a major reshuffle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-may-induct-babush-into-cabinet/articleshow/81011259.cms||Murari Shetye
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Cardinal recommends meatless Fridays, not only during Lent||Mumbai: The 40-day Christian fasting season of Lent begins on Ash Wednesday (February 17). The Archbishop of Bombay, Oswald Cardinal Gracias, urged Catholics to avoid meat on Fridays, not only during Lent. He recommended donating 10% of one’s daily earnings to charity. Cardinal Gracias encouraged people go back to the traditional practice of abstaining from meat on Ash Wednesday and on all Fridays of Lent. “And so that the fruits of Lent continue throughout the year, I strongly recommend that in our homes and institutions, we abstain from meat on all Fridays of the year,” he said. The 40-day Lenten observance culminates ahead of Easter Sunday (April 4). Other modes of penance the Cardinal suggested during the season include limiting one’s carbon footprint by reducing consumption of electricity, watching less TV and using cellphones sparingly. He recommends visiting the sick and donating blood. Churches citywide will observe regular Lenten services. Parishioner Daniel Lobo of Colaba’s RC Church said, “Ash Wednesday sees churches full to capacity. People who may not have gone for mass for months will be looking out for services where they can line up to get ashes imposed on their forehead. Our parish too will be celebrating mass and getting marked with ashes to remind us that we are dust and we shall return to dust. The Stations of the Cross will be followed every Friday with proper Covid protocol.” Kamal Jadhav, member of the pastorate committee of Anglican St Thomas Cathedral said, “Rev Avinash Rangayya will conduct online Lent Bible study every Wednesday and perform house prayers on request by parishioners. We are also trying to start holy communion by Easter. Talks are on between the bishop and clergy as to how to administer the holy sacrament safely in Covid times.” Fr Michael Pinto, parish priest of Our Lady of Lourdes, Orlem, has devised an elaborate charity initiative for Lent. “Breakfast and lunch will be served to the poor on all 40 days. Families that have suffered due to the pandemic will be helped. Students who cannot pay fees and whose parents have suffered financial losses will be helped. A box is kept in church to drop contributions. Fruits, vegetables and other provisions from our community fridge will be given to the poor. Besides religious services in church, outreach programmes are being organised,” he said. Orlem is one of the largest parishes in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cardinal-recommends-meatless-fridays-not-only-during-lent/articleshow/81006691.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Two in fray for BJP; Congress pulls out||GANDHINAGAR: Even as the BJP on Tuesday named its candidates for the bypolls to two vacant Rajya Sabha seats of Gujarat, the Congress pulled out from the battleground. The Congress said that it will not field candidates for the bypolls scheduled on March 1. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has announced separate elections for the two vacant seats on the same day. The Rajya Sabha bypolls have become a formality of sorts as the BJP will comfortably win both the seats on the basis of its numbers in the Gujarat assembly. The leader of the opposition, Paresh Dhanani, said on Tuesday that the Congress plans to boycott the RS bypolls as the ECI decision “will help the BJP win both seats unethically.” The BJP on Tuesday named Dinesh Anavadiya (Prajapati) and Ram Mokariya as its two nominees for the bypolls. Anavadiya is the president of the state BJP OBC Morcha, while Mokariya is the founder-chairman of a courier company and a leading real estate developer. He also heads a few Brahmin social groups. Anavadiya, a senior party leader from Banaskantha district, served as the director of the Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation between 2014 and 2017. Mokariya said he has remained a dedicated party worker for over four decades. “I am happy that the party has nominated me as a candidate for the Rajya Sabha byelection,” he said. The RS bypolls were necessitated by the demise of two members: Ahmed Patel (the Congress) and Abhay Bharadwaj (the BJP). Both the leaders died of Covid-related complications. The terms of Patel and Bharadwaj were to end in August 2023 and June 2026, respectively. According to the ECI, polls for the two seats will be held separately on March 1 and counting of votes will take place the same evening. The BJP has 111 MLAs and the Congress has 65. The Congress stands to lose the RS seat held by Ahmed Patel even if it fields candidates, and hence it has decided to boycott the bypolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-in-fray-for-bjp-congress-pulls-out/articleshow/81007507.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Patient, whose heart took a Hyderabad Metro, walks home||HYDERABAD: A patient, who underwent a heart transplant recently, said he had all but given up hope of survival and was counting his last days when a miracle changed his life. Singareddy Kanakareddy, 44, who got a donor heart transported via the Metro Rail, was discharged from hospital on Monday. Kanakareddy was diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy in December last year. He suffered with breathlessness, panting. “The doctors asked me to get myself registered in Jeevandhan because I desperately needed a heart transplant to survive.” “Even after that, the doctors gave me a 50% chance of survival, as most of my organs were not functioning fully and asked me to take a call on undergoing the surgery,” said Kanakareddy. The heart transplant was performed earlier this month, with the heart of a man found to be brain dead transported through Hyderabad Metro Rail. For the first time in Hyderabad, metro rail was used to transport an organ on February 2. A green corridor was specially created by Hyderabad Metro Rail and Hyderabad traffic police for the heart to reach Apollo Hospitals at Jubilee Hills from Kamineni Hospital at LB Nagar. “I was blissfully unaware of what was happening around me to save my life. I only got to know about all the extra effort put in by the doctors, Metro rail authorities and the traffic police to transport the donor heart, a couple of days ago when a friend narrated the story to me. I am really thankful to everyone, especially Dr Gokhale,” he said. Dr Alla Gopala Krishna Gokhale, senior consultant, Heart and Lung Transplant Surgeon, Apollo Hospitals said the speedy transportation of the heart by a Metro train during peak traffic hour played a critical role and aided in the overall success of the surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/patient-whose-heart-took-a-metro-walks-home/articleshow/81007538.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||PHED to replace old water pipes at 14 locations in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Public Health and Engineering Department (PHED) has started preparing for summer. The department has recently identified 14 locations where water pressure is either low or do not have connections with the Bisalpur pipeline for which department has made plans. Based on a recent survey by the department, it will start replacing old pipes where water pressure is low. Manish Beniwal, additional chief engineer of PHED said, “We have received financial sanction for the same and work will start very soon. It is important to start the process right now so that we will be prepared for the summer.” He added that PHED engineers are going on field to check the quality of water in various areas of the city. Officials have decided to check the chlorine level in more than 2500 tubewells presently active in Jaipur city. In addition to this, additional chief secretary Sudhansh Pant ordered all districts to use the three coupon systems and GPS tracking system in in areas requiring drinking water from tankers in the summer season. During the discussion on ‘Summer contingency plan’ with the departmental officials, Pant asked to explore the possibilities of getting monitoring of ‘OTP system’ during the supply of drinking water from tankers in urban and rural areas of all districts of the state. Pant further directed the officers to clear the outstanding power connections of drinking water schemes in all the districts and the cases of commissioning of hand pumps and tube-wells by March 15. He also instructed to arrange reliable ‘cross checking’ through repair of hand pumps through Asha Sahyogini, ANM and retired government personnel, etc. and said that through them leakage and repair works as well as drinking water supply was disrupted. Also, the systems can be further improved by getting quick notifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/phed-to-replace-old-water-pipes-at-14-locations-in-city/articleshow/81007544.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||ATM theft attempt at two centres||Hyderabad: Unknown offenders made an attempt to steal cash from two ATM centres in Neredmet on Monday night. The accused damaged the ATM of Axis bank but failed to open the cash chest. Police said the offenders also damaged an ATM of Punjab National Bank but could not access the cash chest. Police registered an attempt to theft case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/atm-theft-attempt-at-two-centres/articleshow/81007478.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chennai||388 slum children get experience of lifetime, cheer for Virat & his boys||CHENNAI: Silambarasan had always watched cricket matches on a neighbour’s TV set in his Triplicane tenement building, peeping through a window. On Tuesday, the 10-year-old was among 388 underprivileged children lustily cheering from the stands at the MA Chidambaram stadium as India competed a comprehensive victory over Englad in the second Test. Until now, watching a match live had been a dream for the ardent fan of the gentleman’s game. “During matches, my friends and I used to stand along the bylanes near the Chidambaram stadium in Chepauk and dance whenever the crowd cheered for a boundary,” Silambarasan said. For him and the other kids, the trip to the stadium, made possible by the Police Boys and Girls’ Club, is now a memory they will cherish forever. Institutionalized in 1956, with the idea of ensuring the welfare of at-risk children in slums, the club became defunct after a short run before being revived in 2003. A senior police officer said the children were awestruck by the atmosphere in the stadium. “We are happy that we were able to facilitate this experience for them,” he said, adding that the children were excited to see the Indian team players in the flesh. Many cheered loudly for captain Virat Kohli and Chennai’s own R Ashwin. Some of the children, who are being trained in the game in the police boys’ club, were seeing discussing the nuances of the game throughout their stay at the stadium. “Many of them were too excited to see their heroes. It was an opportunity for us to make their dream come true. Our commissioner was the brainchild behind this and we facilitated this with the help of Tamil Nadu Cricket Association,” said Triplicane deputy commissioner R Krishnaraj. Silambarasan, who appeared unable to get over the excitement of having watched a Test match live, said it had been a lifetime experience. Others in the group were as thrilled. “Virat anna (brother) urged us to whistle and we were all jumping with joy,” said Kanimozhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/338-slum-children-get-experience-of-lifetime-cheer-for-virat-his-boys/articleshow/81007521.cms||Sindhu Kannan
February 17, 2021||Varanasi||Gorakhpur’s terracotta isfamous in world now: CM||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the one district one product scheme’s aim of promoting indigenous and special products and crafts in UP have succeeded to a great extent and Gorakhpur’s terracotta has become a hit across the world. Interacting with students virtually after inaugurating the Abhyudaya scheme on Monday, the CM said, “People bought diyas and Laxmi-Ganesh idols made of terracotta, instead of those manufactured in China. The ODOP scheme has been very successful in giving a boost to micro, small and medium industries and will help make us self-reliant.” The CM was replying to a query put up by Sakshi Pandey of Gorakhpur through video conferencing. Talking to TOI later, Sakshi Pandey said, “I’m very happy that the government has taken this initiative and launched free coaching for competitive exams. There are many students who lack proper guidance due to financial and other constraints. This scheme will help such students a lot. I have applied to prepare for the civil services exam.” “The CM gave a detailed reply to my question and I am very happy after talking to him,” she added. Under Abhyudaya Scheme, free coaching will be provided to students for the preparation of competitive exams by the state government. In Gorakhpur, coaching classes under the scheme will start at DDU Gorakhpur University from Tuesday. Commissioner Jayant Narlikar said, 25,000 students had registered for coaching in Gorakhpur division of which around 1,200 were selected. The inauguration held virtually was attended by 900 civil services aspirants at Diksha Bhawan in DDU Gorakhpur University, 200 students aiming for NEET and JEE exams at Samvad Bhawan and 80 aspirants for defence services at conference hall in Vikas Bhawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpurs-terracotta-isfamous-in-world-now-cm/articleshow/80932397.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Eway accident claims 6, including NMMC vet & 3 of his family||NAVI MUMBAI: An NMMC veterinary officer involved in fighting Covid-19, Dr Vaibhav Zunjare (41), his wife, five-year-old daughter and mother were among six persons killed in an accident on the Expressway around Tuesday midnight . The driver of a container trailer lost control, reportedly because of brake failure, and rammed into their SUV, another SUV and two LCVs at Khopoli, about 4km from the Khalapur toll plaza on the Mumbai-bound carriageway of the Expressway around 12.40am on Tuesday. The trailer cleaner and a woman in the other SUV were the other two dead. Five persons sustained severe injuries in the mishap on the accident-prone 3km stretch around Dheku village in the Bhor Ghat section of the Expressway. The only one to survive from the family of the veterinary officer was Zunjare’s 11-year-old son, Arnav, who sustained grievous injuries and was admitted to Apollo hospital in CBD-Belapur. A relative of the veterinarian said Zunjare was bringing his family back from his hometown Solapur, where he had sent them for their safety in March last year as he had been assigned Covid duty here. Dr Ajay Garde, a colleague at the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation who was in another car ahead of the car Zunjare was driving, said he never realised there had been an accident and drove on till Navi Mumbai before returning to the mishap spot when Zunjare failed to take his calls. Senior inspector Dhanaji Kshirsagar of the Khopoli police station said Zunjare was with his wife, Vaishali (38), mother, Usha (63), daughter, Shreya, and his son. In the other SUV were Manju Nahar (58), a Goregaon resident, and her husband, Prakash (65), who was severely injured and admitted to Kokilaben hospital in Ambivali, and their driver, Swapnil Kamble (30), who sustained minor injuries. Trailer cleaner Kaluram Jat was crushed under the vehicle as it toppled onto the median. Trailer driver Kishan Chaudhary sustained severe injuries and was admitted to JJ Hospital in Mumbai. “We have booked the Chaudhary for rash and negligent driving causing death,” inspector Kshirsagar said. Assistant police inspector (Highway Safety Patrol) Jagdish Pardeshi said the container trailer was moving in the middle lane and first rammed an Eicher LCV ahead of it, after which it veered into the right lane and crashed into the Toyota Innova that the Zunjares were in. The Innova crashed into the road median. The trailer then crashed into a Hyundai Creta, in which the senior citizen couple from Goregaon was travelling. The trailer then went off the road and, as it moved on to the median, crashed into another LCV. “The drivers of the two tempos [LCVs] hit by the trailer escaped unhurt,” API Pardeshi said. Dr Garde said Zunjare had become a good friend of his at the NMMC. “He was a hardworking vet with a cheerful personality,” he said. Several NMMC officials arrived at the municipal morgue where Zunjare’s body was kept. Superintendent of NMMC hospital at Vashi Dr Prashant Javade said Zunjare was an enthusiastic body builder and an adventurous person who would go on road trips as far as Ladakh on a motorcycle. The accident happened in a “black spot”, a 3km stretch that is a concern because of its 3% gradient. There are no speed detection cameras installed on the stretch. MSRDC and Highway Safety Patrol officials are to hold a meeting to address the issues on the stretch. “There are also four curves in the area,” API Pardeshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/eway-accident-claims-6-including-nmmc-vet-3-of-his-family/articleshow/81014338.cms||George Mendonca
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Statement of porn film racket victim recorded under CrPC 164||Mumbai: In a bid to make their case stronger, the crime branch on Tuesday recorded the statement of the first victim rescued in the porn movie racket under Code of Criminal Procedure’s Section 164 before the magistrate. Officials said this was done so that the complainant does not turn hostile as “influential people are involved in the racket”. The crime branch’s property cell led by police inspectors Kedar Pawar, Dheeraj Kohli and Laxmikant Salunkhe had raided a Madh Island bungalow recently and caught five persons, including producer-director Yasmin Khan, while allegedly shooting a porn movie. Sources said the property cell is also likely to take over investigation into two complaints registered with Malvani police. Two aspiring models had complained that the arrested accused had forced them to act in porn films after promising them roles in web series. Police said they have written to various banks for two years’ statements of arrested model Gehana Vasisth alias Vandana Tiwari, Kenrin official Umesh Kamat, Yasmin Khan and her husband Dipankar alias Shyam Bannerji and Surat-based director Tanvir Hashmi, allegedly the major beneficiaries in the scam. Police have frozen Rs 36 lakh in Khan’s bank accounts. “The accused have received huge sums through subscriptions on mobile apps and there is also flow of money from UK-based company Kenrin as several porn movies shot by Vasisth and other accused have been uploaded on apps. Prima facie, one Arvindkumar has deposited money into Vasisth’s account,’’ said an officer. Police are also looking for one Yash Thakur who allegedly uploaded movies on various apps. Meanwhile, one aspiring model and actor has lodged a fresh complaint of rape, unnatural sex, cheating, assault and threats against Khan and Bannerji with Lonavala police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/statement-of-porn-film-racket-victim-recorded-under-crpc-164/articleshow/81004563.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 17, 2021||Goa||State’s Covid toll at 785 as 3 more succumb, recovery rate at 97.6%||Panaji: Three people succumbed to Covid-19 at the GMC on Tuesday, taking the state’s toll to 785, even as the tally of active Covid cases dropped to 503 with recoveries exceeding fresh cases for the day. The day saw 66 recoveries and 48 new cases. Two men – a 69-year-old from Chandor and a 57-year-old from Curtorim – and a 63-year-old woman from Quepem having severe comorbidities succumbed to the virus after being treated for over a week. The 57-year-old man was suffering from diabetes mellitus and morbid obesity, both of which increase the risk of other health problems. Meanwhile, the state is witnessing an overall decline in new infections. Most centres are reporting either one, two or no cases at all. The caseload at the Margao urban health centre, which has consistently seen a rise in infections over the past seven to eight months, has dropped. On Tuesday, its count — which otherwise ranged between 90 and 150 cases over the past month-and-a half — reduced to 50. In South Goa, the Shiroda primary health centre had zero cases and in North Goa, the tally of the primary health centre at Mayem came down to one. The state’s case positivity rate was at 3 % and recovery rate at 97.6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-covid-toll-at-785-as-3-more-succumb-recovery-rate-at-97-6/articleshow/81011298.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai woman gang-raped in 1BHK flat in Ahmedabad||A 19-year-old woman from Mumbai, who went to Ahmedabad to work as a hostess at catering events, was allegedly raped on Sunday night when she had passed out by Sahil Shaikh, the catering contractor and his friend, Taskeel Qureshi, in the presence of Sahil’s girlfriend, Tanya Danawala. There were six other women, all catering workers, in the 1BHK flat at Narol, when the alleged offence occurred. Narol police on Monday filed an FIR for gangrape against Sahil and Taskeel, residents of Juhapura, and Danawala, from Surat, for abetting the crime. A police source said the victim had gone to the city on Saturday with six women, and was put up by the contractor at a flat in Akruti Township, Narol. Around 10.30pm, the three and the victim were drinking alcohol in the bedroom, while the six others were in the hall. The four then came out and the victim passed out on a sofa. “Around 11.30pm, the two men carried her to the bedroom and raped her one after the other. The girlfriend then went into the bedroom. She and Taskeel came out after a while,” the source said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-woman-gang-raped-in-1bhk-flat-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/81006698.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Tentative Stds X, XII board exam schedule out for ease of studies||PUNE: Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education on Tuesday announced a tentative schedule for the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and Secondary School Certificate(SSC) examination. The standard XII board examination would be held tentatively from April 23 to May 21, while standard X board examination will be held from April 29 to May 20. A detailed probable schedule of the examinations is available on the official website of the board www.mahahsscboard.in A statement from the board also warned students not to believe in any other examination time table available on social media or any other platform and to check the schedule given by the respective schools or colleges. “The probable schedule of written examination for April-May 2021 has been announced for the purpose of curriculum planning for schools/junior colleges and students as well as to reduce examination stress among students,” Ashok Bhosale, secretary of the board said. “Prior to the examination, the schedule given to the schools or junior colleges in printed form will be considered the final schedule. Examination dates should be ascertained from the printed schedule given to the students by the respective school or college. Examination schedules declared by any other website or on social media platforms must not be considered as valid by the students,” Bhosale added. If the schools or junior colleges have any suggestions or objections about these schedules, they should be sent them in writing to the divisional board as well as to the state board by February 22. The suggestions received thereafter will not be considered, the release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tentative-stds-x-xii-board-exam-schedule-out-for-ease-of-studies/articleshow/81011377.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Public labs face pressure as Nagpur civil body increases tracing & testing||NAGPUR: Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) decision to increase tracing of high risk contacts and testing across different groups in the city is likely to increase workload for the five public labs. They have already starting witnessing a spike in number of samples. On Monday and Tuesday, NMC traced a whopping 4,984 close contacts of positive cases in all 10 zones. Officials said they were being convinced to get themselves tested for Covid. “Some have given samples, others are lined up,” said NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar. The daily testing remained low a week ago but has now gradually risen, officials said. The approximate capacity of the five viral research and diagnostics labs (VRDL) at IGGMCH, GMCH, AIIMS, Nagpur University and NEERI is 3,600 samples per day. With the permission of district collector, MAFSU lab has been allowed to stop Covid testing. On February 10, the five labs collectively processed 1,924 samples from NMC’s primary health centres and other collection points. On February 14, the numbers rose to 2,800. On Mondays, the figures are lower as NMC’s centres are shut on Sundays. As per NMC record, 3,800 samples were collected on Monday but the labs processed only 2,241. This indicates the labs staggered around 1,600 samples and the results of these will come on Wednesday. Lab officials TOI spoke to admitted that the number of samples had increased in the last few days. But they said there was no backlog as of Tuesday but pressure would increase with rise in samples. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has instructed the labs to process the samples and give result the same day. The civic body also started testing of delivery boys in addition to mobile vans deployed in crowded places in different areas. However, the drive drew lukewarm response as only 14 samples of hawkers were collected from Sitabuldi market. One of them has tested postive, officials said. Similarly, three persons tested postive at the mobile van deployed in Mangalwari zone. Here too, only 26 people got tested. Zonal medical officers are appealing to the residents of the nine emerging hotspots to get themselves tested. Focus is on those who have attended social functions or marriage ceremonies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/public-labs-face-pressure-as-nmc-ups-tracing-testing/articleshow/81007595.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Maa stretch gets wires to curb kite string accidents||KOLKATA: KMDA has completed the pilot project of putting up wires on both flanks of a 30m stretch of Maa flyover to stop accidents triggered by kite strings. Both flanks of the flyover remained closed from 11pm to 5am for a few days this month for KMDA to paint the crash barriers as well as fix the wires. After consultation with police, it was decided that the wires would be fixed at the Park Circus No. 4 bridge area for the pilot project. KMDA engineers who carried out the work said that keeping in mind strong winds, slim long poles and light wire were selected instead of a full net cover for the job. “These were chosen as they are light but rigid and can withstand strong winds. This is aesthetically pleasing as well. The entire stretch of Maa flyover can be provided with wires,” said an official. KMDA took up the pilot project following the Kolkata traffic police’s proposal to install 4ft nets on the southern flank of Maa flyover to prevent kite strings from injuring bikers. At least 26 such accidents have occurred on Maa flyover over the past three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/maa-stretch-gets-wires-to-curb-kite-string-accidents/articleshow/81007602.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||No mask: BMC fines 13,000 people a day, makes Rs 25L||MUMBAI: With the rise in Covid-19 cases in the city and several people lowering their guard, the BMC has once again intensified its drive to fine those who are not wearing masks. According to BMC data, the civic body is fining around 13,000 people a day and collecting over Rs 25 lakh in fines. So far the BMC has caught over 15 lakh persons for not wearing a mask and collected Rs 30.5 crore in fines since March 2020. BMC officials say there are 1,200 marshals deployed across the city, with 50 marshals in each of the 24 municipal wards to fine people for not wearing masks. In November, to encourage Covid-19-appropriate behaviour among citizens the BMC had announced that it would provide ‘free’ masks to those found without face cover in public and also collect a fine of Rs 200 from them. On New Year's Eve, the BMC caught over 3,000 people not wearing masks in public places and collected nearly Rs 27 lakh from them in fines. A day later, on January 1, 12,882 such offenders were fined a total Rs 25.6 lakh. As of February 15, a total of 15,16,398 people have been fined for not wearing masks and Rs 30.69 crore have been collected in fines. Officials said that they also asked some offenders to do community services, like sweeping the street, as they didn't have money to pay the penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-mask-bmc-fines-13000-people-a-day-makes-rs-25l/articleshow/81007713.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Midweek rain on Met radar in Kolkata||KOLKATA: From 20.8°C on Monday, the minimum temperature dipped to 18.8°C on Tuesday. Despite the two notches dip in mercury, Met officials see no possibility for revival of the chill. The city may also get light rain between Wednesday and Thursday. “The temperature will remain more or less the same for the next few days. There is a slight chance of rain on Wednesday and Thursday,” said GK Das, director (weather) at Regional Meterological Centre Kolkata. Currently, a cyclonic circulation has developed over Madhya Pradesh. This system is likely to travel towards the eastern region, triggering rain in Jharkhand and adjoining West Bengal. The maximum temperature at 31.2°C was a notch above the normal mark. This might dip slightly in the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/midweek-rain-on-met-radar/articleshow/81007581.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: FASTag fracas slows traffic to a crawl; 76% compliance on day 1||CHENNAI: It is supposed to make highway travel a breeze, but on the day FASTag became compulsory at toll plazas on national highways, there was chaos and confusion. Morning traffic came to a crawl at toll plazas on Chennai’s outskirts as motorists who did not have FASTag argued with toll employees over double fees that non-FASTag vehicles had to pay. Though Union road transport ministry had announced that FASTag will be mandatory at all toll plazas on national highways from Monday midnight, a section of vehicle owners, supposedly unaware, were annoyed by the strict enforcement. Despite that, of the 9.1 lakh vehicles that crossed 47 toll plazas in Tamil Nadu, 6.98 lakh (76%) were FASTag users. At the Vanagaram toll plaza on Chennai Bypass, some of the non-FASTag users refused to pay the toll even after the staff showed them a copy of the ministry’s guidelines on FASTag. Vehicles piled up in the only lane which accepted cash alongside electronic payments through FASTag, for more than 1km. Soon, a dozen policemen were deployed to regulate vehicles and by the evening, flow of traffic had eased. “Even then it took 15 to 20 minutes to cross the toll gate. This was because the FASTag scanners were not quick enough to read the stickers on the car windshields. So each vehicle had to wait for at least 20 to 30 seconds,” said G Ganesh, a cab driver from Porur. At the Paranur toll plaza in Chengalpet, employees were provided with handheld scanners so that such delays could be avoided. There was rush at point-of-sale counters set up for people to subscribe for FASTag. Given the increase in demand, it took longer than usual to create new FASTag accounts and recharge existing accounts. Also, the recharged amount did not get reflected in the accounts immediately, irking some motorists. A text message that is sent after the amount is deducted from the FASTag account at the toll plaza was delivered to registered mobile numbers after almost two hours delay, causing confusion. “When NHAI can fix a monitor facing the toll staff inside the cabin, why can’t they install similar ones facing the drivers so that they will know how much amount has been deducted and what is their FASTag account balance,” asked S Yuvaraj from Tamil Nadu Truck Owners Association. In response, an NHAI official said these were “teething problems and will be sorted out”. “Within one or two months, steps will be taken to ensure that 100% transactions are through FASTag,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fastag-fracas-slows-traffic-to-a-crawl-76-compliance-on-day-1/articleshow/81007610.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan University classes start but students got no IDs||JAIPUR: Rajasthan University (RU) has shut its online classes from Monday and started physical classes in the university as well as constituent colleges. However, this has created difficulty for students who travel by public transport as their identity cards are yet to be given. Since January 18, higher education institutes are permitted to start classroom teaching along with the online classes. With the relaxations of pandemic rules by the government, opening up of the entire market including the cinema halls, RU has decided to make the teaching completely offline. Rajeev Jain, vice-chancellor of Rajasthan University, said, “We find it feasible to start the classroom teaching now as the entire economy has opened up. People have no fear to go in public and vaccination has also started. Hence, we have decided to go completely offline.” Many students have complained earlier that in online classes network connectivity and remote learning has not been very effective. The decision to go for classroom is welcomed by students but many students who do not have identity cards as they were not issued last year due to pandemic, are facing problem in public transport. In public transport, students get concession in tickets which is applicable only if students have identity card, but closure of educational institutes has impacted that. Govind Malinda, a student of Maharaja College, said that many students coming from nearby villages are suffering the most. “Travelling from Bassi takes around Rs 100 round trip but on student identity card, it takes only Rs 20. It is really difficult for students to travel every day to college without identity card. We protested in Maharaja College two days back regarding this,” said Malinda. Rajeev Jain has assured that due to pandemic such routine things got delayed but very soon tenders will be invited to make identity card for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/offline-classes-begin-at-ru-but-no-i-card-for-students/articleshow/81007623.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Late registration: Candidates of SDPI to contest as independents||Ahmedabad: Candidates of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political wing of the controversial Popular Front of India (PFI), will have to contest the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) elections as independent candidates.This is because the political outfit failed to register itself with the State Election Commission (SEC) and get a symbol to contest the poll as a registered political party. SDPI named nine candidates from five municipal wards — Maktampura, Jamalpur, Viratnagar, Behrampura and Dariapur — of which eight are contesting as independents.When contacted, Ikram Shaikh, state general secretary of SDPI, said that the party could not get itself registered with the SEC in time. “We applied for registration in January and sought an autorickshaw symbol to contest the AMC election. We are expecting to get registered by next month. Our candidates will contest the AMC elections as independent candidates,” he said. Shaikh admitted that since most Gujarat office-bearers of SDPI are professionals with no political background, they were not aware of the procedures that had to be followed to get registered with the SEC.Gulbarg Society case survivor Firozkhan Pathan, who had contested the 2019 general election against Union home minister Amit Shah from the Gandhinagar LS constituency, is SDPI candidate from Maktampura ward. “It is unfortunate that despite joining the SDPI, I have had to contest as an independent candidate because the party failed to register itself in time,” said Pathan.The SDPI has had a presence in Gujarat for over two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/late-registration-candidates-of-sdpi-to-contest-as-independents/articleshow/81007651.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Goa||Goa: UK returnee via Mumbai tests +ve||PANAJI: After direct UK flights to and from Goa were stopped in January, the state’s Covid facility for UK returnees has received its first case. The woman arrived via Mumbai and has been isolated at ESI hospital, Margao. She had arrived in Mumbai from the UK on February 7 with a negative Covid report. However, she reportedly developed a fever and when tested at a private hospital in South Goa, was found positive on February 13. She is awaiting her genomic testing report. According to guidelines from the Union health ministry, all passengers returning from the UK till February 14 who test positive, must be isolated in an institutional isolation facility in a separate (isolation) unit. State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said instructions have been received to continue this existing protocol till February 20. “We are expecting new guidelines,” he said. “Presently those returning from the UK who test positive for Covid-19 are isolated at the ESI hospital until they receive their results from genomic sequencing (which checks if they are carrying the new variant) or until their RT-PCR tests are negative when they are retested after 14 days,” he said. According to the ministry’s protocol, information regarding any passenger who moves to another state is sent to the state health authority. “All airports share the data with us. Once we receive this data we call and follow up with the returnees. Those who test negative are allowed 14 days home isolation,” Betodkar said. India had limited flight connectivity to and from the UK from January 8, allowing movement only from five international airports: Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai. After the new variant of SARS-CoV-2 was detected in the UK, the SOP was released on December 22 stating that all those who travelled from or transited from the UK from November 25 to December 23 be isolated. In Goa, 68 were isolated at ESI hospital at the time after they had tested positive. Several of them raised a hue and cry at being isolated with other returnees and at having to wait for days on end for their results from genomic sequencing to arrive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/uk-returnee-via-mumbai-tests-ve/articleshow/81011360.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Goa||Mt Carmel church facade declared heritage site by TCP dept, says MLA||Panaji: The facade of the once imposing Mount Carmel church in Chimbel has been declared a heritage site by the town and country planning department, said Santa Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes. “We have obtained heritage status from the TCP department,” he said. “Once, the church stood at this site of 30,000 square metres. Now, only the facade and some ruins remain.” The land, he said, would now be reverted to the Mount Carmel priests and church authorities. The site has been subject of sustained interest of heritage lovers and activists, who petitioned the state archaeology department in 2019, after which it explored the ruins. While Provedoria (the state-run institute for public assistance) planned to construct a building in the property, the heritage status will not preclude them from doing so. “The Provedoria has proposed a new building using central funds for a new old age home, but we will stop the project. They can construct the building outside the site. There are many old buildings that are dangerously weak and can be demolished for the new Provedoria building,” Fernandes said. The church was built in 1740, and the clergy was headed by Goan cloistered Carmelites instead of Portuguese clergy. A Provedoria-run old age home is a familiar landmark at this spot, located along the main road east of Panaji-Old Goa bypass. However, the high walls and thick vegetation concealed the sprawling site. Since the ruins are now granted heritage status under the conservation committee of the TCP, it doesn’t come under the purview of the archaeology department. The Mount Carmel Conservation Association (MCCA), Chimbel, said the site’s sanctity must be maintained by the TCP department. “Chimbel is a poor village with not many facilities, but the church premises must be restored to its earlier glory,” said secretary Ana Gracias. “The space can be a garden area for senior citizens and children, but there should be no construction there. We object to such projects within the sacred site. The authorities, however, must open the gates of the facade for people to visit the place.” Meanwhile, an archaeology department official said that it would consider “granting it the status of a ‘protected monument’, but it will take some time”. “There was an urgent need to declare it a heritage structure under TCP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mt-carmel-church-facade-declared-heritage-site-by-tcp-dept-says-mla/articleshow/81011420.cms||Nida Sayed
February 17, 2021||Goa||To inject faith in vax, state motivates 100 civic workers||Margao: At least 100 workers of the Margao Municipal Council on Tuesday attended a session to tackle vaccine hesitancy and motivate frontline workers to get vaccinated.  Two sanitation workers shared their experiences of battling Covid-19 along with the psychological trauma of being isolated from their families, following which the other frontline workers were told that prevention is better than cure and were asked to decide wisely. Medical officer of Hospicio, Dr Ravin Rego, told the participants that he completed both his doses and had experienced no side effects from the vaccine. He spoke about the need to follow Covid appropriate behaviour of sanitising, wearing masks, social distancing and getting vaccinated to be free from Covid-19. Frontline workers of the Cuncolim municipality on Tuesday were also educated about the vaccine and encouraged to get vaccinated. Among the queries raised by frontline workers was whether they could take the vaccine if they were diabetic and on medication and insulin, if they had history of allergy to a particular food, if they were asthmatic, if they are taking treatment for cancer, whether their children could take it and how long they would have to wait for the second dose, among other queries. The participants were told that the vaccine now is being administered free of cost to those registered on the Cowin portal and that the government could put a price on it in the future. Dr Rego showed them his final certificate for Covid-19 vaccination and told them of its importance, explaining that five countries have already made it compulsory for those entering to produce a vaccination certificate. He stated that around 13,000 beneficiaries in the state have been vaccinated till date. Similar sessions for the staff of the collectorate, booth level officers and police personnel in South Goa have been organised at the instance of deputy collector Jyoti Kumari. “There has been good attendance at these sessions. They are being held to motivate and remove any doubts that frontline workers may have about the vaccine,” Kumari said.  Vaccination against Covid-19 for frontline workers began on February 8. Till date, more than 3,000 frontline workers have received their first dose of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-inject-faith-in-vax-state-motivates-100-civic-workers/articleshow/81011392.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||New Town book fair from Feb 26||Kolkata: The seventh New Town book fair will be organized at the New Town mela ground from February 26 to March 7. The book fair, which will be inaugurated by Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen, will have close to 50 stalls. “All Covid protocols will be followed strictly. Already, 47 stalls have been booked,” said Urmila Sen, president of New Town Boi Mela Samity, the organizer. Eminent personalities, including poets Joy Goswami, Subodh Sarkar and Pankaj Saha, theatre personality Debshankar Halder, are expected to be present at the inauguration. The two-day fifth national poetry festival will also be held from February 28 as part of the book fair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-book-fair-from-feb-26/articleshow/81007697.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||BARC ex-CEO had direct role in scam, says public prosecutor||Mumbai: There is “direct involvement” of Partho Dasgupta, former BARC (Broadcast Audience Research Council) chief executive officer, in the TRP manipulation scam, said special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray on Tuesday while opposing Dasgupta’s bail plea before the Bombay high court bench of Justice P D Naik. The court concluded the hearing. Dasgupta’s counsel Aabad Ponda submitted that it “would be a travesty of justice” if the 55-year-old, incarcerated in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai since his arrest last December, is denied bail. Ponda cited Dasgupta’s health and said that once the chargesheet is filed, which it has been in the case, there is no need for his continued custody. On the arguments by the police of “further investigations” pending and the fear that he would tamper with the witnesses and evidence as an “influential person,” Ponda said further investigations can continue indefinitely, and it cannot mean Dasgupta is forever denied liberty. He said there are judgments on ‘tampering’ to show courts can grant bail with strict conditions. Ponda also said there was not a single complaint from any advertiser. Hiray cited a witness statement to argue an ex-employee of BARC had informed a magistrate that she had “noticed” Dasgupta was involved in the scam so that a “channel could make profits from advertisements.” He also cited a legal notice by Times Now against BARC to back his opposition to bail. Hiray cited the purported WhatsApp chats between Dasgupta and Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami, where issues of national security were also discussed, to “show the thick relations between the two” – the “network channel head and Dasgupta.” He said “at one point in (the) chats, Arnab Goswami even said that Dasgupa was his alter ego.” The prosecutor referred to a ‘recovery panchanama’ (witness document) of December 2020, which he said mentioned money being transferred by Goswami, which was “unnecessary” and could only be a “form of gratification.” Dasgupta’s counsel Ponda objected to any reliance on such historical documents, saying they were “inadmissible.” On Monday, Ponda had refuted allegations of Dasgupta being given a watch by a channel editor, saying he has proof of its purchase from his and his wife’s expense. Referring to alleged chats between Dasgupta and Goswami, Ponda said, “They cannot be considered as evidence without any corroboration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/barc-ex-ceo-had-direct-role-in-scam-says-public-prosecutor/articleshow/81011489.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Two abuse Dalit man for wearing ‘paghdi’, arrested||PALANPUR: A woman sarpanch’s husband and her son were arrested for allegedly hurling caste-based slurs at a Dalit man for wearing a ‘paghdi’ (turban) during his sister’s pre-wedding procession in Nandisan village of Modasa town in Aravalli district on Monday night. Police arrested Jayendrasinh Chauhan and his son Dharamrajsinh for abusing Dhaval Parmar. According to police, Dhaval wearing a turban was leading his sister’s pre-wedding procession on Monday night. His sister was following him in a car behind. When the procession reached the main market of the village, woman sarpanch’s son Dharamrajsinh stopped Dhaval and told him: “You have no right to wear the ‘paghdi’. Only Rajputs can wear it as it is their custom.” He also demanded that Dhaval remove the turban and give it to him. This lead to the commotion and this is when sarpanch’s husband Jayendrasinh reached the spot and began abusing Dhaval for not removing his turban. Some villagers informed the police, who rushed to the scene and prevented a flare-up. They took Dharmrajsinh and his father Jayendrasinh into custody. The duo was later booked under the SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act and other sections of the IPC. Meanwhile, the marriage function was held on Tuesday under police protection. “The function was held without any trouble,” said Modasa rural sub-inspector SN Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dalit-man-abused-for-wearing-paghdi-in-modasa-village-two-held/articleshow/81002630.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||Excise dept receives 2,132 applications for e-auction||Jaipur: After the state government announced that liquor shops will be allocated through e-auction instead of lottery, the excise department on Tuesday organised a workshop to ensure hassle free participation. As the process will be conducted for the first time in the state, the department has also set up help desk to assist the applicants. A senior official said, “Till date, the department has received 2,132 applications. On February 9, a meeting with the traders was held to apprise them about the new system. Similarly, on February 13, in a video conference, e-mitra kiosk operators were educated on filling a registration form.” According to the new policy, composite liquor stores (where IMFL and country liquor will be sold) will be allotted to the highest bidder. In Jaipur, currently, there are 404 composite liquor shops. “The list of the shops has been uploaded on the website. The registration process for the participants has already started. The e-auction will be conducted in five phases between February 23 and 27,” said a source. An official informed that a person will not be allotted more than five shops in state and not more than two shops in a district. To participate in bidding for a shop having a reserve price of Rs 50 lakh, an applicant has to deposit Rs 40,000 application fee along with Rs 50,000 month. Similarly, for shops having a reserve price more than Rs 50 lakh and up to Rs 2 crore, the application fee will be Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh security money. Applicants will have to pay Rs 60,000 application fee along with Rs 2 lakh security money to bid for a shop having a reserve price more than Rs 2 crore. The application fee will be non-refundable, the department said. After amending the policy, the state government is expecting to earn Rs 13,000 revenue in financial year 2021-2022. A senior official said, “We have received decent number of registrations. The number would increase once the weeding season is over and last date will approach nearer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/excise-dept-receives-2132-applications-for-e-auction/articleshow/81007688.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Names missing from vaccine list, IMA calls on Nagpur civil body||NAGPUR: Members of Indian Medical Association Nagpur branch, on Tuesday, called on additional commissioner of NMC Jalaj Sharma and raised complaints about vaccination faced by the doctors across the city. “IMA had sent the list of our members due for vaccination in a proper format but some names are still missing. As we thought there must be some problem with data uploading from NMC’s side, we met the additional Commissioner Sharma today,” said IMA Nagpur President Dr Archana Kothari, who led the delegation. The doctors also met NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar who is looking after vaccination drive. “We were told that the data received till December 2020 has been uploaded on the CoWin app. The data received after December was uploaded till the site was open. The App accepts only correct entries and rejects wrong or incomplete entries automatically,” said Dr Dinesh Agrawal. Doctors were told that the website has been freezed by central government for data uploading and the fresh data can be uploaded only when it re-opens. “They (NMC) also don’t know when the site will be opened,” said Dr Kothari. “But, we have the data about the doctors whose names were not uploaded or rejected. We will hand it over to the NMC soon and we expect that the same will get uploaded once the site reopens,” she added. Additional commissioner Jalaj Sharma told TOI that the issue will be resolved once the site re-opens. “We handed over the list of registered doctors and health care workers to the IMA members for ready reference. They can now see whose name is missing and prepare a fresh list of those names,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/names-missing-from-vax-list-ima-calls-on-nmc/articleshow/81007705.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: City greens worried, seek legal advice||KOLKATA: The convenors of the Bengal chapter of Fridays for Future — the international movement of school students initiated by Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg to protect environment — have been seeking legal counsel and have called for a meeting of multiple environmental movement groups and science societies in Bengal to garner support in their favour after the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi. The decision is also triggered by the issuance of non-bailable arrest warrants against Ravi and other environment activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk in the Thunberg toolkit row. Bangalore-based Disha Ravi is one of the founding members of the India chapter of Fridays for Future (FFF) — an international movement of school students initiated by Thunberg who skip Friday classes to participate in demonstrations, demanding action from political leaders to protect environment. FFF has active local groups in 7,500 cities — including Kolkata — spanning across all continents with more than 1.4 crore members. Even as students and activists across the nation have come out in her support criticising the arrest, the convenors of FFF Bengal want to tread the next steps of protest with caution. “We are trying to contact some environmental lawyers and human rights lawyers and make a network so that if something happens to us, we have some back-up plan and lawyers to support us,” said Brishti Chanda, one of the founding members of FFF-Bengal. The NGO has also called for a meeting this Saturday at the East Library Hall in Sealdah to form a network of environmental activists and garner support. “We are trying to form an umbrella of environmental organisations so that we can address the issue together,” she added. Speaking to TOI, several members of the organization said Ravi’s arrest and the subsequent warrants against other activists have sent shockwaves among a large number of members and have left many of them unnerved. “I was in constant touch with all three. I have also used the toolkit. Disha-di’s phone is now with Delhi police. So, we can potentially be under threat. My family members asked me to lie low,” said a young activist and a student of Class XII. Another activist said that she had already consulted with a lawyer and the latter has asked her to not to speak on the issue in public domain or on social media right now. Such has been the scare that the official statement issued by the FFF-West Bengal on its Facebook page criticising the arrest only received 8 likes and 17 shares even though it has 1,760 odd followers on the page.  “When I had shared the news link on our WhatsApp group, some members called me to not talk about the issue as our numbers can be tracked. Most members have even stopped communicating since the arrest,” said Chanda. “People think environmental movements are apolitical and so many of them join in the beginning. But they need to realise none of the movements can be apolitical. We had a large bunch of 60 school students who had joined us but they left as we began speaking about farm bills. Farms laws will not just impact the farmers but also the food security and land quality and the overall environment of the land. So it is important to raise a voice and members need to understand that,” added Chanda. Lawyer Jayanta Narayan Chattopadhyay found a legal anachronism the way Disha Ravi was framed. “Most of the sections imposed against her are archaic, created in British India with the aim of repressing people of India and suppressing their voices. Significantly, the people in power, who apparently championing democracy, used these same set of sections against their own countrymen. Voices of protest and dissent are no criminality,” said Chattopadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-greens-worried-seek-legal-advice/articleshow/81007663.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||HC imposes cost of Rs 10 lakh each on two petitioners for frivolous litigation||Jaipur: The high court has imposed a cost of Rs 10 lakh each on two petitioners who approached it with petitions without availing the statutory remedy available to them. The single bench of justice Ashok Kumar Gaur in his order said, “The cost has been imposed as the petition is wholly frivolous. The petitioners having got statutory remedy still asked the court to decide on the petition. The choice given to the petitioner to approach proper authority was not availed.” The court was giving judgment on two similar petitions related to mining department. Petitioner Pradeep Kumar approached the court after the mining department slapped a demand notice of Rs 6,28,62,500 for alleged illegal mining on December 22 last year. The petitioner has a mining lease for masonry stones on a hectare of land at village Dholat under Pahadi tehsil in Bharatpur district for 30 years from March 2011. The department on November 10 served a show cause notice for illegal mining. But the petitioner instead of replying to the notice and availing the statutory appeals with the department, approached the court challenging the demand notice of the mining department. The court said the demand notice was issued after giving sufficient opportunity to the petitioner to put forward his case before appropriate authorities and appeals options available. The petition action of approaching the court tantamount to burdening the court with frivolous litigation. The amount has to be deposited within four weeks on the account of the Rajasthan legal services authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-imposes-cost-of-rs-10-lakh-each-on-two-petitioners-for-frivolous-litigation/articleshow/81007747.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||Auto driver, two aides rob passenger of phone & cash||Pune: An autorickshaw driver and two accomplices threatened and robbed a passenger of his cellphone and cash, collectively worth Rs8,000, in Moshi on Sunday evening. The passenger, an electrician, lodged an FIR late on Monday night as the suspects had threatened to kill him if he approached the police. An officer from the Bhosari MIDC police said the complainant, Anshu Singh, on Sunday around 4pm, took an autorickshaw from Talawade for Moshi. “There were two more passengers in the autorickshaw when Singh boarded the vehicle,” the officer said. The driver drove the autorickshaw off the road on nearing the crematorium in Moshi and stopped on the pretext of answering nature’s call. “The three men threatened Singh and snatched his cellphone and cash, collectively worth Rs8,000. They also threatened to kill him and asked him not to raise an alarm. Soon after, the suspects left Singh there and drove away,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/auto-driver-two-aides-rob-passenger-of-phone-cash/articleshow/81011462.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chennai||Tech glitches delay intra-state travel||CHENNAI: Technical glitches delayed inter-district travel on day one of mandatory FASTag regime in Tamil Nadu. As demand increased steeply, almost all bank servers were slow, delaying transactions. “Even after paying ₹500, the amount did not get topped up in my FASTag account. So I ended up paying double the fee in three toll plazas en route Chennai. If they can’t upgrade their servers to offer such services instantly, what is the point in mandating it in such a hurried manner,” asked S Ramesh, who travelled from Hosur to the city on Tuesday. A few others waited at Point-Of-Sale (PoS) counters set up at toll plazas or mid-way for the recharge amount to be get credited in their accounts. On the Trichy-Thanjavur and Trichy-Karur national highways, car owners and drivers parked vehicles near toll plazas and stood in queues to get FASTags, affecting free movement of other vehicles. “Given the increase in demand, we have stocked adequate RFID stickers for the next two weeks,” said the employee of a private bank which had set up a stall at a toll plaza. A similar trend was seen in the western districts, but there was no traffic congestion as most toll plazas had deployed security guards at least 200m-300m ahead so that vehicles without FASTag were stopped right there. Manager of a toll gate in Salem said, “Staff explained about the double fee rule and guided them to a help desk in case they wanted to buy a new RFID tag”. At toll plazas in Madurai, though users were disappointed with the double fee rule, there was no congestion as vehicle movement was less. An NHAI official said changes were brought in recently allowing account balance to become negative. Banks are now allowed to recover the amount from users when they replenish their account while recharging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tech-glitches-delay-intra-state-travel/articleshow/81007776.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Revanth Reddy to go on statewide padayatra||HYDERABAD: TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Tuesday said he will undertake a padayatra in the entire state after obtaining permission from the AICC. Addressing a public meeting at Ravirala to mark the conclusion of Rajiv Bharosa Yatra, Revanth said the route map will be decided by the AICC. Party senior leaders did not attend the public meeting amid speculation that he undertook the Bharosa yatra for 10 days without seeking permission from the AICC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-to-go-on-statewide-padayatra/articleshow/81011480.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 17, 2021||Ludhiana||Second accused held in Sahnewal murder case||Ludhiana: The Sahnewal police on Tuesday arrested the second accused, an 18-year-old, in the murder case of Moti Lal, 55, of Kanganwal area. It is alleged that the accused was sodomised twice by Lal due to which he, along with his accomplice Amit Kapoor, killed Lal. The first accused had already been arrested by the police on Monday. The police arrested the 18-year-old from Mandi Gobindgarh following a tip-off. Sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, SHO at police station, Sahnewal, said the trio, including the victim and both accused, were drug addicts and used to consume drugs together. Under the influence of drugs, Lal allegedly sodomised the 18-year-old twice. He told Amit about it, who also fought with Lal over this matter four days before the murder. After that the duo hatched a conspiracy to kill Lal. The SI added that the duo called Lal to a vacant plot on the pretext of having drugs. There they beheaded him with a sharp-edged weapon. They dumped the body at the plot and fled. On Sunday, Amit in an inebriated condition confessed to his crime following which the police came to know about the case and arrested him. A murder case has also been registered against the duo in this matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/second-accused-held-in-sahnewal-murder-case/articleshow/81004131.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: One hybrid lane from Wednesday; traffic marshals along 6km to guide non-FASTag vehicles||KOLKATA: From Wednesday, one lane will be earmarked for vehicles without FASTag. Traffic marshals will be posted all along 3km on both sides of toll plazas for guiding vehicles without FASTag to the lane meant for them. Other lanes will be kept open exclusively for FASTag-compliant vehicles, said a NHAI official. After Monday’s chaos on national highways in the state, the situation didn’t improve much on Tuesday. There were heated exchange of words between NHAI officials manning toll plazas and motorists with and without the tag. Those without the tag argued for long before paying double the toll. This led to snarls near toll plazas. “The moment such arguments broke out, the dispersal of vehicles became slow,” said a NHAI official at Dankuni toll plaza. In fact, toll plaza managers let go a few people who blocked the lanes saying they didn't have money to pay the penalty. “We cannot hold back a vehicle inordinately at the toll gate. The queue will be too long to handle,” said an official. On the other hand, those with the tag were furious for having to wait in spite to complying with the new norm. “There will be teething issues on initial days. People will take time to adopt the convenience of electronic toll payment. But in course of time, everything will be smooth. We are expecting 100% electronic toll collection in a couple of months,” said NHAI chief general manager (Kolkata region) R P Singh. NHAI regional office has issued strict instructions to all 25 toll plazas in Bengal that in no way a FASTag vehicle can be slowed down because of vehicles without the tag. The extreme left lane of toll plazas will be a hybrid lane from Wednesday. Environmental activist Somendra Mohan Ghosh, who travelled to Shantiniketan, said: “I had to pay double the toll. I felt a bit awkward to pay the penalty in cash. If you are collecting toll electronically, you should collect penalties electronically.” S Sridhar, a motorist, hoped that there would be smoother exit at toll booths. He alleged that RFID readers often do not function properly. This malfunctioning readers lead to harassment of motorists with valid FASTag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-hybrid-lane-from-wed-traffic-marshals-along-6km-to-guide-non-fastag-vehicles/articleshow/81007756.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Wind power firms to lose government land for not starting projects||JAIPUR: The wind power developers who had taken government land and have not been able to execute the projects are set to lose their land. Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd (RRECL) has written a letter to the revenue department to expedite the process for cancellation of the land. In the letter, RRECL said that more than 3000 bigha has beenallotted to about 20 companies which has not developed projects. “The revenueland allotted to the projects in these cases was either not utilized bydevelopers within the permissible period of excess land surrendered bydevelopers had been recommended by RREC for cancellation as per Rajasthan LandRevenue (Allotment of Land for setting up of Power plant based on RenewableEnergy Sources), 2007,” said the letter. When TOI contacted RRECL chairman and managing director SubodhAgarwal, he said, “The state government has set a 30,000 MW target in the solarenergy policy. We require land for these projects. If the developers havefailed to execute projects, the land should be returned to the government andit can be used for other projects.” Even though the renewable power journey of Rajasthan startedwith wind in 1999 having 2 MW, focus has now shifted to solar energy due tocheaper rates developers offer. After 2016, there have been no new tenders for wind power following the scrapping of feed-in tariffs and bidding was made mandatoryfor wind projects like in solar. The bidding regime discouraged developers as their marginswere reduced significantly and there was no policy support to resurrect thesector. In fact, new wind power capacity addition fell to 45 MW in the pastfour years. “In fact, wind projects could not withstand the competitionfrom solar ones. That’s why many people who had taken land could not developprojects. Majorly, the private sector is to blame for itself for the collapseof the sector as it did not want auction. Whereas solar became popular becauseof auctions as rates started coming down attracting many players. That was themain reason why the land could not be utilized,” said a wind power developer. The letter addressed to the principal secretary, revenuedepartment, said, “The unutilized land areas have great potential for wind orsolar energy generation. You are, therefore, requested to expedite thecancellation of allotment of these huge chunks of land allotted to winddevelopers or power producers, under intimation to this office, so that theseland may be considered for allotment to new renewable project developers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wind-power-firms-to-lose-govtland-for-not-starting-projects/articleshow/81007801.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chennai||HC wants AU to resume scrapped MTech courses||Chennai: The Madras high court on Tuesday directed Anna University to ascertain by February 18 the possibilities of resuming MTech Biotechnology and MTech Computational Biology courses which were suspended due to differences with the Centre in implementing reservation for admission. The university should assess the possibilities of conducting the course by following Tamil Nadu government’s 69% reservation this year. From next year, Centre’s 49.5% reservation can be followed, Justice B Pugalendhi said. The court made the observations while hearing a batch of pleas moved by students of the university who were aggrieved by suspension of the course for the current academic year. On February 12, the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) informed the court that the courses cannot be conducted this year as the cut-off date set by the Supreme Court for admission expired on December 31, 2020. “It is practically impossible to commence the course this academic year as the cut-off date has already expired,” the AICTE said. Since the courses are sponsored by the Centre, it wanted the university to follow 49.5% reservation. But the state government insisted the institute implement its 69% reservation. According to the petitioners, the central government’s insistence that the university follow only 49.5% reservation and not the state’s policy in admission is arbitrary. “The entire infrastructure, resources, salaries of staff and the teaching faculty are all taken care of by the state government. The Centre through its department of biotechnology only provides Rs 12,000 for MTech Biotechnology and Rs 12,500 for MTech Computational Biology as stipend. This will not give them any right to insist that only the reservation policy of the Centre should be followed,” they had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-wants-au-to-resume-scrapped-mtech-courses/articleshow/81007850.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||RTDC’s Behror midway hotel reopens||Jaipur: The midway hotel of Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation resumed operations from Tuesday. The hotel was closed in September 2017. The loss-making corporation hopes the operation of the hotel will bring in profits reducing its burden to some extent. The hotel was profitable when it was closed as part of a restricting that never got materialized. RSRTC buses running between Jaipur and Delhi have been instructed to make a stopover at the hotel so that it gets business from the passengers. “All the RSRTC buses plying between Jaipur and Delhi hadtheir midway stopover at the hotel and the business was quite good,” said Tej Singh Rathore, president of employees association of the corporation. The corporation is now renovating the hotel so thataccommodation facilities can also be provided to passengers who wants to stay. The shopping arcade at the property has been renovated toattract the passengers. While RTDC is working on to lease out about 44 hotels, itdecided to reopen the property because of its lucrative business prospects. The employees of the corporation had been demanding restartof the hotel for a long time. “The employees are in favour of leasing out hotels whichhave not been functioning for a long time. But they always protested againstthe closure of this hotel which was making profits,” said an official of thecorporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rtdcs-behror-midway-hotel-reopens/articleshow/81007840.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Pune||Pune police nab man on charge of kidnapping minor girl from court premises, trace her||PUNE: The city police traced a 17-year-old girl, who had run away from the Shivajinagar court premises on January 16, and also arrested a 31-year-old man, Prakash Somnath Marabe, on Sunday night on the charge of kidnapping her. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police had rescued the girl from flesh trade agents during a raid at a building in Katraj in November 2020. The police then arrested Marabe’s brother, who is now lodged in Yerawada jail. The girl was kept at a government observation home for women and was taken to the Shivajinagar court on January 16 for a hearing. Police said Marabe met the girl and “guided” her on escaping. The girl then told the women officers that she wanted to use the court washroom. Marabe had already opened the washroom’s window from outside. She then jumped from the window and ran away. A kidnapping case waslodged on the same day with Shivajinagar police. Both, Bharati Vidyapeeth and Shivajinagar police stations were searching for the girl and her kidnapper. Police said it has been revealed Marabe conducted a recce of the court premises before zeroing on the washroom window from where the girl ran away. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police received a tip-off about the girl’s presence in the Navale bridge area. A police team went to the area and took the girl to the police station. She was then handed over to the Shivajinagar police station. Sub-inspector Diksha Zadte of Shivajinagar police said, “The girl said she had a brief interaction with Marabe on court premises, when he informed her how to flee. We arrested him. His brother has been repeatedly booked under provision of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. Marabe’s criminal history, if any, is not yet known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-nab-man-on-charge-of-kidnapping-minor-girl-from-court-premises-trace-her/articleshow/81011614.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chennai||Bedi exit little solace for Cong govt fighting dissention and resignations||Puducherry: The Centre relieved lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi from her post at a time when the Congress in Puducherry was in disarray after resignation of two ministers and two MLAs in less than a month.The Congress, which emerged as the single largest party with 15 seats in the 2016 assembly polls and formed the government with the support of the DMK (two seats then) and an independent MLA has lost one-third of its elected members just a couple of months before it completes its full term. The party disqualified an MLA for anti-party activities last year, leaving it with just 10 legislators now. Strained relations with its major ally DMK, which added one more seat after winning 2019 Thattanchavady bypoll has compounded its woes.A Namassivayam, second in command of chief minister V Narayanasamy-led cabinet and MLA E Theeppaithan resigned and joined the BJP on January 25. Health minister Malladi Krishna Rao resigned from his ministerial post last month and from the MLA post on Monday. The Congress government faced the biggest blow after it lost its majority with MLA A John Kumar resigning on Tuesday.The BJP has played a more significant role in the downfall of the Congress government than the principal opposition parties, including the All India NR Congress (AINRC) and the AIADMK. The saffron party, which garnered a mere 2.4% of the votes polled in the last assembly election, rattled the mighty Congress with its aggressive strategy of successfully luring dissidents towards it. Kumar did not rule out the option of joining the BJP or AINRC provided the parties concede to his demands.“Two more Congress MLAs may tender their resignation on Wednesday and join our party further reducing the strength of Congress and its ally to 12 in the House. The MLAs from the opposition parties – AINRC, AIADMK and BJP had proposed to call on the LG on Wednesday and submit a memorandum urging her to convene the legislative assembly and ask the Narayanasamy government to prove its majority,” said Puducherry BJP unit general secretary Embalam R Selvam. But with Bedi out, plans may change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bedi-exit-little-solace-for-cong-govt-fighting-dissention-and-resignations/articleshow/81007793.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Cov SOPs vary with states; flyers in a fix||Kolkata: Four senior citizens set to travel to Port Blair on Monday for a holiday of a lifetime after an unprecedented year of heartache and misery brought about by the pandemic were left dismayed and crestfallen after the airline refused them boarding as their Covid tests had expired by a few hours. “We weren’t aware that Covid tests are required to travel to Andaman and had got it done voluntarily just to be on the safe side. Since the flight was in the early hours of Monday, we got the test done at noon on Friday to be certain we would get the report by Saturday. But at the airport, we were informed that Covid test was required within 48 hours prior to boarding and our tests had crossed the time limit,” recounted Manjira Majumdar, who was left shell-shocked along with Biswajeet and Mukur Sengupta, and Snigdha Goswami. They aren’t the only ones flummoxed by different rules adopted by various state governments and union territories. With domestic tourism picking up, many are encountering problems with the rules, particularly those pertaining to RT-PCR test and home quarantine, that have no parity. When Bengal made it mandatory for international passengers to undertake RT-PCR tests before arriving in the state, it had followed the central government directive of the test being carried out within 96 hours prior to departure. The time limit was further reduced to within 72 hours prior to departure for passengers arriving from the UK after the fresh outbreak there in December. Maharashtra government has also made it mandatory for all domestic passengers travelling from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa to any airport in the state to get RT-PCR test done within 72 hours prior to boarding the aircraft. Meghalaya government also requires all passengers travelling to the state to get RT-PCR test done within 72 hours prior to arrival. But if passengers arriving in Maharashtra from the four states or those arriving at Meghalaya don’t have the Covid report, it isn’t a major issue since a paid test facility is available at the airport. However, with no testing in Andaman & Nicobar Islands, if passengers don’t get the tests done within the reduced timeframe of 48 hours prior to boarding the aircraft, they will be sent back on the same flight. Incidentally, the islands have barred passengers above 65 years from travelling there due to the limited health facilities on offer. The travel trade industry, including bodies like Travel Agents Federation of India and Travel Agents Association of India, have pitched for listing all the norms on a single platform, preferably the India Tourism website. Sagnik Chowdhury, the deputy director general and regional director (east) at ministry of tourism, admitted to the need for a single window information source to clear the confusion in the minds of travellers. “We have to rely on domestic tourism this year and perhaps even the next. So, ensuring transparent and seamless movement of relevant information between various stakeholders, including tourists, is very important at a time like this,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-sops-vary-with-states-flyers-in-a-fix/articleshow/81007861.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||3.17L PMAY-G houses not complete; Barmer tops list||Jaipur: A rural development department report states that of the 3.17 lakh incomplete houses under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana-Grameen (PMAY-G), highest number of such houses is in Barmer district at 49,120 followed by Banswara at 33,814 (up to February 1). Jodhpur is at the third position in terms of incomplete houses at 21,837. Of the 13.33 lakh sanctioned houses under PMAY-G from 2016-17 to 2020-21, construction of 10.15 lakh has been completed, according to the rural development department data. In all, 79,437 houses are yet to be completed even 12 months after sanctioning of first instalment of the money, 86,424 houses are yet to be completed even after nine months of sanctioning of first instalment of the money and 1.77 lakh houses are yet to be completed even after six months of sanctioning of the first instalment of the money. Meanwhile in Jaipur, of the 13,454 sanctioned houses under PMAY-G, construction of 11,001 houses has been completed and 2,409 are still incomplete, according to the data. The additional chief secretary (ACS) of the department Rohit Kumar Singh has directed all the district collectors to complete construction of the remaining 3.17 lakh houses by March 31 at the rate of 4,767 houses per day (as per directions issued on January 15). Two months after the start of ‘Pura Kaam, Pura Daam’ campaign in the state under MGNREGA, the average wage rate in the districts has gone up to Rs 195, as per the work done in 15 different activities selected by the rural development department. According to an official in the department, the average wage rate had increased from Rs 169 to Rs 193 in the first fortnight of the campaign. In the third fortnight, the campaign was run involving 30 different activities and in the fourth fortnight all activities under the scheme will be involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-17l-pmay-g-houses-not-complete-barmer-tops-list/articleshow/81007844.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Trap cameras near shed for big cat||hyderabad: The Telangana State forest officials have set up about 20 trap cameras near the cattle shed on a farm in Rajendranagar where a cow was attacked, allegedly by a leopard. After a few locals claimed to have seen a leopard, forest officials from Rangareddy district visited the area to check for signs of pug marks or scat during the last couple of days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trap-cameras-near-shed-for-big-cat/articleshow/81011523.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ludhiana||City bizmen join hands to set up focal point at Katani Khurd||Ludhiana: Facing an acute shortage of industrial land for setting up new factories and expansion of the old ones, along with the state government being unable to take concrete steps, city businessmen have now taken the matter into their own hands. Punjab’s largest business association Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) in association with Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industries Association have now floated expression of interest for industrial plots at Katani Khurd near the site of the cycle valley. By using social media, they are inviting businessmen interested in buying industrial plots to fill a simple online form mentioning the size of plot they want to purchase. Applications will be accepted in the next three days and after the close of applications these will be scrutinised to calculate the total area required. Following this, they will make efforts on their own to purchase the land collectively or approach a government organisation to sell them the pool of land at nominal rates. Giving more information, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of CICU, said, “There is a huge shortage of new and modern focal points in the city for the industry, which is ever expanding and for setting up of new units as well. So, keeping in view the demands from businessmen for plots at nominal rates and with all modern facilities, we have floated an expression of interest for developing a new focal point at Katani Khurd near the cycle valley. Taking the help of social media, we have asked the interested businessmen to fill a simple online form mentioning the size of plot they are looking to buy, along with their particulars. We will accept the request for next three days after which we will calculate the total amount of land needed according to the demand received. Then we will try and connect with some government agency like Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) to help us in fulfilling our land requirements at nominal rates.” According to Amarjit Singh Swan, president of Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industries Association, “As of now, we are scouting for minimum 50 acres for setting up a focal point for Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME). Our aim is not only to provide industrial plots at nominal rates, but also to ensure that this focal point is with the most modern facilities and infrastructure as per the international standards. In just a day of starting the formalities in this regard we have already started receiving good response from the prospective buyers and we are hoping that we will meet the target of demand of 50 acres easily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-bizmen-join-hands-to-set-up-focal-point-at-katani-khurd/articleshow/81004196.cms||Mohit Behl
February 17, 2021||Bareilly||Boy, 8, cooks up kidnapping story fearing backlash from family after failing in test||Bareilly: In a shocking incident, an eight-year-old boy, a student of Class III, allegedly cooked up a story of his abduction fearing backlash from parents after failing in a test. The boy allegedly concocted a story that he was kidnapped by two unidentified men from outside his coaching centre in Bilari, Sambhal, who later sedated him by pressing a handkerchief on his nose. Sambhal police detained the boy from Bhaitri Phatak road on Monday, and during interrogation, he disclosed to having concocted a story out of fear of being scolded by his parents as he failed in a test. The boy’s father told police that after their child did not return home for a few hours after his coaching classes, they tried to contact teachers and even went there searching for him. They later even tried to get access to a few CCTV cameras installed in the area but to no avail. The child had left for the coaching around 8 am and did not return till 12 in the noon, they said. Chandausi kotwali inspector DK Sharma said, “The boy had asked for some money from a shopkeeper near Bhaitri Phatak in Chandausi after narrating the same abduction story to him. He told the shopkeeper that after gaining consciousness, he found himself lying near the railway tracks in the area and the kidnappers had fled by then. Seeing the boy with a school bag, the shopkeeper suspected some foul play and informed police.” “The boy wasn’t telling the correct address and had been giving his uncle’s address instead. On being asked repeatedly, he confessed that he was lying. The boy wasn’t abducted. He cooked up a story to save himself from being scolded by his family as he failed in a test,” added the inspector. Police said after warning the boy that he would not repeat such things in the future, they handed him over to the family at the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/boy-8-cooks-up-kidnapping-story-fearing-backlash-from-family-after-failing-in-test/articleshow/81002693.cms||Maria Khan
February 17, 2021||Chennai||DMDK expels functionary after wife takes side of DMK||Madurai: Hours after the opposition DMK emerged victorious in the contest for the post of Periyakulam panchayat union chairman with the help of a lone DMDK councilor, the DMDK on Tuesday expelled her spouse and Periyakulam north secretary K C Kannan from the primary membership of the party. The development has caused much embarrassment to ally AIADMK. A lone AMMK councillor too backed the DMK.The Theni district and state-level functionaries of the DMDK had tried to convince Kannan to get his spouse, K Pakkiam, to vote for the AIADMK until Monday, considering that Periyakulam was the home constituency of the deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam. “The AIADMK district functionaries also called up the leadership in Chennai, however, Pakkiam cast her vote in favour of the DMK,” said a DMDK leader. This comes against the backdrop of DMDK leadership demanding that the AIADMK commence early talks on alliance for the assembly election. Kannan said he had communicated his decision to his party (DMDK) leadership to vote for the DMK. “The AIADMK does not respect us and adhere to the ethics of alliance dharma,” he said, justifying his spouse’s action. The election to the post of chairman was announced thrice but could not be held due to lack of quorum. The AIADMK councillors boycotted the election thrice. In the 16-member union, the DMK bagged eight seats, the AIADMK six and the DMDK and the AMMK one each. Soon after the election in 2019, a DMK councillor switched allegiance to the AIADMK, thus causing a tie between the two parties.OPS has been in Theni since Tuesday. “He is upset. But the incident exposed the AMMK’s secret pact with the DMK against the ruling party,” said an AIADMK district functionary. It is interesting that the AMMK councillor Maruthaiammal was elected unopposed as the union vice-chairman as the AIADMK councillors did not participate. A section in the DMDK in Periyakulam is also against having an alliance with the AIADMK and wanted to contest alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmdk-expels-functionary-after-wife-takes-side-of-dmk/articleshow/81007830.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Vidarbha: Doctors taking second dose, frontline workers reluctant even for first||NAGPUR: Covid-19 vaccination entered a crucial phase with more frontline workers now eligible to get the jab in most districts of Vidarbha on Tuesday. Unfortunately, not many of the frontline workers came out for vaccination. On the other hand, doctors, who have already taken their first vaccine in January, are turning out in good numbers to get the booster dose too. Overall, 4,168 persons were vaccinated in Vidarbha on Tuesday. Out of them, 1,014 took their booster dose, which means 3,154 took the first jab. This was not even 40% of the total target set in all 11 districts of, which was more than 10,000. As far as Nagpur division is concerned, target was 7,000 against which 2,510 turned out for vaccination, or just 36%. Chandrapur and Buldhana — two districts in Vidarbha — skipped Covid-19 vaccination on Tuesday as there was already a children’s immunization programme scheduled in these two districts. Vaccination picture in Vidarbha is quite puzzling as those who have registered for vaccine are not turning up, but those who had been left out are demanding the vaccine. On Tuesday, a delegation of doctors from Nagpur met the additional municipal commissioner and asked why their names were missing from the list of vaccine beneficiaries. When asked about the reason for poor response to vaccination, doctors blamed healthcare workers and frontline workers. “As far as doctors are concerned, we were the first to take the jabs. We also encouraged and tried to convince our staff members, and healthcare workers to get vaccinated. Still, the response is low, which is surprising,” said Dr Archana Kothari, president of Nagpur IMA. She also claimed that doctors are taking their booster dose too in good numbers, and all IMA members will take the second dose as and when their turn comes. In Nagpur city, the target was 1,900 vaccines on Tuesday. Total 396 healthcare workers and 333 frontline workers took the jab. Total 95 doctors took the booster dose. Overall, achievement was 824, which is close to 44% of the target. In Nagpur, many healthcare workers are still in wait and watch mode. Reliable sources told TOI that many nurses and helpers in NMC health department are yet to get vaccinated despite their seniors insisting they take the vaccine. In Nagpur, 23 healthcare workers from GMCH took second dose of Covaxin. None of the vaccine beneficiaries reported any adverse event following immunization (AEFI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-taking-second-dose-frontline-workers-reluctant-even-for-first/articleshow/81007857.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 17, 2021||Agra||Two associates of liquor mafioso Dhimar arrested||Agra: Following an early morning encounter, Kasganj police on Tuesday arrested two associates of liquor mafioso Moti Dhimar, accused of killing a police constable and wounding a sub-inspector last week. According to police, the two arrested men were identified as Guddu of Budaun district and Rameshwar Kasganj district. An illegal weapon and live cartridges were seized from one of the accused. Manoj Kumar Sonkar, senior superintendent of police, said, “Guddu is a close associate of Dhimar. He was involved in assaulting policemen. We had received a tip-off regarding his (Guddu) location in a forest area under the Soron police station. Following an early morning encounter, he was arrested with an illegal arm and ammunition. During interrogation, he informed us that Rameshwar had helped Dhimar and his associates to hide and supplied food for them. Later, Rameshwar was also arrested.” Police learnt from Guddu that Dhimar is constantly changing his location. Police teams are conducting raids on all possible hideouts of Dhimar and his associates. He will be arrested very soon, said Sonkar. On Tuesday, Kasganj police hiked the reward on Dhimar from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh So far, police have arrested four associates of Dhimar. His mother, Roopwati, was arrested on Friday. Earlier, his elder brother, Elkar Singh, was killed in a police encounter. He had six criminal cases against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-associates-of-liquor-mafioso-dhimar-arrested/articleshow/81002687.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: APTF, UTF back PDF nominees for MLC poll||VIJAYAWADA: The Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) is ahead of others in naming its candidates for the two impending MLC seats, elections for which are scheduled for March. The PDF, which is backed by CPM, had bagged five MLC seats in the 58-member legislative council. These seats were won in the teachers’ and graduates constituencies across the state. This time, its sitting member, Ramu Surya Rao from the East and West Godavari constituency is retiring on March 29, along with TDP-sponsored independent MLC A S Ramakrishna, representing Krishna and Guntur districts. The PDF has already named its candidates for the two seats and had secured support from the Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation (APTF) for the two seats. It has cleared the candidature of former MLC Boddu Nageswara Rao for Krishna and Guntur constituency, while picked up a fresh candidate, Shaik Babji, for the East and West Godavari constituency. Interestingly, AP United Teachers’ Federation (APUTF) has also extended its support to the two candidates proposed by PDF. Boddu Nageswara Rao had won the MLC seat in 2013 with a huge margin of 11,335 votes against the TDP-sponsored Chigurupati Varaprasad. In the two Godavari districts, the PDF has dropped the sitting member, Surya Rao, and fielded a fresh candidate, Shaik Babji. However, the ruling YSR Congress and the opposition TDP are yet to name their candidates. Meanwhile, the notification was issued for the election of the two seats on Tuesday. However, no nominations were filed on the first day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/aptf-utf-back-pdf-nominees-for-mlc-poll/articleshow/81005308.cms||Gopi Dara
February 17, 2021||Madurai||It is victory for anyone who has PM’s backing, says BJP TN president||MADURAI: Anyone who has Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s support is ensured victory, said BJP state president L Murugan on Tuesday. The BJP leader was referring to Modi holding up the hands of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam at an event in Chennai on Sunday. The gesture was seemingly an affirmation of the AIADMK-BJP alliance in TN. The victory would mean that the BJP would have representatives in double digits in the next TN polls, Murugan told reporters in Madurai. He reiterated that a grand reception would be organsied to welcome the PM when he visited Coimbatore on February 25. Defence minister Rajnath Singh is scheduled to visit Salem on February 21. The BJP, he said, was preparing for the election like one of its most important polls, he said. Asked if the BJP was sidelining OPS considering the one-on-one meeting between the PM and the CM on Sunday, Murugan said, “You saw what happened on stage.” He was referring to the PM holding up the hands of EPS and OPS. Murugan said the government was taking steps to bring down the fuel price. He evaded questions on activists being arrested in connection with the farmers’ protest. The BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit has formed the state election manifesto Committee . It has 34 different groups and each has been assigned a specific task. State president L Murugan would be chairman of the committee, vice-president of the party K Annamalai would be the convenor of the NDA coordination. tnn It would also have four members, including state general secretary KT Raghavan and Karu Nagarajan, who would be part of the election management committee. Apart from this, it would have different teams with specific roles. The party has tasked former national secretary H Raja and state vice-president V P Duraisamy to prepare the manifesto of the party, while it handed over the responsibility of carrying out the virtual campaigns to state IT cell president C T R Nirmal Kumar. Several other senior party functionaries have also been roped in and assigned different tasks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/it-is-victory-for-anyone-who-has-pms-backing-says-bjp-tn-president/articleshow/81043830.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Bombay HC transit bail for Shantanu Muluk, order on Nikita Jacob plea today||MUMBAI/AURANGABAD: Beed engineer Shantanu Muluk, one of the two activists faced with a non-bailable warrant in the farmers’ protest toolkit case, got relief from the Bombay high court on Tuesday, while the other, Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob, will know on Wednesday. The HC’s Aurangabad bench granted a 10-day transit anticipatory bail to Muluk, and in Mumbai, reserved a similar plea by Jacob for orders after Delhi police’s special counsel Hiten Venegaonkar raised objections to the HC’s power to grant her relief. Justice P D Naik, who heard Jacob’s plea, concluded the hearing in the evening and said he would pass the order on Wednesday. “Nikita Jacob is not named in the FIR… The toolkit was prepared by many. It doesn’t talk of violence nor of taking over Red Fort or anything,” said Jacob’s counsel Mihir Desai. The Delhi cyber cell is investigating an FIR registered for sedition, acts prejudicial to communal harmony and criminal conspiracy and had on Saturday picked up activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru, who has been remanded in custody by a Delhi court. The toolkit for the farmers’ stir was tweeted by Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg, who deleted it later. Both Jacob and Muluk moved HC on Monday for an urgent hearing, apprehending arrest in the case for serious offences. They said the protection would enable them to exercise their right to then seek regular pre-arrest bail before a court in Delhi. Both said Delhi police had visited their homes and seized materials. Jacob’s house was searched, said Desai, and documents and her computer were seized on February 11, with police also recording a “detailed statement” of hers. Desai argued, “She is an enthusiastic environmentalist.” He said, “Several young persons prepared the toolkit. Their allegation is she is one of them. What they allege is one person is a Khalistani. Belongs to an organisation called Poetic Justice.” The group named by Delhi police is the Poetic Justice Foundation. He added, “The name doesn’t even suggest it is pro-Khalistani.” Desai also said, “It is not a banned organisation.” The Delhi police team had been stationed in Beed for the last three days, said Muluk’s counsel Satej Jadhav before the Aurangabad bench of Justice Vibha Kankanwadi, who initially questioned his plea for a three-week transit protection. She said a person can reach Delhi in a matter of two hours. Jadhav said time was needed to consult his lawyers in Delhi and prepare his case. Additional public prosecutor Sandip Mahajan opposed Muluk’s plea in Aurangabad. Both Mahajan and Venegaonkar said the Bombay HC had no jurisdiction over the matter as of now and cited a couple of judgments by Supreme Court and the Patna high court to back their stand that unless an HC has jurisdiction over a case, it cannot grant transit anticipatory bail. Muluk and Jacob’s case was that their apprehension of arrest is real and HC is empowered to grant such interim protection, even when a non-bailable warrant was issued in a serious offence. Venegaonkar said police took into consideration that Jacob is a woman and recorded her statement in her house where she undertook to remain present the next day at 10 am, but the next day she had absconded. Justice Naik said, “Else she would have been arrested the next day.” Venegaonkar said, “In spite of searching and waiting for her for an entire day, she did not show up. That’s why NBW was issued.” Desai argued she is exercising her rights and had immediately applied for transit relief. She wants to protect her professional career. If she is arrested, it would be ruined, he said. Desai submitted that the alleged toolkit only came to light after the January 26 protests when it was tweeted by Thunberg. After HC reserved the plea for order, Venegaonkar, when asked by the court, said police would be prudent and were unlikely to take any step now since the order is to be pronounced on Wednesday. He said in any case, after sunset, women are not arrested. The HC said that is also a prudent step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-transit-bail-for-muluk-order-on-jacob-plea-today/articleshow/81022636.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 17, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh civic polls: Guntur awaits infrastructure boost||GUNTUR: Decks have been finally cleared for Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) to get an elected governing council after 11 years. While the prolonged court cases over the merger of neighbouring villages had delayed the elections to the civic body by over eight years, a lack of decisions from the previous government resulted in another three years’ delay. The absence of an elected governing council had left the entire civic infrastructure in a poor state. Former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu had promised to create world class infrastructure in Guntur and Vijayawada to act as growth engines to the nascent capital city, Amaravati. His plans and promises made locals of Guntur city hoping for a boost to the existing civic infrastructure but the city was left with potholes on roads and unfinished under ground drainage (UGD) systems by the time assembly elections rolled in. The UGD scheme which was launched with a lot of hope and anticipation had caused irreparable damage to the city infrastructure as the works were commissioned without proper planning. Instead of taking up the project in a phased manner, the TDP government directed the contractor to launch the works simultaneously across the city to showcase it as its achievement by the general elections. Although the government wanted it to be completed by 2018, the contractor failed to reach the target. Almost 1100 kilometres of city roads had been dug to lay UGD. The contractor could not complete not a single Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) of the planned five. Suspecting foul play in the award of the contracts, the YSRC government stalled the UGD project for nearly 18 months. The city witnessed major development when Kanna Lakshminarayana was minister in the Congress governments for about a decade. As his son Nagaraju was elected as mayor in 2005, Kanna got several big-ticket projects including a comprehensive drinking water scheme worth Rs 400 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/on-cusp-of-polls-guntur-awaits-infra-boost/articleshow/81040965.cms||Samdani MN
February 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||44 history-sheeters get rap sheets erased in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to offer history-sheeters a chance to redeem themselves as part of the Maarapu initiative, city police erased the rap sheets of 44 history-sheeters based on their conduct. It was observed that many of these history-sheeters had mended their ways and were making a living through legal means. City police commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said a list was made containing names of history-sheeters with record of good conduct and no involvement in anti-social activities for the past seven to ten years. City police department informed that 44 persons, from a list of 440 whose names are being maintained by various police stations, have got relief under the initiative. “People may commit mistakes, may get involved in criminal activities due to anger or are pushed towards that end due to severe pressure or mental imbalances. We have to provide them a chance to integrate into mainstream life,” the city police commissioner said. The 44 who were given relief were counselled by ACPs S Shravan Kumar and Dr Prem Kajal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/44-history-sheeters-get-rap-sheets-erased-in-vizag/articleshow/81005212.cms||Siva G
February 17, 2021||Rajkot||Smriti Irani, Hardik Patel to campaign in Rajkot today||RAJKOT: Union minister Smriti Irani and Congress working president Hardik Patel will both campaign for their respective party candidates in Rajkot on Wednesday. Irani is scheduled to hold a a roadshow while Hardik Patel is expected to address a public rally. Irani’s roadshow will be held in the old city area of Rajkot. She will start from Trikonbaug and take the routes of old Rajkot areas like Sangarva chowk, Pra Bazar, Dharmendra road, cloth market, Soni Bazar, Raiya Naka tower. She will also meet traders in different areas. Before starting the roadshow the union minister will garland the statue of U N Dhebar, the first chief minister of Saurashtra state after independence. She will at the statue Lakhajiraj. Irani will also address public rallies in Bapa Sitaram chowk, Swaminarayan chowk, Swami Narayan chowk, Sorathiyavadi circle and Ambaliya Hanuman Chowk. Meanwhile, Hardik Patel will address public rallies in Satellite chowk, Pedak road, Mayani Chowk and Bapa Sitaram Chowk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/irani-hardik-to-campaign-in-rajkot-today/articleshow/81002637.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt to rejuvenate Madurantakam tank at Rs 120 crore||CHENNAI: After six decades of siltation, the state government will increase the capacity of Madurantakam tank in Chengalpet -- the second largest tank in the state -- by deepening it, strengthening the bund and remodelling the spillways at Rs 120.23 crore in anticipation of Nabard assistance. The rejuvenated tank may also augment the drinking water supply to Chennai. After a detailed study, the PWD revised the parameters of existing storage level to 791mcft (million cubic feet) from 530mcft and full tank level to 32.15m from the existing 31.65m.  “The proposal has been forwarded to Nabard for loan assistance of Rs 120.23 crore. The state government has sanctioned Rs 1 crore for the current fiscal and the balance during the next financial year based on need,” said an official. Located along the Chennai-Trichy national highway, the main source of supply to the tank is the Kiliyar river from Vandavasi and Nelvoymaduvu from Uthiramerur taluk. Officials say the strengthening is required since heavy rain in 2015 filled all the tanks in the district and their bunds were breached causing flood. One of the primary reasons for floods is loss of storage capacity of the system and non-system tanks due to sedimentation. Madurantakam’s tank capacity fell by 24% as per a bathymetric survey. “The plan is to deepen the tank and use the earth for reclamation of foreshore land. We are converting the tank to balancing reservoir with regulated shutters,” the official said. There had been periodic breaches of the tank’s bund until the MGR regime increased its capacity to 694mcft by providing 2ft high falling shutters in the weirs in 1985-86.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-to-rejuvenate-madurantakam-tank-at-rs-120cr/articleshow/81007862.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||Petrol pump owner’s killer held||Jaipur: Vishwakarma Police on Tuesday arrested criminal Shaitan Singh wanted in the murder of a petrol pump owner on September 9, 2020. Singh along with five of his accomplices killed Gupta with an intention of loot while he was parking his car outside a bank. The accused had done a recce of him and was aware of the time he went out to deposit money in the bank. “Since the incident, he has been shifting his location from one place to the another. Our informers had givena tip-off that he was seen in Kardhani area of Jaipur. We worked on the lead got another tip-off that he was coming to a specific location and nabbed him,” said DCP Pradeep Mohan Sharma. The accused had a reward of Rs 3000 to his name. Singh was the sixth accused arrested in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/petrol-pump-owners-killer-held/articleshow/81007859.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh civic polls: Guntur awaits infrastructure boost||GUNTUR: Decks have been finally cleared for Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) to get an elected governing council after 11 years. While the prolonged court cases over the merger of neighbouring villages had delayed the elections to the civic body by over eight years, a lack of decisions from the previous government resulted in another three years’ delay. The absence of an elected governing council had left the entire civic infrastructure in a poor state. Former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu had promised to create world class infrastructure in Guntur and Vijayawada to act as growth engines to the nascent capital city, Amaravati. His plans and promises made locals of Guntur city hoping for a boost to the existing civic infrastructure but the city was left with potholes on roads and unfinished under ground drainage (UGD) systems by the time assembly elections rolled in. The UGD scheme which was launched with a lot of hope and anticipation had caused irreparable damage to the city infrastructure as the works were commissioned without proper planning. Instead of taking up the project in a phased manner, the TDP government directed the contractor to launch the works simultaneously across the city to showcase it as its achievement by the general elections. Although the government wanted it to be completed by 2018, the contractor failed to reach the target. Almost 1100 kilometres of city roads had been dug to lay UGD. The contractor could not complete not a single Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) of the planned five. Suspecting foul play in the award of the contracts, the YSRC government stalled the UGD project for nearly 18 months. The city witnessed major development when Kanna Lakshminarayana was minister in the Congress governments for about a decade. As his son Nagaraju was elected as mayor in 2005, Kanna got several big-ticket projects including a comprehensive drinking water scheme worth Rs 400 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/on-cusp-of-polls-guntur-awaits-infra-boost/articleshow/81005470.cms||Samdani MN
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC transit bail for Shantanu Muluk, order on Nikita Jacob plea today||MUMBAI/AURANGABAD: Beed engineer Shantanu Muluk, one of the two activists faced with a non-bailable warrant in the farmers’ protest toolkit case, got relief from the Bombay high court on Tuesday, while the other, Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob, will know on Wednesday. The HC’s Aurangabad bench granted a 10-day transit anticipatory bail to Muluk, and in Mumbai, reserved a similar plea by Jacob for orders after Delhi police’s special counsel Hiten Venegaonkar raised objections to the HC’s power to grant her relief. Justice P D Naik, who heard Jacob’s plea, concluded the hearing in the evening and said he would pass the order on Wednesday. “Nikita Jacob is not named in the FIR… The toolkit was prepared by many. It doesn’t talk of violence nor of taking over Red Fort or anything,” said Jacob’s counsel Mihir Desai. The Delhi cyber cell is investigating an FIR registered for sedition, acts prejudicial to communal harmony and criminal conspiracy and had on Saturday picked up activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru, who has been remanded in custody by a Delhi court. The toolkit for the farmers’ stir was tweeted by Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg, who deleted it later. Both Jacob and Muluk moved HC on Monday for an urgent hearing, apprehending arrest in the case for serious offences. They said the protection would enable them to exercise their right to then seek regular pre-arrest bail before a court in Delhi. Both said Delhi police had visited their homes and seized materials. Jacob’s house was searched, said Desai, and documents and her computer were seized on February 11, with police also recording a “detailed statement” of hers. Desai argued, “She is an enthusiastic environmentalist.” He said, “Several young persons prepared the toolkit. Their allegation is she is one of them. What they allege is one person is a Khalistani. Belongs to an organisation called Poetic Justice.” The group named by Delhi police is the Poetic Justice Foundation. He added, “The name doesn’t even suggest it is pro-Khalistani.” Desai also said, “It is not a banned organisation.” The Delhi police team had been stationed in Beed for the last three days, said Muluk’s counsel Satej Jadhav before the Aurangabad bench of Justice Vibha Kankanwadi, who initially questioned his plea for a three-week transit protection. She said a person can reach Delhi in a matter of two hours. Jadhav said time was needed to consult his lawyers in Delhi and prepare his case. Additional public prosecutor Sandip Mahajan opposed Muluk’s plea in Aurangabad. Both Mahajan and Venegaonkar said the Bombay HC had no jurisdiction over the matter as of now and cited a couple of judgments by Supreme Court and the Patna high court to back their stand that unless an HC has jurisdiction over a case, it cannot grant transit anticipatory bail. Muluk and Jacob’s case was that their apprehension of arrest is real and HC is empowered to grant such interim protection, even when a non-bailable warrant was issued in a serious offence. Venegaonkar said police took into consideration that Jacob is a woman and recorded her statement in her house where she undertook to remain present the next day at 10 am, but the next day she had absconded. Justice Naik said, “Else she would have been arrested the next day.” Venegaonkar said, “In spite of searching and waiting for her for an entire day, she did not show up. That’s why NBW was issued.” Desai argued she is exercising her rights and had immediately applied for transit relief. She wants to protect her professional career. If she is arrested, it would be ruined, he said. Desai submitted that the alleged toolkit only came to light after the January 26 protests when it was tweeted by Thunberg. After HC reserved the plea for order, Venegaonkar, when asked by the court, said police would be prudent and were unlikely to take any step now since the order is to be pronounced on Wednesday. He said in any case, after sunset, women are not arrested. The HC said that is also a prudent step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-transit-bail-for-muluk-order-on-jacob-plea-today/articleshow/81014524.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 17, 2021||Agra||Active Covid-19 cases reduced to 10 in Agra district||AGRA: Out of 10,513 Covid-19 cases reported in Agra district, more than 98% patients have been declared cured of the infection. The number of active Covid cases reduced to 10 on Tuesday. Since February 4, no Covid-19 patient has been admitted to the SN Medical College. No new Covid positive case surfaced in Agra till Tuesday evening and one patient who was in home isolation was declared cured of the infection. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.01% which is the lowest in the past 10 months. Random testing will continue in different parts of the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/active-covid-19-cases-reduced-to-10-in-agra-dist/articleshow/81002732.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chennai||It is victory for anyone who has PM’s backing, says BJP TN president||MADURAI: Anyone who has Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s support is ensured victory, said BJP state president L Murugan on Tuesday. The BJP leader was referring to Modi holding up the hands of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam at an event in Chennai on Sunday. The gesture was seemingly an affirmation of the AIADMK-BJP alliance in TN. The victory would mean that the BJP would have representatives in double digits in the next TN polls, Murugan told reporters in Madurai. He reiterated that a grand reception would be organsied to welcome the PM when he visited Coimbatore on February 25. Defence minister Rajnath Singh is scheduled to visit Salem on February 21. The BJP, he said, was preparing for the election like one of its most important polls, he said. Asked if the BJP was sidelining OPS considering the one-on-one meeting between the PM and the CM on Sunday, Murugan said, “You saw what happened on stage.” He was referring to the PM holding up the hands of EPS and OPS. Murugan said the government was taking steps to bring down the fuel price. He evaded questions on activists being arrested in connection with the farmers’ protest. The BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit has formed the state election manifesto Committee . It has 34 different groups and each has been assigned a specific task. State president L Murugan would be chairman of the committee, vice-president of the party K Annamalai would be the convenor of the NDA coordination. tnn It would also have four members, including state general secretary KT Raghavan and Karu Nagarajan, who would be part of the election management committee. Apart from this, it would have different teams with specific roles. The party has tasked former national secretary H Raja and state vice-president V P Duraisamy to prepare the manifesto of the party, while it handed over the responsibility of carrying out the virtual campaigns to state IT cell president C T R Nirmal Kumar. Several other senior party functionaries have also been roped in and assigned different tasks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/it-is-victory-for-anyone-who-has-pms-backing-says-bjp-tn-president/articleshow/81007855.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Museum, Jehangir art gallery reopen after 11 months||Mumbai: The city’s premier art hubs—Jehangir Art Gallery and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya (formerly Prince of Wales Museum)—reopened partially on Tuesday after an 11-month-long Covid-19 lockdown. CSMVS’s galleries will resume in a phased manner starting with Tuesday’s opening of the Natural History Galleries, the Karl Khandalavala Gallery of Indian Artefacts, the Money and Jewellery galleries and the children’s museum. The beautiful manicured lawns will be made available for families to relax and rejuvenate. The authorities have reduced ticket rates as well. The seven exhibition halls inside Jehangir Art Gallery will also open in phases through April with proper safety protocol and social distancing. The prolonged lockdown has plunged the gallery into a tough financial situation. Jehangir’s longtime secretary Karthiayani Menon is said to have weathered several storms during her 50 years of service at the gallery. This is another trough to overcome. She said, “All exhibitions which were booked from March 2020 have been rescheduled to 2021. As a result, the gallery will not earn a penny as revenue this year. We have been forced to reduce staff salaries but we have not laid off any of our employees. They resumed work in October.” Two inaugural solo exhibitions were unveiled at Jehangir on Tuesday, one featuring Antra Srivastava from Ranchi, the other Delhi-based Bibhuti Adhikary. Srivastava said she felt privileged to open the show at Jehangir after a long hiatus on the auspicious day of Saraswati Puja. “There are two series on display, first is Indian mythology and scriptures which include the depiction of Ramayan in 16 miniature paintings. The second series is ‘Dimensions’ done in a surreal style. Maximum works were done during the lockdown period,” she said. The highlight of Adhikary’s display is an interesting 5-ft-by-4-ft installation made up of 594 PVC pipes. The pipes are rolled to display 12 compositions on wildlife conservation. One specific painting named ‘Lockdown Baba’ features masks and Covid paraphernalia. This award-winning artist has been the art director of the Republic Day tableaux for Delhi and Haryana. He said, “I had booked gallery number 2 but the managers graciously allowed me the additional use of gallery number 3 as I had more artworks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/museum-jehangir-art-gallery-reopen-after-11-months/articleshow/81003390.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
February 17, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Man beats wife, daughter to death for selling family land||PATNA: A man beat his wife and minor daughter to death on early Tuesday morning for selling a piece of land without even informing him. The elder daughter of the couple is also badly injured and battling for life in a hospital. The accused, Shivkant Yadav (47), was arrested from a field on the village outskirts at around 11am. The deceased were identified as Rita Devi (43) and her daughter Nicky Kumari (16). The injured girl was identified as Sonu Kumari (19). Shivkant’s grandfather had registered his village land in the name of Rita before his death. The incident took place at village Tarwan under Mufassil police station area in Siwan district around 1am when the family members were fast asleep. Shivkant, worked at a private school in Siwan and also owned a two-wheeler spare part shop at J P roundabout in the town. Mufassil police station SHO Dadan Singh told this newspaper over phone that Rita sold a part of the family land on Monday without even asking Shivkant. “He came to know about it after returning home in the night,” he said. The SHO said the couple frequently fought with each other over Rita’s ownership of family property. “Just after midnight, the two sisters heard loud noises and screams coming out of their parents’ bedroom. They rushed for help and saw their father repeatedly hitting the mother with a heavy iron rod on her head. The woman fell unconscious and was bleeding profusely,” he quoted the elder daughter’s statement to the police. Singh said when the two sisters tried to protect and rescue their mother, Shivkant started thrashing them too with the same iron rod. “Both received grievous and multiple injuries on head and other body parts. Rita died immediately while Nicky died on the way to Patna Medical College and Hospital from Siwan for better treatment,” he said. The SHO said Shivkant’s old father also lived with them in the house. “Rita’s body was handed over to her parents after postmortem. An FIR has been lodged against Shivkant on his elder daughter’s complaint,” he said. He said police were trying to find the iron rod used in the killing. Shivkant had thrown it somewhere while fleeing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-beats-wife-daughter-to-death-for-selling-family-land/articleshow/81007090.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||After seven-year-long wait, Andhra Pradesh to get its SHRC on March 22||VISAKHAPATNAM: The seven-year-long wait for Andhra Pradesh State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) is set to end with the body now scheduled to be reconstituted by March 22. This, following the orders of the Andhra Pradesh high court. The state did not have an SHRC since bifurcation in 2014 with the previous body being located in Hyderabad. While it is yet to be confirmed if the commission will be set up in Vijayawada or Visakhapatnam, the legal fraternity, civil society groups and NGOs from north coastal AP want the SHRC to be set up in Visakhapatnam. In October 2019, the high court had ordered the relocation of SHRC in Andhra Pradesh within four months. However, when it failed to materialise, a contempt petition was moved by the AP Civil Liberties Association. The high court, on Monday, again ordered the advocate general to explore the immediate possibility of reconstituting the state human rights commission without delay before March 22 failing which would result in contempt action. “With a diverse and high population density, large number of industries, offices and activities, Vizag is the ideal metropolitan city for setting up the SHRC in Andhra Pradesh. On a monthly average, 400 to 500 cases can be expected before the SHRC,” according to senior advocate and president of Forum of Legal Professionals (FLP), Kuppili Muralidhar. Muralidhar said that those seeking justice need not approach the high court or the human rights commission in Hyderabad if they can have their complaints resolved in Vizag itself. “Though state human rights commissions do not have penalising power, they can direct the government to pay compensation to the victims and recommend penalties for the wrongdoers,” he said. A state human rights commission is a statutory body with three or members, headed by a retired high court judge and two other (judicial and non-judicial) members. The commission is responsible for the protection and promotion of human rights, related to life, liberty, equality and dignity of individuals as guaranteed under the Indian Constitution and Protection of Human Rights Act of 1993.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/after-seven-year-long-wait-ap-to-get-its-shrc-on-march-22/articleshow/81004771.cms||Sulogna Mehta
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||With summer approaching, Rajasthan govt gears up for heatwave action plan||JAIPUR: With summer approaching, the health department has started measures to prepare heatwave action plan 2021. In this regard, a meeting at the health directorate level will be organised aiming at preventing deaths due to heatwave in the state during intense summers. A health department official said that National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has already issued its guidelines on heatwave management on the basis of that all chief medical health officers have been asked to prepare their heatwave action plan 2021. He said that orders have been issued to joint directors of all the zones to review the active plan prepared by CMHOs and send them to the health directorate and on the basis of which a meeting will be organised at health directorate to give it a final shape. In 2016, NDMA had issued Guidelines for ‘Preparation of Action Plan – Prevention and Management of HeatWave’, which was revised in 2017. Rajasthan is one of the north western part of the country, which gets affected by heat wave when temperature rises abnormally high, more than the normal maximum temperature that occurs during the summer, for which the action plan for heat wave is being prepared. Officials said that rising temperature, every year, throw normal life out of gear during summers in the state, as it adversely affects people’s health and causing physiological stress, sometimes it may result in death. The health department officials are preparing heatwave prevention covers measures aimed at the hospital preparedness for managing heat related illnesses and preventing communities from getting affected. According to guidelines, the state nodal officer should coordinate with local meteorological office to start receiving summer season forecasts annually from March to June and set up the early warning and daily alert system with colour codes based on predicted peak daily temperatures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-summer-approaching-govt-gears-up-for-heatwave-action-plan/articleshow/81007860.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Congress promises cafes to lure young voters||VADODARA: Move over the usual smooth roads and regular water supply promises during civic poll campaigns. The Congress has come up with an innovative proposal to lure young voters in the city. The party, if it wins the civic polls, has promised to start affordable and ambient cafes for the young crowd! “We have promised in our manifesto that if we win the civic polls, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) will start cafes in different areas. These cafes will be run by the civic body and not on a public-private model,” said Prashant Patel, city Congress president. When asked the motive behind the promise, Patel explained, “Only the moneyed people can afford cafes in the city. Youngsters from poor and middle-class families can’t afford so much money and hence they can’t hangout in cafes. This creates disgruntlement among the young crowd who then demand money from their parents for eating out in such cafes.” “But the parents are unable to meet such demand and that causes rifts in the families. As a result, our family happiness index too is going down. The Congress party wants to ensure that youngsters from all walks of life get to hangout in ambient cafes,” Patel told TOI. He added that if Congress comes to power in VMC, the civic body will start a café in each ward apart from some busy areas. “This will also generate employment for the citizens,” Patel said. The Congress party has also promised to give space to poor and middle-class women for organizing their kitty parties.  “It is much better than giving away property worth crores of rupees to private parties under PPP mode,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cong-promises-cafes-to-lure-young-voters/articleshow/81003289.cms||Tushar Tere
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Actor suicide: mom-in-law, wife booked||Mumbai: A day after actor Sandeep Nahar was found dead at his Goregaon home, police have registered an abetment to suicide case against his wife, Kaanchan Sharma, and her mother based on the statements of his family. Meanwhile, post-mortem examination has revealed the actor died of hanging. Nahar’s father and brother came down from Punjab and recorded their statements with the police. They will be taking the body to Punjab for last rites. In a “suicide note” on Facebook as well as video uploaded hours before his death, Nahar had mentioned frequent fights with his wife. According to the police, Nahar and his wife were together for two years. They formally tied the knot in August 2020. “We had no idea about the problems he was facing, else we would have intervened. He was a calm, sensible person who always cheered everyone up. Only 10 days ago, he and his wife had been on a vacation to Goa,” a friend said. On Monday evening, Nahar locked himself in his room. When he wouldn’t open the door, his wife called a neighbour and they broke open the door with the help of a carpenter. Nahar was found hanging from the ceiling fan with a bedsheet. His wife took him to two hospitals where he was pronounced dead. Police said she was in shock and refused to accept he was no more. Goregaon police have recorded an accidental death case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-suicide-mom-in-law-wife-booked/articleshow/81011732.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||12 companies bid for Rs 75cr rly overbridge at Civil Lines||Jaipur: Twelve firms have expressed interest to construct Rs 75 crore railway overbridge (RoB) project at Civil Lines which will connect Jacob Road and Jamunalal Bajaj Marg.After receiving the bids, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has initiated the evaluation process.An official at engineering wing said, “The assessment of technical bids will be completed this week. Following this, financial bid will be evaluated and JDA is expecting to award the work by March,” he said.For the construction of structure, the JDA has estimated Rs 35.77 crore, while remaining amount will be spent in construction of service lanes and shifting of utilities including drains, water-pipelines and others.The length of the four-lane elevated road will be 703 metres. Earlier, the JDA has decided to constructed two-lane, RoB at the crossing. However, after witnessing the traffic congestion in the area a revised drawing was prepared and nod to construct 4-lane was given in project works committee (PWC) meeting. The JDA had also initially planned to construct three-leg flyover, connecting Parivahan Marg. But plan was shelved due to lack of feasibility.Around 20,000 vehicles crosse on the passage. The project demand is long-pending and the JDA first decided to construct a RoB on the crossing in 2012. But proposal was shelved citing security reasons. “The JDA had appointed Rambol Consulting Engineering Limited, a Kolkata-based company, to carry out a feasibility report. The firm had submitted six options,” said a source.In the previous report, it was proposed that the RoB over the railway line had to be constructed with a 60-degree curve. However, many opposed the move as giving such a sharp turn could have raised the possibilities of accident on the overbridge.Shifting the police outpost and water tank situated near the track was also challenged at that time. JDA official said, “Out of these six options, the JDA had found that construction of a RoB from Jamunalal Bajaj Marg to Jacob Road was the most feasible option. The proposal had to be sent to the chief minister for final approval as it was proposed to be constructed near the chief minister’s and governor’s residences. However, the UDH department did not move the proposal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/12-companies-bid-for-rs-75cr-rly-overbridge-at-civil-lines/articleshow/81007870.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: This winter was more polluted than last year||NEW DELHI: Analysis of air pollution in the past few winters has revealed that PM2.5 levels in 2020-2021 were worse than the previous year. While one study was done by RWA body United Residents Joint Action (URJA) along with strategic communications outfit Climate Trends, the other was done by Respirer Living Sciences. Track the pollution level in your cityThe data set analysed by Respirer Living Sciences, a startup working on low-cost sensor based real-time air quality monitoring networks, showed that while March to September 2020 witnessed an improvement in air quality amid the lockdown, the average PM2.5 level from October 2020 to February 2021 was 186 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) compared with 160 µg/m3 in 2019-2020 in the same months. The average annual trends showed an improvement in PM2.5 in 2020, but the average PM10 level increased to 190 µg/m3 in 2020-21 from 160 µg/m3 in 2019-20. PM2.5 pollutants are emitted from anthropogenic sources, which were curtailed due to the lockdown, while PM10 is generated from dust. The second analysis conducted by Climate Trends, which took the levels at RK Puram monitoring station as a baseline to underscore the trends in the city, showed that PM2.5 levels September onwards ranged higher compared with the levels in the same months in 2019. The levels in Delhi were nine times higher than WHO standards as well as the national average. Dr Palak Balyan, consultant, Climate Trends, said, “The usage of personal vehicles in the winter of 2020 was more compared with 2019 due to the post-Covid situation where people avoided using shared or public transportation. Another possible explanation might be that the controlling authorities of Punjab and Haryana were busier with Covid control protocol, so regulation of crop stubble burning could not be implemented strictly.” Atul Goyal, URJA president and member of the Supreme Court committee on solid waste management, said, “The data proves that Delhi’s air pollution levels are the worst from October to February. It seems there was a slackness in monitoring efforts on the ground and local sources of pollution, which resulted in losing gains made during the lockdown.” Prof SN Tripathi, head of civil engineering department at IIT Kanpur and NCAP steering committee member, said, “Organic speciation of PM2.5 identified three major regional air corridors — northeast, east and northwest — from which heavy metals and industrial pollutants mix with Delhi’s air. The key pollutants brought by them are combinations of chromium-nickel-manganese, copper-cadmium-lead, lead-tin-selenium and chlorine-barium-selenium.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-studies-1-conclusion-this-winter-was-more-polluted-than-last-year/articleshow/81007897.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||Covid vax 2nd dose beneficiaries in state rise to 14,647 in two days||Jaipur: Under the Covid vaccination drive, teachers of elementary schools in rural areas will get the jab from Wednesday. According to the health department, out of 1.5 lakh teachers who will get vaccinated against Covid, 8,000 are in Jaipur. The number of healthcare workers (HCWs) getting the second dose rose to 14,647 as 5,856 more HCWs turned out at vaccination sites on the second day of the drive of the second dose. On the first day, Jaipur reported a low turnout for the second dose with 142 persons getting the jab. On the second day, Jaipur reported 594 vaccinations. “On the first day, we encountered some problems related to online registration of beneficiaries. The beneficiaries for second dose are those who had received the first dose more than 28 days ago. Now, the problem has been resolved and the vaccination drive for second dose will certainly take off,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). So far, 14,647 HCWs and frontline workers (FLWs) received the second dose, but no one reported any adverse event following the second dose. As far as the first dose is concerned, 6,22,266 persons have already received the jab and the health department is simultaneously vaccinating second dose to those who have completed 28 days of the first dose. Among the frontline workers who got the first dose was DGP ML Lather, who inspired other police personnel to get the vaccine. “The vaccine is completely safe and it is helpful in giving protection against Covid,” he said, adding that for the past few days, police personnel are getting the jab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-vax-2nd-dose-beneficiaries-in-state-rise-to-14647-in-two-days/articleshow/81007868.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||Two inebriated brothers create ruckus, abuse cops||Pune: The Talegaon Dabhade police on Monday registered an offence against two inebriated brothers from Thergaon for creating a ruckus at a ‘dhaba’ in Somatne, about 30km from Pune, and abusing the cops. The duo were admitted in a hospital as they had sustained injuries during the ruckus. Constable Vaibhav Nalage lodged a first information report (FIR) against them. “We have yet to arrest them as they are undergoing treatment,” an officer from the Talegaon Dabhade police said. The incident happened early on Monday. A night patrol team went to the dhaba, located along the Pune-Mumbai highway, after getting a report of a commotion there. “When we reached there, we saw the duo were not in their senses. After a brawl with a family, they had started throwing around bottles and chairs in the dhaba,” Nalage said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-inebriated-brothers-create-ruckus-abuse-cops/articleshow/81011670.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Bareilly||Man, 26, injured in celebratory firing in Shahjahanpur, ex-Army man booked||Bareilly: A 26-year-old man was allegedly injured in celebratory firing in Umarganj village of Shahjahanpur district on Monday night. Praveen sustained a bullet injury while attending a ceremony at the house of his brother-in-law and was rushed to the district hospital. Police were informed, too. The shot was allegedly fired from a licensed rifle of a retired Army man who was booked under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder), said police. The accused, however, claimed that the bullet was fired from his rifle accidentally. Kotwali SHO Pravesh Singh told TOI, “Praveen had gone to attend the naming ceremony of Sarvesh Kumar’s son when he sustained a bullet injury. Praveen in his complaint stated that the bullet was deliberately fired while according to witnesses, the bullet was fired accidentally from the rifle kept on a chair. Praveen is stable.” “We have seized the weapon and are investigating the case, which could be an accidental firing. The accused is under our observation, but he was not yet arrested. He doesn’t have any criminal past and has retired from the Army,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-26-injured-in-celebratory-firing-in-shahjahanpur-ex-army-man-booked/articleshow/81002772.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Delhi police serves notices to Bazpur farmers in connection with R-day violence||Rudrapur: A team of Delhi police reached Bazpur town of Udham Singh Nagar district and issued notices to an unknown number of farmers in connection with the Red Fort ‘violence’ on Republic Day. The farmers have been asked to visit the national capital and record their statement. The notices have been issued by Inspector Pankaj Arora of the special investigation unit-1 of the Crime branch of Delhi under section 91/160 of CrPC, sources said. On Tuesday, Delhi police came to Bazpur and requested the local police to serve notices to people at their residences, said an officer, wishing anonymity. In the notice, a copy of which is with TOI, the people, who were a part of the tractor rally held by farmers on Republic Day, have been identified with the registration number of their vehicles. In the notices, these people have been given different dates to appear at the ACP office at Daryaganj police station to record their statements. The cases have been lodged under sections 147, 148, 149, 152, 186, 269, 279, 353, 332, 307, 308, 395, 397, 427, 188, 34, and 120B of the Indian Penal Code. Sanjay Pandey, SHO of the Bazpur police station, said that locals from Barhaini, Doraha, and Sultanpur Patti villages have been served notices. However, he maintained that he does not know the actual number of people identified and his Delhi counterpart did not share the full list of names in this regard. Speaking to TOI from Ghazipur border, Jagtar Singh Bajwa, spokesperson of the Kisan Andolan Committee, said that farmers of Terai need not be frightened by the notices. “We have formed a panel of 11 senior counsels, headed by advocate Vasu Kukreja, a practitioner at the Supreme Court, to fight all the cases filed by Delhi police,” added Bajwa. In a similar vein, Karm Singh Padda, state president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, said that Delhi police is working on the behest of the central government and is trying to harass the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/delhi-police-serves-notices-to-bazpur-farmers-in-connection-with-r-day-violence/articleshow/81004416.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 17, 2021||Pune||PMC to acquire 50 mini buses||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will procure 50 mini buses for the scheme ‘Travel for Rs10’. The civic administration will spend Rs10 crore on the purchase, which was approved by the standing committee on Tuesday. “The announcement of procurement was made in the municipal budget. Two bidders have come forward to provide the buses and the lowest bid has been selected. We are hoping to get these buses in two months,” said Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee. The panel also extended the contract with Solid Waste Collection and Handling (SWaCH) collective of wastepickers by a month. “We will see if any other agency provides the service of door-to-door garbage collection of the same quality but at competitive rates,” he said. The standing committee has approved Rs1.5 crore to lay cycle tracks at Pashan Road. The civic body will also develop a parking facility at Yashwantrao Chavan Auditorium in Kothrud. The PMC’s general body approved names of new standing committee members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-to-acquire-50-mini-buses/articleshow/81011672.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 53 fresh Covid-19 cases & two deaths||Dehradun: With 53 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, the total number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand reached 96,920, while two deaths in the past 24 hours took the Covid toll in the state to 1,682. Besides, as 96 people recovered on Tuesday, the number of active cases went down to 564. According to a health bulletin, 11,337 samples tested negative on Tuesday, while among 53 positive cases, 21 were reported from Dehradun district followed by 11 in Nainital, eight in Haridwar, seven in Udham Singh Nagar, three in Pithoragarh, two in Pauri and one in Rudraprayag. Meanwhile, the state has vaccinated 1,24,420 healthcare and frontline workers in the past one month of the Covid-19 vaccination drive that was started on January 16. Of the 1.24 lakh vaccinated staffers, 2,908 have even received the second dose of Covid vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-records-53-fresh-covid-19-cases-two-deaths/articleshow/81004437.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Parcel booked as fish turns out to be tortoises||Nagpur: A parcel, booked as a ‘colourful aquarium’ in Chennai, turned out to be a bunch of more than 50 alive small domestic tortoises in Nagpur on Tuesday. A 28-year-old man, identified as Yashwantrao Liyarlawal, was booked by the Railway protection force (RPF), central railway, for false declaration. The parcel, which arrived at the Nagpur railway station by Tamil Nadu Express, had triggered curiosity as the tortoises started coming out of two packets found in the consignment. It’s learnt that the railway authorities came to know about the false declaration after Liyarlawal, a native of Chandrapur, had objected to the damaged parcel. “The railway authorities were supposed to give the consignee (Liyarlawal) an open parcel but tortoises were spotted when they too conducted a check in the presence of RPF,” said senior divisional security commissioner, RPF, CR, Ashutosh Pandey. An offence under section 163 of the Railways Act was invoked against Liyarlawal for false declaration. The forest department, summoned to ascertain the category of the tortoises, later declared them as ‘domesticated’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parcel-booked-as-fish-turns-out-to-be-tortoises/articleshow/81007889.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||Geological board to approve plan||Jaipur: The State Geological Programming Board is meeting on February 18 to review the exploration initiatives of the current year and approve the plan for the next financial year. Central agencies like Geological Survey of India and Mining Exploration Corporation Ltd, and representatives from ONGC, HPCL, Oil India Ltd, and Hindustan Copper will take part in the meeting. Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, mines and petroleum, will preside over the meeting and approve the new programme. The meeting also discusses the exploration programmes sothat there is no duplication in the work by any other agency. Convener and additional director, mines, Pradeep Agarwal said, “Besides the approval of new exploration programme, discussions will revolve around best practices in the industry, exchange of ideas, experiences and sharing knowledge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/geological-board-to-approve-plan/articleshow/81007899.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Jodhpur||200 fire tenders, hydraulic ladders for four big Rajasthan cities||JAIPUR: Chief secretary Nirnjan Arya at a review meeting of disaster management directed the local self-government department to speed up procurement of hydraulic ladder platforms in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Bhiwadi and Kota and to study the requirement in other cities including Ajmer and Bikaner. He directed to make it a part of the integrated emergency response support system (ERSS) and purchase 200 fire fighting vehicles expeditiously. He was presiding over the state executive meeting of the disaster and relief department on Tuesday. Arya directed to act against the officials responsible for delay in sending the demand for agricultural input grant in the crop area in Ganganagar and the budget allocated for transportation of drinking water in Barmer and Nagaur districts. It was decided at the meeting to increase the number of vehicles in every division of the state disaster response force (SDRF), purchase one advance life-support ambulance in all the district and ground earthing report through mobile app for declaration of drought. It was decided to prioritise the deployment of trained civil defence volunteers in fire stations, state hospitals and government offices. The meeting also discussed pending agricultural input grant and other matters. It was decided to conduct an inquiry by the divisional commissioner in the pending cases of agricultural input grant in Dholpur district. Anand Kumar principal secretary, department of disaster management, relief and civil defence, informed that Rs 1,546 crore assistance provided including Rs 320 crore for drought relief to districts, Rs 567 crore for flood relief and hailstorm, grasshopper attack and Rs 658 crore for Covid relief from NDRF-SDRF fund. Joint Secretary Kalpana Aggarwal informed that Bhilwara and Dungarpur have purchased search and rescue, flood rescue and firefighting equipment, while the procurement process is going on in other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/200-fire-tenders-hydraulic-ladders-for-4-big-raj-cities/articleshow/81052191.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Udaipur||200 fire tenders, hydraulic ladders for four big Rajasthan cities||JAIPUR: Chief secretary Nirnjan Arya at a review meeting of disaster management directed the local self-government department to speed up procurement of hydraulic ladder platforms in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Bhiwadi and Kota and to study the requirement in other cities including Ajmer and Bikaner. He directed to make it a part of the integrated emergency response support system (ERSS) and purchase 200 fire fighting vehicles expeditiously. He was presiding over the state executive meeting of the disaster and relief department on Tuesday. Arya directed to act against the officials responsible for delay in sending the demand for agricultural input grant in the crop area in Ganganagar and the budget allocated for transportation of drinking water in Barmer and Nagaur districts. It was decided at the meeting to increase the number of vehicles in every division of the state disaster response force (SDRF), purchase one advance life-support ambulance in all the district and ground earthing report through mobile app for declaration of drought. It was decided to prioritise the deployment of trained civil defence volunteers in fire stations, state hospitals and government offices. The meeting also discussed pending agricultural input grant and other matters. It was decided to conduct an inquiry by the divisional commissioner in the pending cases of agricultural input grant in Dholpur district. Anand Kumar principal secretary, department of disaster management, relief and civil defence, informed that Rs 1,546 crore assistance provided including Rs 320 crore for drought relief to districts, Rs 567 crore for flood relief and hailstorm, grasshopper attack and Rs 658 crore for Covid relief from NDRF-SDRF fund. Joint Secretary Kalpana Aggarwal informed that Bhilwara and Dungarpur have purchased search and rescue, flood rescue and firefighting equipment, while the procurement process is going on in other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/200-fire-tenders-hydraulic-ladders-for-4-big-raj-cities/articleshow/81052189.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||21 districts report rise in active cases in 1 wk: Data||Mumbai: Active cases in 21 of the 36 districts in Maharashtra have shown an increase in one week. Data released by the public health department shows that active cases in districts like Amravati, Akola, Buldhana and Nagpur have gone up significantly between February 9 and 15. Amravati had 1,144 active cases as on February 9, which increased to 3,090 in a week, a 63% rise. Nagpur reported a 23% rise to 4,429 cases from 3,596 in the same period. Nagpur has more active cases than Mumbai as on Tuesday. Mumbai has 4,238 active cases and Nagpur 4,590. The data also shows that testing has taken a hit in many districts and positivity is on the rise at several places. Daily positivity rate in Amravati on Monday was 56%; of the 782 tests that were conducted, 444 tested positive on Monday. In Sindhudurg, the positivity rate was 44%, and in Bhandara, 26%. Districts like Amravati, Wardha, Akola, Yavatmala, Buldhana have also reported the highest weekly increase in cases. At Amravati, officials have identified 6-8 hotspots, particularly in the corporation area. Civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam said testing has been intensified in the hotspots for early detection. The district has also tightened hospitalisation no-rms. “Anybody who doesn’t want to get hospitalised and insists on undergoing treatment at home will have to give a written bond,” Dr Nikam said, adding that the authorities are getting more stringent with isolation. Covid cases in Amravati have jumped from 423 on January 17 to 3,329 on February 16, a near 700% increase. In Akola too, 75% of the cases are being reported from the city areas. While officials have squarely put the blame on people for not following Covid-appropriate behaviour, a senior doctor from Akola district said that mask drives have slowed down too. “People are moving around freely as they no longer fear about being penalised,” they said. Dr Suresh Asole, Akola district health officer, said that the local police have intensified the drive against those not wearing masks. “Social gatherings and functions have become one of the major reasons behind the spread. People at functions, say weddings, don’t wear masks,” he said. Dr Asole added that over 5,000 tests have been carried out in the district in the past one week. Active cases in Akola have increased by 72% in the past one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/21-districts-report-rise-in-active-cases-in-1-wk-data/articleshow/81008095.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 17, 2021||Ajmer||200 fire tenders, hydraulic ladders for four big Rajasthan cities||JAIPUR: Chief secretary Nirnjan Arya at a review meeting of disaster management directed the local self-government department to speed up procurement of hydraulic ladder platforms in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Bhiwadi and Kota and to study the requirement in other cities including Ajmer and Bikaner. He directed to make it a part of the integrated emergency response support system (ERSS) and purchase 200 fire fighting vehicles expeditiously. He was presiding over the state executive meeting of the disaster and relief department on Tuesday. Arya directed to act against the officials responsible for delay in sending the demand for agricultural input grant in the crop area in Ganganagar and the budget allocated for transportation of drinking water in Barmer and Nagaur districts. It was decided at the meeting to increase the number of vehicles in every division of the state disaster response force (SDRF), purchase one advance life-support ambulance in all the district and ground earthing report through mobile app for declaration of drought. It was decided to prioritise the deployment of trained civil defence volunteers in fire stations, state hospitals and government offices. The meeting also discussed pending agricultural input grant and other matters. It was decided to conduct an inquiry by the divisional commissioner in the pending cases of agricultural input grant in Dholpur district. Anand Kumar principal secretary, department of disaster management, relief and civil defence, informed that Rs 1,546 crore assistance provided including Rs 320 crore for drought relief to districts, Rs 567 crore for flood relief and hailstorm, grasshopper attack and Rs 658 crore for Covid relief from NDRF-SDRF fund. Joint Secretary Kalpana Aggarwal informed that Bhilwara and Dungarpur have purchased search and rescue, flood rescue and firefighting equipment, while the procurement process is going on in other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/200-fire-tenders-hydraulic-ladders-for-4-big-raj-cities/articleshow/81052193.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||200 fire tenders, hydraulic ladders for four big Rajasthan cities||JAIPUR: Chief secretary Nirnjan Arya at a review meeting of disaster management directed the local self-government department to speed up procurement of hydraulic ladder platforms in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Bhiwadi and Kota and to study the requirement in other cities including Ajmer and Bikaner. He directed to make it a part of the integrated emergency response support system (ERSS) and purchase 200 fire fighting vehicles expeditiously. He was presiding over the state executive meeting of the disaster and relief department on Tuesday. Arya directed to act against the officials responsible for delay in sending the demand for agricultural input grant in the crop area in Ganganagar and the budget allocated for transportation of drinking water in Barmer and Nagaur districts. It was decided at the meeting to increase the number of vehicles in every division of the state disaster response force (SDRF), purchase one advance life-support ambulance in all the district and ground earthing report through mobile app for declaration of drought. It was decided to prioritise the deployment of trained civil defence volunteers in fire stations, state hospitals and government offices. The meeting also discussed pending agricultural input grant and other matters. It was decided to conduct an inquiry by the divisional commissioner in the pending cases of agricultural input grant in Dholpur district. Anand Kumar principal secretary, department of disaster management, relief and civil defence, informed that Rs 1,546 crore assistance provided including Rs 320 crore for drought relief to districts, Rs 567 crore for flood relief and hailstorm, grasshopper attack and Rs 658 crore for Covid relief from NDRF-SDRF fund. Joint Secretary Kalpana Aggarwal informed that Bhilwara and Dungarpur have purchased search and rescue, flood rescue and firefighting equipment, while the procurement process is going on in other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/200-fire-tenders-hydraulic-ladders-for-4-big-raj-cities/articleshow/81007919.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Bareilly||Neighbourhood shopkeeper rapes 5-year-old in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A five-year-old girl was raped allegedly by a neighbourhood shopkeeper when she went to buy candies at his shop on Monday. The man, who had fled, was arrested on Tuesday while he was trying to leave Bareilly district. Dhananjay Singh, SHO of Nawabganj police station, said the accused, Nazim, 26, was known to the girl as she often visited his shop alone. When she went to the shop on Monday, he allegedly lured her into a room by offering her chocolates and sexually assaulted her. The girl returned home with her clothes stained with blood. Her horrified family informed Dial 112 and lodged an official complaint. The accused managed to flee before police reached his shop. The girl was sent for a medical examination at the district hospital in Bareilly. SHO Singh said, “Nazim has been booked under IPC section 376 (rape) and provisions of the POCSO Act. He has been arrested and sent to jail. The condition of the girl is stable.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/neighbourhood-shopkeeper-rapes-5-year-old-in-bareilly/articleshow/81002872.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 17, 2021||Pune||Pune police send report on woman’s death to NCW||Pune: The Pune police on Tuesday submitted a report to the National Commmission for Women (NCW) in the mysterious death of a 22-year-old woman after a fall from the first-floor balcony of a society building at Mohammadwadi on February 8. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said,“We have received a letter from the NCW and it was important to reply. Whatever has been investigated so far, we have sent our reply to the NCW.” Shisve refused to reveal details of the reply. Deputy commissioner of police (zone V) Namrata Patil said,“The report consists of details of the accidental death case registered with Wanowrie police and the inquiry conducted by the police till date. The inquiry details cannot be made public at this stage.” The arts graduate woman who had shifted from Parli in Beed district to Pune on January 30 for a spoken English course, died of severe head and spinal injuries after falling from the first-floor balcony of a society building. The NCW had sent a letter to the state director general of police and additional commissioner of police (east region) in Pune for conducting an inquiry and submitting an action taken report last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-police-send-report-on-womans-death-to-ncw/articleshow/81011673.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Cong member in parl panel praises city cops’ ‘restraint’||New Delhi: Congress MP from Punjab Ravneet Singh "Bittu" appreciated Delhi Police’s handling of violence that broke out during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26 during a meeting of the parliamentary panel on home affairs even as the sedition case against activist Disha Ravi did not come up in any detailed reference. The panel was discussing demands for grants of the home ministry, Delhi Police and central armed police forces (CAPFs). It is learnt that Ravneet Singh, during the meeting chaired by Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Anand Sharma on Tuesday, praised Delhi Police’s restraint in handling the violent protests. He is said to have observed that while in any other place, violence of such scale would have led to bullets being fired, Delhi Police had held back and “did good work”, ensuring that there was no loss of life. His view was endorsed by others, including the committee chairperson. Bittu, while protesting against the three farm bills, had also visited the Singhu border where some of the protestors clashed with him. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cong-member-in-parl-panel-praises-city-cops-restraint/articleshow/81007965.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||Traffic warden held on sexual assault charge||Pune: A 26-year-old traffic warden was arrested on Sunday on the charge of outraging the modesty of a teenaged girl working at a travel agency, besides beating up and abusing a police constable, when the latter intervened. The incident occurred on Sunday evening in Alandi. The arrested traffic warden, Dnyaneshwar Devkate, is from Dehu Phata. The police have also arrested his accomplice Santosh Tapkire (41) of Charholi. Their other two accomplices are still on the run. The Alandi police have registered two separate offences against Devkate and his accomplices. They have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC and POCSO Act for outraging modesty and sexually harassing the girl. They have also been booked for beating and abusing the police constable Ankush Rathod (32). Sub-inspector of the Alandi police Surekha Sagar said the complainant (17) works at a travel agency in Alandi. On Sunday evening she was in the office and Devkate entered and spoke to her in a lewd language and sexually harassed her, she said. “The girl was shocked. She didn’t know him. After he left, three men went inside and harassed her,” she said. She added that when the girl started raising an alarm, the trio fled. “With the help of her friend, the complainant alerted the Alandi police. When our team reached the spot, the girl identified one of the suspects, who was standing across the road. Our team nabbed him, who was later identified as Devkate,” Sagar said. Devkate and his three accomplices abused and beat up constable Rathod. Three of them fled. One of them has been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traffic-warden-held-on-sexual-assault-charge/articleshow/81011684.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Delhi||BJP, Congress target AAP govt on completion of 1 yr in 3rd term||New Delhi: On the first anniversary of Arvind Kejriwal 3.0 government, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta on Tuesday alleged that Kejriwal cannot name even one achievement on completion of one year of his government. At a joint press conference held with leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, the Delhi BJP chief said that despite being in power for six years now, Delhiites are still waiting for clean drinking water, free WiFi, electric buses, pollution-free environment, clean Yamuna and adequate health service system. Gupta claimed that Delhi government has stalled release of Rs 13,000 crore to the municipal corporations, which has affected the release of wages to sanitation workers, beautification of parks, roads repair and other basic amenities work under the jurisdiction of the corporations. Delhi Congress functionaries also claimed that the AAP government did not perform. Former minister Haroon Yusuf said that Kejriwal has got Delhi the dubious distinction of the “most polluted city” in the world. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-congress-target-aap-govt-on-completion-of-1-yr-in-3rd-term/articleshow/81008030.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Pune||Pune: FTII plans to resume classes from March 22||PUNE: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) has asked four batches of students to report back to the campus by the first week of March, with classes and workshops expected to resume from March 22. The four batches -- film students of the 2017 batch, the acting batch from 2018, and the television and screenplay batch of 2019 --- will have to report to the campus by March 6 and start a mandatory two-week quarantine in their hostel rooms. “The window that has been kept open for students to report is to allow them to plan their travel arrangements. After the students complete their 14-day quarantine, and assuming no one develops symptoms or test positive for Covid-19, we hope to resume classes from March 22,” said Bhupendra Kainthola, the FTII director. For the batch inducted in 2020, students will continue their three-month foundation course through online lectures. “The reason we delayed the decision to resume classes and recall students back to the campus is to plan for it with minimal risk involved,” said a senior FTII official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-plans-to-resume-classes-from-march-22/articleshow/81011698.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||Agri institute is running with less than 50% capacity||Jaipur: The state government is making promises to encourage research in the state, but Rajasthan Agriculture Research Institute (RARI), Durgapura, is functioning with over half the vacant seats.According to data provided by RARI, at present on 102 posts in different plans, 41 seats are filled and rest 61 are vacant. There is immense shortage of staff in the institute which is affecting the research as well.This research station was established in 1943 for research work in agriculture. At present it comes under the Shri Karan Narendra Agriculture University, Jobner. Director of RARI, Durgapura, A S Baloda, however, assured that Shri Karan Narendra Agriculture University, Jobner, will soon start recruitment for more seats. “We have got sanction for 180 posts, but its DOP is not permitted yet. But we are hopeful that very soon seats for the institutes will be filled. Last recruitment happened in 2018 when more than 150 seats were filled. Very soon more seats will be filled in the institute,” said Baloda.At present, 39 national plans i.e. projects sponsored by the central government and 63 state plan i.e. projects sanctioned by the state government are running in the institute. Of the 41 seats filled, 10 employees of RARI are working in agriculture colleges.Recently, the state government opened many agriculture engineering colleges most of whom are functioning without any faculties. Hence, many teachers from RARI are sent there to teach although they are still drawing their salaries from the university. “The government has opened colleges recently like growing vegetables, although they have neither infrastructure nor staff to run them. Students who are taking admissions there do not have proper guidance as from two to three teacher’s entire college is functioning. Government should consider filling up the seats first instead of just opening up colleges without any vision as current institutes are suffering because of that,” said a faculty member of RARI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/agri-institute-is-running-with-less-than-50-capacity/articleshow/81008042.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||Govt working to start bus services on rural roads||Jaipur: The transport department is attempting to run buses on unused routes in the rural areas of Rajasthan and for the same the state transport minister wrote to all the MLAs, out of which over 150 have replied. They have given the lists of routes which have no public transport and the officials will compile this data to segregate between the routes which have absolutely no buses as well as those which have less number of passengers. Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, state transport minister told TOI, “Last month, I had written to all the MLAs in the state asking them about the routes in their constituencies which have no means of public transport so that we can start buses on them and over 150 of them have given us the lists of such areas.” The focus of the transport department is on the rural areas where both state roadways and private vehicles are not operational and the minister further added, “There are a few routes in rural areas on which no buses have been operational even post independence and we want the connectivity to be improved. Now, we will go over the list sent by the ministers to find the routes which in actuality do have this necessary service. Even the routes which probably have buses but less passengers will be considered.” According to the authorities, there is likely a policy to be announced during the upcoming Budget session which will provide ease of getting permits for private operators as well as providing some kind of relief in taxes for the routes which have less passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-working-to-start-bus-services-on-rural-roads/articleshow/81007997.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||Cop booked after woman’s FIR||Pune: Bund Garden police on Monday booked a havaldar from the Shivajinagar police headquarters, after a woman (29) lodged an FIR accusing him of sexually harassing her between January and December last year. “ The woman said the policeman called her to a lodge and demanded sexual favours on December 24. We issued a notice to the policeman, asking him to cooperate with the investigation,” an officer said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cop-booked-after-womans-fir/articleshow/81011691.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Women cops feted, three hailed for Covid-19 duty||Nagpur: With more than half a dozen women cops being feted in the reward ceremony of the city police, they have made their presence felt strongly which had been otherwise dominated by their male counterparts so far. Naik police constable Puja Manikpuri, constables Pinky Yadav and Rita Kohore were among them who were feted by city police chief Amitesh Kumar for their contribution during the challenging period of Covid-19. Manikpuri, posted at the police welfare wing, was herself hit with the virus while relentlessly toiling for her colleagues when the pandemic was at its peak. But she went back to help her Covid-affected colleagues and their families immediately after being recovered from the disease. Daughter of a former cop, Manikpuri, recruited in 2006, distributed medicines door-to-door among the cops suffering from Covid-19. She, along with her colleagues, also took dry fruits and other materials for them on behalf of the department. Manikpuri was also instrumental in distributing sanitizers, masks, face-shields and other immunity booster doses for policemen posted at 33 police stations and crime branch. “It was an unexpected but most welcome reward from seniors which has motivated me to do better. I used to feel apprehensive initially but later went ahead as a call of service for my department,” she said. Manikpuri also counselled families of policemen regarding measures to fight Covid-19 and also helped them with hospitalization process. She extended awareness regarding police medical insurance, health plan and cashless treatment of Covid-19 and other diseases among families of cops. She was also instrumental in updating the state police headquarters regarding Covid-19 deaths in the department to ensure their families quickly get compensation. Yadav, a rare woman ‘duty writer’ who allot tasks to 13 officers and 109 constables of Ganeshpeth police station everyday, had busted the male bastion during the pandemic by becoming a part of the ‘bundobust’ duty too. The cop, recruited in 2009, would step out of the police station, which other duty writers are not known to do, to join her colleagues in the field bundobust whenever she had to deal with less manpower to allot duties during the lockdown. “It’s my passion for work which had made me do this. Two of my colleagues were down with the virus but I had continued to work double shift,” said the woman cop. Constable Rita Kohore of pension branch too was rewarded for ensuring prompt processing of documents for Covid-19 deaths so that the deceased policemen families could get the compensation amount of Rs50 lakh as quickly as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/women-cops-feted-three-hailed-for-covid-19-duty/articleshow/81008002.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||IIM Kashipur’s annual flagship event ‘Agnitraya’ concludes||Rudrapur: The Indian Institute of Management (IIM) at Kashipur organized the seventh edition of Agnitraya, the annual flagship event of the institute. The three-day-long extravaganza, organized virtually, revolved around the theme — ‘Back to the Future’. Since its inception, Agnitraya has seen a tremendous year-on-year growth and this year, the fest witnessed participation of around 50 colleges across India. Several cultural performances — including navras, dance and singing competition — and seven management events — in domains like marketing, finance, etc — were organized during the fest. Students and youth from all across India participated in the event with enthusiasm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iim-kashipurs-annual-flagship-event-agnitraya-concludes/articleshow/81004737.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Why a hike in house tax now, say residents in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: An additional tax burden hangs on the heads of homeowners in the state, after the cash-strapped state government announced it will charge house tax based on circle rates. Doon mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama has promised to initially relax the hike for homeowners, but residents are unhappy. The new house tax will be based on width of adjoining road, distance from main road, type of colony and amenities offered. As per existing circle rates, the maximum tax in the city will be charged from properties located between Clock Tower and RTO office on Rajpur road, where circle rates are as high as Rs 50,000 per sqm.  Doon Residents Welfare Front president Mahesh Bhandari said, “Hike in house tax when people are yet to recover from financial losses incurred during the pandemic will crush us. DMC should focus on cent per cent house tax collection from existing residential and commercial properties instead of hiking rates.”  Rajpur road resident R K Solanki said, “We bought this property ages ago. Back then, we didn’t know circle rates here would rise this much. But even after paying hiked house taxes, what additional benefits will residents get? Authorities should talk about this as well.”  There are 44 localities which are likely to have low house tax rates, where circle rate is Rs 10,000 per sqm (Rs 24,000/sqm for multi-storey flats). These localities include Ajabpur Kala, Bindal road, Indresh Nagar, Prem Nagar, Kargi Grant, Niranjanpur and Brahmawala, etc. DMC has also extended the date for availing 20% rebate on house tax till February 20. This year, the civic body had kept Rs 50 crore as its collection target, of which, Rs 22 crore is already in the kitty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/why-a-hike-in-house-tax-now-say-residents-in-doon/articleshow/81004589.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||17 Army personnel to be awarded in Alwar||JAIPUR: An investiture ceremony will be organised on Friday in Alwar to felicitate 17 Army officers and soldiers for recognition of their acts of bravery and distinguished service to the country. In addition to this, 23 selected units of South Western Command will also be awarded the unit citations. Lieutenant General Alok Kler, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, South Western Command will honour and present gallantry and distinguished service awards, as well as unit citations. Naik Hemraj Jat (Grenadiers) will be conferred gallantry award posthumously. The award will be received by next of kin. According to Army officials, in 2019, 23-year-old soldier Hemraj Jat, who hailed from Bhadoon Rooopangargh village in Ajmer district, was killed when Pakistan army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC. Hemraj joined the army in 2017 and was youngest of three siblings. He was unmarried and his family was preparing for his marriage in December 2019. Born on July 5, 1996, Hemraj was commissioned into the Indian Army on March 22, 2017. The ceremony will be attended by various senior army personnel along with the awardees and their families. As a prelude to this ceremony, variety of cultural and military events will be organised for the honourable guests on February 17 and 18 at Alwar Cantonment. Last week, the Southern Command Investiture Ceremony was conducted at the Konark Corps at Jodhpur on Friday. Lieutenant General J S Nain, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Command, presented gallantry and distinguished awards to 36 Army personnel including one next of kin of a posthumous gallantry award winner Nk (Late) Rajendra Singh and 22 units of Southern Command for their outstanding contribution in various fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/17-army-personnel-to-be-awarded-in-alwar/articleshow/81008107.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Meerut||Youths ‘appointed’ in civil jobs in military areas using fake docus, gang busted||MEERUT: Acting on specific input, a joint team of Military Intelligence and Sadar police station has busted a racket of luring innocent civilians on the pretext of providing them contractual employment with Military Engineer Service (MES) in Meerut by extracting money to the tune of Rs 6 lakh per candidate. Sources said Military Intelligence is also probing the role of any insider in the racket. One Ravi Kumar, a resident of Muzaffarnagar, was arrested in this connection while two others — Satpal and Kamal — are currently on the run, said police sources, adding that the trio had duped more than 20 civilians, so far. Prima facie, the culprits used to prepare fake recruitment documents and identity cards with Indian Army’s official rubber stamps on them and had even ‘employed’ candidates with MES for more than four months inside the Cantonment, said police sources. The candidates were chosen from other stations, and upon asking questions, the candidates would be threatened by the accused, who would also keep their original documents until the full payment was made. Once the payment was made, the accused would change their contact numbers, leaving the candidates in a lurch, said police sources divulging the gang’s modus operandi. Notably, the candidates’ salaries were also promised after four months, but would never be given. The case has highlighted the vulnerability of the military’s sensitive locations that can be accessed by any person with a fake identity card. According to sources in the Army, there are a few departments in the Army where civilians are employed and MES is one of them. “The thugs managing to get these youths working at one of the pump houses run by MES is a matter of concern,” said sources. According to Dinesh Chandra, station house officer, Sadar police station, “We arrested Ravi on Tuesday from the Cantonment area and booked him under IPC sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 467 (forgery), 471 (forged document used as original) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). We seized from his possession a laptop, documents with fake stamps, passbooks of various banks, fake Aadhaar cards, etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youths-appointed-in-civil-jobs-in-military-areas-using-fake-docus-gang-busted/articleshow/81002905.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 17, 2021||Pune||Snakes from forest enter NIBM Road societies||Pune: Housing societies near the forest area on NIBM Road have reported several cases of snakes venturing on their premises. While most of the time the non-poisonous species wander on to the premises, recently poisonous ones have also been spotted. A cobra was recently fatally injured after getting stuck at the main gate of Sunshree Kangan and a six-foot long Russel viper was rescued from Elina Living. Jaisri Rangaranjan, the chairperson of Cloud 9 housing society, said, “As we are surrounded by the forest area, every month we spot at least three to four snakes, including some venomous ones. Recently a child playing on the premises was bitten after stepping on one by mistake. His mother noticed the mark on his leg and immediately took him to the doctor. It was not venomous so he was alright. Our staff catches the snakes and hands them over to animal rescue team at the Katraj snake park.” Krishnan Vekiteswaran from Raheja Vista, said the snakes they usually spot are non-poisonous. “We make sure we do not harm them and call the animal rescuers,” he said. Khushi Karnani, a resident of Elina Living, said, “There have been many cases where snakes have been spotted in the society, but we don’t know how dangerous they are. No snake bites have been reported though.” Volunteers at Sarpmitra get frequent calls from these housing societies to help remove these reptiles from their premises. “We get at least two to three calls from different housing societies in the area in a week to rescue the snakes. Most of the times, the snakes are harmless because the venomous ones don’t usually wander out of their territories. But, of late we are seeing more Russel vipers and cobras in the residential areas,” Anand Waydande, an animal rescuer with Sarpmitra, said. Rahul Patil, the deputy conservator of forests Pune, said, “The residential development is surrounded by forest, which is the natural habitat of the snakes. They are bound to come out now. We obviously cannot do anything to restrict their movement. On its normal course, it does not interfere with human beings, and bites can occur due to some accident.” Snakes that are rescued are either left back in the forest area, taken to the Katraj snake park or brought to Anandavan Reserve Forest. “Around 1,500 animals are rescued in Pune every year. Of them, most are reptiles, mainly snakes. Our animal rescue team picks them up and treat them if medical attention is required and inform the forest department,”Rajkumar Jadhav, the director of Katraj Zoo and snake park, said. Rahul Patil advised residents to get acquainted with basic remedies to stop venom from spreading in the body till they can reach the nearest health centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/snakes-from-forest-enter-nibm-road-societies/articleshow/81011720.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Mask, sanitizer sales plunge as people throw caution to the wind||PUNE: Mask and sanitizer sales have nosedived in Maharashtra, including Pune, since December last year due to the general laxity in following Covid-appropriate behaviour. All India Mask Manufacturers’ Association vice-president Anshumali Jain told TOI, “There is a significant drop in mask sales across India during the last few months, with more than half of mask manufacturing units shutting down across the country.” Confirming the trend, Maharashtra State Chemists and Druggists’ Association president Jagannath Shinde said, “If I was selling 50-100 N95 as well as 3-ply masks per day at the retail level earlier, I am now selling just 3-4 pieces daily. There is an almost 90% drop in mask sales after December. People are just not taking the kind of precautions they were taking earlier. Even sanitizer sales have dropped by 60-70%. I would earlier sell 30-40 sanitizer bottles per day but just one or two now.” Anil Belkar, secretary of the Chemists’ Association of Pune district, said there had been a 90% drop in sales of both masks and sanitizers at the retail level since the last two months. “We appeal to citizens to continue using masks and sanitizers as Covid-19 has not gone away completely,” he said. Mahesh Kudav, managing director of Venus Safety and Health, a manufacturer of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), said mask supplies to hospitals has also shrunk by 90% as there was a growing practice of providing N95 to only doctors and not the supporting staff. A part of the decline in sales has been prompted by the notion that Covid-19 has been on the decline, health experts said. Kapil Zirpe, member of the Pune Covid-19 task force and head of the department of the neurotrauma unit of Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “People are not following mask, social distancing and hand washing norms. The behaviour seems to have receded to the way it was a year ago. People must realize that the vaccine will take some time to reach the general public and it offers only 60% protection. Hence, Covid-appropriate behaviour is of utmost importance.” A city-based restaurateur TOI spoke to said, “There are quite a few customers walking in to restaurants without mask. Even when people walk in with masks, some have them under their noses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mask-sanitizer-sales-plunge-as-people-throw-caution-to-the-wind/articleshow/81011724.cms||Neha Madaan
February 17, 2021||Pune||‘Reach out to state for cell tower dues’||Pune: Leader of the Congress in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) Ulhas (Aba) Bagul has demanded that the civic administration approach the state government for the recovery of dues from cellphone towers.  Around Rs 1,300 crore are to recovered from the cellphone towers. “The payment was delayed on the grounds that the matter concerns the Union government. But after our communication with the ministry, it is clear that its in the purview of the state,” Bagul said. According to PMC, there are 1,600 unauthorised cellphone towers. Nearly 400 towers have taken the necessary permissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reach-out-to-state-for-cell-tower-dues/articleshow/81011743.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ajmer||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s chadar offered at Ajmer dargah||AJMER: Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday offered a chadar on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Ajmer dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti on the occasion of the 809th Urs of the Sufi saint. Similarly, a delegation headed by health minister Raghu Sharma will offer a chadar on behalf of chief minister Ashok Gehlot at the dargah on Wednesday. Naqvi also read out the message sent by Modi in which he conveyed his greetings and best wishes to the followers of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti in India and abroad on the occasion of annual Urs. Naqvi said that the dargah is the ideal place in the world because in Ajmer dargah is situated on one side, while Pushkar and Brahma Temple is situated on the other side. This time again the Pakistani delegation has not turned up to participate in Urs, but chadar from Pakistan government is offered in the dargah by the official Aftab Hussain from Pakistan High Commission in India. He wished to have good bilateral relations with India. The official put the chadar on his head at Delhi Gate and went to dargah where he was welcomed by the khadims. Syed Bilal Chishti, a khadim at dargah, performed prayers on behalf of the Pakistan government. Meanwhile, offering of chadars at the dargah is continued and thousands of devotes are coming every day to offer prayers in the dargah. Devotees from different parts of the country are coming to attend the yearly Urs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/pms-chadar-offered-at-ajmer-dargah/articleshow/81008072.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||Only 417 get booster shot in region on second day, 32% receive the first dose||Pune: A total of 417 healthcare workers (HCWs) turned up for the second shot of the Covid vaccine in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday as compared to 525 individuals taking the booster jab on Monday. Besides, a total of 2,689 beneficiaries, including 1,264 frontline workers, were administered the first dose of the vaccine across 77 sites in the PMR on Tuesday. The overall turnout was 32%. Among other reasons, the dismal vaccination can be attributed to the day’s increased target vaccination, which rose by 3,400 beneficiaries on Tuesday. The day’s target vaccination was just 5,100 on February 9, which went up to 8,287 on Monday and to 8,500 on Tuesday. More private hospitals are expected to begin administering the second dose of the vaccine in the days to come. “Ever since the activation of the vaccination site at our hospital, we have covered over 1,650 people so far. These include our HCWs and those referred to us from other hospitals through PMC. We have also started giving the vaccine to frontline workers. We will be giving the second dose as per the guidelines after 28 days. We hope to cover as many people as possible and have the infrastructure to vaccinate up to 200 people a day,” said Madhur Rao, senior deputy medical administrator, KEM hospital. Experts stress on 100% inoculation of health workers with the first dose. “The ideal interval between the two doses should be three months. However, the government policy to narrow the interval between shots to 28 days is to ensure quick coverage of most of the population,” said Vijay Natarajan, CEO, Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-417-get-booster-shot-in-region-on-second-day-32-receive-the-first-dose/articleshow/81011768.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 17, 2021||Delhi||N corpn to rename Mangolpuri chowk after Rinku: Mayor||New Delhi: North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash, while visiting the relatives of deceased Rinku Sharma in Mangolpuri on Wednesday, announced that Mangolpuri chowk would be named after him. The mayor demanded Delhi government to release Rs 1 crore compensation and assured that the corporation would explore the provision of giving a job to a dependent member in the family. Jai Prakash, along with the area councillor Raj Prakash, met the family at their residence and expressed condolences. “A proposal for renaming the chowk will be brought by the area councillor Prakash,” the mayor added. Condemning the murder and demanding strictest action against the culprits, Jai Prakash said, “We will explore all the possibilities within the corporation to help the family.” Naming and renaming of roads, community centres, parks and intersections comes under the jurisdiction of respective municipal corporation. Requests for renaming of roads and parks are routed through the area councillor and the municipal secretary’s office to the naming panel. The political importance of the committee can be gauged from the fact that it is headed by the mayor and includes all the major functionaries, such as deputy mayor. Once approved at the committee level, the final clearance is given by the House of councillors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-to-rename-mangolpuri-chowk-after-rinku-mayor/articleshow/81078591.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||Jaisalmer admn gears up for desert festival||Jaisalmer: New programmes are being included in the four-day desert festival, to be organised from February 24 to 27. The inauguration of the festival will start with heritage walk from Sonar Fort to Gadisar Lake in which locals, public representatives, district administration officers will participate in traditional attire and then a grand ‘Deep daan’ will be organised at the lake. A meeting was held under the chairmanship of district collector Ashish Modi to decide the programme and preparations for the desert festival. The logo of the festival was also released. Modi said that the festival will be organised from February 24 to 27. He appealed to the officers and people of the district for their participation in all the programmes, and in decorating and keeping the city clean. Modi called upon the people to publicise the festival on social media and to take part in all the activities. The theme of the festival is ‘New year, new hope, new celebrations’. Programmes including Rammat natak, horse run, folk dances, miss Moomal, Mr desert, BSF camel tattoo show, cultural programmes, panihari matka race, camel polo, etc were discussed in detail. Under the festival, programmes will be organised at four places — Khuhadi, Gadisar, Jaisalmer and Sam. Modi discussed programmes to be organised at the various tourist places. He said the administration will distribute prizes for decorating houses to the locals. He said that the festival is the identity of Jaisalmer and night tourism will get a boost because of the festival as during the festival, tourist places, palace, museums etc will be kept open in the night. Modi said that desert festival will be telecast live on YouTube. Digital wall will be put up at railway station, airport and other places in the city about the daily programme, so that tourists get information about the desert festival. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-admn-gears-up-for-desert-festival/articleshow/81008163.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Jaipur||One dies, 20 hurt as bus, truck collide in Barmer||Jaisalmer: The driver of a truck died and 20 persons were injured in a collision between a bus and a truck on Monday night at Sindhari in Barmer. There was a long jam following the mishap on the mega highway. Sindhari police reached the spot on getting information and sent the injured to hospital and opened up the jam. The injured are undergoing treatment at a government hospital in Sindhari. The collision took place near Lohida Golai on the mega highway. The bus was going to Sindhari from Jodhpur while the trailer was going to Jodhpur from Gujarat and a head-on collision took place. Truck driver Suresh Kumar, a resident of Patan in Gujarat succumbed as the driver’s side of the bus entered the truck, in which he was caught. He was later rescued and taken to the hospital but was declared dead. Sindhari SDM, tehsildar, police and 108 ambulance reached the spot and got the injured admitted to hospital, from where the seriously injured were referred to Jodhpur, after first aid. There was a massive 2-km jam on the mega highway, which was cleared by the police later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-dies-20-hurt-as-bus-truck-collide-in-barmer/articleshow/81008140.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||Daily tally surges to 638 in PMR, 6 succumb to nCoV||Pune: The daily Covid-19 cases increased to 638 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, with the PMC areas leading at 309 infections in the last 24 hours, followed by the rural pockets (187) and the PCMC limits (142). PMR has reported a rise in cases for last four days, barring Monday. On Tuesday, 523 patients were declared recovered in the region. Both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits reported fewer recoveries than new cases on Tuesday. The rural areas, on the contrary, recorded more discharges than cases. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that case tally in the region increased above 3.93 lakh on Tuesday evening, while its discharges rose above 3.79 lakh. The report stated that six patients succumbed to the infection in the region on Tuesday, of whom one died in the PMC limits and five in the rural pockets. The Pimpri Chinchwad did not report any death due to the infection in the last 24 hours. The region’s sample testing tally reached beyond 22 lakh on Tuesday evening after 5,565 tests conducted in the last 24 hours.  Among the day’s tests, as many as 2,620 were checked in the PMC limits. Among 22-lakh samples checked in PMR so far, the PMC areas has tested over 10.76 lakh samples, followed by Pimpri Chinchwad (6.39 lakh) and the rural areas (4.83 lakh). With a rise in daily cases, the active caseload in the region increased to 4,914 on Tuesday evening, including 2,957patients in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-tally-surges-to-638-in-pmr-6-succumb-to-ncov/articleshow/81011810.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Cong demands action against BJP IT cell chief for celeb tweets||Mumbai: Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant on Tuesday urged home minister Anil Deshmukh to initiate criminal proceedings against BJP’s IT cell chief and 12 influencers. “A preliminary probe has established BJP’s IT cell was directly involved in the Twitter comments by celebrities on the farmers’ strike. The influencers forced the celebrities to tweet,” Sawant said. He said on one hand the NDA government has initiated criminal proceedings against activist Disha Ravi and a few others, but it has maintained a silence on Arnab Goswami, who should have been booked under the Official Secrets Act. Sawant claimed Congress was the first to reveal that BJP’s IT cell was pressurising leading personalities to tweet against the farmers’ strike. Prafulla Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-demands-action-against-bjp-it-cell-chief-for-celeb-tweets/articleshow/81011904.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Conduct scientific survey of encroachments over municipal land: Lokayukta||Chandigarh: The Haryana lokayukta has directed the state government to conduct technical and scientific survey regarding the encroachments over the municipal lands and roads in the entire state and to take steps to remove the same. The statutory authorities of the state including municipalities, municipal corporations, PWD (B&R), and district administration have also been asked to take all the steps for removal of encroachments on national highways, as are imposed upon them under the statutes and to ensure implementation of the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court (SC), as mentioned in para 22 of the judgment in case of Jagpal Singh and others versus state of Punjab and others in relation to roads and highways. In its detailed orders, the lokayukta observed that with lapse of time, as the scope of challenging the demarcation always remains present for want of new scientific and technical survey, it may again be difficult for the government to defend such cases before the courts. “The encroachments over public lands and highways by influential persons are a common phenomenon. Lack of supervision and will power of the authorities responsible for prohibiting and removing encroachments, is not only causing great inconvenience to public at large due to traffic hazards and loss to public exchequer, but also creating difficulties in widening of the road projects, which are dream projects of the central government,” lokayukta has observed in its orders. The state government has also been told to submit an action taken report (ATR) in this regard within three months. Haryana lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal passed these orders while hearing a complaint filed by Panipat-based RTI activist P P Kapoor. He had filed the complaint against the officers of Panipat district administration, and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) regarding encroachment over government land on the GT Road. Kapoor prayed that encroachment over the GT Road in Panipat and the roads of Samalkha city be removed and the defaulting officers be punished. In the preliminary inquiry conducted by the lokayukta office, the negligence on the part of the officials of district administration was found. It was found in the inquiry, conducted by the registrar of the lokayukta office, that deputy commissioners posted in Panipat at different periods of time had not taken interest to get the encroachment removed. It was also observed in the report that even the officials of NHAI did not take the serious steps for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/conduct-scientific-survey-of-encroachments-over-municipal-land-lokayukta/articleshow/81008208.cms||Ajay Sura
February 17, 2021||Pune||Experts call for more tests in Maharashtra as spikes show in pockets||PUNE: Public health experts, worried about recent spikes in active Covid cases in the state, have now called for an increase in testing levels in regions with high caseloads. The number of active cases in Maharashtra, which was holding at around 2,000 to 3,000, suddenly rose to 4,000 on Sunday. And on Monday, the number was at 3,365. The state currently has 36,201 active cases. Data also showed Pune district currently has the highest active caseload — at nearly 5,000 patients. The rise in cases comes amid a serious drop in Covid testing levels. Pune district, for example, had on September 15 tested over 13,000 samples. On February 15, it tested only 5,584. Such fluctuations in testing have also caused the test positivity in the region to stay well above the 5% mark. Regions have to hit and maintain a test positivity rate of 5% for at least 14 days before they can ease all curbs. In Pune district, the test positivity rate has been between 8 and 9% for a while now. State health minister Rajesh Tope said he has asked all local authorities to continue sticking to the three Ts: tracing, testing and treatment. “We are slowly opening up and to prevent a second wave, local authorities have to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said. State task force member Shashank Joshi said the team has already advised the government to ramp up testing and tracing in pockets registering positivity rates of above 10%. Another member of the task force, Rahul Pandit, said unless people keep up precautions, a second infection wave “may not be far away”. Joshi said there have been spikes in “certain geographical pockets” of Vidarbha, Marathwada and metros such as Pune, Mumbai, Nashik and Nagpur. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said authorities here have been directed to improve health surveillance. “We are aware that cases are slowly rising. We are now trying to reach out housing societies, via ward officers, to ensure each newcase is reported and contacts are traced,” Rao said. The rise in active cases has also meant an increase in the number of home-isolated patients. Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state on Covid control, said authorities should reintroduce Covid care centres in areas that have had a high number of home isolation violations. A few days ago, Pune municipal officials had confirmed that many under home isolation had breached protocols due to weak monitoring. “We need stricter checks on movement. There has been a 50% rise in cases in most districts and regions, including in key metros,” Salunke said. Sanjeev Wavre, assistant health chief of the PMC said, “Weather fluctuations can cause respiratory ailments. Stricter measures will have to be planned if caseload continues to go up.” Wavre said small spikes have been reported in pockets of Sinhagad Road, Bibwewadi, Aundh, Warje and Ahmednagar Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-call-for-more-tests-as-spikes-show-in-pockets/articleshow/81011848.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Kejriwal offers chadar at Ajmer Dargah on Urs||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has offered a chadar in his name at the Ajmer Dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti on the occasion of the 809th Urs of the Sufi saint. While presenting the chadar, Kejriwal congratulated and conveyed his best wishes to the followers of the saint living in Delhi and the entire country. In his message, Kejriwal said, Delhi and the world should get rid of the novel coronavirus. He added that social brotherhood should be promoted in the country, which makes it stronger — a message also given by Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti and Hazrat Nizamuddin Aulia. In his message, Kejriwal said the governments should work for the people and make their lives easier. The 809th annual Urs of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti, who is also known as Khwaja Ghareeb Nawaz, has begun in Ajmer. The annual Urs is celebrated from February 14-22, and traditionally a chadar is offered in the name of Delhi’s chief minister and LG every year, a statement from Delhi government said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-offers-chadar-at-ajmer-dargah-on-urs/articleshow/81078647.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Pune||PMC plans to step up heat on mask rule violators||PUNE: The civic body has planned to intensify action against people not wearing face masks at public places. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has filed around 6,600 cases against people found violating the mandatory mask rules since the outbreak of Covid-19 and recovered penalty of Rs32 lakh. “There have been reports about some spike in Covid-19 cases. Under such circumstances, we have planned to stringently implement the mask rules as a precautionary measure,” aid Madhav Jagtap, head of the PMC’s anti encroachment department. “The civic administration has issued necessary instructions to all the ward offices. Officials would carry out the action at the ward level. Sanitary inspectors or assistant sanitary inspectors will be deputed on the task. Those found flouting the mask rules in public places will be fined Rs500 each,” he said. The civic administration has formed a team each for its 15 ward offices for the drive. Jagtap said the focus of the drive would be on areas that have witnessed a spike in cases since the past week. He added that similar drives would be conducted in and around shops, commercial establishments and malls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-plans-to-step-up-heat-on-mask-rule-violators/articleshow/81011880.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Police party attacked, home guard injured||Karnal: A police party was allegedly attacked by a group of people at Ravidas Nagar in Panipat city on Monday evening. A home guard was injured in the incident, the police claimed. The police have registered a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant sections of the IPC against four persons, of which three have been identified as Gulab, Sachin, and Rahul. However, no arrest has been made so far. Home guard Mohit, in his police complaint, alleged that he along with Kishan Pura police post in-charge sub-inspector Ranbir Singh went to Ravidas Nagar after getting information about a clash between two groups. When they were interrogating Angrej at his residence, Gulab (member of a second group) along with his two sons Sachin and Rahul came to the spot and attacked with sharp-edged weapon and sticks, leaving him injured. Even, they scuffled with the sub-inspector. Police said Angrej Singh also filed a complaint against Gulab and his sons for misbehaving with women. SI Ranbir Singh said a case has been registered under Sections 307, 332, 333, 186 and 506 of the IPC. Efforts are being to arrest the accused. The investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/police-party-attacked-home-guard-injured/articleshow/81008279.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||FDA minister Shingne tests Covid positive||State FDA minister Rajendra Shingne on Tuesday tweeted that said he has tested positive for Covid-19. Shingne said that he is not exhibiting many symptoms and expressed confidence that he would recover soon. Meanwhile, hstate ome minister Anil Deshmukh who had tested positive a few days ago, is still undergoing treatment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fda-minister-shingne-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/81008415.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC stops GST recovery during search operations||AHMEDABAD: Following various complaints of coercive recovery by GST officials during search operations, Gujarat high court on Tuesday ordered the central and state authorities to temporarily stay GST and Customs officials from recovering any amount from businessmen until the search operation comes to an end. This has to be done even if they voluntarily come forward to pay the dues. The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora issued directions to the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and customs and the chief commissioner of central/state tax in Gujarat to issue guidelines to their officials, restraining them from recovering dues from assessees while the search is underway. The court also made it very clear that even if an assessee volunteers to pay the dues, officials must not accept the amount. Instead, the assessee should be asked to come a day after the search ends. The HC was for strict disciplinary action against those GST officials who are found recovering GST during search operations. The judges issued interim directions after discussion with the advocates representing governments and various industrialists who complained about coercive recovery. The bench has posted further hearing on February 18. The court ordered GST officials to remain present before the court on time during the next hearing, as they were late during the hearing on Tuesday. The HC criticized the revenue officials for this coercive recovery after a “shocking” incident of Kanubhai Patel, the proprietor of Bharat Acid and Chemicals in Vapi, being detained for 33 hours came to light. He was made to pay Rs 9 crore before he was allowed to go. After this case, other groups like Bhumi Associates, Apurva Chemicals Pvt Ltd, Hemani Intermediates Pvt Ltd and Ideal Dye Chem Industries also approached the HC and made complaints about the pressure exerted by GST officials to pay the dues during the search proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-stops-gst-recovery-during-search-operations/articleshow/81008363.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Seven vials of Covishield vaccine go ‘missing’ in Akola||Nagpur: Seven vials of Covishield vaccine have gone missing from Chatari rural hospital in Akola district, leading to probably the nation’s first ‘missing’ complaint with the police in the ongoing vaccination drive. Channi police have started a probe into the missing complaint. Though the vials had gone missing on February 12, the hospital authorities decided to report the matter to Channi police station on Tuesday, leading to the lodging of a ‘missing’ complaint by the medical superintendent. In the complaint report, the medical superintendent has also mentioned that his approaching the cops also means that the vaccine shots were not ‘misused’. It’s learnt there were 44 vials of vaccines in the freezer when the concerned staff nurse last saw them on February 11. The following morning, a new team of staff nurses were surprised to see seven vials missing. They alerted senior officials of the hospital. The hospital authorities first tried to trace the vials and verified their records, before approaching the police. This is being blamed for the delay of four days, said a cop. It was also reliably learnt the place had no CCTV surveillance system in place. Police sources also said the security system too was not up to the mark. SP G Shreedhar said the matter is under investigation and would be probed thoroughly. “Prima facie we are trying to ascertain whether it’s mischief, omission or negligence. Later, we would decide the course of action on the basis of our investigation findings,” he said. The SP has also asked police station incharge assistant PI (API) Rahul Wagh to conduct the inquiry himself. API Wagh said statements of the concerned staff nurses, paramedical staffers and rest of the concerned persons are being recorded. “We cannot come to any conclusion regarding the incident as of now. Our process of conducting inquiry, questioning and recording of statements is underway,” said Wagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/seven-vials-of-covishield-vaccine-go-missing-in-akola/articleshow/81062386.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 17, 2021||Rajkot||Lion hit by goods train in Rajula, probe ordered||Rajkot: A five-year-old male lion was injured after it has hit by a goods train near Uchaiya village of Rajula taluka in Amreli district on Tuesday morning. The injured lion was first treated at Babarkot rescue centre and later shifted to Sakkarbaug zoo in Junagadh for further treatment. The forest department has formed a team under the assistant conservator of forest to probe the incident as ascertain if the train was moving within the prescribed speed limit. According to forest officials, the lion received injuries on its leg and head. The goods train was moving at speed of around 40 kmph when it hit the lion, they said. The lion trackers nearby halted the train going to Pipavav port from Savarkundla till senior forest officers arrived at the scene of the incident. Talking to TOI, deputy conservator of forest (DCF) Shetrunji Division of wildlife circle Nisha Raj said, “There is a mango orchard near the railway track where the lion was sitting before the train approached. It suddenly crossed jumped on the tracks to cross it. But hearing the train horn it got distracted tried to go back and got and hit by the moving train.” Forest officials claimed that because the lion came on the track suddenly from the orchard, it collided with a moving train without the trackers or train driver noticing it. Amreli district is home to nearly 110 lions who move in unprotected areas (revenue area) and face danger from trains going and coming from Pipavav port. Approximately two dozen goods trains arrive at Pipavav port daily. Majority of the portion passes through areas where wild animals including lions have been spotted. Forest trackers have been deployed near the tracks to inform the railway authorities wherever lions are seen near the tracks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lion-hit-by-goods-train-in-rajula-probe-ordered/articleshow/81002946.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Woman, paramour held for husband’s murder||Yamunanagar: Police arrested a woman and her paramour for allegedly murdering her husband and burying his body in the verandah of their house at Khizrabad area of Yamunanagar district on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Tilak Raj (26), who worked as a labourer in the crusher zone area of Ballewala. Tilak was married to the accused, Palo Devi. They have a two-year-old daughter. The arrested accused include Palo and her paramour Sohail Khan, who will be produced in Bilaspur court on Wednesday, said the police. Sources said Tilak allegedly went missing on January 14 and his wife Palo Devi lodged a complaint at Partap Nagar police station on January 22. SHO inspector Balraj Singh said, “Palo Devi lodged a false complaint saying that her husband went missing. On January 22, Palo Devi stated that her husband Tilak Raj is a drug addict and he left home on the morning of January 15 at about 8am and did not return.” SHO Balraj said that they had registered a case under Section 346 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on January 22. “Tilak’s family members said they are not able to find him. Today (on Tuesday), Tilak’s sister, along with her husband, came to the police station and lodged a complaint alleging that Tilak had been murdered by her sister-in-law Palo Devi in connivance with her paramour Sohail Khan and they dumped his body somewhere. Accordingly, we arrested Palo and Sohail. During investigation, they said they murdered Tilak on the night of January 14 and buried his body at home,” said Partap Nagar SHO Balraj Singh. He added that Palo had been married to Tilak for four years and they had a daughter. She had an extra-marital affair with Sohail and both strangled him using a rope, he said. “On the basis of their disclosure, we have recovered the body from their home and it has been sent for postmortem at BPS Khanpur Kalan in Sonipat,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-paramour-held-for-husbands-murder/articleshow/81008397.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Rohtak firing rises to 6; coach’s 3-yr-old son succumbs||Rohtak: Three-year-old Sartaj, the son of coach couple Manoj Malik and Sakshi, succumbed to bullet injuries he sustained in February 12 shootout at Jat college gymnasium here, on Tuesday. The boy was undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak. His parents were among five people killed on the spot in the shooting. The minor had sustained a bullet wound on the head and his one eye was damaged. His blood pressure level was also steadily falling, a hospital spokesperson said. A wrestling coach, Sukhvinder, was arrested in Delhi on February 13 for allegedly committing the crime. He was recently fired from his job following some complaints against him. A wrestling coach, identified as Satish, and a woman player were also among those killed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rohtak-firing-rises-to-6-coachs-3-yr-old-son-succumbs/articleshow/81008348.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Amravati MP lodges complaint with police against Shiv Sena||AMRAVATI: Amravati MP Navneet Rana has lodged a complaint with Lok Sabha Speaker and an FIR with Delhi police against Shiv Sena for allegedly threatening her and her MLA husband Ravi Rana with life and acid attack if she does not apologize to CM Uddhav Thackeray and Shiv Sena within eight days. “When I highlighted the problems of people in Maharashtra and criticised the MVA government during my thanksgiving speech in the House on February 8, the Shiv Sena functionaries got agitated,” Rana said in her video released to press. She said she received an anonymous letter on Shiv Sena letterhead threatening her and her husband with life, and suspected the hand of Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and former Amravati MP Anandrao Adsul. She further said she and her husband received an ominous phone calls also threatening their lives and an acid attack on her if she failed to apologize to CM Uddhav Thackeray and the party within eight days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-mp-lodges-complaint-with-police-against-sena/articleshow/81008434.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Delhi||14 minors rescued from Delhi taken to Ranchi||Ranchi: Fourteen minors rescued from Delhi were brought to Ranchi on Wednesday, said a government official. Of the 14, two are boys and the rest girls. They hail from different districts of Jharkhand. According to a state government official, five of them are residents of West Singhbhum, one each of East Singhbhum, Pakur, Khuti, Godda Aand Simdega and two each from Sahebganj and Gumla. They have been handed to the state Child Welfare Committee. The committee is investigating the details of the rescued minors. ians||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/14-minors-rescued-from-delhi-taken-to-ranchi/articleshow/81078663.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Pune||Focus on more tests, no lockdown: Tope||Pune: Health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the state government is not considering a Covid lockdown at the moment and will instead continue to focus on improving testing and surveillance. "We are not considering any lockdowns. But people have to cooperate and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour as that's the only way forward," he said. The minister added that local authorities have to ensure those violating mask and social distancing are immediately penalised. "Schools, colleges and many other sectors are opening up. The rules laid down by the government have to be followed. For 40 days, the number of active cases in the state was in the range of 2,000 to 3,000. And then on Sunday, it was up to 4,000," he said. A recent rise in number of active cases in Vidarbha and Marathwada was a matter of concern, Tope said. He said that the government has taken decided to immediately increase testing levels across regions that have been reporting high test positivity rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/focus-on-more-tests-no-lockdown-tope/articleshow/81011976.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 17, 2021||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar riots: Congress veteran Saiduzzaman appears before court, charges to be framed on March 1||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Former minister of state for home affairs in ND Tiwari government in Uttar Pradesh and Congress veteran Saiduzzaman was among seven people who on Monday appeared before a local court hearing Muzaffarnagar riot cases. Besides Saiduzzaman, his son Salman Sayeed — also a Congress leader who had contested a by-election in 2016 — appeared before the court, but since all accused were not present, the court posted the matter for hearing on March 1 when charges will be framed. Lalit Bhardwaj, additional district government counsel (ADGC) in a special court of MP MLA, said, “The court has fixed March 1 as the next date of hearing and directed all the 10 accused to be present during the hearing so that charges could be framed.” Saiduzzaman and others were booked for allegedly delivering incendiary speeches in Muslim-dominated Khalapar area after the Kawal village killings — two cousins Sachin and Gaurav were killed — that led to worst riots ever in Muzaffarnagar, claiming lives of 50 people and leaving nearly 50,000 displaced in 2013. According to sources, as many as 10 people, including former BSP MP Kadir Rana and former BSP MLAs Mursaleen Rana and Haji Jameel, were booked under various sections, including 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), for holding huge public gathering and making hate speeches in Khalapar on August 30, 2013. A public meeting was called in the backdrop of the murder of Shahnawaz — allegedly killed by Sachin and Gaurav — in Kawal village, though soon after Shahnawaz's murder, both Sachin and Gaurav were killed by a group of villagers. The incident set in motion panchayats by both communities. A few BJP leaders had attended a panchayat in Nagla Mandod village held after the murder of Sachin and Gaurav on August 31, 2013. On September 7, another panchayat was called that was attended by a huge gathering, including several BJP leaders. According to police sources, cases were registered at Sikheda police station against BJP leaders, including Kapil Dev Aggarwal and Sangeet Som, among others, while 10 accused, including Saiduzzaman, were booked at Nagar kotwali for allegedly holding a panchayat in Khalapar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/muzaffarnagar-riots-congress-veteran-saiduzzaman-appears-before-court-charges-to-be-framed-on-march-1/articleshow/81002930.cms||Mohd Dilshad
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops probe properties of IMS scam accused in three states||HYDERABAD: As investigation revealed that Insurance Medical Services (IMS) fraud main accused Devika Rani and her family own about Rs 10 cr worth assets in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, including 11 plots in Amaravathi, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials have sought details of properties likely owned by the accused in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra by writing to stamps and registration departments of these states. So far, ACB had unearthed properties worth over Rs 100 crore allegedly belonging to the accused. With the unearthing of the assets of Devika Rani and her family in Andhra Pradesh, ACB director-general (DG) wrote to ACB chiefs and registration and stamps IGs of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Maharashtra a week ago seeking details of the properties owned by Devika and her family members. “We have information of Devika Rani having an account in a chit fund company in Erode of Tamil Nadu and the family members possibly having properties in Bengaluru and Mumbai. So, we have sought details of the investments and properties of the accused in those three states,” an ACB investigator said. ACB had arrested Devika Rani, the then director of IMS, and six others in September 2019 in the multi-crore IMS fraud. Subsequently, Devika Rani’s husband, P Gurumurthy, a retired civil surgeon, was also arrested in the disproportionate assets case and ACB sleuths had mentioned they have unearthed disproportionate assets worth over Rs 100 crore belonging to Devika Rani and her family members. As the preliminary information indicated that the accused might have assets in Andhra Pradesh, an ACB team had conducted searches in Tirupati and Kadapa and found that the accused had a G+4 shopping complex in Tirupati and an independent house in Visakhapatnam. Subsequently, ACB director-general wrote to his Andhra Pradesh counterpart and inspector-general (IG) of registration and stamps department, Andhra Pradesh, seeking details of the properties owned by Devika Rani and her family members. A few months ago, ACB sleuths received details from AP registration and stamps department mentioning that in 2016, Devika and her family members had purchased 11 plots, each of about 225 square yards under Amaravathi sub-registrar office. They had also bought two plots of 300 square yards each in Pedda Kakani, a village on the National Highway between Vijayawada and Guntur. “The market value of the assets in AP, including the commercial complex in Tirupati and the independent house in Vizag, would be about Rs 10 crore,” an ACB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-probe-properties-of-ims-scam-accused-in-three-states/articleshow/81008460.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Thane||Kalyan: ST bus runs with tyre bolts missing, lucky escape for 40||KALYAN: More than 40 passengers travelling on a state-transport bus had a lucky escape as the packed vehicle was found to be running without the nuts of one of its rear tyres on Tuesday morning. The bus was plying on the Panvel-Murud route via Kalyan when its driver heard “unusual” sounds from the rear as the bus reached Manpada in Kalyan. The driver pulled over to find nuts and bolts of the rear left tyre missing. Passengers were told to alight and the bus was taken to Kalyan depot. The absence of nuts could have ended up in a tragedy as the rear tyre could have come off had the bus been moving at a higher speed. It raises questions over the maintenance of state transport buses, and safety of passengers. The question that arises is whether the bus was checked before it left on the trip from Panvel depot. An MSRTC official insisted there was no negligence. A video of the bus wheel, shorn of the nuts and bolts, was uploaded on social media. Activist Yogesh Dalvi who shot the video said passengers were lucky that the bus was moving on the busy Kalyan-Shilphata road. “But what if it were speeding on a highway? This is negligence on MSRTC’s part. The transport minister must inquire.” Manager of Kalyan ST depot, Vijay Gaikwad, said the bus belongs to Panvel depot. “It is a case of breakdown due to technical fault,” he said. “There was no negligence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/st-bus-runs-with-tyre-bolts-missing-lucky-escape-for-40/articleshow/81006618.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana mining dept can’t retain confiscated vehicles, says HC||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that the Haryana mining department cannot retain a vehicle confiscated for any illegality for long in case penalty for overloading is not paid. The HC has held that in such cases, steps should be taken to prosecute accused by lodging FIR or other statute. The directions would be applicable in case the vehicles are seized by mining authorities in Haryana under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, (MMDR Act). “Once a vehicle is ordered to be confiscated, steps for auctioning the same may be taken immediately, instead of retaining the vehicle in the police station where its condition is bound to deteriorate which would be a loss to the state as well as it will not be able to recover much amount from auction of the vehicle on account of deteriorated condition of the vehicle,” the HC has ordered. The court also clarified that if the mining authorities take legal action for overloading in case of non-payment of penalty by the owner, the owner has the right to get the vehicle released under “superdari” from the court. Justice Gurvinder Singh passed these orders while finding some lacunas in the existing procedure adopted by the mining department of Haryana in case of confiscation of vehicles for any illegality. The matter had reached court in the wake of a petition filed by K C Stone Crushing Co and others. Petitioner’s truck carrying “rori” (tiny pieces of stones or gravel) was intercepted by a mining officer in Gurugram. Since the driver could not produce any document justifying possession and transportation of the mineral, the truck was seized by the mining officer on March 1, 2020, as per the Mining Rules 2012. The petitioner was asked to pay an amount equal to 50% of the showroom value of the truck in question for its release in accordance with an order dated April 5, 2019, passed by National Green Tribune (NGT). The petitioner produced a transit pass i.e. ‘e-Ravaana’ dated March 1, 2020, pertaining to transportation of 17 metric tonnes (MT) of “rori”. However, since the truck in question was found to be carrying 23 MT of rori, the director of mining department held that transporting excess “rori” would amount to illegal transportation of the excess mineral and, thus, the truck, in any case, was liable to be seized. The director, however, ordered that the truck could be released by paying the penalty under the Mining Rules 2012 and the compensation as per the NGT orders. Aggrieved by the director’s order, the petition company approached the HC arguing that it was not a case of illegal mining as the pass had been produced. but authorities later built up a new case of excess loading of mineral, though there was no such mention in the seizure order of truck. It was argued that the action of mining department in neither releasing the truck in question despite a period of more than nine months having elapsed nor even lodging any FIR and keeping the matter in limbo, was high-handedness on part of the authorities as the truck in question was deteriorating due to its disuse and vagaries of weather. It has been submitted that had the authorities lodged FIR, the petitioner could not only have contested the allegations, but could also have moved an application for release of the truck on superdari, which he cannot move now as the court was not seized of the matter. After hearing all parties, the court held: “Confiscation proceedings are independent proceedings and there is no such limitation provided for initiating the same and the only rider therein as per Rule 101(10) is that such proceedings can be initiated after expiry of one month of the imposition of penalty in case such penalty is not paid. Sitting over the matter for an unreasonable (time) would be prejudicial to the owner inasmuch as not only the owner would be deprived of an opportunity to put forth his case against confiscation, but he would remain deprived of use of his vehicle which rather would deteriorate on account of its disuse and vagaries of weather.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-mining-dept-cant-retain-confiscated-vehicles-says-hc/articleshow/81008478.cms||Ajay Sura
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||15% dip in road fatalities in Punjab in 2020||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has witnessed a decline of 15% in road accident fatalities and 18% in road accidents during 2020 as compared to 2019. The state government data reveals that 5,194 road accidents were registered in 2020, in which 3,866 people lost their lives. DGP Dinkar Gupta said that during the ongoing road safety month, from January 18 to February 17, the Punjab Police haa organised 521 road safety camps and 542 road safety seminars besides holding 152 awareness rallies across the state and sensitised around 1.33 lakh students of schools and colleges and 1.28 lakh citizens about the road safety and traffic rules.  The DGP said that to institutionalise the road safety, a pilot project “Accident Resolution Team- ART” was initiated in Patiala district under which teams led by station house officer (SHO) visit and inspect the black spots in their respective jurisdictions. He also said that a standard operating procedure to prevent deaths due to stray animals has been formulated by the Punjab Police and cattle accidents at black spots are also being identified. The DGP said that 25 such black spots, mostly in the Malwa belt, have been earmarked and reflective tapes are being tied around the neck of stray cattle to avert accidents. Traffic adviser Navdeep Asija said that after analysing the road accident database management system, 391 black spots were identified in Punjab, of which100 have been rectified by the National Highway Authority of India, while 31 are being corrected by state public works department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/15-dip-in-road-fatalities-in-punjab-decline-in-2020/articleshow/81008540.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Meerut||Bamboo plantation for clean Ganga, uplift of poor farmers||BIJNOR: As many as 1,038 village panchayats across 27 districts of UP have been earmarked for promotion of bamboo plantation on the banks of river Ganga under Namami Gange flagship scheme, National Baans (bamboo) Mission Yojana. According to officials, the bamboo plantation is aimed at augmenting income of marginal farmers. Each district has been allocated Rs 91 lakh and a target of bamboo plantation has been set by the forest department. The forest department in each district will provide bamboo saplings for sowing to village panchayats. Giving details, Bijnor divisional forest officer M Semmaran said, “The government is pushing for organic farming in the Ganga basin to make it pollution-free. Farmers are being trained on how to practice bamboo farming.” The bamboo is a versatile group of plants which is capable of providing ecological, economic and livelihood security to the people. India is the second largest country after China in growing bamboo. The plantation along Ganga will help prevent erosion during monsoon. It can also be grown in barren land and low-lying areas. Known as green gold, this hardy variety of the grass family can withstand temperature variations and is resistant to disease, requiring no pesticides or herbicides for its upkeep. When cut, it grows back again, making the plant reusable. It has numerous uses –its shoots are edible and it is also used for medicinal purposes. From furniture-making to construction, its applications are numerous. Now, its hemp is being used for making textile, said Semmaran. It has the potential of rejuvenating the rural economy and doubling of farmers’ income besides providing an employment source, he added. The DFO said farmers are being sensitized about the importance of bamboo farming in the Ganga basin. They will be provided a subsidy of Rs 50 per sapling. The total cost of one acre of bamboo plantation is Rs 12,000 to 15,000. It will take three to four years to get the first harvest. In its first year of harvesting, the returns will be five times the total cost of planting. After three years, the yield will increase income six to seven times for the next 10 to 15 years, added Semmaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bamboo-plantation-for-clean-ganga-uplift-of-poor-farmers/articleshow/81002955.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||DCM van from AP overturns on ORR, 25 safe||Hyderabad: A DCM van travelling from Andhra Pradesh to Patancheru with 25 labourers met with an accident at Shamshabad on Tuesday. The workers suffered minor injuries in the accident. In another incident, an 18-year -old woman died when a container truck hit a bike at Shadnagar. According to RGIA police, during the early hours of Tuesday, a DCM van coming to Patancheru from Andhra Pradesh over turned on the ORR after crashing into the divider. “The incident happened at Kotwalguda. There were 25 labourers in the van and they suffered minor injuries. We suspect that over speeding and driver dozing off could be the reasons for the accident,” Airport police said. A case was registered under section 337 of the IPC. In another incident, 18-year-old, Padma, of Ongole died when the bike she was travelling on was hit by a container truck near Boorgula gate in Shadnagar on Tuesday. According to Shadnagar police, Padma was crushed under the tyres of the container truck and died on the spot.Her father escaped with injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dcm-van-from-ap-overturns-on-orr-25-safe/articleshow/81008581.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s compensation dues 3rd highest||AHMEDABAD: A drastic reduction in demand thanks to the pandemic-induced lockdown caused a major shortfall in tax collection, particularly in the period between April and November last year. With a clear shortfall in tax collection, the Goods and Services Tax compensation amount to be issued by the Centre to Gujarat stood at Rs 17,094 crore from April to November 2020, indicates data by the Union Finance Ministry tabled in the parliament. This is the third highest compensation value sought by an individual state to make up for the GST collection shortfall, the highest being Maharashtra (Rs 31,892 crore) and Karnataka (Rs 19,504 crore), as per the data. This means all manufacturing-heavy states have sought the highest compensation from the Centre. Explaining the reasons, state commercial tax commissioner JP Gupta said, “Gujarat is a manufacturing-heavy state and ever since the GST rollout, it was expected that Gujarat and such other states would lose out on tax revenues. A small part of the state’s revenues is also lost due to evasion of taxes. However, strict measures are continuously taken to prevent the same. Despite this, Gujarat has done well in terms of tax collection and figures among states with the highest collections.” According to the finance ministry data, Gujarat has received compensation amount of Rs 29,243 crore from the Centre since GST rollout. Experts said that measures to boost demand need to be taken for which both state and central governments as well as the GST council need to intervene so that the state’s revenue through GST is not impacted. At the same time, special schemes should also be launched for manufacturing states. “Manufacturing-oriented states were bound to lose due to the inherent nature of GST. Once the compensation scheme is stopped, the government should bring in a measure to ensure that producer states get their due share. This way, there will be some incentive for these states to continue attracting more investments,” said Sebastian Morris, professor, Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A). When questioned about the measures that the government is taking to boost revenues of manufacturing-heavy states, Gupta said, “It is the combined role of the state, Centre as well as the GST council to ensure that manufacturing-states benefit.” The balance GST compensation for the period April-May 2020 and GST compensation for the full period June-November 2020 is pending for all States/UTs due to inadequate amount in GST compensation fund during current financial year. To meet this shortfall, under the special window, Rs.1.1 lakh crore will be borrowed by Government of India in appropriate tranches, according to the Union Finance Ministry. A sum of Rs 7,727 crore was released for Gujarat under this special borrowing scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarats-compensation-dues-3rd-highest/articleshow/81008569.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Film exhibitors see sign of industry bounce back||HYDERABAD: With 100% occupancy allowed in theatres, film exhibitors have reported there was a strong sign of the film industry bouncing back. “New films are running to packed houses. This response is more than what we expected,” film exhibitor and former president of Telangana State Film Chamber of Commerce M Vijendar Reddy said on Tuesday. With one of their main demands still pending with the government for flexible ticket prices, theatres and distributors went to court and got a favourable order saying they could increase their tickets. “Based on an earlier order of the High Court, we approached the court once again to allow flexible pricing of film tickets for a new film,” Vijendar Reddy said. Though the government had agreed for flexible pricing, it is yet to issue a GO. As it was pending, they approached court. Going by this, single screens increased their tickets price by an average Rs 30. If the ticket price was Rs 80 earlier, the new price is Rs 110. On February 6, the state government had issued a GO permitting 100% occupancy in theatres adhering to Covid norms. With audiences flocking to theatres, announcements about release of new films have started appearing on different fora. A movie based on political personalities would be released on March 5. There is also a character of IPS officer K S Vyas in the movie. Vyas was killed by Maoists in Hyderabad at LB Stadium on January 27, 1993. Hectic activity is being seen in the film industry. Cinematography minister T Srinivas Yadav also attended an event to launch a film starring Nagarjuna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/film-exhibitors-see-sign-of-industry-bounce-back/articleshow/81008520.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Affected can challenge RoR entries, cannot target officials: HC||Hyderabad: The high court on Tuesday made it clear the new Record of Rights (RoR) Act does not prevent anyone from approaching civil courts to assert their property rights. Instead, it prevents targeting officials, who made changes in revenue records as part of discharging duties. “Adversely affected by such entries can approach the civil courts to assert their rights. That right is always there and the new RoR Act too did not take it away,” a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said. The bench was hearing a writ petition filed by Sreepathi Jayamma Jayaprada of Gujja village in Narayanpur mandal of Yadadri district, who challenged the validity of Section 9 of the new Act that debars aggrieved parties from going to civil courts. Petitioner’s counsel Malipeddi Srinivas Reddy told that revenue officials deleted petitioner’s name from revenue records through two wrong entries. This had adversely affected her rights over 1.17 acres of land spread over three survey numbers in the village. He sought correction of revenue entries and pattadar passbooks for the petitioner. “We cannot go to a civil court nor can we drag the errant officials to law because there is a bar under Section 9 of the Act,” he said. Bench, however, disagreed with him and said legislature’s intention in making law was to insulate bureaucracy from legal attacks. “Legislature consciously denied you this right. But it did not prevent you from asserting your rights through civil court,” bench said. “You can also file writ petitions against the wrong entries and seek corrections,” it added. Case would now go before a single judge any might come up for hearing in April. Petitioner agreed to do so by approaching a single judge, who decides such matters. Since bench was reluctant to examine the legal validity of Section 9 of the Act, that part of the prayer was removed from the petition||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/affected-can-challenge-ror-entries-cannot-target-officials-hc/articleshow/81008549.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||7 injured in cylinder blast near Dholka||Ahmedabad: About seven persons were injured and three hospitalized after an LPG cylinder exploded in Sinej village near Dholka on Tuesday morning. The injured were shifted to a nearby private hospital for treatment. Dholka police that reached the spot said that they will record statements of the affected on Wednesday as no FIR has been recorded in the case. “The incident took place near a scrap processing factory when a group was working on melting the metal. Those injured were primarily identified as passers-by.,” said Dholka police. EMRI 108 official said the ambulances from Vataman, Bavla and Bagodara were sent to the spot. Seven persons were shifted with varying degrees of injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/7-injured-in-cylinder-blast-near-dholka/articleshow/81008639.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Sanjay warnspvt colleges on term fees||Hyderabad: BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday came down heavily on private college managements and said they should not penalise students by linking term fees and exam fees to their academic future.  He said Board of Intermediate Education has made it clear that students should not be asked to pay their term fees. “Despite the order, the private colleges are demanding and collecting term fees. Why is the education department remaining silent when the colleges are asking for one-year fee from students for holding classes for two months,” he sought to know. He alleged that TRS is shielding some colleges though they flout the rules. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjay-warnspvt-colleges-on-term-fees/articleshow/81008645.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Scion of Mandi royal family passes away||Manali: Ashokpal Sen, son of the last ruler of the erstwhile Mandi princely state, Raja Joginder Sen Bahadur, died on Tuesday after a prolonged illness at the age of 90. After Joginder Sen Bahadur, former diplomat and politician, died in 1986, Ashokpal was revered as the last raja of Mandi by its people. Scion of the princely state of Mandi, Ashokpal was quite popular in the district. He had been unwell for the last few days and was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Mandi. He breathed his last on Tuesday. His last rites will be performed on Wednesday. The international Shivratri festival of Mandi is connected to the royal family. The ritual is it that the palanquins of deities pay obeisance to Lord Madho Rai (Lord Vishnu) and then ensure their presence at Raj Darbar (royal court) before starting the Shivratri festival. Members of the royal family used to perform traditional rituals in the festival. As the weeklong festival of national importance will start next month, demise of the scion of the royal family is expected to dampen the fervour of the event. According to historians, Joginder Sen, the last ruler of Mandi, had signed the accession to Indian union after which Mandi was incorporated into Himachal as Mandi district on April 15, 1948.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/scion-of-mandi-royal-family-passes-away/articleshow/81008591.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Collector fines Palghar ZP president without mask||Palghar zilla parishad (ZP) president Bharati Kamdi of Shiv Sena was fined by district collector Manik Gursal for not wearing a mask in his office on Tuesday. Kamdi, who was the chief guest at the R R Patil Smart Villages scheme award function organised by the collectorate, apologised for not wearing a mask and paid the fine of Rs 200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/collector-fines-zp-president-without-mask/articleshow/81008689.cms||Sandhya Nair
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Charges framed against Revanth||Hyderabad: A special ACB court framed charges against Congress MP A Revanth Reddy and two other accused — Udaya Simha and Harry Sebastian — in the infamous cash-for-vote case.  They were charged under Section 12 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and also Sections 120 B read with 34 of the IPC. When the charges were read out, all the three accused said they were not guilty and said they would prove their case at the trial stage. The judge posted the case to February 19 for fixing a schedule for the trial. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/charges-framed-against-revanth/articleshow/81008609.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Shimla traffic police suggests plan to ease bottlenecks||Shimla: With rise in population and number of vehicles, the tourist town of Shimla is witnessing frequent traffic jams, with 20 major bottlenecks hindering the flow of traffic in town. Shimla has 1,15,611 vehicles while the road length is 72.28 kms. This has led to large-scale traffic congestion and parking problems. The average journey speed has been found to be 24 Kmph. Shimla traffic police has proposed the introduction of SITRAM (Shimla city traffic regulation and management) plan for better planning, designing, adopting and implementing of comprehensive traffic management and regulation strategies to ensure smooth flow of traffic. SP, Shimla, Mohit Chawla said “SITRAM” is meant to regulate present and future aspects of traffic to make the hill town commuter friendly, more attractive and navigable. “From our study and analysis, it appears that existing infrastructure of Shimla town and its surroundings, full of tourist destinations, cannot support its expanding traffic trends, which has confirmed a need for traffic innovations requiring inter-departmental and public participation at macro and micro level to mitigate traffic congestion,” he said. Over the decades, Shimla has witnessed many changes, from being the summer capital of the erstwhile British empire to the capital of Himachal Pradesh. However, the most prominent change is the paradigm shift in its amenities, with transportation and communication being the most distinctive changes. Acting as an administrative capital, legislative capital, judicial capital, education capital, health capital and tourist destination, Shimla saw exponential increase in the number of vehicles. Bottleneck areas such as Lakkar Bazaar area near the bus stand have the lowest journey speed of approximately 2 Kmph during peak hours. Other congested areas like Ridge have a journey speed of 6 Kmph. The journey speed at Sanjouli Chowk and areas near Dhalli tunnel is 9 Kmph and 12 Kmph respectively. It was observed that 16% of the road network has a journey speed of less than 20 Kmph and 25% of the road network is between 21 to 30 Kmph. A total of 48% of the road network has a journey speed between 31 and 40 Kmph, while about 11% of the road network has a journey speed of more than 40 kmph during peak hours. Coverage of road network for vehicular movement is low and existing roads are operating on more than the desired capacity. Effective carriageway width of roads is reducing with increasing traffic volume and increase in activity centres along the roads, impairing traffic movement and creating bottlenecks. Mohit Chawla said SITRAM would divide the town into eight sectors, finding solutions to traffic problems at these micro sectors to create smooth traffic flow at the macro town level. Micro analysis of these sectors will help us identify problems and remove bottlenecks with the active collaboration of various line department and other stakeholders to create a healthy macro-outlook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shimla-traffic-police-suggests-plan-to-ease-bottlenecks/articleshow/81008633.cms||Anand Bodh
February 17, 2021||Meerut||Cop among 3 killed in 2 road accidents in Bijnor||BIJNOR: Three people, including a UP police constable, were killed in two separate accidents in Bijnor on Tuesday, police said. Dharamveer Singh, Bijnor superintendent of police, said constable Ashok Verma, a native of Baghpat’s Badaka village, was run over outside Afzalgarh police station by an unidentified vehicle. He was rushed to the Afzalgarh community health centre, where doctors declared him brought dead. Police are probing the matter. In another accident on Delhi-Pauri highway, an unidentified vehicle hit two bikers, Robin (25) from Hamidpur village under Bijnor city police station, and Kartik (21) from Chamarawala under Nagina police station. They sustained severe head injuries and were taken to the district hospital where doctors declared them brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cop-among-3-killed-in-2-road-accidents-in-bijnor/articleshow/81002961.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 17, 2021||Delhi||‘NEP to help India become global leader’||New Delhi: Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Wednesday said the new education policy would help India once again emerge as a global leader in learning and as a knowledge superpower. “Our diversity and ability to blend ancient and modern systems will again take us to the top,” the minister said. Others present at the event, a webinar on the National Education Policy 2020 organised by Galgotias University, included D P Singh, chairperson, University Grants Commission; Anil Sahasrabudhe, chairperson AICTE; K K Aggarwal, chairperson, National Board of Accreditation; V Ramagopal Rao, director, IIT Delhi, and Anil Kumar Nassa, member secretary and National Board of Accreditation. Agrawal spoke about the national accreditation council, while Nassa addressed accreditation in India. The CEO of the university, Dhruv Galgotia, said it had resolved to implement the NEP 'as soon as possible' while its chancellor, Sunil Galgotia, said it would soon create a Galgotias General Education Council for 100% inplementation of the NEP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nep-to-help-india-become-global-leader/articleshow/81078865.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Sharmila to play T ‘bahu’ card||Hyderabad: YS Sharmila, facing the criticism of being an Andhra leader trying to float a party in Telangana, is reportedly planning to silence her critics. In the wide-ranging consultations she is having with her loyalists, she reportedly told them that she would approach people of Telangana with the claim that she is the daughter-in-law of Telangana though her native place is in Andhra Pradesh. Sharmila is married to Anil Kumar, who hails from Hyderabad. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sharmila-to-play-t-bahu-card/articleshow/81008662.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Pong declared free of bird flu||Shimla: For the last eight days, no bird mortality has been reported from the Pong Dam Lake Wildlife Sanctuary. State forest minister Rakesh Pathania said that after 51 days of control and containment, the avian influenza outbreak in the sanctuary was now over. Pathania claimed that the ground situation had returned to normal and the wildlife wing had closed the control room it had set up at Nagrota Surian to monitor the outbreak. It has also called off the control and containment operations it will follow the central government’s post-operations surveillance plan for the remaining migratory bird season to prevent resurgence of the disease. He said no bird had died at the sanctuary for eight days and the combined count of migratory and resident birds was 5006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pong-declared-free-of-bird-flu/articleshow/81008666.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Unveil policy for Gulf workers’||Hyderabad: After completing a padayatra from Nirmal district to Hyderabad, Gulf Workers Awareness Centre leader Krishna Donikeni on Tuesday said the state government should come out with a policy to benefit Gulf workers. Former MLC professor K Nageshwar said he had once asked a question in council about whether government had any figures about those going to Gulf countries to take up work. “I got the reply that government had no figures,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unveil-policy-for-gulf-workers/articleshow/81008681.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||New variants of Covid-19: Gujarat on alert||AHMEDABAD: After the UK strain, two new variants of Covid-19 – South African and Brazilian –got reported in India on Tuesday. State authorities have increased screening and are following the guidelines regarding reporting such cases. Principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said that full-fledged teams are already at the entry points of the state to ensure screening of the passengers. “We are following the protocols and guidelines on the variants and are taking all possible precautions,” she said. According to senior state officials, there are only a few international flights to and from the state. But those who are returning from international flights at other centres and coming to the state might undergo screening, they added. Gujarat had recorded nine persons infected with the UK strain, all of whom were hospitalized directly from the airport and were discharged after a fortnight after their recovery. Dr Urvesh Shah, professor and head of microbiology department at GCS Medical College, said that the variants differ in virulence and spread. “Periodic mutations are expected with higher spread of the virus. We are yet to get more data on the two more variants, but I believe that the existing vaccines would be able to provide protection against severe symptoms, if it cannot stop the infection itself,” he said. Experts also pointed at the new approach in vaccination required by the developments. Dr Mukesh Maheshwari, a city-based pathologist, said that world over, different approaches to vaccination including mRNA-based and recombinant are being tested. “With some states in India recording a rise in cases, it’s better to be on guard and follow protocols,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-variants-of-covid-19-state-on-alert/articleshow/81008701.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||1 held for ‘plan to plant’ drugs in neta’s car||Mumbai: Mumbai police’s anti-narcotic cell arrested a man for allegedly planning to plant drugs in a local politician’s car to enable his brother to take over the neta’s post in south Mumbai. ANC’s Azad Maidan unit arrested Abdul Aziz alias Azzu last Friday after two accused arrested with 150 gram of mephedrone mentioned him. Police have now arrested five persons in the case and added IPC Section 120-B for criminal conspiracy along with various NDPS Act sections. Interestingly, an accused, Asif Sardar, and Azzu are members of an NGO campaigning against the drugs menace in south Mumbai. Azzu reportedly told cops the builders’ lobby and other businessmen were unhappy with the neta for his “interference and wanted to uproot him”. — Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-held-for-plan-to-plant-drugs-in-netas-car/articleshow/81010176.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vax drive needs shot in arm||Ahmedabad: Gujarat had started the vaccination drive for Covid-19 on January 16 along with other Indian states. Tuesday marked a month of the drive. Over the past month, Gujarat inoculated 8.01 lakh persons at the daily average of 25,838. Against that number, 5,293 got the shots on Tuesday at 355 centres. An analysis of vaccinations revealed that 88% of the 4.33 lakh healthcare workers and 60% of the 6.93 lakh frontline workers have so far got the jabs. The Union government intends to start the third phase of vaccinations covering the population of people aged 50 and above from the first week of March. In Gujarat, over 1 crore beneficiaries for third phase have been identified. “We have kept the window open for those in first and second phases if they have missed the designated date and time,” said Dr Nayan Jani, state immunization officer. “The focus will now be on frontline workers and the compliance with the second dose.” At Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad, 40 doctors got the second dose of the vaccination on Monday. Dr J P Modi, the medical superintendent of the hospital, was among the beneficiaries. “We appeal to all to comply with the vaccination schedule,” he said. “There are no or negligible side effects of the vaccination, and currently it’s the best chance we have against the pandemic.” Earlier, several beneficiaries waiting for the second dose reported a glitch with CoWIN, even as the state authorities claimed that there was no issue. Sources aware of the development said that several doctors had earlier got the message for vaccination on Saturday, but they were later told by the health department to approach the vaccination centre on Monday. “The vaccination numbers for second dose are likely to rise from the end of the week as there was a gap of about two days between vaccinations,” said a senior health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vax-drive-needs-shot-in-arm/articleshow/81008738.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Postal department to link mobile number of public with Aadhaar for Covid shot||HYDERABAD: The Centre is contemplating linking the mobile numbers of general public with their 12-digit Aadhaar card numbers across the nation soon. This is primarily to help administer the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine. “The postman, who goes to households to deliver parcels and postal covers, will do this process,” said K Sandhya Rani, member, Postal Services Board (PSB), Delhi. She said the link is vital as it will help the Union health department to track people and call them to take the second jab, which is mandatory after taking the first dose of vaccine. Sandhya Rani said the Union health ministry is looking at a cold storage facility to preserve Covid-19 vaccine vials and examining the postal department’s stamp depots and postal store depots located across the country. “The ministry has accepted our mail motor vans to transport the vaccine vials,” she told TOI. The ministry of health and family welfare has already tied up with India Post, which has a large manpower to transport the vials to various parts of the country. The postal department had already completed Aadhaar linkage to various central government-sponsored schemes to avail the subsidy benefit under direct benefit transfer (DBT) system, she said. A proposal to sanction loans to the needy through postal department’s core banking solutions is under the active consideration of the Reserve Bank of India. “A decision will be taken soon in this regard,” she said. By 2022, the postal department will upgrade the existing technology to 2.0 version and render better services to customers, said the PSB member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/postal-dept-to-link-mobile-no-of-public-with-aadhaar-for-covid-shot/articleshow/81008706.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||8 postal staff get ‘Dak Seva’ awards||Hyderabad: Eight Covid warriors of the postal department, who played a crucial role in disbursing lakhs of rupees to various beneficiaries, were honoured with ‘Dak Seva-2020’ awards at Dak Sadan, Abids, on Tuesday. Postal Service Board Delhi, member K Sandhya Rani, who worked as chief postmaster general, Telangana circle, during the pandemic, presented the state-level ‘Dak Seva’ awards to the postal staff at Dak Kala Tarang auditorium at Dak Sadan on Tuesday. A Sandhya, a branch postmaster at Nellipaka in Khammam district, received the honour in the ‘Best Women’ category. “Despite Covid cases were on the rise in Khammam, we disbursed money for beneficiaries of Aasra and Food Security scheme at their doorstep. We made 1,200 transactions. At times, I had to skip lunch due to the workload,” Sandhya told TOI. “I travelled to remote villages, where there was no transportation and disbursed cash,” she said, recollecting the lockdown days, with tears rolling down her cheeks. Another Covid warrior, Yugender Reddy, working as ‘branch postmaster’ at Eklaspur of Khammam district, who received ‘Dak Seva’ award, said, “Though it was a major risk to visit far-flung areas during pandemic, my family members supported me,” the postman, whose daughters are aeronautical graduates, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-postal-staff-get-dak-seva-awards/articleshow/81008725.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Pak nationals’ plea for deportation in drug case denied||Mumbai: A special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court on Monday rejected a plea by eight Pakistanis seeking to be deported to face legal proceedings in their home country in a drug-trafficking case. The accused were allegedly intercepted with 232kg heroin worth Rs 6.9 crore from the vessel, Al-Yasir, by Indian Coast Guard in April 2015. The trial against the accused has commenced. While the defence contended that the accused were caught in waters beyond the territorial jurisdiction of Indian courts, the special judge said it was premature to draw a conclusion at this stage. “...considering seriousness of the alleged offences, the quantity of narcotic drugs allegedly seized from the boat and as national security is involved, it will be just and proper to give the prosecution reasonable and proper opportunity to prove the aspect of jurisdiction of court and its case on merits,” the special court said. It added that the trial will be expedited. The accused, while urging to be sent back to Karachi, relied on the statement of a prosecution witness, who deposed that their boat was found 157 nautical miles from Mitha port, Gujarat, which is the closest Indian port from the location. They said this showed interception of the boat was beyond territorial limits of India’s jurisdiction. The defence said Karachi was closer to the location of interception. The prosecution opposed the plea and submitted that as far as provisions of NDPS Act are concerned, the jurisdiction of Indian courts extend 200 nautical miles from the coast in the country’s exclusive economic zone. “The alleged offence can be very well termed as the offence involving economic offences as well as offences concerning national security, therefore prosecution of the accused is legal and proper,” the prosecution said. The prosecution cited a UN resolution on illicit drug-trafficking and said even if the offence was committed beyond territorial limits of the jurisdiction of Indian courts but within its exclusive economic zone, India’s courts can try such offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pak-nationals-plea-for-deportation-in-drug-case-denied/articleshow/81012241.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||On day 2, Co-WIN glitches continue to hamper vax drive for second dose||Mumbai: The administration of the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the state as well as the city continued to be hampered by Co-WIN bugs. In fact, on Tuesday, the state managed to give the second dose to fewer people compared to Monday. Meanwhile, three private hospitals in Mumbai have been allowed to vaccinate their staffers on their own premises from Wednesday. Across the state, 4,437 healthcare workers could take the second dose as compared to 4,679 on the first day. In Mumbai though, more healthcare workers could take the second dose. Compared to Monday, when only 71 could take the shot, on Tuesday, 212 were administered the second dose. The BKC jumbo facility gave the maximum doses (57) followed by Rajawadi Hospital (54). Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer, said the software didn’t show partially vaccinated status for many. While many names were missing altogether, there were also cases where it was said that 28 days had not passed since the first shot was taken. “We have been told that the Co-Win issue is being tackled at the Centre. On Day 1 of vaccination most names were uploaded later and couldn’t be done on a real-time basis. It appears to have become an issue now, but we have been told it will be sorted out,” she said. From Wednesday, Jaslok Hospital at Peddar Road, Hiranandani in Powai and HN Reliance Hospital in Charni Hospital will start vaccinating their staffers on their own premises. “We have planned one session each to see how it works out,” said Dr Gomare. The state-run Cama and Albless Hospital has been added to the overall list of vaccination centres, taking the total number of centres to 23. Dr Gomare said Cama hospital will mostly focus on vaccinating frontline workers. The overall turnout of healthcare workers remained far from desirable in the state and dropped sharply for Mumbai (42%). Merely 7,884 heath workers took the vaccine on Tuesday, of which Mumbai alone accounted for 1,678 vaccinations. Almost double the number of frontliners (15,377) took the vaccine on Tuesday. The trend was similar in Mumbai where 4,537 frontline workers took the vaccine. The turnout for health workers was 42%, while that of frontliners was 70%. The state has vaccinated 7.4 lakh, of which 5.7 lakh are health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/on-day-2-co-win-glitches-continue-to-hamper-vax-drive-for-second-dose/articleshow/81008754.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Probe encroachment of waqf properties across Telangana: ASWP||HYDERABAD: The Association of Save Waqf Properties (ASWP) on Tuesday urged the Telangana government to ensure a probe into ‘massive encroachments’ of waqf properties in the state.  Out of 77,000 acres of waqf land, the association says about 57,000 acres of land is encroached. In a related scam, a law officer of the board was arrested for issuing fake NOCs. Angered by illegal occupation on waqf properties and official apathy, Syed Iftakari Hussaini, association general secretary said that waqf board and minorities institutions were on the edge of ruin due to ignorance. He urged the chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to take the matter seriously to develop and promote minority institutions. “Lack of government attention towards these institutions is condemnable. People have to suffer due to the ongoing tussle between the authorities and government. Telangana government has failed to appoint a sincere and dedicated team and due to this many important issues were not addressed,’’ alleged Iftakari. Association of Save Waqf Properties alleged that the board reportedly failed to win legal battles and owing to this land grabbers continued to occupy lands in many parts of the state. Mohammed Saleem, TSWB chairman refuted allegations leveled by the association and claimed that all the cases were being dealt with effectively. “All allegations leveled are baseless’’ claimed Saleem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/probe-encroachment-of-waqf-properties-across-t-aswp/articleshow/81008767.cms||Omar bin Taher
February 17, 2021||Vadodara||BJP won 219 seats uncontested: Paatil||Vadodara: State BJP president C R Paatil on Tuesday said that the BJP had won uncontested on 219 seats of local self-government bodies in the state. It had also attained majority in two municipalities. Paatil was in the city to campaign for the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) polls. He gave the details of the seats won uncontested by the party while interacting with the media. Paatil said that the BJP had won on 24 district panchayat seats, 110 taluka panchayat seats and 85 municipality seats. He said that the victory in municipality seats included 26 out of 36 seats in the Kadi municipality and 21 out of 36 seats in the Una municipality ensuring that it had a majority in these two municipalities. The BJP chief said that the Congress may struggle to reach in double figures this time. He said that the state government had supported development in the city be it the construction of the longest flyover in the state or the Vishwamitri riverfront.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-won-219-seats-uncontested-paatil/articleshow/81003299.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu new industrial policy aims at Rs 10 lakh crore investment, 20 lakh jobs||CHENNAI: In an attempt to further reinforce Tamil Nadu’s position as an attractive investment destination for global industries, the state government on Tuesday unveiled a New Industrial Policy, 2021, which aims to attract Rs 10 lakh crore in new investments and create 20 lakh jobs by 2025. The policy seeks to achieve an annual growth rate of 15% in the manufacturing sector and increase the contribution of the sector to the state’s economy to 30% by 2030, a government release said. “I am happy to be in your midst as I complete four years of my term as chief minister and enter the fifth year and to see the vast progress the state is making on the industrial front and to unveil a new industrial policy that will help the state leap into its next phase of growth,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said after unveiling the policy. He also inaugurated eight completed projects involving an investment of Rs 3,377 crore and offering employment to more than 7,000 people. The state government also signed 28 MoUs that will pave way for new investments of more than Rs 28,000 crore in TN across sectors, including smartphones, electric vehicles, wind energy and auto components, city gas distribution and textiles. These investments will result in employment generation to nearly 69,000 people, a government statement said. “The policy has given a special thrust to sunrise sectors, including aerospace and defence, renewable energy components, electronics (ESDM), medical devices, electric vehicles, pharmaceuticals, technical textiles and medical textiles (biotechnology)” a senior official said. Laying thrust on the sunrise sectors will enable TN enlarge its potential and growth opportunities, the senior official of state industries department told TOI. Among the key investors are Tata Electronics, which will invest Rs 4,684 crore and employ more than 18,000 people in its unit in Krishnagiri district, and Pegatron Corporation, Taiwan, investing Rs 1,100 crore and employing more than 14,000 people at Mahindra World City. Both the companies will make Apple products and join Foxconn and Salcomp to make Tamil Nadu the new hub in Apple products manufacturing. “I appreciate the swiftness with which the Tamil Nadu government, especially the IAS officials, helped the group to locate the new unit in the state. It showed the state’s hunger to attract large scale industrial investments and create employment generation opportunities to the people,” N Chandrasekaran, chairman, Tata Sons said, addressing the gathering virtually. “Tamil Nadu is poised for greater growth not just in manufacturing, but also in the emerging sunrise sectors, especially electronics, as the Centre is giving a lot of thrust for this segment under Atma Nirbhar,” said Venu Srinivasan, CMD, TVS Motor Company, in his address at the event. Another key focus of the new industrial policy is to ensure that industrial clusters emerge across the state and not just restricted around Chennai and a couple of other regions. The policy has expanded the number of industrially backward districts in the state to 22, from the earlier 12, to enable industries to avail of special incentives to establish industrial units in the backward districts. “New industrial units being established in all these backward districts will now get 50% subsidy on land cost and subsidy in registration fee. In addition, unlike earlier where a minimum of Rs 300 crore investment was needed to avail of the state-level incentive push, it has now been scaled down to enable even Rs 50 crore investment to avail of these benefits,” the senior government official said. Further, the criteria for offering capital subsidy has been made flexible and freedom has been given to the industries to structure it themselves. Unlike earlier, where capital subsidy was offered based on investment size, the new policy structures the capital subsidy based on investment as well as employment potential. “While capital intensive industries like automotive may require larger investment but with lower employment potential, emerging sectors like electronics offer high employment with lower investments,” the official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tn-new-industrial-policy-aims-at-rs-10l-cr-investment-20l-jobs/articleshow/81044421.cms||D Govardan
February 17, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu new industrial policy aims at Rs 10 lakh crore investment, 20 lakh jobs||CHENNAI: In an attempt to further reinforce Tamil Nadu’s position as an attractive investment destination for global industries, the state government on Tuesday unveiled a New Industrial Policy, 2021, which aims to attract Rs 10 lakh crore in new investments and create 20 lakh jobs by 2025. The policy seeks to achieve an annual growth rate of 15% in the manufacturing sector and increase the contribution of the sector to the state’s economy to 30% by 2030, a government release said. “I am happy to be in your midst as I complete four years of my term as chief minister and enter the fifth year and to see the vast progress the state is making on the industrial front and to unveil a new industrial policy that will help the state leap into its next phase of growth,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said after unveiling the policy. He also inaugurated eight completed projects involving an investment of Rs 3,377 crore and offering employment to more than 7,000 people. The state government also signed 28 MoUs that will pave way for new investments of more than Rs 28,000 crore in TN across sectors, including smartphones, electric vehicles, wind energy and auto components, city gas distribution and textiles. These investments will result in employment generation to nearly 69,000 people, a government statement said. “The policy has given a special thrust to sunrise sectors, including aerospace and defence, renewable energy components, electronics (ESDM), medical devices, electric vehicles, pharmaceuticals, technical textiles and medical textiles (biotechnology)” a senior official said. Laying thrust on the sunrise sectors will enable TN enlarge its potential and growth opportunities, the senior official of state industries department told TOI. Among the key investors are Tata Electronics, which will invest Rs 4,684 crore and employ more than 18,000 people in its unit in Krishnagiri district, and Pegatron Corporation, Taiwan, investing Rs 1,100 crore and employing more than 14,000 people at Mahindra World City. Both the companies will make Apple products and join Foxconn and Salcomp to make Tamil Nadu the new hub in Apple products manufacturing. “I appreciate the swiftness with which the Tamil Nadu government, especially the IAS officials, helped the group to locate the new unit in the state. It showed the state’s hunger to attract large scale industrial investments and create employment generation opportunities to the people,” N Chandrasekaran, chairman, Tata Sons said, addressing the gathering virtually. “Tamil Nadu is poised for greater growth not just in manufacturing, but also in the emerging sunrise sectors, especially electronics, as the Centre is giving a lot of thrust for this segment under Atma Nirbhar,” said Venu Srinivasan, CMD, TVS Motor Company, in his address at the event. Another key focus of the new industrial policy is to ensure that industrial clusters emerge across the state and not just restricted around Chennai and a couple of other regions. The policy has expanded the number of industrially backward districts in the state to 22, from the earlier 12, to enable industries to avail of special incentives to establish industrial units in the backward districts. “New industrial units being established in all these backward districts will now get 50% subsidy on land cost and subsidy in registration fee. In addition, unlike earlier where a minimum of Rs 300 crore investment was needed to avail of the state-level incentive push, it has now been scaled down to enable even Rs 50 crore investment to avail of these benefits,” the senior government official said. Further, the criteria for offering capital subsidy has been made flexible and freedom has been given to the industries to structure it themselves. Unlike earlier, where capital subsidy was offered based on investment size, the new policy structures the capital subsidy based on investment as well as employment potential. “While capital intensive industries like automotive may require larger investment but with lower employment potential, emerging sectors like electronics offer high employment with lower investments,” the official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-new-industrial-policy-aims-at-rs-10l-cr-investment-20l-jobs/articleshow/81044433.cms||D Govardan
February 17, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu new industrial policy aims at Rs 10 lakh crore investment, 20 lakh jobs||CHENNAI: In an attempt to further reinforce Tamil Nadu’s position as an attractive investment destination for global industries, the state government on Tuesday unveiled a New Industrial Policy, 2021, which aims to attract Rs 10 lakh crore in new investments and create 20 lakh jobs by 2025. The policy seeks to achieve an annual growth rate of 15% in the manufacturing sector and increase the contribution of the sector to the state’s economy to 30% by 2030, a government release said. “I am happy to be in your midst as I complete four years of my term as chief minister and enter the fifth year and to see the vast progress the state is making on the industrial front and to unveil a new industrial policy that will help the state leap into its next phase of growth,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said after unveiling the policy. He also inaugurated eight completed projects involving an investment of Rs 3,377 crore and offering employment to more than 7,000 people. The state government also signed 28 MoUs that will pave way for new investments of more than Rs 28,000 crore in TN across sectors, including smartphones, electric vehicles, wind energy and auto components, city gas distribution and textiles. These investments will result in employment generation to nearly 69,000 people, a government statement said. “The policy has given a special thrust to sunrise sectors, including aerospace and defence, renewable energy components, electronics (ESDM), medical devices, electric vehicles, pharmaceuticals, technical textiles and medical textiles (biotechnology)” a senior official said. Laying thrust on the sunrise sectors will enable TN enlarge its potential and growth opportunities, the senior official of state industries department told TOI. Among the key investors are Tata Electronics, which will invest Rs 4,684 crore and employ more than 18,000 people in its unit in Krishnagiri district, and Pegatron Corporation, Taiwan, investing Rs 1,100 crore and employing more than 14,000 people at Mahindra World City. Both the companies will make Apple products and join Foxconn and Salcomp to make Tamil Nadu the new hub in Apple products manufacturing. “I appreciate the swiftness with which the Tamil Nadu government, especially the IAS officials, helped the group to locate the new unit in the state. It showed the state’s hunger to attract large scale industrial investments and create employment generation opportunities to the people,” N Chandrasekaran, chairman, Tata Sons said, addressing the gathering virtually. “Tamil Nadu is poised for greater growth not just in manufacturing, but also in the emerging sunrise sectors, especially electronics, as the Centre is giving a lot of thrust for this segment under Atma Nirbhar,” said Venu Srinivasan, CMD, TVS Motor Company, in his address at the event. Another key focus of the new industrial policy is to ensure that industrial clusters emerge across the state and not just restricted around Chennai and a couple of other regions. The policy has expanded the number of industrially backward districts in the state to 22, from the earlier 12, to enable industries to avail of special incentives to establish industrial units in the backward districts. “New industrial units being established in all these backward districts will now get 50% subsidy on land cost and subsidy in registration fee. In addition, unlike earlier where a minimum of Rs 300 crore investment was needed to avail of the state-level incentive push, it has now been scaled down to enable even Rs 50 crore investment to avail of these benefits,” the senior government official said. Further, the criteria for offering capital subsidy has been made flexible and freedom has been given to the industries to structure it themselves. Unlike earlier, where capital subsidy was offered based on investment size, the new policy structures the capital subsidy based on investment as well as employment potential. “While capital intensive industries like automotive may require larger investment but with lower employment potential, emerging sectors like electronics offer high employment with lower investments,” the official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-new-industrial-policy-aims-at-rs-10l-cr-investment-20l-jobs/articleshow/81044423.cms||D Govardan
February 17, 2021||Bhopal||47 drown as bus plunges into canal in MP's Sidhi, only 6 survive||BHOPAL: At least 47 people were killed when a packed passenger bus veered off the road and plunged into a canal in MP’s Sidhi district on Tuesday morning. Most of the victims were found dead in their seats. The suddenness of the crash left only a slim window of survival — six passengers got out alive. Four are reported missing. It’s the worst accident in MP in terms of death toll. Twenty of those killed are women — most of them were going to attend an ANM (auxiliary-nurse-midwife) exam in Satna town, about 140km away. The other half of the victims were their escorts, mostly brothers and fathers. Two children—including a three months old—are among the dead. At least seven of those killed, including a three-month old infant, are from three families. The private bus (MP19P 1882) had left Sidhi, on the edge of western Madhya Pradesh, around 5.30am, with 38-40 passengers. Driver jumped off as bus crashed into waterSome more boarded at way stops, and it’s believed there were at least 57 passengers when it crashed. The normal route is via NH39, which passes through Chhuhiya Ghati, but the ghat roads lead to daily bottlenecks. The driver of this bus — who is still to be found — took an alternative route along Banganga canal. It’s not yet known why he lost control because the bus crashed on a straight stretch of canalside road. Some say he tried to give way to another vehicle and miscalculated his distance from the edge. Near Patna village in Rampur Naikin region, the bus drove headlong into the canal at 8.20am. The passengers got no warning and no time to react. Some of those sitting near the window got sucked out as the bus sank to the canal bed. They are the only ones who survived. “The driver jumped off as soon as the bus flew into the canal. It overturned in the water and began sinking from the driver’s side,” said Vibha Prajapati, 21, of the lucky few to get out. She was among those headed for the ANM admission test. “Please find my brother,” she kept pleading with doctors at the hospital. The last thing she remembers of the accident is her brother’s hand slipping away from her desperate grasp. The water was so deep that the bus was completely submerged and drivers had to be deployed to locate it so that a crane could pull it out. Sidhi collector Ravindra Chowdhary said 47 bodies have been found — 20 women, 25 men and two children. Seven passengers were rescued, but one of them died during treatment, he said. “Some of the kin are still looking for their children as per our information there are six missing persons but as it’s night, search and rescue operations will again start on Wednesday morning,” said the collector. Cranes from nearby cement plants were called in and National Disaster Relief Force personnel, who were in Sidhi on a drill for the past couple of days, rushed to the site. Disaster management teams from nearby districts also joined the rescue effort, but it all went in vain. There were heart-rending scenes as they pulled out bodies from the submerged bus. “An immediate cash relief of Rs 10,000 each was given to the bereaved families. The bodies were handed to them and they were sent home in ambulances,” collector Chowdhary said. CM Chouhan sent two cabinet ministers to the spot. Search and rescue was still on when this report was filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/47-drown-as-bus-plunges-into-canal-in-sidhi-only-6-survive/articleshow/81008764.cms||Amarjeet Singh
February 17, 2021||Erode||Tamil Nadu new industrial policy aims at Rs 10 lakh crore investment, 20 lakh jobs||CHENNAI: In an attempt to further reinforce Tamil Nadu’s position as an attractive investment destination for global industries, the state government on Tuesday unveiled a New Industrial Policy, 2021, which aims to attract Rs 10 lakh crore in new investments and create 20 lakh jobs by 2025. The policy seeks to achieve an annual growth rate of 15% in the manufacturing sector and increase the contribution of the sector to the state’s economy to 30% by 2030, a government release said. “I am happy to be in your midst as I complete four years of my term as chief minister and enter the fifth year and to see the vast progress the state is making on the industrial front and to unveil a new industrial policy that will help the state leap into its next phase of growth,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said after unveiling the policy. He also inaugurated eight completed projects involving an investment of Rs 3,377 crore and offering employment to more than 7,000 people. The state government also signed 28 MoUs that will pave way for new investments of more than Rs 28,000 crore in TN across sectors, including smartphones, electric vehicles, wind energy and auto components, city gas distribution and textiles. These investments will result in employment generation to nearly 69,000 people, a government statement said. “The policy has given a special thrust to sunrise sectors, including aerospace and defence, renewable energy components, electronics (ESDM), medical devices, electric vehicles, pharmaceuticals, technical textiles and medical textiles (biotechnology)” a senior official said. Laying thrust on the sunrise sectors will enable TN enlarge its potential and growth opportunities, the senior official of state industries department told TOI. Among the key investors are Tata Electronics, which will invest Rs 4,684 crore and employ more than 18,000 people in its unit in Krishnagiri district, and Pegatron Corporation, Taiwan, investing Rs 1,100 crore and employing more than 14,000 people at Mahindra World City. Both the companies will make Apple products and join Foxconn and Salcomp to make Tamil Nadu the new hub in Apple products manufacturing. “I appreciate the swiftness with which the Tamil Nadu government, especially the IAS officials, helped the group to locate the new unit in the state. It showed the state’s hunger to attract large scale industrial investments and create employment generation opportunities to the people,” N Chandrasekaran, chairman, Tata Sons said, addressing the gathering virtually. “Tamil Nadu is poised for greater growth not just in manufacturing, but also in the emerging sunrise sectors, especially electronics, as the Centre is giving a lot of thrust for this segment under Atma Nirbhar,” said Venu Srinivasan, CMD, TVS Motor Company, in his address at the event. Another key focus of the new industrial policy is to ensure that industrial clusters emerge across the state and not just restricted around Chennai and a couple of other regions. The policy has expanded the number of industrially backward districts in the state to 22, from the earlier 12, to enable industries to avail of special incentives to establish industrial units in the backward districts. “New industrial units being established in all these backward districts will now get 50% subsidy on land cost and subsidy in registration fee. In addition, unlike earlier where a minimum of Rs 300 crore investment was needed to avail of the state-level incentive push, it has now been scaled down to enable even Rs 50 crore investment to avail of these benefits,” the senior government official said. Further, the criteria for offering capital subsidy has been made flexible and freedom has been given to the industries to structure it themselves. Unlike earlier, where capital subsidy was offered based on investment size, the new policy structures the capital subsidy based on investment as well as employment potential. “While capital intensive industries like automotive may require larger investment but with lower employment potential, emerging sectors like electronics offer high employment with lower investments,” the official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-new-industrial-policy-aims-at-rs-10l-cr-investment-20l-jobs/articleshow/81044427.cms||D Govardan
February 17, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu new industrial policy aims at Rs 10 lakh crore investment, 20 lakh jobs||CHENNAI: In an attempt to further reinforce Tamil Nadu’s position as an attractive investment destination for global industries, the state government on Tuesday unveiled a New Industrial Policy, 2021, which aims to attract Rs 10 lakh crore in new investments and create 20 lakh jobs by 2025. The policy seeks to achieve an annual growth rate of 15% in the manufacturing sector and increase the contribution of the sector to the state’s economy to 30% by 2030, a government release said. “I am happy to be in your midst as I complete four years of my term as chief minister and enter the fifth year and to see the vast progress the state is making on the industrial front and to unveil a new industrial policy that will help the state leap into its next phase of growth,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said after unveiling the policy. He also inaugurated eight completed projects involving an investment of Rs 3,377 crore and offering employment to more than 7,000 people. The state government also signed 28 MoUs that will pave way for new investments of more than Rs 28,000 crore in TN across sectors, including smartphones, electric vehicles, wind energy and auto components, city gas distribution and textiles. These investments will result in employment generation to nearly 69,000 people, a government statement said. “The policy has given a special thrust to sunrise sectors, including aerospace and defence, renewable energy components, electronics (ESDM), medical devices, electric vehicles, pharmaceuticals, technical textiles and medical textiles (biotechnology)” a senior official said. Laying thrust on the sunrise sectors will enable TN enlarge its potential and growth opportunities, the senior official of state industries department told TOI. Among the key investors are Tata Electronics, which will invest Rs 4,684 crore and employ more than 18,000 people in its unit in Krishnagiri district, and Pegatron Corporation, Taiwan, investing Rs 1,100 crore and employing more than 14,000 people at Mahindra World City. Both the companies will make Apple products and join Foxconn and Salcomp to make Tamil Nadu the new hub in Apple products manufacturing. “I appreciate the swiftness with which the Tamil Nadu government, especially the IAS officials, helped the group to locate the new unit in the state. It showed the state’s hunger to attract large scale industrial investments and create employment generation opportunities to the people,” N Chandrasekaran, chairman, Tata Sons said, addressing the gathering virtually. “Tamil Nadu is poised for greater growth not just in manufacturing, but also in the emerging sunrise sectors, especially electronics, as the Centre is giving a lot of thrust for this segment under Atma Nirbhar,” said Venu Srinivasan, CMD, TVS Motor Company, in his address at the event. Another key focus of the new industrial policy is to ensure that industrial clusters emerge across the state and not just restricted around Chennai and a couple of other regions. The policy has expanded the number of industrially backward districts in the state to 22, from the earlier 12, to enable industries to avail of special incentives to establish industrial units in the backward districts. “New industrial units being established in all these backward districts will now get 50% subsidy on land cost and subsidy in registration fee. In addition, unlike earlier where a minimum of Rs 300 crore investment was needed to avail of the state-level incentive push, it has now been scaled down to enable even Rs 50 crore investment to avail of these benefits,” the senior government official said. Further, the criteria for offering capital subsidy has been made flexible and freedom has been given to the industries to structure it themselves. Unlike earlier, where capital subsidy was offered based on investment size, the new policy structures the capital subsidy based on investment as well as employment potential. “While capital intensive industries like automotive may require larger investment but with lower employment potential, emerging sectors like electronics offer high employment with lower investments,” the official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-new-industrial-policy-aims-at-rs-10l-cr-investment-20l-jobs/articleshow/81008743.cms||D Govardan
February 17, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu new industrial policy aims at Rs 10 lakh crore investment, 20 lakh jobs||CHENNAI: In an attempt to further reinforce Tamil Nadu’s position as an attractive investment destination for global industries, the state government on Tuesday unveiled a New Industrial Policy, 2021, which aims to attract Rs 10 lakh crore in new investments and create 20 lakh jobs by 2025. The policy seeks to achieve an annual growth rate of 15% in the manufacturing sector and increase the contribution of the sector to the state’s economy to 30% by 2030, a government release said. “I am happy to be in your midst as I complete four years of my term as chief minister and enter the fifth year and to see the vast progress the state is making on the industrial front and to unveil a new industrial policy that will help the state leap into its next phase of growth,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said after unveiling the policy. He also inaugurated eight completed projects involving an investment of Rs 3,377 crore and offering employment to more than 7,000 people. The state government also signed 28 MoUs that will pave way for new investments of more than Rs 28,000 crore in TN across sectors, including smartphones, electric vehicles, wind energy and auto components, city gas distribution and textiles. These investments will result in employment generation to nearly 69,000 people, a government statement said. “The policy has given a special thrust to sunrise sectors, including aerospace and defence, renewable energy components, electronics (ESDM), medical devices, electric vehicles, pharmaceuticals, technical textiles and medical textiles (biotechnology)” a senior official said. Laying thrust on the sunrise sectors will enable TN enlarge its potential and growth opportunities, the senior official of state industries department told TOI. Among the key investors are Tata Electronics, which will invest Rs 4,684 crore and employ more than 18,000 people in its unit in Krishnagiri district, and Pegatron Corporation, Taiwan, investing Rs 1,100 crore and employing more than 14,000 people at Mahindra World City. Both the companies will make Apple products and join Foxconn and Salcomp to make Tamil Nadu the new hub in Apple products manufacturing. “I appreciate the swiftness with which the Tamil Nadu government, especially the IAS officials, helped the group to locate the new unit in the state. It showed the state’s hunger to attract large scale industrial investments and create employment generation opportunities to the people,” N Chandrasekaran, chairman, Tata Sons said, addressing the gathering virtually. “Tamil Nadu is poised for greater growth not just in manufacturing, but also in the emerging sunrise sectors, especially electronics, as the Centre is giving a lot of thrust for this segment under Atma Nirbhar,” said Venu Srinivasan, CMD, TVS Motor Company, in his address at the event. Another key focus of the new industrial policy is to ensure that industrial clusters emerge across the state and not just restricted around Chennai and a couple of other regions. The policy has expanded the number of industrially backward districts in the state to 22, from the earlier 12, to enable industries to avail of special incentives to establish industrial units in the backward districts. “New industrial units being established in all these backward districts will now get 50% subsidy on land cost and subsidy in registration fee. In addition, unlike earlier where a minimum of Rs 300 crore investment was needed to avail of the state-level incentive push, it has now been scaled down to enable even Rs 50 crore investment to avail of these benefits,” the senior government official said. Further, the criteria for offering capital subsidy has been made flexible and freedom has been given to the industries to structure it themselves. Unlike earlier, where capital subsidy was offered based on investment size, the new policy structures the capital subsidy based on investment as well as employment potential. “While capital intensive industries like automotive may require larger investment but with lower employment potential, emerging sectors like electronics offer high employment with lower investments,” the official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-new-industrial-policy-aims-at-rs-10l-cr-investment-20l-jobs/articleshow/81044430.cms||D Govardan
February 17, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu new industrial policy aims at Rs 10 lakh crore investment, 20 lakh jobs||CHENNAI: In an attempt to further reinforce Tamil Nadu’s position as an attractive investment destination for global industries, the state government on Tuesday unveiled a New Industrial Policy, 2021, which aims to attract Rs 10 lakh crore in new investments and create 20 lakh jobs by 2025. The policy seeks to achieve an annual growth rate of 15% in the manufacturing sector and increase the contribution of the sector to the state’s economy to 30% by 2030, a government release said. “I am happy to be in your midst as I complete four years of my term as chief minister and enter the fifth year and to see the vast progress the state is making on the industrial front and to unveil a new industrial policy that will help the state leap into its next phase of growth,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said after unveiling the policy. He also inaugurated eight completed projects involving an investment of Rs 3,377 crore and offering employment to more than 7,000 people. The state government also signed 28 MoUs that will pave way for new investments of more than Rs 28,000 crore in TN across sectors, including smartphones, electric vehicles, wind energy and auto components, city gas distribution and textiles. These investments will result in employment generation to nearly 69,000 people, a government statement said. “The policy has given a special thrust to sunrise sectors, including aerospace and defence, renewable energy components, electronics (ESDM), medical devices, electric vehicles, pharmaceuticals, technical textiles and medical textiles (biotechnology)” a senior official said. Laying thrust on the sunrise sectors will enable TN enlarge its potential and growth opportunities, the senior official of state industries department told TOI. Among the key investors are Tata Electronics, which will invest Rs 4,684 crore and employ more than 18,000 people in its unit in Krishnagiri district, and Pegatron Corporation, Taiwan, investing Rs 1,100 crore and employing more than 14,000 people at Mahindra World City. Both the companies will make Apple products and join Foxconn and Salcomp to make Tamil Nadu the new hub in Apple products manufacturing. “I appreciate the swiftness with which the Tamil Nadu government, especially the IAS officials, helped the group to locate the new unit in the state. It showed the state’s hunger to attract large scale industrial investments and create employment generation opportunities to the people,” N Chandrasekaran, chairman, Tata Sons said, addressing the gathering virtually. “Tamil Nadu is poised for greater growth not just in manufacturing, but also in the emerging sunrise sectors, especially electronics, as the Centre is giving a lot of thrust for this segment under Atma Nirbhar,” said Venu Srinivasan, CMD, TVS Motor Company, in his address at the event. Another key focus of the new industrial policy is to ensure that industrial clusters emerge across the state and not just restricted around Chennai and a couple of other regions. The policy has expanded the number of industrially backward districts in the state to 22, from the earlier 12, to enable industries to avail of special incentives to establish industrial units in the backward districts. “New industrial units being established in all these backward districts will now get 50% subsidy on land cost and subsidy in registration fee. In addition, unlike earlier where a minimum of Rs 300 crore investment was needed to avail of the state-level incentive push, it has now been scaled down to enable even Rs 50 crore investment to avail of these benefits,” the senior government official said. Further, the criteria for offering capital subsidy has been made flexible and freedom has been given to the industries to structure it themselves. Unlike earlier, where capital subsidy was offered based on investment size, the new policy structures the capital subsidy based on investment as well as employment potential. “While capital intensive industries like automotive may require larger investment but with lower employment potential, emerging sectors like electronics offer high employment with lower investments,” the official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-new-industrial-policy-aims-at-rs-10l-cr-investment-20l-jobs/articleshow/81044436.cms||D Govardan
February 17, 2021||Meerut||UP: Man electrocuted as Chinese manjha of his kite touches power line||MEERUT: A 30-year-old man in UP's Saharanpur district was suspected to have been electrocuted on Tuesday when the Chinese manjha (string) of the kite he was flying touched a power line. The Chinese manjha, coated with glass and metal dust, is a good conductor of electricity. The sale and use of the Chinese manjha has been banned by the National Green Tribunal and UP government. However, people continue to use it. The deceased was identified as Azeem, a resident of Nai basti area in the city. The electric jolt rendered him unconscious. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. “Azeem was at his friend’s place and they were flying kites when the incident happened. It is suspected that he was electrocuted but the real cause of death will be ascertained only after the post-mortem report comes. Investigation is underway,” said Vineet Bhatnagar, Saharanpur superintendent of police (city).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-electrocuted-as-chinese-manjha-of-his-kite-touches-power-line/articleshow/81002986.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Woman slashes son with blade in Telangana, booked||HYDERABAD: Narsingi police registered a case against a housewife, who allegedly injured her 12-year-old son with a blade for pestering her to allow him to play with cell phone. On Tuesday evening, police received a complaint from a 12-year-old boy, a student from Gandhamguda in Hydershahkote, alleging that his mother, Chandrakala, cut him on the thighs with a blade when he asked her to let him play with the cell phone. “Irritated with mischievous acts of the boy, Chandrakala slashed his thighs with a shaving blade. He suffered bleeding injuries. Neighbours rushed him to hospital in 108 ambulance,” Narsingi SI T Sridhar said. No arrest has been made yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-slashes-son-with-blade-booked/articleshow/81008734.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Nod to 111 points for RFID toll after project deadline expires||New Delhi: Over 15 days after missing the deadline, the standing committee of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has finally approved Phase-II of the ambitious RFID border toll collection project. Delhi has 124 entry points, out of which 13 major ones have already got the system based on radio frequency identification technology (RFID). Under Phase-II, 10 more border points will get the boom barrier-based RFID infrastructure while the rest — 101 points — will get handheld RFID-reading devices. Besides digitising the tax and environment compensation charge collection, the modern system is expected to reduce pollution levels in the city by barring entry of older polluting vehicles and minimising congestion. The Supreme Court had been informed in a report by the erstwhile Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA) that the Phase-II work would be completed between September 2020 and January 2021. On August 14, the south corporation, the nodal agency for the RFID project, had announced that all toll plazas would get handheld devices to read RFID chips by November and the infrastructure of the RFID system was to be installed at the remaining 111 border points by January 2021. A senior municipal official said the standing committee did not clear the proposal on multiple occasions and the entire winter pollution season was over without the new infrastructure. Several internal reports have indicated that after the creation of the 13 RFID-compliant border points, the commercial vehicle traffic has drastically reduced at these places due to diversion to other entry points, rendering the system pointless. The Phase-II proposal was moved on September 8, 2020, but it was postponed, said a senior official. “The standing committee took up the matter on September 30 again, but rejected it. The proposal was moved again on October 22 and its urgency was highlighted, stating that the deadline has been submitted to the Supreme Court, but it was still not passed,” another official said. Meanwhile, EPCA was dissolved and the new Air Quality Commission was constituted by the Centre. The extent of the delay can be gauged from the fact that even the new commission kept on writing to the corporation for the time-bound implementation of the project. On December 31, the commission wrote to the SDMC commissioner for “a time-bound programme under the directions of the Supreme Court” and “emergent action by SDMC” to comply with the court’s directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nod-to-111-points-for-rfid-toll-after-project-deadline-expires/articleshow/81008950.cms||Paras Singh
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||One succumbs, 86 test positive in Haryana||Chandigarh: No Covid-19 cases were reported in nine districts while the rest of Haryana reported 86 cases and one death. Also, 887 health care workers were administered first and second dosage of vaccine across the state. As many as 169 Covid patients recovered during the day. With this, Haryana’s Covid count has reached 2,69,240 cases, 3,040 deaths, 2,65,381 recoveries and 819 active cases. Active cases include 22 serious patients on oxygen and ventilator support in various Covid care centres across the state. Of the total 887 vaccinations, 91 were given first dose vaccine jabs while 796 were given second dose of the vaccine. Overall vaccination tally of the state has reached 2,10,899. On the Covid front, districts which did not report new cases include Hisar, Rewari, Sirsa, Mahindergarh, Bhiwani, Palwal, Fatehabad, Kaithal and Nuh. The sole death in the state was reported from Panipat district. The highest of 24 new cases were reported from Gurgaon district, where the tally has reached 58,602 cases, 356 deaths and 292 active cases. Panipat reported the second highest of 16 new cases . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/one-succumbs-86-test-positive-in-haryana/articleshow/81008781.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ludhiana||Man’s body stuffed in sack found in Jagraon||Ludhiana: The body of an unidentified man was found stuffed in a sack at a nullah in Grewal Colony, Jagraon, on Monday.The municipal council employees stumbled upon it while cleaning the drain in the afternoon hours. Municipal council sanitary inspector Ajay Kumar said, “The council employees were cleaning the drain when they found the sack near Subhash Gate of Grewal Colony. On opening it, they found a body inside.”Jagraon police station SHO sub-inspector Gaganpreet Singh said, “The man appears to be around 40 years old. The accused murdered him and dumped the body in the drain. It has started decomposing. It seems the murder was committed a few days ago.” The cops are checking the missing persons’ reports lodged in different police stations to identify the man. “We are also circulating his pictures. The body will be kept in the mortuary for 72 hours,” the SHO added. The police have registered a case against the unidentified accused under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mans-body-stuffed-in-sack-found-in-jagraon/articleshow/81003000.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||International Vedic School to be set up in Tehri, scuba diving training to be given to 500 people: Uttarakhand CM||DEHRADUN: An international vedic school will be set up in Tehri, said Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat during the inauguration of Tehri Lake Festival on Tuesday. The CM — who was earlier in 'a dilemma whether to proceed with the event' in the light of Chamoli disaster or not — also announced that the government will provide scuba diving training to 500 people to promote adventure sports in the state. “We were in a dilemma whether to go ahead with the Tehri festival this year in the light of the Chamoli tragedy or not. However, it was decided that we will keep fighting against such disasters and move ahead,” said the CM while inaugurating the Tehri lake fest on the occasion of Basant Panchami. The fest will now take place on the same occasion every year. Among various announcements made by the CM were — setting up of an international vedic university on the banks of Bhagirathi, a sound and light show at Tehri lake, and providing scuba diving training to around 500 locals for development of adventure tourism in the region. “The students will be given knowledge of Sanskrit language as well as Hindi and English in our vedic school. Besides, Tehri is one of the most attractive places in Uttarakhand and a festival like Tehri Lake Fest will be organized here every year. We have issued a gazette notification that Tehri Lake Festival will be held on the occasion of Basant Panchami every year,” said Rawat. He added that the government has opened the Dobrachandi bridge which has made life easier for commuters and businessmen. The government is also developing Tehri as an international tourism destination with a budget of Rs 1,210 crores so that a large number of tourists arrive here and give a boost to the local business community. The chief minister also hailed the formation of an adventure wing in the state tourism department which aims to promote adventure sports in the State. “Today, adventure activities are being conducted successfully in Bhimtal, Almora, Satpuli and Tehri. We are developing Tehri in such a way that people do not migrate to other states and get employment opportunities here. We believe that if any state is the hub of tourism, it is Uttarakhand,” added the CM. Meanwhile, on day one of the two-day long Tehri lake fest, events like paragliding, para-motor, parasailing boat, scuba diving, hot air ballooning, kayaking, canoeing, high course, rock climbing, gumming rappelling, and all terrain bikes were held. The personnel of the BSF and the ITBP also participated in the events. Keeping in mind the resolve of self-reliant Uttarakhand, stalls of products, crafts, handicrafts items, hilans outlet of integrated livelihood cooperation project, forest department products, wooden items, organic products were also set up at the festival. A glimpse of the rich folk culture of Uttarakhand was also seen on this occasion. Religious traditions were displayed through dev dolis (Goddess palanquins). A two-day photography competition is also being organized by the department of tourism and the district administration under the Tehri Lake Festival. Along with this, photo exhibitions and award ceremonies were also organised in the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/international-vedic-school-to-be-set-up-in-tehri-scuba-diving-training-to-be-given-to-500-people-cm/articleshow/81005253.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 17, 2021||Ludhiana||Virus claims Haibowal Kalan woman’s life||Ludhiana: A 78-year-old woman of Haibowal Kalan died of Covid-19 in the city on Tuesday. The day also saw 46 residents testing positive for the disease.Chief medical officer Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the diabetic patient succumbed at Fortis Hospital. With this, the district toll tally has increased to 1,014. The 46 new cases include four contacts of positive patients, 26 from OPD, five from flu corner and 11 through tracing process.The Ludhiana case count has reached 26,412. On the day, 2,317 samples were collected. So far, 25,050 (94.84%) patients have recovered in Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-claims-haibowal-kalan-womans-life/articleshow/81002988.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ludhiana||Petrol, diesel, LPG: Increase in rates fuels rage in industrial city||Ludhiana: Businessmen and housewives are furious over rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. The per litre rate of diesel in Ludhiana on Tuesday was Rs 81.79 and of petrol Rs 90.82, while an LPG cylinder was for Rs 771, which till October was available for Rs 621. Businessmen are the most affected due to the high rate of diesel as their cost of production has shot up. They are holding the Centre responsible for the situation and demanding immediate remedial steps. Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small-Scale Manufacturers’ Association (JSMA), said, “The fuel rates have skyrocketed in the past three months and the Centre is responsible for it. Diesel is like a raw material for us, as it is not only used in our vehicles, but also in power generators and some production processes. Therefore, even a single paisa increase hits us adversely. In the past three months, the diesel rate has been hiked by almost Rs 10 and it seems it will keep on increasing. Petrol rates, too, have been increased by almost equal proportion. LPG price has shot up manifold, making our lives miserable.”Thukral said knowing well that the industry was in dire straits, the Centre was watching it die a slow death. “We have shot off a warning letter to the petroleum ministry to immediately reduce the rate of diesel to Rs 70 per litre, cap it and make the rate uniform in all states.”Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, said it was shocking that the rate of diesel, which was an essential commodity for the industry, has shot up exorbitantly and the government has turned a blind eye to it. “Our business and personal expenses too have increased. Due to the existing market slump, we cannot pass on the increase to our customers and have been forced to absorb it, thereby incurring heavy losses. The government must bring petrol and diesel under the GST system so that industrialists can claim it back and it will automatically cut the cost,” he said.Atul Saggar, general secretary of Apparel Manufacturers’ Association of Ludhiana, said, “The hiked fuel rates will increase cost of transportation, running machinery and other processes. Diesel and petrol are at an all-time high in India. Regardless of the reduction in the rate of crude oil in the international market, no benefit has been passed on to us. It is a big failure on the part of the Centre that is killing the industry.”A housewife from Model Gram, Anita Rani, was livid. “An LPG cylinder rate was Rs 621 in October and now it has gone up by Rs 150 and reached Rs 771. This has shaken our kitchen budget and we do not know how to manage things, especially when prices of vegetables, fruits, pulses and edible oil are also going up. It is our request to the Centre to do something and control LPG rate, as a middle-class family cannot cope with such inflation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/petrol-diesel-lpg-increase-in-rates-fuels-rage-in-industrial-city/articleshow/81002992.cms||Mohit Behl
February 17, 2021||Ludhiana||Homeless man attacks another over food||Ludhiana: A homeless man attacked another with a knife over food near Old Session Court Chowk on Tuesday. Division 8 police station SHO sub-inspector Rajinderpal Singh said, “Manu and Nashma, both of whom are around 40-year-old and homeless, sleep on a footpath near the Old Session Court Chowk. In the morning, some people came to distribute food to them. Manu and Nashma started fighting over the food. As tempers frayed, Nashma attacked Manu on neck with a knife.” On hearing the screams of Manu, passersby called up the police, who took him to a hospital. The cops also detained Nashma and took him to the police station. “A cop was sent to the civil hospital to record the statement of Manu. But doctors said he was unfit to give one. In the afternoon, Manu escaped from there. Therefore, no FIR has been lodged yet. We are trying to trace Manu,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/homeless-man-attacks-another-over-food/articleshow/81002994.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: ‘Lava’ flowing out of Kullu village, video goes viral||MANALI: An uncommon “volcanic eruption” in the Lafali panchayat of Anni subdivision in Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district released lava-like substance downhill, a video of which was shared widely on Tuesday. There is no history of volcanic activity in Himachal Pradesh but the video has stunned the viewers. The video shows a group of officials inspecting snow-covered roadside, where something has erupted from the foundation of a metallic pole of power-transmission cables. The magma-like grey substance melted the local snow and burned the grass before solidifying. The clip shows a burnt and bent pole, smouldering from its base and top. A spectator is heard saying: “It started after 8am.” Some villagers of Nagni claimed to have heard an explosion from the site. Anni subdivisional magistrate Chet Singh told TOI over telephone that he had seen the video, which seemed to have been shot a few days ago. “The pole has been removed. The tehsildar will lead a team into the area on Wednesday and only then can we say anything,” he said. Himachal Pradesh State Centre on Climate Change principal scientific officer S S Randhawa ruled out volcanic activity and said the unusual incident might be due to either the burning of a carbon shell or tectonic activity. He said even earthquakes could have shifted tectonic plates and raised the underground temperature to open a fissure vent. In June 2014, Kangra reported something similar. Flames and a lava stream spewed out of a hill 100 metres from Gadiyada village. State geologists had confirmed that as “small magmatic activity” and the Geological Survey of India (GSI) had sent a team over. Volcanic activity is rare but magmatic flow is not new to the state. The hot sulphur springs of Manikaran, Kalath, Tattapni, and Vashishth prove there is magma underneath. Leading geologist Ritesh Arya said: “The Himalayas were formed with 2,400 kilometres of magma flow about 5 crore years ago. Magma lies 4km below the earth and the new spot is about 2km above the surface, so chances are it’s something else but it can even be magma.” After watching the video a few more times, he said either high-voltage charge from the transmission line or a lightning bolt that hit the pole might have melted the abundant silicates in the local rock. “This is actually called fulgurite. It is produced by melting of natural silicates generated through very high temperature by lightning, or leakage of high-tension electricity wires. I think here lightning is the major cause,” he added. Watch ‘Lava’ flows out of Kullu village in Himachal Pradesh, video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/lava-flowing-out-of-kullu-village-video-goes-viral/articleshow/81008768.cms||Suresh Sharma
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||15 students, 2 staff members of Ludh school test +ive||Ludhiana: Since re-opening, Covid-19 cases are being reported from schools, mostly government schools, which are functional. From late Monday evening, 17 students and two staff members of Government Senior Secondary School in Chaunta village have tested positive for Covid-19. With this, the number of students testing positive for Covid-19 during the last about a month has crossed 50. Since the second fortnight of January, about 35 teachers of a number of government schools of Ludhiana district have tested positive for the disease. A teacher of Government Senior Secondary school, Ghalib Kalan died of the disease. A total of 27 students of the same school also tested positive whereas 15 students of Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal tested positive this month. Principal of the school at Chaunta village, Roma Rani said 15 students, a woman Math teacher and a male peon have tested positive. She said samples of 20 teaching and non-teaching staff members have been taken while samples of remaining students are being taken. “Students who tested positive have been home quarantined as they don’t have symptoms. One teacher of our school tested positive on February 7 and had symptoms, including fever,” said the principal, adding that the school has students coming from Chaunta and surrounding areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/15-students-2-staff-members-of-ludh-school-test-ive/articleshow/81008812.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||NMC cracks down on superspreader events||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Tuesday revised a slew of measures to contain the spike in Covid cases, mainly attributed to marriage ceremonies being organized in rampant violation of norms. From today, the administration and owners of halls and lawns where mass gatherings and cultural functions are held, will have to give eight days’ prior intimation of their schedule to the assistant municipal commissioner of the concerned zone. Penalty on breaching the 50-guest limit at marriage ceremonies has been increased three-fold to Rs15,000 for the first time and Rs50,000 for the third offence. NMC may also file an FIR and seal the marriage hall or lawn in case of repeated violation. While the limit on guests for marriage ceremonies has remained 50, for social and cultural events, it has been capped at 100 or 25% of the venue capacity, whichever is higher. Earlier, public functions, excluding weddings, were capped at 50% of capacity only. Hence, organizers could invite more than 100 if their seating capacity was 500 or 1,000. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B issued the order on the day when the city witnessed a large number of marriage ceremonies on account of Vasanti Panchami, an auspicious occasion. Bracing political pressure and stiff opposition from organizers, the NMC’s nuisance detection squad (NDS) levied Rs49,000 in fines on owners of 11 marriage halls and lawns on Tuesday. As the latest order was issued in the evening, the NDS penalized nine owners as per the old rates (Rs5000). Two of them allegedly exerted pressure and compelled the squad to bring down the fine to Rs2,000. Bolstered by civic chief’s directives, the NDS teams for the first time entered marriage halls to crackdown on violators and also appeal to the guests to immediately wear masks and maintain social distancing. Sources said that though many violators were caught red-handed at the new superspreader events, NDS squads were forced to let them go scot free following pressure from elected representatives and NMC office bearers. The NDS squads continued the drive against errant venue owners till 8pm. The squad also found compliance of Covid norms at many places. So far, the staff-crunched NDS has stayed away from entering halls and lawns to avoid a tiff with the organizers. The ex-servicemen also filmed the violations during marriage ceremonies before levying the penalties. Yet, civic officials feel the NMC’s latest order may not prove to be much of a deterrent, especially for marriage ceremonies whose organizers don’t mind shelling the fine amount. “Ultimately, the hall or lawn owner passes on the fine amount to the host. What difference does it make for someone who is already spending lakhs on the ceremony,” they said, adding, sealing at least one venue will yield good results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-cracks-down-on-superspreader-events/articleshow/81009009.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Experts to form committee, submit report on disasters||Dehradun: Scientists from various technical and research institutes across the country on Tuesday participated in a joint meeting to discuss the disaster that took place in Chamoli recently. It was held under the chairmanship of Member National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) Syed Ata Hasanen and Rajendra Singh. In the deliberations, it was decided that a joint committee consisting experts of various institutions should be formed. The committee would submit a report to the Uttarakhand government after conducting an in-depth study on 'prevention of natural disasters and protection of the environment in the Himalayas' and how to deal with the natural disasters. Chief secretary Om Prakash, who also participated in the online meeting, apprised the NDMA and the institutions associated with the meeting that continuous work is being done in a balanced manner to break the natural lake in the disaster-affected area. The chief secretary also referred to the report of the director of Uttarakhand Space Utilization Center (USAC), MPS Bisht, who maintained that water was being drained from the natural lake. “Latest satellite data show that water is now being drained from three sides of the lake, and, hence, there is no possibility of any disaster,” said Prakash, adding that teams of the Nehru Mountaineering Institute, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and ITBP, along with members of USAC, have been instructed to submit a report on the current status of the area. The meeting was attended by additional secretary to the government of India V Tripuga, joint secretary Ramesh Kumar Danta and experts from the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Wadia Institute of Geology, IIT Roorkee, National Institute of Hydrology (NIH), Geological Survey of India Institute, Defense Terrain Research Laboratory (DTRL) and NTPC to name a few.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/experts-to-form-committee-submit-report-on-disasters/articleshow/81005295.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||248 cases, 5 deaths in Pb||Chandigarh: Punjab reported 248 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 17 of students, in Punjab on Tuesday, even as five others succumbed to the virus. About 300 students have been tested positive in the state since January, with a majority of cases in Ludhiana and Nawanshahr. In the last 24 hours, two deaths were reported in Hoshiarpur and one each in Patiala, Mohali and Ludhiana. Luidhiana reported 46, Nawanshahr 43, Jalandhar, Patiala, Hoshiarpur and Mohali 18 each, Amritsar 17, Kapurthala nine, Ropar eight, Gurdaspur and Sangrur six each, Bathinda five, Faridkot four, Fatehgarh Sahib three, Pathankot, Barnala and Moga two each and Faridkot, Mansa and Muktsar one each . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/248-cases-5-deaths-in-pb/articleshow/81008864.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Chennai||Five women farmhands killed as mini-truck falls into ditch in Tamil Nadu||TUTICORIN: Five women were killed when a mini-truck, with at least 35 farm workers standing packed in it, overturned and fell into a ditch near Maniyachi in Tuticorin district on Tuesday morning. Police said the women probably fell over one another and possibly drowned as the ditch had more than a couple of feet of water. Farm workers are regularly transported in such goods carriers, though the law forbids it, to their places of work. The group was being taken from Thirumanakozhundupuram in Tirunelveli to Savarimangalam in Tuticorin district. Tuticorin superintendent of police S Jayakumar said the truck overturned at a curve, possibly because it was overloaded and the driver was speeding. He said using a goods carrier to carry people was a clear violation and police would start a drive to check the practice. The deceased were identified as S Pechiammal, 33, S Eswari, 27, G Malaialagu, 48, M Pechiammal, 54, and V Gomathi, 65. The 30 injured were shifted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. The Maniyachi police registered a case and arrested the driver, Chithirai, 50, who was among the injured. Chief minister K Palaniswami announced Rs 1 lakh for the kin of those dead, Rs 50,000 for those seriously injured and Rs 25,000 for the others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5-women-farmhands-killed-as-mini-truck-falls-into-ditch-in-tn/articleshow/81008873.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Goa||Expedite devpt in villages, Mauvin tells block officers||Panaji: Panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho on Monday told block development officers (BDOs) to expedite developmental works in their respective jurisdictions so that 14th Finance Commission funds are utilised. He said that four gram sabhas will be held in all the 191-village panchayats in the state as is mandatory. “The BDOs were called to resolve the difficulties encountered while executing development works and to fast track the projects,” the minister told reporters after meeting the BDOs. The officers were told to clear the proposals sent to them by the panchayats regarding development works on priority, he said. Godinho said that as per the feedback, development works of around Rs two crore are to be taken up at the panchayat-level. He said that the 15th Finance Commission funds have to be utilised.. The minister said that most of the development works have to be undertaken at the panchayat level. Earlier, 50% of the Finance Commission funds were not utilised, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/expedite-devpt-in-villages-mauvin-tells-block-officers/articleshow/80940832.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ludhiana||15 students, 2 employees of govt school test +ve for Covid||Ludhiana: Fifteen students and two employees of Government Senior Secondary School, Chaunta village, have tested positive for Covid-19 since Monday late evening. With this, the number of district students contracting the virus in the past about a month has crossed 50.Since the second fortnight of January, about 35 teachers of government schools in the district have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. A teacher of Government Senior Secondary school, Ghalib Kalan, Jagraon, had died of the disease on January 23. Twenty-seven students of the Ghalib Kalan school had also contracted the virus. Fifteen students of Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, had tested positive during this month.Chaunta village school principal Roma Rani said, “Reports of 15 students have come positive. A woman teacher and a peon, too, have caught the infection. Samples of 20 teaching and non-teaching staff members have been collected and that of the remaining students are being taken.”“The students who are down with the disease have been home quarantined as they don’t have symptoms. A teacher of our school had tested positive on February 7 and reported fever and other symptoms. Students from Chaunta and surrounding areas study in the school,” the principal added. The health department officials said more samples were being collected from the school.“We collected samples of 410 out of 747 students till Monday. Reports of about 300 samples collected on Sunday have been received. Samples of students were collected on Tuesday as well,” said district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat.“The teacher, the peon and the students came positive during random sampling at the school. They have been home quarantined and their contact tracing is being done,” he added.The health department officials said sampling was being done in schools as part of the plan to identify positive patients and isolate them to check the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/15-students-2-employees-of-govt-school-test-ve-for-covid/articleshow/81003028.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 17, 2021||Chandigarh||In Pb, only 36% of health workers get 1st vax dose||Chandigarh: Struggling with poor response to the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive, Punjab has just managed to give first dose to 36.42% of the registered health workers against the national average of 60%. Punjab is among 11 states/UT which have coverage of less than 50%. Taking note of poor response, the Centre has directed the state government to take measures to increase coverage, which include conducting more sessions and inviting more beneficiaries to one session. So far 76,679 health workers have been vaccinated while 2,010 have received both doses. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, during the weekly review meeting, maintained that the teams of the central government are in touch with all the states/UT lagging behind and are suggesting measures to improve their coverage. All the health workers are to be covered by February 19 and frontline workers by March 6 while data upload of PRI and revenue has been extended till February 17. On Tuesday, of the 3,399 health and frontline workers vaccinated, 1,004 health workers received their second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-pb-only-36-of-health-workers-get-1st-vax-dose/articleshow/81008836.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Bhopal||President, other leaders condole deaths; PM announces Rs 2L ex-gratia||Bhopal: President Ramnath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have condoled the loss of lives in the bus accident in Sidhi district on Tuesday. The Prime Minister has also announced an ex-gratia of Rs2 lakh for the victims. Expressing grief over the incident, President Kovind said, "My heartfelt condolences to the families who lost their loved ones in the accident. I wish those injured to get well soon." "Bus accident in MP’s Sidhi is horrific. Condolences to the bereaved families. The local administration is actively involved in rescue and relief work," Prime Minister Modi's office tweeted after the incident. "PM Narendra Modi has approved an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the bus accident in Sidhi, Madhya Pradesh. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured," the PMO added. Vice-President Naidu tweeted, "Deeply anguished by the loss of lives in a bus accident in Sidhi district, Madhya Pradesh. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families and prayers for the speedy recovery of the injured as rescue operations are underway." Union home minister Amit Shah, who was scheduled to participate virtually in the ‘Grah Pravesh' (house warming) ceremony to dedicate one lakh houses to the beneficiaries under the PM Housing Scheme (Rural), spoke to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan after the tragic accident. The Madhya Pradesh government has cancelled the programme after the bus accident. Expressing grief over the incident Shah said, "The bus accident in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi district is very sad, I have spoken to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The local administration is providing all possible help for relief and rescue. I express my deepest condolences to the relatives of the dead and wish the injured to get well soon." Madhya Pradesh BJP chief VD Sharma and organising general secretary Suhas Bhagat have also condoled the loss of lives in the mishap in Sidhi. Sharma said, "The incident is very sad and painful. I pray to Almighty to give peace to the departed souls and courage to the family to bear this loss. I also pray for the safety of those who are missing in the incident", said Sharma. Chief minister Chouhan has expressed gratitude towards the President and the Prime Minister for extending full support to the state during the tragedy. "Honorable Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji, you always stand sensitively with everyone in grief. I thank you for your sensitive initiative to help the affected families. You are with us in this hour of grief. Thank you," tweeted Chouhan in reply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/president-other-leaders-condole-deaths-pm-announces-rs-2l-ex-gratia/articleshow/81008856.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Sahara India faces Rs 1,181 cr PF demand at Lucknow||NAGPUR: Subrata Roy’s Sahara India, which is already facing the heat from SEBI, now has a Rs 1,181 crore provident fund (PF) demand. Following a high court order, the Lucknow office of the Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) has deemed all ‘commission agents’ of Sahara India as ‘employees’, requiring payment of their past PF dues as well as penalty for late payment. The demand of Rs 1,181 crore is just the assessment for 2010 to 2012, and the amount would be much higher when the dues of earlier and later years are calculated subsequently. The Sahara-EPFO story began in 2012. “Sahara had been maintaining that the agents are its members and not employees. There are a number of case laws which bring agents doing a certain kind of work into the ambit of employees. This was applied to Sahara also,” said a source aware of the chain of events. The Central Board of Trustees (CBT), the governing body of EPFO, had decided to take action against Sahara and a special squad was formed to probe the case. In 2012, when EPFO teams reached Sahara headquarters at Kapurthala Complex in Lucknow, there was resistance from the group. Finally, Sahara also got relief from the high court that its premises cannot be sealed. However, the EPFO was allowed to take action on the basis of papers provided by Sahara, a source said. However, Sahara has not furnished any papers so far. It also moved the Lucknow high court, when the EPFO started proceedings to calculate the dues. Sahara’s plea was dismissed and EPFO was directed to go ahead with the procedure with whatever documents it had. The HC order was issued in October 2020, and five months later the EPFO has come up with the assessment, the source said. After the eight-year stand-off, the EPFO has issued a notice demanding Rs1,181 crore from Sahara India. The amount, with interest, may come to Rs 3,500 crore, though further calculations need to be done, said sources. The amount is towards pending PF dues of commission agents engaged by Sahara all over the country. TOI has a copy of the order. EPFO can take action within 15 days, the time allowed for appeal. As PF comes under statutory dues, the EPFO can lay a claim on Sahara’s assets to recover the amount, a source said. The demand has been issued by the Lucknow office of EPFO, where Sahara India has its headquarters. The order is expected to trigger a chain of such actions at EPFO offices across the country. Each state where Sahara India has a branch would be collecting data of employees to be added, if needed, said sources. In 2017, Sahara India organized an agents meet at Nagpur in the presence of Subrata Roy. The event was held at Mankapur and an estimated 3,000 agents had attended the closed door meet. All such agents could now be designated as employees by EPFO. Sahara India has also built a township on 100 acre land at Nagpur. A majority of the buyers have complained they have not got possession of their properties. “Three years ago, we were told by Subrata Roy during a meeting at Nagpur that the group has enough money but cannot go ahead with the work due to the Supreme Court embargo. The status quo continues,” said Dinesh Chhabra of Sahara Homes Aggrieved Customers Forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sahara-ind-faces-rs1181cr-pf-demand-at-lucknow/articleshow/81008958.cms||Shishir Arya
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||More than 3,000 Covid cases in Maharashtra for 7th day in a row||MUMBAI: The state on Tuesday reported an increase in daily Covid-19 cases, which remained more than 3,000, and fatalities. A total of 3,663 cases and 39 fatalities were reported, taking the total cases to 20,71,306 and deaths to 51,591 since the outbreak in March last year. It was the seventh day in a row that the state has reported more than 3,000 Covid-19 cases. On the other hand, Mumbai reported a dip in cases while fatalities remained consistent. The city reported 461 new cases and three fatalities. The total caseload of the city was 3,15,030 and the city reported 11,425 as the death toll since the outbreak of the COvid-19 pandemic early last year.The number of active cases in the state and city went up on Tuesday. A total of 2,700 discharges were reported in the state, taking the total discharges to over 19.8 lakh. The rate of recovery now stands at 95.6%. Active cases in the state and the city reported an increase. There were a total of 37,125 active cases in the state, of which 4,238 were reported in Mumbai. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said that the increase in cases in some of the districts in the state was a cause of concern and that steps were being taken to increase testing in the state. Experts have said that several factors, among theme increased mingling among groups through various gatherings and non-compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, are behind the increase in daily cases. Tope said that the government has taken a decision to increase the number of tests across the state. Parbhani, Jalna, Beed and Latur districts in Marathwada and Amravati division comprising Akola, Amravati, Buldhana, Yavatmal and Washim have reported a rising number of cases every day, according to the daily charts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/more-than-3000-covid-cases-in-maha-for-7th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/81009086.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ludhiana||Hearing and speech impaired girl wanders off, reunited with family||Ludhiana: Division 1 police found a 7-year-old hearing and speech impaired girl abandoned in Pindi Street on Tuesday. Locating her home and family was tough, since she was unable to hear or say anything. Police circulated her pictures and used social media to trace her family in two hours. Pushpdeep Kaur is the only child of her parents, who live in Harbanspura area of Division 3. Around 10am on Tuesday, police received information that a girl had been found in Pindi street. A team of Division 1 police reached there and took the girl to the police station. When police tried to elicit information from her, they realised she could not hear or talk.Sub-inspector Harjit Singh, SHO, police station, Division 1 said, “When we learned that the girl is hearing and speech impaired, we got worried and started thinking how we would trace her family. We had only one option, which was to circulate her pictures among maximum people so that her family could approach the police. We uploaded pictures of the girl on the official Facebook page of Ludhiana police, which was further shared by over 160 people. The girl’s picture was also shared with all police stations and their WhatsApp groups. Almost in all areas, SHOs have created WhatsApp groups with civilians or market people. Thus, the picture was circulated and the girl’s family approached the police.”The SHO said Pushpdeep’s father Bhaminder Singh suffers from depression and her mother Ramandeep did not come to know when the girl went out of the house. “Pushpdeep’s uncle Jagrat Singh (father’s elder brother) and his wife Sukhwinder Kaur got the picture of the girl on whatsapp and approached us. After verification, police handed the girl over to them. They said the girl had left the house before and was traced. I have asked them to at least write some contact number on the girl's hand so that people can contact the family if she is found anywhere as she won’t even be able to tell them of her whereabouts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hearing-and-speech-impaired-girl-wanders-off-reunited-with-family/articleshow/81003034.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 17, 2021||Delhi||HC grants bail to man charged under UAPA||New Delhi: Delhi High Court has granted bail to an accused arrested under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act charges for his alleged links to Khalistan movement. The court intervened after Delhi Police failed to file a chargesheet in the stipulated period of investigation, despite the fact that the sanction dated November 3, 2020, was received by them in November last year. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait granted default bail to the accused, Lovepreet, on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 25,000 with two sureties of the like amount. The petitioner moved an application for default bail after police failed to file the chargesheet. According to the plea, the accused was entitled to relief under Section 167 (2) CrPC, yet his plea was dismissed by the trial court. The trial court had allowed the plea of police to extend the investigation till November 30, 2020. Arguing against the move, the defence lawyer submitted that the order of extension was passed as there was active concealment of facts before the trial court. The high court saw merit in the stand and concluded that, under the given circumstances, when the extension order was not a valid and police were required to file a chargesheet on November 11, it was not filed on time. It agreed with the accused that failure to do so meant that the right of default bail accrued to him. Delhi Police had registered a case against Lovepreet on June 16, 2020 and arrested him on June 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-grants-bail-to-man-charged-under-uapa/articleshow/81009043.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Chennai||India’s 1st: Amazon to set up manufacturing line in Chennai||CHENNAI: Amazon on Tuesday announced its decision to set up its first device manufacturing line in India in Chennai, when it said it will make “hundreds of thousands of” fire TV stick devices to cater to the demands of Indian consumers at a facility of its contract manufacturer Cloud Network Technology, a subsidiary of Foxconn. The company did not specify the amount of investment or the number of jobs this will create. “Tamil Nadu has been an essential partner for Amazon India and we are excited to launch our first manufacturing line in Chennai,” the company said . “This contributes directly to the local economy and showcases India’s ability to produce world-class products.” Despite stiff competition from Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, Tamil Nadu has lapped up a few major wins in the recent past and managed to lure global electronics manufacturers including mobile phone assemblers to the state. Presence of port, skilled manpower and the launch of a new electronics policy set a series of new investments in motion. Apple contract manufacturer Pegatron is investing Rs 1,100 crore to make mobile phones and the state also signed a MoU with Tata Electronics for a Rs 5,763 crore investment. As a long-time automotive hub, the state also stands to gain from the government’s push toward electric vehicles amid rising fuel prices. Ola Electric and Ather Energy are already setting up shop in the state. Industry trackers told TOI that Amazon’s entry is expected to create “jobs at a large scale” in the state as Amazon commences production later this year. With both the Apple and Amazon devices manufacturing ecosystem now present here, it is only a matter of time more global names line up, they said. Jaipal Singh, research manager at IDC India, said the entry of Amazon into India can be counted as a big win that’s likely to grab the world’s attention. With increasing demand for Amazon’s devices line-up in India, it would be interesting to see if Amazon gradually expands to making its entire range of devices from Fire Sticks to smart speakers to home surveillance equipment with this new facility, he said. Skilled workers, labour costs almost half of that of China, and a government push for electronics manufacturing is propelling India to be a global hub for electronics as companies look to have alternate manufacturing sites outside China. Sasikumar Gendham, MD, Salcomp India, an electronics manufacturer, said there’s almost a 80% linkage in the process of making a smartphone and that of making Amazon’s devices, and Foxconn’s presence here could have clinched the deal in Tamil Nadu’s favour. “This will definitely be a big boost for the electronics manufacturing ecosystem here in TN and bring in more global giants in the future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/indias-1st-amazon-to-set-up-manufacturing-line-in-chennai/articleshow/81009020.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
February 17, 2021||Ludhiana||Body of man who killed wife, daughter is still untraceable||Ludhiana: Four days after the double murder of a mother-daughter duo in Sherpur Kalan village, the body of accused Pyara Singh, 60, has not been recovered. The police believe that he committed suicide for which a deep-water search at a canal has been started. Besides, the police investigation has also found that the accused was a patient of hypertension and would easily lose his temper. On February 12, Pyara Singh, a labourer, had hammered his wife Swaranjit Kaur, 53, and daughter Rajwant Kaur, to death. Thereafter, he reached Doraha canal, called up his nephew to inform that he was going to commit suicide and then switched off his cellphone. Nephew Gurpreet Singh rushed to Pyara’s house and found the duo in a pool of blood. While Swaranjit died on the spot, Rajwant breathed her last while undergoing treatment at a hospital. Rajwant’s marriage was scheduled on February 21. The police had earlier recovered the scooter and mobile phone of Pyara Singh from near the Doraha canal. Joint commissioner of police (rural) Sachin Gupta said, “The probe indicates that Pyara Singh has committed suicide and chances of his being alive are slim. The divers have started a deep-water search to find his body. During investigation, the police identified that Pyara Singh had a psychotic disorder and suffered from hypertension. He would easily lose temper and was getting treatment for it. He would be extremely happy at one moment and at the next become depressed. It was found that Pyara’s father also suffered same issues and he too had committed suicide long ago.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/body-of-man-who-killed-wife-daughter-is-still-untraceable/articleshow/81003046.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Deep Sidhu’s custody extended by 7 days||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Tuesday extended by seven days the police custody of actor-activist Deep Sidhu in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day. He was produced in court after the expiry of his police custody. Police sought extension of his custodial interrogation saying it was required for further investigation and to identify other accused in the case. The court had on February 9 sent Sidhu to police custody for seven days after cops alleged he was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at Red Fort. They claimed there were videos where Sidhu could be seen at the site of the incident and alleged he instigated the mob not to follow the permitted route of the kisan parade and to breach barricades with tractors on January 26. “He was instigating the crowd. He was also one of the main rioters. Several social media accounts need to be searched to identify the co-conspirators. Also his permanent address is given as Nagpur but several places need to be visited in Punjab and Haryana to unearth further details,” police submitted in court. During the hearing, police had earlier said that Sidhu could be seen coming out with the person who hoisted the flag and congratulated him. “He came out and gave speeches and provoked the crowd there. He was the main instigator. He instigated the crowd due to which violence occurred. Several policemen were injured in the violence,” police alleged. Sidhu’s counsel, however, claimed he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time. Sidhu was arrested for several offences under IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/deep-sidhus-custody-extended-by-7-days/articleshow/81009135.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Ludhiana||5 days on, vendor arrested for killing 55-yr-old man in Shimlapuri||Times News Network Ludhiana: Five days after the murder of Shimlapuri resident Jora Singh, 55, police arrested the accused from Karnal on Tuesday. The accused, who was drunk, stabbed Jora Singh to death on being stopped by him from throwing stones at a stray dog. The arrested accused has been identified as Gurmeet Singh Rinku, a street vendor of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Shimlapuri. He killed Jora Singh in Shimlapuri on February 11. Police recovered the sharp-edged weapon used by the accused in the crime. He had thrown the knife in the bushes on Dhandra road. Joint commissioner of Police, Rural, Sachin Gupta said after executing the murder, the accused fled to Karnal, Haryana and took shelter at his relative’s house. Police started tracing him and managed to arrest him on Tuesday.The accused told the police in lockdown his family had a spat with relatives of Jora Singh. While the matter was resolved, both families nursed a grudge against each other. The JCP said that on February 11, when Gurmeet was walking in the street, a stray dog started chasing and barking at him. To escape from the dog, he started throwing stones at it. Meanwhile, Jora Singh, who was passing by, stopped him from throwing stones at the dog. They indulged in a verbal spat and in a fit of rage, he stabbed Jora Singh with a knife. The accused confessed that he did not want to kill Jora Singh but since he was drunk, he committed the crime. While the accused fled from the spot, Jora Singh’s son Karamjit Singh rushed him to hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. Shimlapuri Police lodged an FIR under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-days-on-vendor-arrested-for-killing-55-yr-old-man-in-shimlapuri/articleshow/81003069.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur University professional exams on computers, not mobiles||NAGPUR: After facing flak for its “failed experiment” with online mobile examinations that led to an unbelievable 99% pass results, the Nagpur University officials now plan to conduct professional examinations on computers on the lines of MHT-CET, JEE and NEET. The NU exam section officials are drafting a proposal to hold online examination for courses like engineering, management, pharmacy, law and hotel management using computers at designated centres. In view of Covid-19 pandemic and after students’ protests, education minister Uday Samant and vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari had already declared that NU’s winter exams for the regular batch (2020-21) would be held in online format only. Board of examination and evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI that they would be needing permission from statutory bodies like Academic and Management Councils and BOEE for it. Officials, however, clarified that papers for traditional courses like BA, BCom, BSc etc would be held online on mobile phones only, like summer 2020 exams. “It’s impossible to arrange papers on computers for all courses, as majority of colleges lack necessary infrastructure like number of computers and Internet facilities. The problem is severe in rural areas where even power supply is erratic, besides usual difficulties like poor connectivity. Many colleges there operate on a single computer. So, online computer exams are out of question for general courses,” they say. The officials added that a majority of colleges imparting professional courses have computers and online facilities for their students as per AICTE norms. It would come handy for NU to hold their semester exam while maintaining Covid distancing. “Those completing professional courses have to compete with their counterparts at national and international level. Therefore, their papers must be held in a fair and transparent manner to maintain sanctity. In computer-based exams, the invigilators keep watch on the students and any suspicious movement can be captured by CCTV. This is not possible during the exams using mobile. There remains scope for manipulation in the absence of any monitoring,” they said. Endorsing the BOEE director’s stand, the officials said NU holds exams of over four lakh students annually and it wouldn’t be possible to hold computer-based exams of all of them. The NU would then need to hold over 16 lakh papers approximately. Hailing the decision, an engineering college principal said he would readily offer his college facilities, as computer-based online exams would, at least, have some sanctity. “In mobile exams last year, a majority of candidates cleared them with flying colours. Many of them even received 100% marks even in tough subjects that surprised us. In fact, a few students, who couldn’t clear their papers in the last many years, managed to pass the exams and now would be getting degrees, which they don’t deserve,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-professional-exams-on-comps-not-mobiles/articleshow/81009144.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 17, 2021||Puducherry||Bedi removed as Pondy LG; Cong loses majority as 1 more MLA quits||Puducherry: On a day when the Congress-led government in the Union territory of Puducherry lost its majority in the 33-member assembly following the resignation of an MLA, the Centre removed lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi from her post. Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundarajan has been given additional charge of the Union territory. The decision to relieve Bedi marks the end of a long-running feud between her and Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy.“The President has directed that Dr Kiran Bedi shall cease to hold the office of the Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry and has appointed Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan, Governor of Telangana, to discharge the functions of the L-G of Puducherry, in addition to her own duties, with effect from the date she assumes charge of her office, until regular arrangements for the office of Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry are made,” Ajay Kumar Singh, press secretary to the President, said in a statement.Bedi’s removal came a few days after a delegation led by chief minister Narayanasamy called on the President of India and submitted a memorandum urging him to recall Bedi. The delegation accused Bedi of acting in a ‘typical autocratic’ manner in violation of constitutional provisions and rule of law’ and interfering in the day-to-day affairs of the elected government and blocking all welfare and development schemes. Relations between the two had turned so acrimonious that they took their disagreements to public forums on several occasions. Sources say that the move may be aimed at taking the sting out of the Congress-led opposition campaign that Bedi was preventing welfare schemes from reaching the public, two months ahead of the assembly election. According to sources, Bedi’s ouster was not just a longstanding plea of the ruling alliance, but also a pre-condition laid down by N Rangaswamy’s NR Congress, a likely ally of BJP and AIADMK, ahead of the assembly polls in the UT. Rangaswamy is also a former CM and was previously with the Congress.Bedi and the elected Congress government headed by Narayanasamy have been at loggerheads over several issues ever since she assumed office on May 29, 2016. Narayanasamy charged Bedi with failing to redelegate the enhanced financial powers to the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues even after the Union home ministry’s directive.The two clashed swords over the appointment of the state election commissioner to hold the local body polls that were not held since the tenure of the elected representatives expired in 2011. Bedi cancelled the Puducherry government’s appointment of a retired official as state election commissioner (SEC) and ordered for selection of the SEC through a transparent, competitive and fair process inviting applications through an all India advertisement.The Congress government insisted on providing rice and cloth free of cost to the beneficiaries while Bedi insisted on providing cash equivalent of rice and cloth through the direct benefit transfer depositing cash directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/bedi-removed-as-pondy-lg-cong-loses-majority-as-1-more-mla-quits/articleshow/81009208.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||APSEZ acquires Dighi Port, to create new Maha gateway||Ahmedabad: Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) Ltd has drawn up plans to develop its Dighi Port Limited (DPL) in Maharashtra as an alternative gateway to Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) operations in Navi Mumbai. For this, APSEZ will invest Rs 10,000 crore. APSEZ completed the acquisition of DPL on February 15 for Rs 705 crore under the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Plan (CIRP). DPL is the twelfth port to join APSEZ’s chain of economic gateways across eastern and western coasts of India. With this acquisition, APSEZ aims to establish the company’s footprint in Maharashtra, the largest contributor to India’s GDP, the company said in an announcement on Tuesday. “The successful acquisition of DPL adds another milestone to Adani Ports’ target of creating a string of ports to increase service coverage to the entire economic hinterland of India,” said Karan Adani, CEO and whole-time director of APSEZ. The acquisition will enable APSEZ to service customers in Maharashtra which includes the highly industrialized areas in Mumbai and Pune regions. “APSEZ plans to invest over Rs 10,000 crore to develop the facility into a multi-cargo port with world-class infrastructure, as well as invest in the development of rail and road evacuation infrastructure for seamless and efficient cargo movement,” the company’s statement said. The company will strengthen and repair existing infrastructure and invest in the development of facilities for dry, container, and liquid cargo, the statement said. According to the terms and requirements of the resolution plan, the transfer of concession rights has been approved by the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB). APSEZ has settled the dues of financial creditors, MMB, and other admitted costs and claims. APSEZ is the largest port developer and operator in India with 12 ports and terminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/apsez-acquires-dighi-port-to-create-new-maha-gateway/articleshow/81009211.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Delhi police had no search warrant: Beed activist’s father||Aurangabad: Beed engineer and activist Shantanu Muluk’s father, Shivlal, on Tuesday made a representation to Beed superintendent of police R Raja urging him to look into the issue of a two-member Delhi police team carrying out a search and seizure exercise at his residence early on February 12 without showing him any warrant/document. Delhi police have said search warrants were issued against Muluk and another activist, Nikita Jacob. Shivlal (54) stated that as a law-abiding citizen, he was bringing the matter to the notice of the Beed police as the Delhi police team seized a computer hard disk, a book, a cell phone cover and an environmental poster from Shantanu’s room, orally assuring him they would return the material at the time they would go back to Delhi. Since then, the Delhi police team has called him on two-three occasions at the Beed government guest house for questioning about Shantanu’s activities, he stated. When contacted, Raja told TOI, “We have received the representation and will inquire into the matter. We have not received any official intimation from Delhi police about their operation in Beed nor we have any information about the seizure done by them. We also have no intimation about Shivlal being summoned for questioning at the guest house.” Beed police authorities said under provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), an investigating agency or an investigating officer has the powers to search and seize articles and even make an arrest without alerting the local police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/delhi-police-had-no-search-warrant-beed-activists-father/articleshow/81012571.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 17, 2021||Delhi||‘FIRs against those who housed foreigner Tablighis’||New Delhi: Police told Delhi High Court on Tuesday that those who housed foreigners attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation last year, in violation of certain guidelines, have been included as accused in the FIRs lodged in connection with the event. The submission was made by Delhi Police in the status reports filed in the high court in response to two pleas by two Indian nationals, each of whom had given accommodation to four foreigners, seeking quashing of the FIRs against them. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/firs-against-those-who-housed-foreigner-tablighis/articleshow/81009249.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat spent most of its budget on urban development||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat spent the highest share of its budget in last five years on urban development projects, but spends dismally low on social security schemes, the least at 0.8% of its budget.  A five-year budget analysis between 2015 and 2021 claims that Gujarat spends 6.4% of its budget on UDD projects followed by West Bengal and Delhi which spend 4.5% and 5.7% respectively. The analysis carried out by Delhi-based thinktank PRS legislative, claims that West Bengal spends the highest share of their budget, 9% on social security schemes. In case of education, Delhi spends the highest, 26% of its budget. Gujarat on the other hand spends roughly 15% on education. One may think that Gujarat spends the highest on roads and bridges, the reality, however, is that north-eastern states Arunanchal Pradesh and Sikkim spend 16% and 11% respectively, while Gujarat had spent 5% on roads and bridges. In case of security and policing, Gujarat may have announced its new police modernization plan late last year, but in the last five years, the state has spent just 3 % on policing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-spent-most-of-its-budget-on-urban-development/articleshow/81009262.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Govt hospitals may take months before meeting fire compliance||Nagpur: The Bhandara District General Hospital fire last month has moved medical colleges and hospitals under public health department into taking quick measures to make their premises safer and well-quipped. However, the road to safety looks distant. Recently, the public works department (PWD) electrical department and Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s fire services personnel conducted an inspection at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH). Similar excercises by PWD and other agencies are underway not just at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), and other government hospitals not just in Nagpur but also at Wardha, Gondia, Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gadichorli. The IGGMCH has been given a long list of proposed compliance measures which it has forwarded to Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). There is no time frame as to when the DMER would approve and subsequently authorize the NMC vendor. Once the vendor gets a go ahead it will survey and issue a Certificate ‘A’ for starting the works. Officials said the proposal may again have to be revised in case the NMC vendor recommends any changes/additions. This will be later followed by tendering and award of contract. This indicate the medical colleges and hospitals are not going to be safe any sooner. Officials said the PWD and authorized agencies are inspecting each department and those building set up before 2015. It is assumed that those constructed after this period are fire complaint. However, contrary to the belief, the NMC has found gaps in the IGGMCH’s Surgical Complex. Officials said those were not major but the deficiencies would soon be removed. Yet, the IGGMCH would need to upgrade 32 structures where several specialized health facilities like ICU, NICU, medicine department are running and have heavy electrical instruments. Both the GMCs have over a 1000 patients and at least 200 staffers at a time working in different buildings. TOI spoke to two activist regarding the long drawn process in making the facilities fire compliant.  Activist Ankita Shah said the delay means all these people visiting or using these hospitals premises would remain under constant threat till the deficiencies are not removed. “Like the Covid times, the government must treat these lapses as emergency and expedite the process to equip them as early as possible. Also, fire incidents at hospitals must be treated as criminal cases and registered under provisions of IPC,” said Shah, who is also a lawyer. Activist TH Naidu said Fire Act 2006 mandates the chief fire officer as full time incharge of all fire related issues. “Yet, they have to work under certain authorities and are not fully independent. They become helpless in taking action. Their orders are not taken seriously. The agencies appointed to issue A and B certificate also don’t cooperate. If the CFO starts excecise all powers vested in him as per the Act, things can move at a faster pace,” he said. The process PWD electrical department and fire agencies inspect govt hospitals Medical colleges foward recommendations and agency name to DMER, others are sent to department of health Locally authorized agencies need to survey and issue certificate A for commencing work Proposal is prepared and forwarded to respective higher authorities for approval Funds are released after approval. this is followed by tendering and award of contract Later, the agencies issue Certificate B based on which fire NOC is given||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-hospitals-may-take-months-before-meeting-fire-compliance/articleshow/81005547.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||GMCH Trauma Centre performed many surgeries, reduced death rate in pandemic yr||SLUG: Fighting on many fronts Nagpur: The Trauma Centre attached to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) last year did near normal non-Covid work despite being designated as a Covid-19 hospital. The centre, whose building is still reserved for Covid-19 patients, is functioning from a makeshift set-up in ward no. 26, 28 and 29 of GMCH. “It was expected that non-Covid surgeries, trauma cases and admissions will go down significantly during the pandemic year. But we handled near 80% cases in 2020 as compared to the previous year. Overall death rate of trauma patients also reduced to 11%. It was 20% in 2019,” said Dr Mohd Faizal, in-charge of Trauma Centre. As expected, the overall admissions to the centre reduced by near 40% last year as compared to 2019. But as against 1,218 trauma procedures in 2019, the centre performed 955 in 2020, which is a decline of just 20%. These include 364 orthopaedic surgeries, 324 neurosurgeries and 165 general surgeries. “Despite the Covid threat, the centre did a fairly good job in saving serious patients using all available resources and manpower. In fact, we handled more cases and performed more surgeries in the first three months of 2020. But then, lockdown began and we faced limitations,” said Dr Faisal. Interestingly, from January to March 2020, the centre handled more than 350 patients per month, which means about 11 patients daily. Nearly half of the patients needed surgeries during this period. As soon as lockdown was enforced in March, admissions reduced to 55 in April, but 34 of them needed surgeries. In May, 56 out of 91 patients needed trauma procedures. Only 12 deaths were reported in these two months. “During stricter lockdown in April and May, fewer but critically injured patients reached the centre. Reduced death rate is an indicator that they received timely and correct treatment,” said a senior official of GMCH. Comparative figures Year Admissions Deaths Procedures 2019 4,161 838 1,218 2020 2,498 276 955 - Admissions reduced by 40%, but trauma surgeries only by 21% - This suggests trauma cases reduced but most were of serious kind - Still, death rate reduced up by 67% as compared to 2019||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-trauma-centre-performed-many-surgeries-reduced-death-rate-in-pandemic-yr/articleshow/81005508.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Hesitancy, misconceptions & data duplication plague drive||MUMBAI: Unlike their bigger counterparts that have vaccination beneficiaries running into lakhs, districts such as Aurangabad, Sangli, Buldhana, Jalgaon, Latur, Beed, Jalna and Parbhani have only 10,000 to 40,000 registered healthcare workers. Yet, all vaccinated between 43% and 48% of this range. The experience with frontline workers, though, has been quite the contrary. Less than a fortnight since their vaccination started, the state has covered 28% of the 6 lakh registered in this category, a coverage that is as good as the national average. The performance of some of the bigger districts such as Pune — 6% coverage — has been sluggish. Even Mumbai has covered a little over 15%. In all, 1.65 lakh frontliners have been covered in the state. District-level officials said the reasons for average to low coverage of healthcare workers range from hesitancy to misconceptions about vaccination. Officials from Sangli, which has the lowest coverage in the state besides Aurangabad, even blamed it on data duplication. Civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Salunkhe said that of the 34,599 registered beneficiaries, at least 4,000 entries are duplicate. “Some are also triplicate. This has inflated our overall registered numbers. If we remove these entries, our coverage would rise to 50%,” he said, adding that the district has vaccinated nearly 15,000. An official from Jalgaon, who did not wish to be named, said the factor of hesitation was “quite strong”. “It’s a new vaccine that has been developed in record time. Hence, health workers are sceptical, but the recent spurt in cases could push up the numbers. It has come as a reminder that the pandemic is not over,” he said. But according to Dr Shyamsunder Nikam, civil surgeon from Amravati, overall vaccination among healthcare workers may not exceed 70% in many districts after all. About the dwindling coverage, public health officials argued that Maharashtra had the highest registered healthcare workers among states, almost accounting for 11% of national numbers, and hence 55% coverage cannot be called poor. Among good performers, Bhandara and Palghar have come at the top, having covered 75% of their 9,193 and 18,381 beneficiaries respectively. In absolute numbers though, Mumbai has vaccinated the most (91,627). Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said it was not much of a concern. “Coverage in the organized health sector, that is big hospitals and nursing homes, is very good. It is single doctors or small clinics who have got their names included and so the state’s denominator increased; they are now taking time to come forward,” he said, underlining that the vaccine was new and vaccination was voluntary. Taking a dig at Bihar, where a recent expose showed several fake entries in testing data, Vyas said, “We are doing it systematically and not like dummy phone number issues in some of the states.” Incidentally, the Centre on Tuesday said that Bihar’s vaccination coverage was 81%, the highest among states and UTs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hesitancy-misconceptions-data-duplication-plague-drive/articleshow/81009450.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Wasim Jaffer row: Despite multiple requests, CAU yet to hold an apex council meet||DEHRADUN: Even as several office-bearers of the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) are demanding its president Jot Singh Gunsola to call for an apex council meeting on the ongoing controversy related to the resignation of former Uttarakhand head coach Wasim Jaffer, no such meeting has been called as of yet. A source privy to the matter told TOI that several office-bearers — including CAU VP Sanjay Rawat and joint-secretary Avnish Verma — have sent emails requesting the meeting. “As the matter has turned into a national controversy, it is important to have a CAU apex council meeting in order to discuss ways to address the issue. A few of the office bearers have sent emails demanding an apex council meeting but in vain. Normally, when such big controversy takes place, a meeting is called immediately because the image of the entire state along with the CAU is getting tarnished.” Meanwhile, most of the district cricket associations, affiliated to the CAU, have come out in support of the CAU secretary Mahim Verma in the ongoing controversy. Notably, the Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat has ordered a probe in the ongoing controversy. To recall, Wasim Jaffer resigned from the post of the head coach of the senior men’s Uttarakhand cricket team alleging that he was not being given enough freedom in team selection. Later, it was alleged by a few that he was “favouring Muslim players in the team”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wasim-jaffer-row-despite-multiple-requests-cau-yet-to-hold-an-apex-council-meet/articleshow/81005540.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Pandya case convict rearrested||Ahmedabad: A convict in the 2003 Haren Pandya murder case, who had jumped parole around eight months ago, was arrested by the Gujarat anti-terrorism squad (ATS) from Juhapura on Tuesday. According to ATS, Kaleem Kareemi, 47, resident of Mogal ni Pol in Panch Patti locality in Kalupur and a life term convict in the murder case, was granted parole on April 8, 2020 for 70 days. He was supposed to present himself at the Sabarmati jail on June 18, 2020 but he jumped parole. On Tuesday, ATS officers got an input that Kareemi was supposed to visit someone in Juhapura. After which, a team of ATS rushed there and nabbed him. Kareemi was convicted under section 302 (murder), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC as well as various POTA Act provisions for his involvement in the murder of former Gujarat minister Haren Pandya in 2003. Kareemi was also accused of the 2003 ISI conspiracy case to plan attacks to avenge the 2002 massacre for which he was caught by the city crime branch. Later, his name also cropped up in the 2003 AMTS bus tiffin blast case but he was released by the SC in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pandya-case-convict-rearrested/articleshow/81009320.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Amid protests, C-DAC likely to hold entrance re-exam on March 13, 14||Nagpur: Reactions continue to pour in from distressed students regarding the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing’s (C-DAC) move to reconduct entrance test for the popular postgraduate diploma course. They reiterated that they would knock the judiciary’s doors and also started preparations for it. Unfazed by the protests, the C-DAC management has decided to go ahead with its plans to hold ‘Computerized Common Admission Test (C-CAT)’ again, probably on March 13 and 14. Many more aspirants are coming out to vent their ire against the Pune-based premier organization for cancelling results, merit list and seat allotment for its first entrance test conducted on January 10 and 17. They have flooded social media on platforms like Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, requesting authorities to continue with the old exam that was conducted online with proctoring. Though director Hemant Darbari refused to pick up repeated calls or respond to TOI’s text messages, executive director Col AK Nath defended the premier institution’s move. “We’ve been receiving several complaints, right from connectivity and technical issues to those pertaining to using unfair means. The decision was taken by our academic council after scrutinizing all the complaints. Since things are easing out, we’ve decided to conduct the offline exam in the most fair and transparent manner so that no one should complain of not getting a level playing field,” said Nath. According to Nath, the C-DAC’s reputation was at stake after some students questioned the exam mode. “Aspirants should understand that reputation matters and industries wouldn’t come for placements if it isn’t maintained. We met a batch of about 40 students today who were demanding retests of those who were complaining. But in that case too, the existing ones would lose their rank if others do well,”said Nath. On students’ plan to move the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, Nath said it would be more disastrous for them than C-DAC in case the reexam was stayed. “Ultimately, they would be at a loss as the admissions process would be further delayed. Many students claimed to have left jobs after the results. But we never told them to do so. They should have at least waited till they got admissions. Such students still have time as they must be on notice period and can rejoin till they secure a seat.” C-DAC’S DEFENCE FOR ENTRANCE REEXAM * Receives several complaints of connectivity, technical issues & unfair means * Reexam decision taken by academic council after scrutinizing complaints * Offline exam likely on March 13, 14 in a fair & transparent manner * It will provide level playing field for all aspirants * If students move HC and get stay on reexam, it would be disastrous for them * Students shouldn’t have left their jobs, should have waited till seat allocation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-protests-c-dac-likely-to-hold-entrance-re-exam-on-march-13-14/articleshow/81005604.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 17, 2021||Noida||Noida: Shifting of families at airport site to begin by May||NOIDA: The development of basic amenities in Jewar Bangar village, where families affected by the airport project will be rehabilitated, is nearing completion and officials hope they will be able to start giving possession of plots in the next two-three months. Families from Nagla Ganesh area of Rohi will be the first to be shifted as their village is where the runway will be built. Once people start moving to Jewar Bangar, houses in the villages that have been acquired for the airport can be razed and the land handed over to Zurich AG for construction to begin. “When we started work in December, we were given a nine-month deadline to complete the township. However, the development of amenities has been fast and we should be able to start allotting plots in the next two to three months. The development of most of the basic infrastructure is done,” said Suhas LY, the Noida district magistrate. Land from six villages has been acquired for the construction of the first phase of the airport. A total of 3,625 families from three of these villages —Rohi, Dayanatpur and Kishorpur — will be rehabilitated to Jewar Bangar. A 48-hectare land parcel has been identified for developing the model township where the families will be shifted. The social impact assessment committee had recommended that the rehabilitation of families should be done in such a manner that the social fabric of the villages remains intact. Officials said the development of the township is being done keeping the recommendation in mind. “Every single family has been surveyed. The area has been divided in such a manner that the social bond remains intact. For instance, the allotment of plots will be done in a way so that those who lived next to each other still remain neighbours. The corresponding position of their shops and other amenities will also be maintained as much as possible,” said Balram Singh, additional district magistrate. Meanwhile, the notification for acquiring land for the second phase of the airport is likely to be issued in two weeks. “The maps provided by NIAL, the special purpose vehicle of the state government, are being vetted as of now. The work should be done in the next couple of weeks. After this, the authority will ask the administration to issue a notification for the acquisition of land,” said Suhas LY.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/shifting-of-families-at-airport-site-to-begin-by-may/articleshow/81015513.cms||Snehil Sinha
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Parking row firing: Four minors among 5 held in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A man and his four juvenile associates have been apprehended for allegedly opening fire at two brothers during a brawl over parking of a motorcycle in northwest Delhi’s Jahangirpuri on Monday. Both victims, Suresh (48) and his brother Suraj (30), are out of danger, police said. The main accused has been identified as Shafiq, a resident of G Block in Jahangirpuri. Police received a call on Monday night about two men being shot at during a quarrel. A team from Jahangirpuri police station reached the spot in G Block and found that the injured had been taken to Babu Jagjeevan Ram Memorial Hospital. While Suraj was discharged after treatment, Suresh is still in hospital. The victims told police that around 10pm, the five accused were passing by their house and rammed their motorcycle parked outside the house. As the bike fell, one of the brothers stepped out and objected, leading to the quarrel, an officer said. The other brother also joined and called for help from local people. Seeing people gathering, one of the accused took out a pistol and fired a round each at Suraj and Suresh, and all accused fled, he added. A case of attempt to murder and under other sections has been registered. “During initial investigation, all accused were identified and it was found that four of them are juveniles. Following raids, the main accused, Shafiq, was arrested. Following his information, the juvenile associates were also apprehended,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/parking-row-firing-4-minors-among-5-held/articleshow/81009487.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Surat||Seven-year-old raped in Gujarat, suspect held||SURAT: A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 20-year-old man in Lalgate area during early hours on Tuesday. The minor was sleeping with her mother on the footpath when the accused, Jammu Pathan, abducted her into a nearby lane and raped her at around 2:30am. Pathan was caught from near the crime spot in Lalgate. The survivor lives on footpath with her mother near a garments showroom. The suspect too lives on a nearby footpath. After committing the crime, he escaped. The girl informed her mother and soon cops were alerted.  “The suspect was identified from the description as the girl knew him since he lived nearby. The investigation has been handed over to SC-ST cell assistant commissioner of police,” said a police officer.  The minor was shifted to New Civil Hospital for detailed medical examination. Doctors will give a detailed report to police about the extent of injury. The accused has been booked under relevant sections of IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/7-year-old-raped-suspect-held/articleshow/81003172.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Badrinath portals to open on May 18||DEHRADUN: The erstwhile ruling family of Tehri, custodians of Badrinath shrine, in consultation with priests announced that portals of the temple will open on May 18 for pilgrims this year. The announcement comes on the auspicious occasion of Vasant Panchami. The portals will be opened at 4: 15 am. The oil-containing pitcher (Gadu Ghada) which is sent to the temple from the king’s palace will leave on April 29. Ravinath Raman, ECO of Uttarakhand Devesthanam Board, said that with relaxed norms and decline in Covid-19 cases, the state is expecting a better influx of devotees in Char Dham yatra this year. The pilgrimage had been curtailed last year due to the pandemic. “Last year, the yatra could start on July 1 for residents of Uttarakhand and by the end of the month for those from outside the state. Even so, 3.2 lakh devotees visited Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines. More than 90 % of these pilgrims went for the Badrinath and Kedarnath temples. The state has nearly completed the uphill task of Kedarnath renovation and plans are afoot for the development of Badrinath temple as well,” Raman said. The gates of Badrinath temple are closed every year with the onset of winter, when the site remains snowbound.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/badrinath-portals-to-open-on-may-18/articleshow/81005593.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Forest guards to be armed, get bikes too in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After receiving approvals to provide uniforms to all forest rangers and forest guards deployed around the capital, the forest department says it will soon be arming them as well. In addition, motorcycles will also be provided for a quick getaway, especially during encroachment removal drives, officials said. The forest and wildlife department has been carrying out removal of encroachments in Delhi’s southern ridge for over two years now, demolishing structures that have been built in areas that form a part of the 6,200 ha wide ridge area. After carrying out demarcation and geo-tagging on the ground in 2019, the department has been able to identify which structures fall in the forest land and it has since been demolishing such structures. Times ViewThese guards are key to the protection of forests. Most of the time, they perform difficult, even perilous, work without essential toolkits. Providing them with weapons and vehicles should help them to do their jobs better.“We have procured motorcycles for forest officials and they may also be armed soon. Uniforms will help them perform their duty better. People will listen to a person in uniform more than someone who is not wearing one,” said a senior forest official. Interestingly, an RTI filed on February 4, 2021 over the number of vehicles available with the department till date had revealed that 16 government vehicles were in use by the forest and wildlife department, including three belonging to the offices of two ministers. An RTI reply filed in 2019 had revealed over 629 ha of forest land in Delhi was encroached. The department says it has already cleared a large chunk of these encroachments, however, it will now be focusing on denser villagers where permanent buildings exist. Encroachments were recently removed in Asola village as well as Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary with the assistance of Delhi Police. “Following the demolition drives, court cases have been filed in Asola. They will be dealt with separately. However, our encroachment removal drive will continue and the next village is being identified. Adequate protection to forest personnel will be provided,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/forest-guards-to-be-armed-get-bikes-too/articleshow/81009599.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to form a separate department to study & monitor glaciers, says minister||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand tourism and irrigation minister Satpal Maharaj on Tuesday said that his ministry will form a department so that the glaciers can be studied and monitored through satellite. “We must learn from the Chamoli disaster. All possible triggers must be investigated. We will form a department within our ministry to monitor and study all the glaciers through satellite as it is important to avert such incidents,” said Maharaj. The minister also said that blasting in tunnels should be monitored in the hill state as it disturbs the mountains and glaciers. “We must do the blasting the way it is being done in laying the railway line between Rishikesh and Karanprayag. Balanced blasting is the need of the hour. Being a hill state, we cannot neglect the ecosystem,” he said adding that ‘Himalay ko ruthne nahi dena hai (We should not disturb the Himalayas). Maharaj told TOI that the state has expert institutions like Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC), Wadia Institute of Himalyan Geology (WIHG), GB Pant institute in Almora and several renowned environmentalists who can help keep a continuous tab on the glaciers that are frequently melting. The minister also urged the central government to take steps to find the plutonium device that had gone missing in 1965 on the slopes of Nanda Devi when an expedition to plant it on the peak for the surveillance had to be suspended. Maharaj had in 2018 expressed apprehensions that the device’s radiation may be polluting the rivers in the Himalayas which go on to merge into the Ganga. “The plutonium device was placed in the glaciers to monitor China’s movement. But it got lost accidently. It is believed that by the time the team that had placed the device in emergency came back to take it, it sank in glacier as it produces heat. Hence, its location should be tracked and it should be removed from the fragile glaciers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-to-form-a-separate-department-to-study-monitor-glaciers-says-minister/articleshow/81005638.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Zonal committee chief polls: BJP tally up at 9, BSP 1 and Cong 0||Nagpur: Even as newly elected MPCC president Nana Patole aims to propel Congress to number one position in the state, the party failed to retain the lone post of zone committee chairman it held in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), while the ruling BJP improved its stronghold by bagging eight of the nine seats for which elections were held on Tuesday. BJP candidate from Mangalwari zone was elected unopposed even before the election. Thus, of the 10 zones, the BJP has won nine seats, while BSP managed to retain Ashi Nagar. Barring BJP’s Sunil Hiranwar, all nine zone chairpersons are women corporators. Earlier, the BJP had eight seats, with only Mangalwari and Ashi Nagar zones remaining out of its hold. This time around, the party managed to win Mangalwari zone as Congress corporator and its candidate Sakshi Raut withdrew her nomination just before the election. In the last election, BJP had helped Congress corporator Gargi Chopra to become zone chairperson. In Ashi Nagar, BSP’s Vandana Chandekar was elected as the chairperson. The elections began at 11am at the NMC’s standing committee hall. By the end of the day, the BJP had posted a resounding win and claimed all the nine zone chairmen posts unopposed. In the 151-member House, BJP has 107 corporators, Congress 28, BSP 10, Shiv Sena 2, NCP 1 and independent 1. District collector Ravindra Thakre was the presiding officer in the election, which was held in virtual mode (online). Barring candidates, all other corporators supported their candidates by raising hands during the videoconferencing. The election concluded at around 2pm. The BJP lacked majority in Ashi Nagar zone having 16 corporators — BSP seven, Congress six and the saffron party three. Rebel BSP corporator Mohammed Jamal, who was in the fray from Ashi Nagar zone, had to withdraw his nomination after Congress corporators made a U-turn just before the election. Later, Jamal and six Congress corporators remained neutral, which led BSP corporator Chandekar to win the election. Though Congress had fielded Sakshi Raut, she failed to get support from party corporators. So just before the election, Raut withdrew her nomination, resulting in BJP’s Pramila Mathrani getting elected unopposed as Mangalwari zone chairperson. After the elections, ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav gave the credit of BJP’s victory to mayor Dayashankar Tiwari and city president MLC Pravin Datke. He, however, claimed that Congress tried to poach BSP in Ashi Nagar zone, but instead it lost the lone post it held. Jadhav said the BJP also got elected its alliance partner Bahujan Republican Ekta Manch’s corporator Vandana Bhagat from Dhantoli zone. Leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve said Congress did not have the requisite number of corporators in all the zones, so it did not contest the polls. Jadhav admitted that the civic administration is providing funds for development works and claimed the party would work hard to provide basic amenities to the taxpayers. Zones---Chairpersons---Party Laxmi Nagar---Pallavi Shamkule---BJP Hanuman Nagar---Kalpana Kumbhalkar ---BJP Dhantoli---Vandana Bhagat ---BJP-BREM Nehru Nagar--- Snehal Bihare ---BJP Gandhibagh ---Shraddha Pathak---BJP Satranjipura---Abhiruchi Rajgire---BJP Lakadganj --- Manisha Atkare ---BJP Ashi Nagar---Vandana Chandekar---BSP Mangalwari---Pramila Mathrani ---BJP Dharampeth---Sunil Hiranwar ---BJP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/zonal-committee-chief-polls-bjp-tally-up-at-9-bsp-1-and-cong-0/articleshow/81005698.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 17, 2021||Surat||Posters seeking recruitment in govt emerge in Surat||Surat: Unemployment seems to be screaming from every corner with posters threatening ‘No recruitment, No vote’ fluttering widely across the city. Demand for recruitment on government jobs have cropped up at major crossroads in various parts of the Diamond City on Tuesday in a state that has more than 30 lakh unemployed educated youths. The posters were seen in mostly in Patidar-dominated areas of the city. At 25 locations the posters were reportedly put up by protesting youth from the city. “Thousands of youth from the state and city are waiting for government jobs. But the recruitment process has been delayed on some or the other pretext. Injustice has been done to male candidates on LRD posts, while SRP candidates are still waiting for appointment,” said Chintan Sanghani, an activist. Protesting youth are also demanding withdrawal of police cases registered against leaders representing these candidates. “Government announced recruitment in sachivalay, talati and forest department and lakhs of job aspirants have applied for these openings. But the recruitment process is yet to start in any of the departments,” Sanghani added. Protesters have started their campaign during the civic polls to corner the government. They will now distribute pamphlets explaining their grievances in detail in different areas to create awareness about the protest campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/posters-seeking-recruitment-in-govt-emerge-in-surat/articleshow/81003198.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Coimbatore||Wall painter, college student held for raping minor girls||Coimbatore: In two separate cases, a 47-year-old wall painter from a village near Karumathampatti and a polytechnic college student from Pollachi were arrested on Tuesday for raping and impregnating two minor girls. The Thudiyalur all-woman police arrested M Mohanraj, 47, a wall painter from a village near Karumathampatti, for raping a 16-year-old girl. “On October 29, 2020, Mohanraj, who was drunk, had entered the minor girl’s house when she was alone and raped her. He later threatened her of dire consequences if she were to reveal the incident to others. Later, he started to rape the girl often,” a police officer said. On Monday, the girl was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital after she complained of stomach ache. After examination, doctors said the minor girl was four-month pregnant. The doctors then alerted the Thudiyalur all-woman police, who received a complaint from the girl and arrested Mohanraj on Tuesday. He was booked under Sections 3 (a), 4, 5 (n) (j) (ii) read with 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, and produced before the special court for Pocso cases. He was lodged in under judicial custody. In the second incident, a 19-year-old polytechnic college student from Pollachi was arrested for impregnating a 16-year-old girl. Police said the college student and the girl were in a relationship. “On December 15, he had taken the girl to his grandmother’s house, where he raped her,” a police officer said. After the girl’s parents learned about the relationship, they sent her to their relative’s house in Palakkad, Kerala. The girl developed abdomen pain on February 13 and was taken to the government hospital in Palakkad, where doctors found she was two-month pregnant. The Nemmara police in Kerala alerted the Pollachi (east) police, who received a complaint from the girl and registered a case against the college student under Sections 5 (l) read with 6 of Pocso Act, and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The youth was produced before the special court for Pocso cases on Tuesday and later remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wall-painter-college-student-held-for-raping-minor-girls/articleshow/81009477.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Bhopal||Inflation & fuel price rise hit Bhopalis hard||BHOPAL: Price rise of essential goods is threatening to jeopardise the budget in most households. After the festival season and new year festivities, there is widespread fear that rising prices of diesel may further push up costs. Rajesh, who runs a barber’s shop in Manisha Market, summed up the mood of common people facing soaring prices, “Lockdown was better than what we are facing now. Markets were closed and we had gone back to our village. But, now as life is returning to normal, everything has become so costly that it's difficult to run the family with our limited resources.” From petrol, diesel, LPG cylinders, grocery items, vegetables and fruits, the price of all essential commodities is soaring and the common man doesn't know which of these things he can do without so as to keep the household budget under control. “Edible oil, which we use (soyabean, groundnut and mustard) is selling for Rs 120 to Rs 160 per litre. Sugar prices are up by Rs 8 to Rs 10 per kg, It's selling for Rs 38 to Rs 40 per kg. Rice, which we used to buy for daily use, is selling for Rs 50 to Rs 60 per kg and a 5 kg pack of wheat flour is selling somewhere from Rs 200 and Rs 250, depending on the brand you prefer. Even loose wheat flour (aata) is selling for Rs 28 per kg. Proper toor dal is selling for Rs 120 per kg. It's been a long-long time that we have not gone to a PDS shop, but if prices continue to rise like this, we will have no choice, but start using the ration card again,” said Santosh Singh, an accountant with a private firm. General secretary, Bhopal Kirana Mahasangh, Anupam Agrawal, however, said that grocery prices had started stabilising of late as it is off-season. There are no major festivals around till Holi and the marriage season is also over, but there is a fear that prices may start increasing again once transporters decide to raise the freight charges due to soaring prices of diesel. “Edible oil prices kept rising for at least two months after the lockdown, but they are stable now. However, once rising prices of diesel impacts the market, grocery prices may again go up, but it will take some time,” Agrawal said. When asked whether transporters are considering increasing the freight rates, Dinesh Nema of Bagai Transport Company, said, “Yes, we shall not give extra money from our pocket. Freight rates will definitely increase if the prices of diesel keep rising.” When asked what could be the quantum of increase in freight rates, he plainly said, “20 per cent”. Women, who are traditionally the in-charge of the kitchen in Indian households, would tell you that in winter, they have never seen such costly vegetables and fruits as they are priced now. “Except for green leafy vegetables like palak, every green vegetable is being sold at prices which I had not seen in winters all my life. Bhindi Rs 60 per kg, gilki Rs 60 to Rs 80 per kg, gobhi Rs 30 per kg. Even green peas, which is usually cheap during this part of the season, are selling for Rs 30 per kg. Onion prices have shot up to Rs 50 per kg, tomato, which we bought for Rs 10 per kg in last winter, never came below Rs 25 per kg this season,” said Sonali Jain, a homemaker. President of Bittan Market Vegetable Vendors' Association, Hariom Khatik, however, said that only those green vegetables are costly which have just started coming to market. “Bhindi's season ended a month ago. The new crop is coming to market now, so it may be costly, but not gobhi or baigan. Onion prices have shot up because of extensive damage to its crop at Nashik, which supplies bulk of the onion to Bhopal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/inflation-fuel-price-rise-hit-bhopalis-hard/articleshow/81005736.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
February 17, 2021||Coimbatore||Leaving dead body in lake, cops fight over jurisdiction||Coimbatore: In a complete disrespect to a dead person, the Selvapuram and Vadavalli police on Tuesday entered into a jurisdictional dispute while leaving the body in Nagarajapuram tank, where it was found around 7am on the day, till 6.30pm. According to a police source, the body, with its head covered in a polythene bag, was first spotted by Nagarajapuram villagers, who went to attend nature’s call near the waterbody in the morning. “Half of the body (till hip) was on the lake bund, while the remaining part was in the water. Two liquor bottles were also found near the body.” The villagers immediately alerted both the Selvapuram (law & order) police in the city limits and the Vadavalli police in the rural limits. While teams from both the police stations reached the spot by 7.30am, they refused to retrieve the body, stating the same wasn’t in their jurisdiction. Both the teams said it could be a case of murder. “The Selvapuram police said the dead body wasn’t in their jurisdiction and so did the Vadavalli police. They subsequently approached revenue department officials to sort out the jurisdictional dispute. Around 5pm, Telungupalayam village administrative officer certified that the waterbody was coming under his village. Following this, the Vadavalli police asked the Selvapuram police to take up the investigation,” the source said. The Selvapuram police, however, stuck to their stand that the Nagarajapuram tank wasn’t under their jurisdiction and refused to retrieve the body. “They checked the city police map, which has marked jurisdictions of each police station, and said the Nagarajapuram tank area wasn’t under their police limits,” the source said. As there was no end to the dispute, district superintendent of police Ara Arularasu instructed deputy superintendent of police, Perur sub-division, R Srinivasalu, to take up the case for investigation. The Vadavalli police, which is coming under Perur sub-division, then agreed to retrieve the body from the tank. Around 6pm, assistant city police commissioner (south-subdivision) Cedric Manuel, Selvapuram police officials, DSP Srinivasalu and Vadavalli police officials were seen at the waterbody, discussing again as to who should retrieve the dead body. Finally, the Vadavalli police retrieved the body around 6.30pm and sent that to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leaving-dead-body-in-lake-cops-fight-over-jurisdiction/articleshow/81009602.cms||A Subburaj
February 17, 2021||Dehradun||Non-action against illegal mining: 5 cops including outpost in-charge sent to police lines||Rudrapur: Udham Singh Nagar's senior superintendent of police (SSP), Daleep Singh Kunwar, attached five cops, including the in-charge posted at Sultanpur Patti police outpost to police lines on Tuesday. The action was taken after it was found that illegal mining of river sand was rampant in the area and the cops did not take the necessary actions to curb it. “We were receiving complaints from Sultanpur Patti area of Bazpur regarding police inaction against illegal mining. The circle officer conducted a probe and it was found that the illegal mining went unnoticed by the police personnel. I have taken action against police personnel of these outposts. They have been attached with the police lines in Rudrapur,” said SSP Kunwar. The order says that the Sultanpur Patti outpost in-charge Vipin Joshi and constables — Amit Joshi, Subodh Sharma, Darshan Singh and Bablu Goswami — posted here are sent to police lines as it was found that they forewent legal action against the miners. Meanwhile, sub-inspector Kamaal Hasan was appointed the new incharge of Sultanpur Patti police outpost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/non-action-against-illegal-mining-5-cops-including-outpost-in-charge-sent-to-police-lines/articleshow/81005704.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 17, 2021||Coimbatore||Paralympic athletics, swimming championships conclude in city||Coimbatore: The 16th state-level senior paralympic athletics championship and the sixth junior and senior paralympic swimming championship concluded in the city on Tuesday. While Madurai district bagged the overall championship in the senior paralympic athletics meet that was held at the Nehru Stadium in the city, Kallakurichi district won the overall championship in the paralympic swimming contest that was held at the corporation swimming pool at Gandhi Park. The events were conducted by the Tamil Nadu Paralympic Sports Association and Alayam Trust. On February 14, the paralympic sports association authorities had classified the participants according to their disabilities and the events were started for them on Monday. For athletes, 100-metre, 200-metre and 400-metre race, discus throw, javelin throw, and shotput contests were conducted at the Nehru Stadium. The winners and the first and second runners-up were given gold, silver and bronze medals and certificates. S N Udhayakumar, vice-president, Tamil Nadu Paralympic Sports Association, and organizing secretary of the state-level event, said the qualified athletes would participate in the national level paralympic championship that would be held in Chennai soon. Chennai and Coimbatore districts were placed second and third, respectively, in the athletic events. In the paralympic swimming championship too participants were classified based on their disabilities and the contest had begun on Monday. The event saw participation of around 200 contestants from across the state. There were freestyle, backstroke, butterfly, breaststroke and individual medley events in 50-metre, 100-metre and 200-metre categories. While Kallakurichi district won the overall championship, Pudukkottai and Theni districts bagged the second and third positions, respectively. The participants were provided accommodation at a private college at Nava India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/paralympic-athletics-swimming-championships-conclude-in-city/articleshow/81009565.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Noida||Fugitive hides in rack as cops hunt for him||Noida: A man arrested for allegedly murdering a four-year-old boy last month gave cops the slip at the District Hospital on Tuesday, crawled through the AC duct and remained holed up inside a 3ft by 2ft rack for six hours as 30 policemen from three police stations searched for him in the whole compound. The accused, Vijay, had been arrested on Monday night after a gunfight with the police and brought to the hospital for treating a bullet wound in his right leg. Around 10am on Tuesday, he asked the three cops guarding his ward for permission to go to the bathroom. “When he did not come out for long, the policemen got suspicious and forced open the door, only to find the accused missing,” said a hospital official. As news spread that a murder accused had escaped, senior officers and cops from three police stations started a search for Vijay. They scanned CCTV footage, which showed Vijay entering the washroom and then the false ceiling. However, there was no footage that showed Vijay leaving the hospital compound. “The police suspected he may have escaped from behind the hospital building and sneaked into the quarters. But there was no footage to support that. The accused was certainly hiding inside the hospital premises,” an officer said. When the police tracked his escape route later, they learnt that Vijay had broken the bathroom window, entered the false ceiling of that particular floor and crawled into the AC duct. “Through the AC duct, he reached room number 111 in the orthopaedic OPD,” the official said. He hid himself inside a tiny rack used to store soaps and handwashes for doctors below the wash basin and waited for his chance to escape. The police searched this room at least 10 times, but failed to trace Vijay. What gave him away was the sound of heavy breathing. “We checked the rack around 4pm and found him hiding inside it. No one could imagine a fully grown man would be hiding there,” additional DCP (crime) Elamaran G told TOI. Vijay is accused of killing a four-year-old boy from his neighbourhood in Surajpur. The kid’s body was found in a swamp after 21 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/fugitive-hides-in-rack-as-cops-hunt-for-him/articleshow/81015572.cms||Shikha Salaria
February 17, 2021||Coimbatore||Rain, TNAU initiative replenish groundwater table in 3 locations||Coimbatore: Groundwater level in at least three locations in the western part of the city, where the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) is situated, has increased since last June. The Water Technology Centre at the TNAU said the groundwater level at RS Puram, Lawley Road and Poosaripalayam has increased anywhere between 2m and 5.2m, following the successful southwest monsoon and extended northeast monsoon showers. The centre also took credit, stating that the rainwater harvesting technologies on its campus had also played a role in boosting the groundwater levels. The centre had set up 40 borewells on its campus to monitor groundwater level and quality. They had taken readings in May-end 2020, before the monsoon began, and again in January this year. S Paneerselvam, its director, says, “Groundwater level has increased by 2m to 4m in 51% of our borewell locations, above 4m to 5.2m in 27% areas and up to 2m in the remaining 22% locations.” The TNAU campus in the city extends to Paal Company and Sundapalayam Road from Marudhamalai Road on both sides. It also has a campus at Poosaripalayam, where the paddy breeding station is housed. The district had received a total of 638mm rainfall, including a solid 141mm in January alone. “While the northeast monsoon seemed to be deficit, the heavy rain in January changed things for better,” Paneerselvam said. According to him, rainfall is usually the biggest contributor to the groundwater level. “A lot then depends on how much of it we draw for residential, farming and industrial purposes. Topography of the area and people’s efforts to conserve water are also crucial factors.” The TNAU has set up a number of groundwater recharge shafts, rooftop rainwater harvesting structures in some buildings, rainwater harvesting pits and borewells on its premises. “This has also definitely helped the groundwater level to increase,” Paneerselvam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-tnau-initiative-replenish-groundwater-table-in-3-locations/articleshow/81009628.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Man murders wife||Nagpur: Lalit Markade, 25, a labourer, bludgeoned his wife Jyoti to death at their rented room at Ma Umiya industrial area. Cops were alerted after Jyoti’s body was spotted on Tuesday. Police said Lalit doubted his wife’s character and accused her of having an affair with another man. Lalit and Jyoti had a fight during which the accused pinned her and thrashed her with a wooden plank leading to her death. A case of murder was registered at Pardi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-murders-wife/articleshow/81005788.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Cashier of coop bank booked for Rs2cr scam||Chandrapur: Ramnagar police have booked the cashier of Chandrapur district central cooperative bank (CDCCB) for embezzling funds of customers to the tune of Rs2 crore. Accused Nikhil Ghate has been suspended. The economic offences wing of the police department has taken over the investigation. The fraud came to light after credit cooperative societies, who have their accounts in CDCCB’s branch near Zilla Parishad, started complaining that sums deposited were not credited to their accounts since several months. “The embezzlement was confirmed after an internal investigation. A complaint was lodged at the Ramnagar police station against accused cashier Nikhil Ghate. We have started a separate cell to collect complaints from customers whose deposits were embezzled,” said bank president Santosh Rawat. So far, the bank has received 40 complaints. The embezzled funds, amounting to Rs2.08 crore, may increase as complaints are pouring in. “We have informed all the 1,471 customers, including credit cooperative societies and farmers, to file complaints if money deposited has not been credited to their accounts,” said Rawat. The bank, unaware of the misappropriation that was going on since October 2020, assured customers that the entire amount would be reimbursed. “A diary and some controversial documents found in the suspended cashier’s chamber will be handed over to the cops,” said Rawat. The bank has not ruled out the possibility of other employees’ involvement in the scam. Action will be taken against those found guilty, added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cashier-of-coop-bank-booked-for-rs2cr-scam/articleshow/81005744.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 17, 2021||Bhopal||Class 3 staff want 10x hike in conveyance allowance||Bhopal: With petrol prices touching the roof and only Rs 200 as conveyance allowance, about a million employees are up in arms against the state government. They have urged the government to increase the conveyance allowance to Rs 2,000 a month.Stating that employees have been getting Rs 200 as conveyance allowance since 2012, Umashankar Tiwari, state secretary of the MP class 3 employees’ association, said on Tuesday, “The allowance has not been increased for the past nine years, but fuel prices have been constantly rising up.” He said that petrol prices have crossed Rs 96 a litre, which means that the employees could fetch just 2 litres of petrol from the government allowance.Drawing parallels between the discrepancies in the conveyance paid to the ministers and bureaucrats and those to the employees, Tiwari said, “this is discrimination”.Officials get a salary cut of just Rs 250 and a chauffeur-driven vehicle. The ministers get a luxury vehicle with a driver and 250-260 litres of fuel for a month, he said.Tiwari further said, “Fuel prices are touching the roof and it has a cascading effect on the economy, leading to inflation. We are the worst affected lot.”The central government has already started paying Rs 1,800 as conveyance allowance to its employees. On Tuesday, petrol retailed at a rate of Rs 97.07 and is inching towards the Rs 100-mark. The premium quality, Power petrol, has already touched Rs 100 a litre in Bhopal.The state government levies a huge amount of tax — both on petrol and diesel — making Madhya Pradesh one of the states where the fuel cost is very high.The state collects about Rs 27.75 on every litre of petrol sold in Madhya Pradesh and this includes a cess of Rs 4.50. For diesel, the state collects about Rs 18.75 on every litre, including Rs 3 cess.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/class-3-staff-want-10x-hike-in-conveyance-allowance/articleshow/81005772.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Noida||Schools open for class 6-8, but less than 10% turn up||NOIDA: Private schools in the city have opened their gates for classes 6 to 8, but parents of the students are still wary of sending them. As a result, the first round of bi-weekly classes has witnessed a maximum attendance of about 10% in most schools. Shivani Jain, president of All School Parents’ Association (ASPA), said: “Our survey of the schools that have opened over the last few days shows that the schools have managed to get only 5-10% of the students back to the classrooms.” Besides a consent form that parents have to sign before sending their kids, they have been asked for an undertaking. “We are not admitting children without a consent form. Also, we are taking an undertaking that the school can’t be held responsible for any illness or infection contracted by the child,” an official of Noida school said. Kamini Bhasin, principal of DPS Noida, said: “The authorities and teachers are putting in a lot of effort to ensure that all Covid protocols are followed. It is a matter of concern for all and requires a lot of alertness and constant vigil. The children are very happy to be back in school.” “Most parents do not feel confident about sending their children to school because teachers, guards and employees have not received the vaccine yet,” said Jain. Meanwhile, a schools’ body has urged the state government to conduct final examinations for these students in offline mode. Unaided Private Schools Association (UPSA) claimed that the schools across the state have been witnessing around 60% attendance since January 19. Anil Agarwal, who heads this association, told TOI that they have also urged the state government to allow schools to conduct offline exams for students in classes 6 to 8. “Most schools are going to conduct final examinations in March. We have written to the deputy CM to approve the physical examination so we can examine children correctly before promoting them to the next classes,” Agarwal said. The state government had ordered schools to resume offline classes for students of classes 9 to 12 back in October 2020. They made a similar order for classes 6,7, 8 to start bi-weekly physical classes from February 10 this year. Also, Students in classes 1 to 5 are supposed to go back to school starting March 1. According to the government’s order, students in classes 1, 5 and 6 have to go to schools on Mondays and Thursdays, while students in classes 2, 4 and 7 have to be in classrooms on Tuesdays and Fridays. Students in classes 3 and 8 are allowed in schools on Wednesdays and Saturdays. The government has said classes can be conducted only at 50 per cent capacity, with each half alternating on the allotted days. Meanwhile, parents continue to sound wary of the arrangements and the back-to-school policies. “No school can force any rule on parents at this time because according to the government SOP, children will be allowed to continue with online classes if they wish. Also, if schools open, they have to provide safety to children,” Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/schools-open-for-class-6-8-but-less-than-10-turn-up/articleshow/81015574.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||Wife chewing ‘kharra’ can’t be reason to divorce her: Bombay HC's Nagpur bench||NAGPUR: Coming to a woman’s rescue, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court ruled that her habit of chewing tobacco or kharra, though bad, isn’t sufficient to grant divorce to her husband. Upholding the Nagpur family court’s judgment of January 21, 2015, a division bench comprising justices Atul Chandurkar and Pushpa Ganediwala pointed out that husband’s allegations are general and omnibus in nature. “It’s the specific allegation that since wife was having a habit of chewing tobacco, he was required to spend a lot of money for her medical treatment. However, he failed to bring on record the medical papers and bills in support of this pleading.” Quoting the family court, the bench held that husband’s pleadings aren’t so grave and weighty to dissolve the marriage. “If the marriage is dissolved, their son and daughter would suffer a big loss and their welfare will be affected. In the best interest of both children, the marital tie shall remain intact. No case is made out by the husband to disturb the trial court’s well-reasoned findings.” After their marriage on June 15, 2003, the differences between the couple had grown, and the husband filed a divorce case in family court on the grounds of cruelty. He majorly pleaded that the wife’s habit of chewing tobacco or kharra was grounds for divorce. According to him, she was addicted to chewing tobacco and therefore developed a cyst in her stomach. He had to incur huge medical expenses for her treatment. He also claimed that she wasn’t doing any household work, used to frequently quarrel with him and in-laws, and visit her parental home for days without informing him. The judges, however, made it clear that these allegations aren’t sufficient to form an opinion that he is undergoing acute mental pain, agony, suffering, disappointment and frustration and hence, it’s not possible for him to live in wife’s company. “These charges are nothing but normal wear and tear in married life. The couple lived together for around nine years and the husband couldn’t produce specific instances of mental harassment to enable this court to adjudicate the case of mental cruelty in his favour. On the contrary, he admitted that in 2008 he was detected HIV positive and wife stayed with him till 2010. The instances of physical and mental harassment, as proved by her, are on better footing than him.” Quoting HC’s old judgments, the judges said married life should be assessed as a whole and a few isolated instances over certain periods will not amount to cruelty. “The ill-conduct must be preceded for a fairly lengthy period where the relationship has deteriorated to an extent that because of the acts and behaviour of a spouse, one party finds it extremely difficult to live with another. Mere trivial irritations, quarrels, normal wear and tear of married life, which happens in day to day life in all families, wouldn’t be adequate for divorce,” the judges added, before dismissing the man’s plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wife-chewing-kharra-cant-be-reason-to-divorce-her-hc/articleshow/81005864.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 17, 2021||Coimbatore||On day 1, Covaxin finds more takers in CMCH||Coimbatore: Covaxin had 59 takers on the first day of its administration at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday. Most of the beneficiaries were private sector health workers, who had done their research and were waiting for the vaccine. While 61 people had turn up at the CMCH for vaccination, only two had opted for Covishield. The first beneficiaries of Covaxin were Dr A Mangaiyarkarasi, head of the blood bank at the CMCH, and five of her team members. “I have been waiting for the arrival of Covaxin to get vaccinated. It uses the time-tested technology of injecting the whole virion in an inactivated manner into our body, like the polio vaccine,” Mangaiyarkarasi said. N Vani, another doctor at the blood bank who took the shot, said she too had been waiting for Covaxin to get vaccinated. “Since the inactive virus is injected into our body, it is not likely to replicate, cause many side effects or allergies. It is also more likely to be effective against mutations and variants of the virus. I have heard that Covishield interferes with protein spikes,” she said. The CMCH has received 500 doses of Covaxin and is the only centre that administers the vaccine. The district has received 13,700 doses of Covaxin. The number of people getting vaccinated in the district, meanwhile, seems to be steadily dropping. On Tuesday, only 429 people were inoculated at the 12 government centres and nine private hospitals in the district. In many primary health centres, only a single shot was administered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/on-day-1-covaxin-finds-more-takers-in-cmch/articleshow/81009666.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Mumbai||WR to begin launching girders for Delisle ROB next month||Mumbai: Western Railway will start launching girders above the railway tracks for the Delisle Road Over Bridge (ROB) reconstruction at Lower Parel station in March and hopes to complete the work by April 2021. BMC, though, will be able to open the bridge for traffic only by May 2022. The ROB has been shut for traffic since July 2018 when it was declared unsafe by IIT-Bombay experts. WR’s chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said, “Work on the railway portion of the ROB is targeted to be completed by April 2021. The assembling work for the first girder along with temporary works for launching the others is in progress at the site. We will have to go in for blocks (for railway services) so that work can be carried out without any risk to train operations.” WR took up dismantling of the bridge portion over the railway tracks in June 2019. The design for the bridge was approved by the Research, Standards and Design Organisation (RDSO) in March 2020. Thakur said, “The contract for rebuilding the railway portion of the ROB was awarded at Rs 87 crore in February 2019 and work on the ground commenced in November 2019. Considering the priority and importance of the work, its execution continued despite Covid-19.” BMC had awarded a tender for dismantling and rebuilding of approaches to the bridge on January 27, 2020. “The work is slow and we will issue a showcause notice to the contractor soon. The approaches will be constructed by BMC and it is a difficult task since we have to go by time sequencing. We can’t carry out work on both the approaches at the same time due to traffic issues,” said P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects). Velrasu said though the bridge work is slow, it will pick up pace soon. Officials from BMC’s bridges department said two approaches will be ready by May 2021 and the third only by May 2022. The entire bridge will be thrown open for traffic thereafter. The approach on the eastern side is not yet demolished as it is required for the assembly and launching of steel girders, each weighing 1,100 metric tonne (88 metre in length, 16m width and 12m height). Such heavy girders cannot be lifted and launched with cranes and need to be pushed from the eastern approach of the ROB, Thakur added. This eastern approach will be made available to BMC after launching of the girders by March 2021 and till that time MCGM can complete dismantling and rebuilding of two approaches on the western side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wr-to-begin-launching-girders-for-delisle-rob-next-month/articleshow/81009731.cms||Manthan K Mehta
February 17, 2021||Delhi||Parents not happy as school sends notice over physical classes||NEW DELHI: Parents are unhappy with Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) decision to ask schools to conduct offline examinations for classes IX and XI. They allege that a private school in the city has sent a notice asking students of these two classes to join school for tests without consulting them. Springdales School, Dhaula Kuan has sent an academic schedule and asked the Class IX students to join school from February 18 to prepare them for the offline final-term examinations. From February 22 to 26, they have to attend offline classes as per CBSE’s guidelines. The examinations will begin on March 16. “It is a unilateral decision. We are worried. There was neither any consultation with parents nor any parent-teacher meeting. We just got this circular,” said a parent. Another parent said that for Class XI, about 100 of them had mailed their disagreement over sending their wards. Principal Ritu Madan said the school was just following the CBSE guidelines. On February 11, the board had sent circulars to the schools asking them to conduct exams as per the affiliation bylaws so that the learning gaps in students could be identified. “We have called them to school for face-to-face interaction and practical classes,” said Madan. On consulting parents, she reiterated, “We are following the CBSE guidelines.” Following the guidelines, the school has said students should be equipped with shield/mask, hand sanitisers and gloves every day. They should also carry fruits or sandwich rolls in a transparent packet as monitored breaks will be provided to them. A parent said the school won’t provide transport. “Then how do we manage? Both my wife and I work, how do they expect us to drop and pick up the children?” Another parent said, “It is difficult to understand the logic or urgency to open schools. It is like almost arm-twisting parents into sending their children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/parents-not-happy-as-school-sends-notice-over-physical-classes/articleshow/81009674.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Postal department fails to read address marked ‘To’, told to pay up||AHMEDABAD: A consumer court has ordered the Department of Post to pay compensation of Rs 15,000 to a contractor for failing to deliver his package to the address that was clearly marked as ‘To’. The department, which boasts of a long legacy of postal services in India and traces its origin back to the Alauddin Khilji’s reign in 1296, was rebuked that it should have delivered the package to the address mentioned under ‘To’ and ignored other writings on the cover. As per case details, contractor Manabhai Patel from Bapla village in Banaskantha applied for a tender floated by the district’s water and sanitary unit in 2018. The cover that he sent through R.P.A.D on September 24, 2018 mandatorily mentioned the tender subject - 'Tender for lowering laying and jointing PVC pipeline, pumping machinery at village Takarwada, Ta Palanpur, Dist Banaskantha under augmentation of tap connectivity in general and tribal Area’. Below the subject, he wrote the address - ‘To The Unit Manager, Water and Sanitary…Palanpur’. At the bottom, Patel mentioned his own address from where the package was posted. Instead of sending the package to the government office, it was sent to Takarwada post office, from where it was returned to Patel marked ‘undelivered’. The deadline for the tender was September 27, 2018 and the package returned to Patel on October 1, 2018. Patel sued the post master of Palanpur’s head post-office with the Banaskantha District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission and demanded return for his loss of Rs 5-lakh tender and demanded compensation of Rs 50,000 for deficiency in service. The department defended itself, stating that Patel had mentioned two addresses on the cover. Since the address where the package was to be delivered was not written clearly, it was sent to the address mentioned in the tender subject. The consumer commission said that there was clear mention about the tender and the postal address began with ‘To The Unit Manager’. The cover should have been sent to the address that began with ‘To’ and there was no need to read all the writings on the cover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/postal-dept-fails-to-read-address-marked-to-told-to-pay-up/articleshow/81009725.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Coimbatore||RSS chief, 2 Union ministers to attend events in city today||Coimbatore: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat would visit the district on Wednesday to release a book written by former Meghalaya governor V Shanmuganathan. He is likely to hold a meeting with the RSS functionaries. According to the organizers of the event, Bhagwat would land at the city airport around noon and participate in the release of the book titled ‘Intha Mannil Vilaintha Magatthana Sinthanai’ at Ayyappa Pooja Sangam at Ram Nagar at 6pm. Police said Bhagwat was slated to stay in Coimbatore till February 19 and is likely to hold meetings with the RSS functionaries. Meanwhile, Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy and Union minister of state for road transport and highways V K Singh are also scheduled to participate in a bhoomi puja ceremony on Codissia grounds on Wednesday to prepare the venue for Prime minister Narendra Modi’s visit later this month. The two will hold meetings with the BJP functionaries as well as ‘intellectuals’. V K Singh would also hold an informal meet with ex–servicemen before they leave for Chennai in the evening. The visits of high profile RSS and BJP members have assumed significance in the wake of the campaign for assembly elections picking up. While RSS chief’s visit was intended at discussing short term as well as long term strategies for the saffron outfit’s growth, the Union ministers would discuss the poll prospects with the functionaries here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rss-chief-2-union-ministers-to-attend-events-in-city-today/articleshow/81009676.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Coimbatore||Two held for trying to sell elephant teeth||Coimbatore: The forest department officials from Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) on Tuesday arrested two men while furtively trying to sell a pair of a wild elephant’s canine teeth at a private textile shop in Vettaikaranpudur. T Manian, 42, of Sethumadai, found the skeletal remains and skull of a female elephant inside the reserve forest at Bothamadai beat coming under Boyankadu area in Pollachi forest range three days ago. He took two canine teeth from the skull. Meanwhile, Mohanraj Mariappan of Odaiyakulam village near Pollachi showed interest in buying the canine teeth from Manian for its ‘medicinal values’. While Manian was about to hand over the teeth to Mohanraj at a textile shop at Vettaikaranpudur, forest officials caught them red-handed. Meanwhile, deputy field director of ATR S Arockiaraj Xavier issued a statement on Tuesday stating that disciplinary action has been initiated against the frontline staff who had failed to record the death of the female elephant. “People who are residing inside the reserve forest should protect the wildlife and forest. They should not allow any intruders inside the reserve forest and they should not sell any valuable things from the reserve forest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-held-for-trying-to-sell-elephant-teeth/articleshow/81009721.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Nagpur||CP orders ‘surgical strikes’ on goons||Nagpur: City police chief Amitesh Kumar during the monthly crime conference earlier this week asked the senior officers to conduct ‘surgical strikes’ on criminals in the city. Faced with a sudden spurt in murder rate, the police have already launched this year’s first ‘Operation Crackdown’ under which which police stations have checked 4,876 criminals while crime branch has swooped upon 506 goons. Preventive actions were initiated against 1,521 anti-social elements in the last few days. In the latest action, dreaded gangster Diwakar Kottulwar, named in past murder cases, has been nabbed. Various categorization of the criminals have been made like ‘Top-10’, ‘Top-20’ and so on for focused action. Kumar has also made it a point that murders of goons by their rivals, as happened in Shanti Nagar last week, should not be repeated. Police station in-charges have been instructed to lead action against known criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-orders-surgical-strikes-on-goons/articleshow/81005940.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Hyderabad||MAKING THEIR EVERY STEP COUNT||TOI’s call for ‘green’ initiatives received an overwhelming response from readers who shared how they have made small lifestyle changes – like switching to cloth bags, recycling water, using plants as gifts – to contribute towards conserving the environment. Here are some of their stories... Bid good-bye to plastic The irreversible damage plastic does to our environment is huge enough to make us really worried about its usage. It takes thousands of years for plastic to break down and hence it causes humongous damage to earth and its environment. From our homes, offices and shops, plastic makes its way to landfills, forests and seas severely damaging the ecosystem and adversely impacting humans, animals and plants. We have to understand our responsibility towards protecting our environment and going 'green' is the only way to do that. A small change my family and I have made is to stop the use of plastic in our lives. For two years now we have been using cloth bags for shopping, re-using vegetable cloth bags as dustbin bags and using bamboo toothbrushes. Even the cutlery we use while going out is eco-friendly, along with steel water bottles and tumblers. We also use earthen pots to cool the drinking water, which is healthier. These small steps can go a long way in saving the environment and arrest global warming. —Jitesh Mathur ...................... Nurture what we have As a young grad, I have learnt to respect and look after our environment from my parents. My father, who tirelessly nurtures the trees around our home planted 20 years ago and my mother who stands like a rock against anybody trying to destroy this green cover. I feel motivated and encouraged by their dedication. This unfortunate pandemic has taught us not to take life for granted, be grateful, be caring towards each other and most important of all, direct all our attention and energy towards saving this precious planet. It is the only one we have.—Serena Ahluwalia ............ use plants as gifts Global warming, melting glaciers, depleting ozone layers – these are nightmarish phrases which probably haunt many like me. Being an educationist, it becomes all the more horrifying every time we teach the impressionable minds about preserving nature, planting more trees etc. What has been my contribution, I ask myself? Is surrounding myself with greenery enough? Or do we need to get involved to protect our environment and adopt methods for sustainable living? During the lockdown, I read how the air, the rivers had become cleaner because people were off the roads. What I realised is that the need of the hour was replenishing the depleted green cover – more plants everywhere. Thus, the idea of Krafted Greens was born. Supported by friends and family, we started advocating the idea of giving plants as gifts. People appreciated and supported our venture and we kept getting orders for plants to be given as gifts. It is a small step and still a long way to go but great heights can be achieved by making small beginnings.—Yasmin Hussain ........ Say no to littering Living at home, through the pandemic, taught me the real reason for climate change -- our disruptive attitude while outdoors. During the first few months of the lockdown, while we were trying helplessly to cure our boredom at home, we saw mother nature heal. So, the next time you find yourself with potential waste, ask yourself 'would I have used this at home?'. It puts things in perspective, tells you what your absolute essentials are. After all, we don't use five paper napkins eating at home. A big part about this is learning to plan ahead and to say no, to others and yourself. Be it saying no to a plastic straw or feeling guiltly about throwing trash on the road. —Tanishka Wagh ...... Grow more trees There is an intermediate college right across my apartment. Since it is an exam centre, every year during summer several parents and students come there to write their tests. While the students write their exam, some parents wait in the scorching heat. Few years ago, my father planted some saplings near my apartment and now, every year people stand in the shade of those growing trees. With each passing year, more and more people wait under those trees. This knowledge inspires and encourages me to plant trees wherever and whenever possible. I started collecting the seeds from fruits like mango, custard, soap nuts, jamun, etc. When I go on road trips, I disperse them in places where they can grow naturally with the help of rain water and sunlight with the hope that at least one out of those 100 seeds grow into a tree and spread its branches. —Vaishnavi Jella .... Choose fresh air over AC Staying at NIRDPR has helped me understand the value of being minimalist and simple. When you stay in a natural environment, you begin to realise its importance. The Governor, during a visit to the campus, highlighted that the first thing she experienced was the fresh air. I too have adapted my lifestyle with the campus and have resisted the urge to install an air-conditioner. Instead, I have made the best use of cross ventilation at the quarters. I have also brought zero furniture, in a way contributing to low consumption of wood and plastic. No TV and other electronic accessories. Also started long walks in the campus, whenever I feel bored or stressed and believe me it is the greatest thing in my life these days.—Dr Ravi Kumar ............. Reduce, Reuse, Recycle We ourselves are responsible for all the changes that are happening in the environment around us and express concern about the rising threat of global warming. Changes in our attitude and Lifestyle are essential to save the environment. The three R's -- Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, should be our motto to preserve the future and also for sustainable development. In order to contribute and to the protection of our environment, I have adopted a green initiative by switching to CFL bulbs and LED tube lights to save energy. Air sprays and air fresheners have been replaced by fresh flowers. Instead of plastic bags, I use jute bags and cloth bags. At ATM's I always request for paperless transactions. The use of plastic in our house has been reduced by replacing them with glass and steel. I have also started segregating domestic waste into dry and wet waste so that the dry waste can be easily recycled. —Parimala G Tadas ......... Recycle water to cut wastage Apart from cutting down on the use of plastic at home, I have made many small lifestyle changes to contribute to protecting the environment. For instance, I use less detergent to wash clothes so that too much water isn’t wasted in the process. After the clothes are washed, instead of draining out the water from the washing machine into the drain, I try to divert that towards cleaning bathrooms and sinks because it's just liquid detergent water. During summer, while people use air conditioners and coolers, I try to use a green cloth instead that is used for a greenhouse for plants. We tie green clothes around the home so that we can cool the home naturally. I also ensure waste in the house is segregated – into dry and wet – a cloth bag is used for shopping and energy-saving lights are used instead of regular tube lights, especially while working in the night. —R Manoj .......||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/making-their-every-step-count/articleshow/81009739.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Assault plaint after parking row outside Tapan Theatre||Kolkata: A businessman and his elderly father — who live on Sadananda Road near Rashbehari crossing — have alleged that they were assaulted, threatened and abused by a guest who had come to watch a performance at Tapan Theatre on Sunday evening. Cops said the assault was the result of an altercation that took place after the accused accidentally hit the victim’s car with his vehicle. The businessman, Bikram Banerjee (33) and his father R Banerjee (aged above 65), lodged the complaint with the Kalighat police. “It is a case of road rage,” said a senior officer. “We had parked our car in front of our residence. The accused tried parking his car here before a show and bumped into ours. When I protested, the accused claimed that he was well connected among theatre personalities and is a regular theatre visitor. He even managed to get a few other young men to rally around him claiming they were all connected with the theatre. The accused returned at night and threatened us all over again. He did not spare even my aged father,” said Bikram. The accused fled the spot after the assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/assault-plaint-after-parking-row-outside-tapan-theatre/articleshow/81006022.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 17, 2021||Delhi||31k apply for DDA housing scheme||New Delhi: Over 31,000 applications for the new housing scheme of DDA, were received by the urban body till late evening on Tuesday, which is the last date to apply for it, according to officials. The scheme was launched on January 2 with 1,354 flats on offer. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/31k-apply-for-dda-housing-scheme/articleshow/81009882.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Salem||Flights to Tirupathi from Salem are on anvil: DMK MP||Salem: The airport advisory committee has been taking steps to operate flights to Tirupathi, Shirdi, Bengaluru and Goa from Salem airport.Chairman of the committee and Salem DMK MP SR Parthiban held a meeting with the director of the Salem airport Ravindra Sharma, Tru Jet Airways manager Prasanna Kumar, Salem airport chief security officer Balamurugan, members Kalpana, Saravanan, Jayaraj and Singal in the city on Tuesday.Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Parthiban said that they have discussed ways to expand the airport without affecting farmers. The state government is in the process of procuring land from neighbouring areas. “We're trying to procure poramboke land and not fertile land,” he said.The MP said they have discussed operating flights during the night as well. Similarly, flight operators like SpiceJet and Indigo are showing interest to operate flights from Salem airport to Chennai, Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shirdi and Goa, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/flights-to-tirupathi-from-salem-are-on-anvil-dmk-mp/articleshow/81009787.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Ranchi||JMM should join NDA for Jharkhand’s progress: Min||Ranchi: Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale on Tuesday asked Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), the lead alliance partner in the coalition government in the state, to join BJP=led NDA for development of the state. His statements triggered sharp reaction from JMM’s ally Congress. Speaking with reporters in Ranchi, Athawale, who was on a daylong visit to Jharkhand, said, “I appeal to Shibu Soren and Hemant Soren to join NDA. Then, there will be BJP and JMM government in the state. JMM can also get access to power in Delhi, which can be used for the state’s development. They must think about it.” Reacting to former AICC president Rahul Gandhi’s recent statement of ‘Hum do humare do’ in the Parliament to attack NDA government over its alleged pro-capitalist policies, Athawale said, “If Rahul Gandhi wants to promote this slogan, he must get married. He should marry a Dalit girl to end casteism to fulfill Mahatma Gandhi’s dreams and become an inspiration for the youth.” Notably, JMM was a partner in the NDA between 2009 and 2013, where chief minister Hemant Soren served as the deputy chief minister. The alliance broke in January 2013 leading to the fall of Arjun Munda government. Congress attacked Athawale’s as “irresponsible”. Talking to TOI, party’s co-working president Rajesh Thakur said, “His statements are a testimony to the Union government’s step-brotherly attitude with Jharkhand in violation of cooperative federalism. It also exposes BJP’s hunger for power. A minister shouldn’t resort to such loose talk. As far as his comment on Rahul Gandhi is concerned, the minister should first advice Modiji and his RSS friends to follow the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-should-join-nda-for-jharkhands-progress-min/articleshow/81005562.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 17, 2021||Ranchi||Surge in online payments on Day-I of mandatory FASTag||Ranchi: On the first day of the nationwide drive making user-fee collection through FASTags mandatory at the toll plazas, officials at the regional centre of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that no major technical glitches were experienced in the state and the transit points experienced a surge in electronic payment. To boost 100% migration towards FASTag, NHAI officials also announced the distribution of free FASTags across all the toll gates here for the next 14 days. Confirming the development, NHAI’s regional officer S K Mishra told TOI, “For the next 14 days, the NHAI has decided to give FASTag free of cost to vehicle owners. Earlier, we were charging Rs 100 to issue a FASTag card. The vehicle owners can go to the counters set up at the toll plazas to avail the benefit of the offer. We hope this move will encourage more users to migrate to FASTag.” Mishra said the initial response in the state was encouraging. He said, “Of the eight toll plazas in the state, four are major ones. They are at Pundag, Bahragora, Barhi and Bagodar. Preliminary reports suggest that the numbers of FASTag users at these toll plazas have increased. In the first 12 hours since 12am on Tuesday, the number of FASTag users at Pundag has gone up from 74.69% to 86%. In Bahragora, the jump was from 78% to 86%. Similarly, at Barhi and Bagodar, the user percentages increased to 90% and 83%, respectively.” The Pundag toll plaza on Ranchi-Hazaribag NH-33 witnesses heavy load of traffic with around 12,000 vehicles passing it every day on an average. At other places, the count is between 8,000 and 10,000. The NHAI also raked in a substantial revenue in terms of penalties on Day 1. As per the rule, those without FASTag must pay double of the regular toll amount while crossing the gates. In the first 12 hour after the new rule kicked in, the NHAI amassed Rs 1.16 lakh penalty at Pundag, Rs 62,000 in Bahragora, Rs 4,000 in Bagodar and Rs 1.63 lakh in Barhi. Several vehicle owners commended the new system. Rakesh Sinha, a businessmen travelling from Ranchi to Ramgarh, said that unlike other days, he didn’t face any problem while passing through the toll gates. “The lane was free and I barely had to halt as the money got deducted from my FASTag account,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/surge-in-online-payments-on-day-i-of-mandatory-fastag/articleshow/81003582.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 17, 2021||Ranchi||JSACS director removed over graft charge||Ranchi: Rajiv Ranjan, the incumbent project director of Jharkhand State Aids Control Society (JSACS), was on Monday evening transferred to the state department of planning-cum-finance following graft charges levelled against him by an NGO late last month. A notification, issued by the state department of personnel, administrative reforms and Rajbhasha, said Ranjan was appointed as an additional secretary in the finance department until further orders. Ranjan, a 2010 batch IAS officer, landed in hot water after Civil Society Forum, a non-profit organization, accused him of unfairly removing several NGOs from the targeted intervention programmes (TIs) run by JSACS. In a letter to the state health department on January 30, the outfit also accused Ranjan of selecting several NGOs that lacked experience over those associated with JSACs for a decade or more for kickbacks. The forum also complained against Ranjan to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s National Aids Control Organization (NACO). Following the outfit’s complaint, health minister Banna Gupta issued a stern statement, announcing that a probe will be initiated against the officer. Subsequently, the department on February 8 notified the formation of a two-member committee, to be led by joint health secretary P K Waghmare, to conduct the probe. On February 12, NACO’s senior official Dr Shobi Ranjan wrote to state health secretary K K Soan and urged a probe against Ranjan, as the charges levelled against him “were serious in nature”. Notably, Ranjan was removed from office before the probe committee was due to submit its report to the department. As per the February 8 notification, the committee was due to table its findings by February 25. Ranjan did not respond to calls when contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jsacs-director-removed-over-graft-charge/articleshow/81003685.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Ranchi||Railways brace for 4-hour service disruption by farmer unions in Jharkhand tomorrow||Ranchi: The railway divisions operating in Jharkhand are staring at four hours of disruption in passenger, express and freight train movements as farmer unions of the state gear up for their planned 'rail rokko' stir against the new farm laws on Thursday. The protesting farmer unions on Tuesday announced that they are planning to hold up railway traffic in at least 20 spots in key routes spanning the Grand Chord, main and loop lines passing through the state. Meanwhile, the divisions are trying to negotiate with the protesters but braced for the disruptions by readying their special police force units and government railway police personnel besides ramping up patrolling along the tracks. Ranchi division officials said they are not officially intimated about the agitation sites but received intelligence inputs about the heavy mobilization of the protesters at Namkum and Tantisilwai stations between 12 noon and 4 pm. The protesters are likely to form human barricades cutting off rail traffic from Ranchi to Muri and Tatanagar to Barkakana, which in turn will halt key express trains headed for New Delhi, Howrah and Patna among others. “Besides the two stations, disruptions are also expected in between Suisa-Tiruldih and Muri-Chandil stretches. The Hatia-Orga section is likely to remain free,” a senior official said on condition of anonymity. The Chakradharpur division is likely to witness disruptions at Chakradhapur and Ghatshila railway stations. Any disruptions here will paralyze railway movements to southern and western India. A senior official of the division said, “We have asked all our railway station masters and beat patrolling officers to be alert. The RPF jawans, about 2,100 in number, have been kept on standby. Patrolling along the tracks have been stepped up as well.” Besides Ranchi and Chakradhapur divisions, disruptions are also expected in as many as eight spots in Dhanbad, Giridih and Koderma stations on the Grand Chord line connecting Howrah-New Delhi railway stations. “So far, we have not received any official intimation from the protesting groups. Despite our preparations, we will still try to talk them out of the tracks so that the train movements are not hampered. We are also keeping loco pilots and engines on reserve for exigencies,” another senior official in Ranchi division said, requesting anonymity. Surjit Sinha, general secretary of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha, said, “At least 20 spots along the main, Grand Chord line and loop lines in Sahibganj will be jammed. The duration of the 'rail rokko' program will depend on the turnout. If we do not have many protesters, the stir will be pruned to two hours.” Sinha claimed that mainstream political parties have been invited to join the stir on the pre-condition that they will not use their banners and flags.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/railways-brace-for-4-hour-service-disruption-by-farmer-unions-in-jharkhand-tomorrow/articleshow/81003982.cms||Dhritiman Ray
February 17, 2021||Rajkot||Teacher couple gives lesson in handling filth||Rajkot: It’s Harshad Rojasara daily routine to collect waste plastic material of milk, butter milk and curd from restaurants, located five kilometres away from his home. No, that’s not his profession, but a secondary school teacher and a principal’s dedication to fight environmental pollution their way. And so, Rojasara from village Ori goes to Vinchhiya town of Rajkot district and returns with his haul every single day and he and his wife Smita, also a teacher, turn these non-recyclable plastic bags into pots where they grow plants and sow seeds. While the duo had aimed to make and distribute 7,000 such pots with plants, they have so far donated 30,000 and all for free! Ori, located in Sayla taluka of Surendranagar, was merged with Vinchhiya three years ago. The quite little hamlet turned even more silent during the lockdown when the jibber-jabber of school children too got locked up in homes. Not knowing how to utilize their time best, the teacher couple decided to cleanse the environment and also help people grow good plants. With this brainwave, they started collecting waste milk packets wherein they started growing plants. Talking to TOI Harshad said, “We overshot our initial aim manifolds, thanks the rising demand from people. In fact, we also have people who offer us good quality seeds and plants to grow in these pots. Being from a village background, I know how to pick good seeds from naturally grown organic plants. The forest department and public garden department too are helping me now seeing that I am doing something good for the environment.” Rojasara used the social media to appeal to people to take the potted plants from him and demands have been literally pouring in thereafter. With passage of time, the forest department also approved a nursery in the school premises to help the teacher duo distribute these pots easily. “People from Vinchhiya, Jasdan and Chotila have visited us so far to get plants for decoration of their homes or restaurants. I don’t charge anything for the pots but ask people to donate whatever amount they want voluntarily for the school,” said Harshad, adding that while the duo earns good salaries as teachers, the school building has become dilapidated for want of resources and maintenance. “If the school gets some money from people who want to take these plants in bulk, the school can be repaired with their donation,” he added. Smita too said that they have seen people who take staples in bulk, often donate more than the value of the plants they have taken from them. Hoteliers in Vinchhiya put these used plastic waste packets in a crate for Rajasara to collect. “I put nearly 200 bags of milk in the crate in my restaurant daily along with around 35 of five litre curd packets. The consumption of curd will only increase in summer and we will collect even more bags then,” said Sagar Jasani, a restaurateur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teacher-couple-gives-lesson-in-handling-filth/articleshow/81002951.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 17, 2021||Ranchi||1k tractors to join Feb 20 Cong rally in H’bag||Hazaribag: More than 1,000 tractors from across the state will take part in the rally here organised by Congress on February 20 against the farm laws implemented by the Centre, party president Rameshwar Oroan said on Tuesday during his visit to the district to take stock of the preparations. Oraon expressed satisfaction over the preparations and said the party has been holding different agitations across the state for many months as a part of its nationwide campaign in solidarity with the farmers protesting across the country. On the farm laws, he said they are anti-people and anti-farmers. “We will continue to fight the laws both inside Parliament and on the streets,” Oraon said. The party had also organised a similar tractor rally in Santhal Parganas between Godda and Deoghar last month. For the Hazaribag rally, Oraon said Congress’s Jharkhand affairs in-charge RPN Singh is expected to arrive. Oraon said the party is also gearing up to launch a stir against rising fuel and LPG prices. “The common people are struggling to survive under Prime Minister Narendra Modiji’s new Bharat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1k-tractors-to-join-feb-20-cong-rally-in-hbag/articleshow/81004095.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Vadodara||Delhi man held for making fake FB account of top cop||Vadodara: An information technology (IT) expert from New Delhi was arrested for making the face Facebook account of city police commissioner Shamsher Singh.Talking to TOI, Singh said that the arrested accused, Yogesh Sharma, is also a drug addict and a habitual offender.The cybercrime cell brought 25-year-old Sharma to the city from Delhi. Sharma has made many such fake social media profiles in the past. “Sharma said that he has been arrested twice in the past for committing similar offences. We are verifying his claims. He also admitted to being a drug addict,” Singh said. Sharma had created a fake Facebook profile of Singh some days ago and demanded money from his friends online. Sharma may be using the siphoned money to buy drugs for himself, cybercrime cell sources said. “He is a Bachelors in Computer Application (BCA), so he understands computers and the related technology well. When our team seized his mobile phone, they saw my photograph in it along with some politicians, police officials as well as media person’s pictures,” Singh added.When Singh learnt about the bogus FB profile, he immediately got it blocked online and ordered investigation into the case. “We first tracked his bank account number and it led us to his mobile number. The number was then tracked and it led our team to Sharma,” Singh added.Police have also detained another person whose bank account Sharma was using for money transfers. Investigating officials said that Sharma has duped many persons in the past and they are expecting to arrest some more accused in the case. The cops had also arrested two persons recently for making a fake FB page of Gujarat assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/delhi-man-held-for-making-fake-fb-account-of-top-cop/articleshow/81003312.cms||Tushar Tere
February 17, 2021||Goa||No panel to find land for IIT as yet||Panaji: A month after CM Pramod Sawant acceded to Melauli locals’ demand to shift the IIT project from their village, the state has government hasn’t yet constituted a committee to identify land for the project. A senior government official said that there are no instructions from the CM to set up the committee. On January 15, Sawant said a committee, comprising IIT representatives among others, would consider alternative locations in the state to set up the campus. “We don’t want a problem like this to occur again,” Sawant had said, referring to the six month-long agitation by the Melauli villagers against the project. The agitation had intensified in early January, forcing the state government to rethink its stand and scrap the project at Melauli. Power minister Nilesh Cabral had said that he and the people of Curchorem constituency, which he represents, would welcome IIT-Goa there. Cabral’s statement came days after his cabinet colleague and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane said he would stand by the people of his constituency, who opposed the project. The government had earlier identified sites at Canacona and Sanguem for the institute. IIT-Goa currently functions from the Goa Engineering College campus in Farmagudi, Ponda. The government may now look for sites at Sanguem or Quepem to set up the institute. In May 2020, the state government has transferred 10 lakh sq m of land to IIT-Goa, out of which 45,000 square meters was later left out as it includes a temple and other areas used by locals for religious practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-panel-to-find-land-for-iit-as-yet/articleshow/81013035.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Goa||Release grants to Mandrem college within 2 months: HC||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Tuesday directed the state government to release grant-in-aid to the Mandrem College of Commerce, Economics and Management from the academic year 2017-2018. The court stated that as far as the grant for the current academic year 2020-2021 is concerned, proportional to the number of students admitted and the services of the staff engaged, the grant would be released within a period of two months. The division bench found that the state government was discriminatory in denying grantsto the college for running its commerce stream on the ground that the strength of the college was hardly 100 students, while readily granting aid to other institutions. “The decrease in the number of students for the past three years cannot be construed to be a ground for declining the grant-in-aid, but for this situation, it is only state which is to be blamed,” the high court stated. Advocate Parag Rao representing the college of which advocate Ramakant Khalap is chairman, stated that its proposal was rejected while other societies, which enjoyed political patronage, were permitted to start college/curriculum proposed by them irrespective of the fact that another college running the same course was located at short distance. “The noting placed on record are reflective of the decision-making process of the state government and in spite of the objection of the other colleges being located in the vicinity and so also the financial implications, the proposal of Sateri Pissani Education Society as well as the proposal of Vidya Prabhodini where there are three colleges within range of 10 km, the finance department proactively conferred the grant-in-aid,” stated Justices Mahesh Sonak and Bharati H Dangre.  With regard to the Mandrem college, the state government admitted that the distance between the college and government college at Pernem is 17 km. “As far as the grant of permission to the college run by Swami Vivekanand Vidhyaprasarak Mandal’s College of Commerce is concerned, in spite of the college being there at Ponda, which is at a distance of 7 km, the permission is granted. It can thus be seen that in respect of these colleges, the need base analysis or financial burden, was completely disregarded,” the court stated.  The court also noted that “ The finance authorities were perhaps conscious that the excuse of insufficient funds or excessive financial implications will not hold good, since at and around the same time, the finance authorities were approving the release of grants to at least two to three similarly placed institutions. Some of the approvals granted by the very same finance authorities enabled some of the institutions to receive grants from the very first year when the government scheme provided that the grants for the first year were to be borne by the institutions themselves. Thus, at the relevant time finance was no basis to deny grant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/release-grants-to-mandrem-college-within-2-months-hc/articleshow/81013101.cms||Lisa Monteiro
February 17, 2021||Goa||I stand vindicated, says Khalap||Saligao: Chairman of the Mandrem college Ramakant Khalap has expressed his happiness over the high court’s decision to release the grant-in-aid to the institution. The college, set up in June 2012, was approved on a grant-in-aid basis by the then chief minister Manohar Parrikar. In July 2013, the approval and grant-in-aid was withdrawn by the government. “The HC ruling is the vindication of my belief in the justice dispensation system,” Khalap said. “We could not pay the salaries of many teachers in time even as they cooperated with us,” Khalap further said. “I am confident that other streams such as arts, science and education will also be started soon. It was not possible in the absence of grant-in-aid,” Khalap said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/i-stand-vindicated-says-khalap/articleshow/81013200.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Goa||Goa: PWD engineers can permit works of up to Rs 10 crore||PANAJI: Ahead of the municipal polls, the government has issued an order giving PWD’s superintending engineers — circle I and circle II — powers to give technical sanctions to works of up to Rs 10 crore to be taken up in municipal areas. The superintending engineer, circle I, will have jurisdiction of Margao, Mormugao, Curchorem, Cacora, Quepem, Canacona, Sanguem and Cuncolim councils. The circle II superintending engineer’s jurisdiction will cover Ponda, Mapusa, Valpoi, Sankhali, Bicholim and Pernem councils and the Corporation of the City of Panaji. The chief engineer, PWD, and chief project officer of the Goa State Urban Development Agency (GSUDA) will have full powers without financial limits to sanction projects for all municipal councils and the Corporation of the City of Panaji. Grade I municipal engineers in the grade of executive engineers, will have powers to sanction works up to Rs 1 crore for select councils. Whereas municipal engineers of similar rank, but attached to ‘B’ class municipal councils, in the grade of assistant engineer, and municipal engineer of similar rank of the councils of Cacora, Bicholim, and Cuncolim, will have powers to sanction works up to Rs 6 lakh. The order stated that designated officers shall exercise their powers as per the CPWD manual in force with regards to approval of extra items, substitute items, deviation in quantities, revised technical sanctions and extension of time and acceptance of tender. The order issued by the newly appointed director of urban development Gurudas Pilarnkar also states that municipal engineer grade II working in Mapusa, Margao, and CCP will have technical sanction powers for works up to Rs 6 lakh, but they will have to obtain prior approval of the municipal engineer grade I of the respective council. The order, an officer said, is thanks to the government’s ongoing self-reliant programmes. It wants to financially boost the civic bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-engineers-can-permit-works-of-up-to-rs-10-crore/articleshow/81013286.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Goa||History-sheeter Anwar Sheikh shot at in Fatorda, sustains severe injuries||MARGAO: Notorious criminal Anwar Shaikh alias Tiger Anwar was shot at and assaulted by a group of several persons at near the Ambaji junction, Fatorda, Tuesday afternoon. Following the assault, Shaikh lay on the road severely injured before he was shifted to the Hospicio hospital, Margao, from where he was referred to Goa Medical College (GMC). Ricky Hornekar, a resident of Curchorem, was apprehended by the police in this connection and taken into custody, police sources said. Police are on the look out of several more persons suspected to be involved in the assault. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said that Shaikh’s complaint has been recorded at the GMC wherein he has mentioned names of several persons, including Hornekar, involved in attacking him. Singh said that Shaikh was assaulted with iron rods, ‘koita’, ‘danda’, while one of them shot him. Police sources said that Shaikh has sustained bullet injury in his thigh, and serious injuries on his knee, head and right arm. Police suspect that the assault could be a fall-out of an inter-gang rivalry. Shaikh has several cases booked against him at several police stations. Fatorda police has booked a case under charges of attempt to murder as well as for forming unlawful assembly and rioting with deadly weapons under several sections of the IPC as well as under the Arms Act. Further investigation is underway. Last year, one person was killed in a shoot-out in a gang war in Santa Cruz when the rival gang attacked Imram Bepari in pre-dawn hours. A young member of the accused gang died after a bullet accidentally hit his chest. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had then said that no gangster and goondaism would not be tolerated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/history-sheeter-anwar-sheikh-shot-at-in-fatorda-sustains-severe-injuries/articleshow/81013361.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Goa||Goa: Hollant locals seek land documents from Railways||VASCO: Villagers of Hollant on Tuesday turned away railway officials and the contractor clearing bushes on a hill near the tracks after the authorities were unable to produce land ownership documents. A group of villagers of Velsao-Pale-Issorcim along with members of Goencheo Ekvott rushed to the site where work was being undertaken since Monday. Panch of Velsao-Pale-Issorchim panchayt Ashok Souza said, “This property belongs to a private owner. Our ancestors had given permission to the railways to lay a single track and not to do whatever they wish.” The officials stated that they had planned to lay underground cables near the tracks. After Souza asked them to produce documents declaring land ownership, the officials were forced to abandon their work, and stated that they will return with the documents. Co-convenor of Goencheo Ekvott Viriato Fernandes said, “A few days ago, railway officials were attempting to lay poles near the tracks at Velsao, and now they were in Hollant. The railways are trying to play different tricks to start work of double-tracking in all villages employing different sub-contractors without admitting that it is for double tracks. The areas touching the tracks belong to private owners or comunidades. Our argument is that when you are not the land owners, how are you thinking of getting a second track near the existing ones.” Meanwhile, the hearing being conducted by Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Desai for the proposed flyover at Cansaulim connecting Arossim continued for the second day on Tuesday. Desai on Tuesday heard 10 more parties, who continued to strongly oppose the railway’s proposal for a flyover. Villagers are demanding that a rail under bridge be constructed instead. The hearing will continue on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hollant-locals-seek-land-docus-from-railways/articleshow/81013422.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Goa||Govt relaxing norms to hire non-Goans: GFP||Panaji: The state government is trying to dilute recruitment norms and undermine the Konkani language to pave way for residents of other states to apply for government jobs, GFP said on Monday. GFP’s employee-wing convenor John Nazareth said that the government has permitted those who are not fluent in Konkani to apply for jobs with the department of animal husbandry, a move that the party is likely to protest. “It looks like the Sawantwadi-based government is trying to do away with Konkani. So many people fought for Konkani to get recognition, but today it looks like the government’s efforts are towards depriving Goans of government jobs and encouraging outsiders to take up government jobs,” said Nazareth. On February 12, Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) advertised for 32 posts for veterinary officers where it was mentioned that if a candidate with knowledge of Konkani could not be found, the criteria could be relaxed. “Is it that this is a gateway opened for people of Sawantwadi and other parts of Maharashtra to seek Goan government jobs,” said Nazareth. “This is a fit time for all Goans to wake up. The sacrifice made by many for statehood and for Konkani will go in vain.” Recently Shivaji Shet, who had applied for the post of the principal of Goa Arts college held a press conference where he stated that the government relaxed the requirement for fluency in Konkani for the principal’s post in order to appoint a resident of another state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-relaxing-norms-to-hire-non-goans-gfp/articleshow/81013462.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Goa||Mahila Cong comes out in support of Disha Ravi, demands release||Panaji: Congress came out in support of 21-year old climate activist Disha Ravi, who has been arrested by Delhi Police, and has demanded for her immediate release. The party also slammed BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for trampling on democratic rights and stifling dissent. Accusing the government of targeting all who oppose its policies and ideas, Congress has urged the judiciary to intervene and uphold constitutional values. “We strongly condemn the arrest of this young girl, for stifling the voice of the young,” said Mahila Congress president Pratima Coutinho. “This has become a new modus operandi of the Modi government. It is another unsurprising low for the BJP government.” Ravi was arrested for editing and sharing a toolkit in support of the farmers. She was picked up from her home in Bengaluru, flown to Delhi and produced in court where she was charged with sedition and conspiracy and sent to five days in police custody. “From the time they have come to power, they are taking steps to target anyone who comes out in protest. Anybody who opposes the BJP’s views, is arrested. From youth, women, farmers and activists, the BJP is the root cause for stifling dissent,” said Coutinho. She said that the right to protest and express one’s opinion is a democratic right enshrined in India’s constitution. Coutinho also said that BJP, particularly the Prime Minister has encouraged law enforcement agencies to silence dissenting voices and the opposition. Congress said that BJP is destroying the “fabric of democracy” by arresting anyone for merely expressing their opinion. “We hope the judicial process is done properly. We demand that Disha Ravi should be immediately released,” said Coutinho. The Goa Mahila Congress wing later burnt an effigy of the Prime Minister outside the Congress office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mahila-cong-comes-out-in-support-of-disha-ravi-demands-release/articleshow/81013478.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram’s recovery rate 99%, only behind 4 districts||GURUGRAM : For the first time since the pandemic began, the city on Tuesday achieved a 99% recovery rate. With this, it joined four other districts in Haryana that have a similar recovery rate or above — Mahendergarh (99.6%), Sonipat (99.3%), Rewari (99.3%) and Palwal (99.1%). In comparison, the state’s average recovery rate is 98.5%. Moreover, Gurugram ’s active cases have fallen below 300 for the first time in eight and a half months. At present, there are 293 active cases, a figure last reported on May 29, after which the numbers kept rising, reaching a peak of 6,436 on November 27. As of Tuesday, two districts — Mahendergarh and Jhajjar — did not have any active cases while seven others have less than 10 active cases each. These are Hisar (eight), Charkhi Dadri (five), Fatehabad (four), Sonipat (four), Palwal (three) and one each in Nuh and Rewari. The decline in daily new cases is a major factor contributing to the recovery rate, according to Gurugram chief medical officer Virender Yadav. “Earlier, the cases used to come in very late and more deaths were being reported. The city’s recovery rate was around 75% in October and November and the caseload was also on the higher side. But in January and February, the number of daily cases have declined and so have the deaths,” said Yadav. There is a decline in the city’s daily average cases too – from 216 in December to 43 in January, the numbers have fallen to 19 till February 16. In December, there were 51 Covid deaths while there were nine in January and two so far in February. The city’s fatality rate is 0.61% while that of the state stands at 1.1%. Medical experts pointed out that the Covid management process has undergone a big change this year as compared to March last year. “The mortality rate has declined in the state, which has helped improve the recovery rate. The approach to Covid has changed over time. Between April and July last year, we saw hesitancy among people to get themselves tested, but now, more and more are coming forward for it which ensures timely treatment. Also, we were losing critical time earlier, resulting in more deaths. People are more aware now and we have fewer critical patients. Early testing, treatment and precautions have helped lower the number of new cases as well as the mortality rate,” Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaons-recovery-rate-99-only-behind-4-districts/articleshow/81013548.cms||Ipsita Pati
February 17, 2021||Goa||Rs 9 lakh liquor seized from fish truck at K’taka border||Poinguinim: Illegal liquor worth Rs 9 lakh was seized from an insulated fish truck headed from Goa to Andhra Pradesh early Tuesday morning at the Majali checkpost. Interestingly, the truck went scot free at the Polem checkpost in Canacona which is barely 100m away from the Majali checkpost. Sensing something amiss, staff at Majali, led by sub Inspector R N Naik, stopped the truck. Their search revealed liquor hidden among the fish crates. They seized about 45 crates of beer and whiskey of different brands, as well as some Indian made foreign liquor. The truck, along with the illegal consignment has been attached while the driver has been booked and detained for further investigation. Three months ago, in a similar incident, liquor worth Rs 2.3 lakh was seized near Polem from a truck carrying construction material. In that case, too, the truck had crossed the Goa border, but was anticipated by Majali police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rs-9-lakh-liquor-seized-from-fish-truck-at-ktaka-border/articleshow/81013615.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Ghaziabad||From winter of dissent to a summer of protest, at UP Gate||GHAZIABAD: They have braved the chilly winds. Now, they are preparing to face the sultry summer. With fans, coolers and gensets, farmers’ outfits at UP Gate are making preparations to house protesters so that they can continue their agitation through the summer months. While a tarpaulin shade is being erected near the stage, which is the heart of the protest site, tents are being shifted from the Delhi-Meerut Expressway to the vacant space below the flyover. Fans and coolers are being supplied by farmers from various parts of the country, just like the way food, blankets and medicines have arrived at the protest site. Three gensets of 10KV capacity are supplying power to run the fans and coolers. Rakesh Tikait, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader who is spearheading the agitation at UP Gate, has asked the district administration to supply electricity to the protest site at commercial rates. “But if they refuse to supply power to us, we will use gensets. The protesters will themselves supply diesel like they have been contributing for the langars,” said Tikait. Jagtar Singh Bajwa, one of the protesters, said more fans and coolers would reach them in a few days. “A few affluent farmers from across the country are sending these. To protect the protesters from the sun, a tarpaulin shade has already been set up near the stage. Very soon we will raise the heights of the tents and make arrangements for cross ventilation in them,” he added. The rising mercury has started taking a toll on the farmers. “Yes, it gets very hot inside the tents in the afternoon. And with six men already inside each of them, it’s very difficult to catch some sleep. The tents have no ventilation. We need to have fans and coolers inside every tent. I am told that arrangements are being made to help us see the summer months through,” said Jagpreet Singh, a farmer Khatauli who was catching a nap under the shade of his tractor. Hukum Singh has shifted his tent from near the stage to below the DME bridge. “You may not feel the heat while you are out. But in the afternoon, it is already becoming difficult to stay inside. I have had to shift to one of the tents that is just below the DME bridge,” he added. But even here, Hukum Singh is not getting reprieve. “Here, a gush of wind is bringing foul smell from nearby drains and the Ghazipur murga mandi. With the government not budging and our leaders declaring that the agitation will continue till the laws are repealed, the going for the farmers from here will only get tougher,” added Singh. However, the protesters are confident that the agitation will continue, no matter how hot it gets. “At the end of the day, we are farmers and have braved the harsh weather for years. We are used to working in the fields in sub-zero temperatures and intense heat waves. So, the weather cannot break our resolve,” said Harnam Choudhary, a protester.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/from-winter-of-dissent-to-a-summer-of-protest-at-up-gate/articleshow/81013782.cms||Abhijay Jha
February 17, 2021||Goa||Traffic cell to track removal of 24 black spots||Panaji: The traffic monitoring cell will follow up on the time-bound removal of the 24 black spots listed by the public works department (PWD) in north Goa by regularly inspecting these sites as well as pursuing commitments made by road contractors. This was decided at the meeting of the north Goa district road safety committee held on Tuesday. The committee also resolved that after hot-mixing of roads is completed, a compliance report of re-painting of all speed-breakers and pedestrian crossing signages will be submitted by the PWD road engineering cell. A comprehensive report of all hoardings on the sides of national and state highways and major district roads will be prepared after data is collected from all deputy collectors, traffic cells and PWD sub-divisions. The monitoring cell will also undertake inspections to tackle safety issues at entry and exit points of Kadamba transport corporation (KTC) bus stands at Panaji and Mapusa. Similarly, and analysis of five recent fatal accidents in north Goa will be done and recommendations will be submitted to the district committee. The committee has also requested the traffic monitoring cell to create necessary awareness on penalties for operating road-rollers in violation of the exemptions provided and any violations by transport goods carriers carrying protruding poles. A special enforcement drive will be held from March 15 to monitor such incidents. The district committee which meets quarterly has appointed a Monitoring Cell which will meet monthly and pursue the targets to reduce fatalities and related issues as fixed by the Supreme Court monitored Road Safety Committee. The six-member monitoring cell will be chaired by Dy Sp Traffic (North) and the Member Secretary is Assistant Director Transport Enforcement (North) and the four members are representatives from PWD, Education and Health Department and Goacan. In the absence of the chairman of the committee, MP Shripad Naik, the meeting was chaired by Additional Collector- I, north Goa Gopal Parsekar on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/traffic-cell-to-track-removal-of-24-black-spots/articleshow/81013726.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Noida||Row over Zydus vaccine trials as Noida seals illegal lab||GREATER NOIDA: Phase III trials of Indian pharma major Zydus Cadila’s Covid-19 vaccine at a Ghaziabad hospital ran into controversy on Tuesday when an unrecognised private laboratory at Dadri in Greater Noida that had an understanding with the hospital was found to be administering the shots. Five people present in the lab, all employees of the hospital, according to health department officials, were arrested. Noida’s chief medical officer said the laboratory was not authorised to administer any vaccine. Officials said 19 people had taken the shots at the lab, all on Tuesday. The laboratory – Gopal Pathology – was sealed during a raid by police and the health department. Officials said 275 vials of the vaccine, ZyCoV-D, were found at the laboratory. Locals administered the vaccine had allegedly been told it was a “free corona vaccine camp”. Officials said the vaccine was provided to the laboratory by Flores hospital in Ghaziabad that has been authorised to conduct the vaccine trials. “The company had authorised Flores hospital to conduct a part of the Phase III trials and take forward the research. The hospital claims it authorised the Dadri lab to conduct the trials because they claimed to be conducting RT-PCR tests for Covid too. It is a matter of investigation how they authorised a non-recognised laboratory to do so,” said CMO Dr Deepak Ohri, adding all five arrested were Flores employees. “Ten vials were found to have been opened. A team led by the deputy CMO and the in-charge of the area was sent to the spot,” Ohri told TOI. When police and health department officials reach-ed the lab around 5pm, several locals were waiting for their turn to get the vaccine shot. “Those persons who have received the vaccine shot are being traced and will be kept under observation,” an official said. Ohri said the health department was getting an FIR filed. “This trial can be conducted in limited centres and this centre was not one of them. Besides, the local authority should have been informed before starting any such trial,” the CMO added. Health department officials said the lab had started administering the vaccine on Tuesday itself. The CMO said the five arrested would be charged for conducting vaccine trials without permission, endangering public health and running an unrecognised laboratory. Additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey said the FIR would be lodged based on the complaint from the health department. Dr Manoj Singh, who owns Flores, told TOI the hospital had the relevant authorisation from the company and had not done anything wrong. “We are taking and preserving all data of the volunteers and monitoring them too,” Singh said. “The only mistake on our part was that we did not check the registration (of the lab). But what was the administration doing for so long? How is it that a laboratory is running for so long and the administration has got to know only now? The registration was never checked before. Our marketing team knew people in the laboratory and they were ready to provide us the venue and volunteers. We had some space and volunteers who are family members of people from the laboratory itself. Our employees had gone to counsel them and prepare them for the trial. Nothing illegal has been done. If the laboratory is functioning without registration, why have they woken up today? We had volunteers and decided to conduct the trials here in Dadri itself since they did not want to come as far as to the Flores hospital,” he added. A Zydus Cadila spokesperson told TOI, “We have just received this information. We shall be looking into the matter and taking appropriate action”. ZyCov-D is an indigenously developed DNA vaccine. According to the rules, the sponsor of the trial – the pharma company, in this case – selects the site (hospital or institute) to run the trial, after which a principal investigator is appointed. The trial protocol, registration and proposal are submitted to the Drugs Controller General of India. The ‘registrant’ for the trial is either the principal investigator or the primary sponsor, which is decided by an agreement between the parties. The primary sponsor is ultimately accountable for ensuring that the trial is properly registered. For multi-centre and multi-sponsor trials, it is the lead principal investigator or lead sponsor who should take responsibility for registration, the rules say. Once approved, the sponsor – meaning, the company – is responsible for running the trials, and the ethics committee monitors the trial for any adverse events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/row-over-zydus-vax-trials-as-noida-seals-illegal-lab/articleshow/81010934.cms||Shikha Salaria
February 17, 2021||Vadodara||This innovation could make mobiles cheaper||Vadodara/ Anand: This innovation promises to make your cell phones, tablets, computers and television sets cheaper. And that too while providing better display of colours on screens. A team of researchers from the chemistry department of Sardar Patel University (SPU) has developed metal complexes which are cheaper than the organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) used currently in the display unit of electronic gadgets like cell phones, tablets and television sets. The device prepared using these metal complexes provides better colour purity and its fabrication process too is cost-effective. “OLEDs are lamination-based materials which are currently used in gadgets as light-emitting materials,” said Dr Kirankumar Surati, associate professor at the department, who led the team that recently received a patent for the research project. “But the existing OLEDs are less stable, the metal that is currently used is very costly, life of the device is short and there are problems of colour bleaching. For example, blue colour in the display starts fading and turns to sky blue or whitish,” said Surati. “We have developed heteroleptic iridium (III) complexes, a type of metal complex. These metal complexes are cost-effective, stable, have a higher life and have the ability to generate pure colour,” he said. Just one gram of commercially available compounds that are currently used in electronic gadgets cost more than Rs 50,000 whereas the compounds developed by SPU team costs less than half. The compounds were developed as part of a project funded by the Department of Science and Technology. “We are in talks with some industrial players to transfer the technology so that it can be commercialized,” he said. The new material is not only cost-effective but can be easily used for creating a display of gadgets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/this-innovation-could-make-mobiles-cheaper/articleshow/81003325.cms||Prashant Rupera
February 17, 2021||India||Toolkit row: Muluk gets transit anticipatory bail, ruling on Nikita plea today||MUMBAI/AURANGABAD: Beed engineer Shantanu Muluk, one of the two activists faced with a non-bailable warrant issued by a Delhi court in the farmers’ protest toolkit case, got relief from the Bombay high court on Tuesday, while the other, Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob, will learn of her fate on Wednesday. The HC’s Aurangabad bench granted a10-day transit anticipatory bail to Muluk, and its principal bench in Mumbai reserved a similar plea by Jacob for orders after special counsel for Delhi Police Hiten Venegaonkar raised objections to the HC’s power to grant her relief. Justice P D Naik, who heard Jacob’s plea, concluded the hearing in the evening and said he would pass the order on Wednesday. “Nikita Jacob is not named in the FIR… The toolkit was prepared by many. It doesn’t talk of violence nor of taking over Red Fort or anything,” said Jacob’s counsel Mihir Desai. The Delhi cyber cell is probing an FIR registered for sedition, acts prejudicial to communal harmony and criminal conspiracy and had on Saturday picked up activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru. Both Jacob and Muluk moved HC on Monday for an urgent hearing, apprehending arrest in the case for serious offences. They said the protection would enable them to exercise their right to then seek regular pre-arrest bail before a court in Delhi. Both said Delhi Police had visited their homes and seized material. Jacob’s house was searched, said Desai, and documents and her computer were seized on February 11, with police also recording a “detailed statement” of hers. Desai argued, “She is an enthusiastic environmentalist.” He said, “Several young persons prepared the toolkit. Their allegation is she is one of them. What they allege is one person is a Khalistani. Belongs to an organisation called Poetic Justice.” The group named by Delhi Police is Poetic Justice Foundation. He added, “The name doesn’t even suggest it is pro-Khalistani.” Desai also said, “It is not a banned organisation.” The Delhi Police team had been stationed in Beed for the last three days, said Muluk’s counsel Satej Jadhav before the Aurangabad bench of Justice Vibha Kankanwadi, who initially questioned his plea for a three-week transit protection. She said a person can reach Delhi in a matter of two hours. Jadhav said time was needed to consult his lawyers in Delhi. After the HC reserved the plea for order, Venegaonkar, when asked by the court, said police would be prudent and were unlikely to take any step now since the order is to be pronounced Wednesday. He said in any case, after sunset, women are not arrested. The HC said that is also a prudent step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/toolkit-row-muluk-gets-transit-anticipatory-bail-ruling-on-nikita-plea-today/articleshow/81022457.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 17, 2021||India||Cops didn’t show warrant: Muluk’s father||AURANGABAD: Shantanu Muluk’s father Shivlal on Tuesday made a representation to Beed SP R Raja urging him to look into the issue of a two-member Delhi Police team carrying out a search and seizure exercise at his residence early on February 12 without showing him any warrant/document, reports Mohammed Akhef. Delhi Police have said search warrants were issued against both Muluk and Nikita Jacob. Shivlal (54) stated that the Delhi police team seized a computer hard disk, a book, a cellphone cover and an environmental poster from Shantanu’s room, orally assuring him they would return the items before returning to Delhi. Since then, they have called him on twothree occasions at the Beed government guest house for questioning, he stated. Raja, however, said Beed police had no information about Shivlal being questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cops-didnt-show-warrant-muluks-father/articleshow/81022727.cms||---
February 17, 2021||India||ED accuses Amnesty India of laundering, attaches Rs 18cr||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday attached bank balance of Rs 17.6 crore belonging to Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd and its trust, Indians for Amnesty International Trust (IAIT), accusing the Indian arm of the UK-based NGO of money laundering in the garb of bringing in foreign direct investment. In all, almost Rs 20 crore has so far been attached in the case. The provisional attachment order, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, was issued “as both entities have acquired the proceeds of crime and layered the same in the form of various movable properties”, the ED claimed. In 2018, the ED had first carried out searches on the Bengaluru premises of Amnesty’s India chapter and later put under “restraint” Rs 52 crore deposited in the accounts of Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd (AIIPL). AIIPL had received Rs 51.7 crore in “export remittances” from Amnesty International UK during the financial years 2014 and 2019. “Investigation revealed that upon cancellation of FCRA licence, Amnesty International UK sent Rs 51.7 crore to AIIPL in the guise of export of services and FDI,” a senior ED official said. However, there was no documentary evidence produced by Amnesty India to substantiate the “exports of services”. The agency has claimed that Amnesty India received funds from its UK parent body which sources its funds through donations from individual donors. The total attachments stand at Rs 19.5 crore till date. “Investigation has proved that no services were exported and the amounts so received were in contravention to provisions of FEMA and PMLA,” an ED source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-accuses-amnesty-india-of-laundering-attaches-rs-18cr/articleshow/81022872.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Air pollution, water scarcity top on agenda in Visakhapatnam polls||VISAKHAPATNAM: At a time when Vizag city is preparing for the municipal polls scheduled to be held next month, the civic issues are likely to steer the preferences of voters. While the core city is equipped with all the basic social infrastructure, some suburbs and the recently merged villages have limited core trunk infrastructure. The ever-widening gap between water supply and demand, with the growing population and industrial expansion, is another problem being faced by the city. With raw water sources being dependent upon the monsoon, there is additional pressure on the supply mechanism during low-rainfall years. The city has long been battling air pollution and coal dust emissions due to the heavy industries located in proximity. It is routine for residents of One Town area, Malkapuram, Gajuwaka and Kurmannapalem to wake up to a layer industrial dust collected in their homes. For the same reason, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has identified Visakhapatnam as a non-attainment city, which means that it does not meet the national ambient air quality standards. On the other hand, increasing vehicular traffic points to the need of creating more parking spaces, constructing flyovers or expanding the road network, and making sure that designated parking spaces used only for purposes of parking. The underground drainage system is limited to around 50 per cent of the city. Several instances of UGD overflowing are being reported on a regular basis. The interior roads in several colonies and the storm water drains also need a major revamp. The dark underbelly of the city continues to be inadequately addressed. There are 21 drains releasing sewage into the sea – from the fishing harbour to Tenneti Park. The wastewater from eight drains is treated before being discharged into the sea. But the sewage from the remaining 13 sewers are either treated partially or not treated at all. The storm water drainage system may also need an upgrade due to the rapid urbanisation and some encroachments and occupations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/air-pollution-water-scarcity-top-on-agenda-in-vizag-polls/articleshow/81005226.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 17, 2021||Vijayawada||Civic poll campaign heats up in Vijayawada west||VIJAYAWADA: The political temperature in the Vijayawada (west) constituency seems to be on the rise after the state election commission notified municipal polls in the state. All major political parties, including YSRC, TDP and Jana Sena, have intensified their campaigns and are hitting the streets with heated comments. Spearheading the campaign for YSRC, endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas said that he is taking the elections extremely seriously and is focussed on winning the maximum number of seats. He alleged that the TDP-led council has done nothing for Vijayawada except demolish temples in the name of riverfront development. Vellampalli Srinivas called on voters to support YSRC considering the development and welfare activities taken up by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. Meanwhile, TDP lauded the role played by its leader and former MLA Jaleel Khan who stayed away from active political activity following the 2019 elections. Khan responded aggressively to the endowment minister’s allegations and said, “People are very wise. They have seen development activities like the Kanaka Durga Flyover, CC roads and other work taken up during the TDP regime.” The Jana Sena is trying to increase its hold over the electorate in these elections by winning a respectable number of seats. The party’s constituency in-charge, Pothina Venkata Mahesh, said that both TDP and YSRC have done nothing for the city and requested the people to give Jana Sena a chance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/civic-poll-campaign-heats-up-in-vij-west/articleshow/81005281.cms||Venu Lanka
February 17, 2021||India||No contempt case against Rajdeep Sardesai yet: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court clarified late on Tuesday that no suo motu contempt proceedings had been initiated against journalist Rajdeep Sardesai and that its website had “inadvertently” showed the case status. The case pertains to tweets by Sardesai allegedly “lowering the dignity” of the SC through “derogatory comments” on the apex court’s decision to convict and sentence activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan. Petitioner Aastha Khurana had approached attorney general K K Venugopal for consent to file a contempt petition against Sardesai soon after the SC convicted Bhushan for contempt on August 20 and sentenced him on August 31 with a fine of Re 1. Venugopal had refused consent for Khurana’s plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-contempt-case-against-rajdeep-sardesai-yet-sc/articleshow/81022961.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Shrimp trader kidnapped & murdered in Andhra Pradesh||BHIMAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI): A shrimp trader from West Godavari district was kidnapped and murdered allegedly by his business rivals. The deceased, identified as 39-year-old Reddy Kodanda Rama Rao, was reportedly kidnapped, taken to Telangana and then murdered. Police are on the lookout for suspects. According to the police,Rama Rao belonged to Balusumidi in West Godavari district. The deceased reportedly had financial disputes with a Gunda Veera Swamy, another shrimp trader. Police said that Rama Rao owed some money to Veera Swamy. As differences over financial issues cropped up between them, Veera Swamy allegedly hired professional hit men to kill Rama Rao, cops said. At night on February 11, the assailants allegedly kidnapped Rama Rao from his village and took him to Dammapeta mandal in Bhadradri Kothagudem district in Telangana and murdered him inside a cashew nut plantation. The Telangana police informed the West Godavari police about the dead body on February 15. West Godavari police went to the spot and identified the deceased with the help of Rama Rao’s wife on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/shrimp-trader-kidnapped-murdered/articleshow/81005338.cms||Samson Raj
February 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Civic polls in former CM’s adopted village||Visakhapatnam: Former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu’s adopted village Pedalabudu in Visakhapatnam Agency goes to polls on February 17. In 2014, the then chief minister adopted the gram panchayat near Araku to develop it as a ‘smart village’. A village of around 7,500 voters across 16 wards will elect its sarpanch. Killo Surendra, a resident of Pedalabudu and state executive member of CPI(M) said that Chandrababu Naidu had promised a lot of things when he adopted the village. “However, none of the promises have materialised till date.” K Ramesh, a youngster from the village, said, “There are nearly 50 graduates in this village. But neither this nor the previous government has done anything for people like us in terms of generating employment opportunities.” Sources inform that Killo Satyanandam is contesting for the sarpanch position supported by YSRC; Petteli Dasu Babu is contesting with TDP’s support while Chinna Swamy is contesting from Jana Sena. Eight others are contesting independently. Drinking water, sanitation, roads and reduction of house taxes are among the prime demands of people living in this panchayat. Voting begins at Pedalabudu gram panchayat at 6:30 am and will go on till 1:30 pm. The state election commission has cut down on the time because the area is surrounded by Maoist strongholds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/civic-polls-in-former-cms-adopted-village/articleshow/81005422.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 17, 2021||India||#FingerOnYourLips: Youth uprising on social media||MUMBAI: Protests against the arrest of 22-year-old environmental activist Disha Ravi and non-bailable warrants against two others Shantanu Muluk, 31 and Nikita Jacob, 29 continued on Tuesday with a spontaneous digital youth uprising against what they called “frequent suppression of dissent in the country”. The hashtag protest #FingerOnYourLips and #FreeDishaRavi accompanied by photographs of faces with a finger on their lips — by mostly youths sarcastically asking each other to not speak up against issues that affect the lives of ordinary citizens — has been growing across social media platforms. “Finger on lips signifies curbing of dissent and is a show of solidarity for Disha and other young activists the government has been clamping down on under the draconian UAPA anti-terrorism law,” explained a green activist helming the hashtag rally. “When someone protests, they aren’t anti establishment. It is a show of trust in the establishment that they will change and improve,” reasoned another. The running online commentary with a satirical thrust to provoke the right response reads: “Finger on your lips if you know about locust attacks. Farmer suicides for the last ten years. Onion prices increasing 3 times yesterday. Finger on your lips if you know about Mollem Forest, Baghjan on fire, Aarey Forest. The hills of Niyamgiri. Illegal mining in Goa... If you know that our futures are not going to be the same in 6 years, then you can also put your finger on lips and say nothing. Because anything you say or do in India today will be twisted and used against you in a court of law.” That this is a "peaceful digital protest" and "the youth cannot be intimidated into silence,” was the common echo in this collective outpouring as scores of millennials and Gen Z from across the country joined the social media campaign to demonstrate that the youth who had invited censure and arrest for standing up to the policies of the current government, weren’t isolated voices but “part of a growing wave of discontent among young Indians.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fingeronyourlips-youth-uprising-on-social-media/articleshow/81023064.cms||Mohua Das
February 17, 2021||Vijayawada||Liquor store staffer stages protest, attempts suicide||Tirupati: Frustrated over delay in disbursal of pending salary arrears, a government-run liquor store staffer first staged a protest near Sridevi Complex in Tirupati on Tuesday and then attempted to commit suicide by jumping off a cell phone tower. The youngster, identified as Charan, works at a liquor store at Thondavada village near Chandragiri. The liquor store staffer claimed that he hasn’t received his monthly salary for two consecutive months. As the incident created a flutter, curious onlookers gathered in large numbers near the cell towers and subsequently informed the police. Tirupati east sub-division police reached the spot and tried to persuade Charan to climb down from the cell tower. But the youngster reportedly continued to hang on to the cell tower until information was last received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/liquor-store-staffer-stages-protest-attempts-suicide/articleshow/81005481.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 17, 2021||Vijayawada||Third phase of Andhra Pradesh panchayat polls today||VIJAYAWADA: The state election commission (SEC) and the panchayati raj department have made elaborate arrangements for the third phase of panchayat elections on Wednesday. Polling for the third phase will take place in 2,639 panchayats in 20 revenue divisions across 13 districts of the state. A total of 7,757 candidates are in the fray. Out of the 31,516 wards notified for polls in the third phase, 11,732 were declared unanimous. 19,553 wards are going for polls with 43,162 candidates in the race to become ward members. A total of 26,851 polling stations have been arranged of which 4,118 polling stations have been identified as ‘sensitive’. Another 3,127 polling stations have been identified as ‘hyper sensitive’ where special forces have been deployed. Police are keeping an eye on various Maoist-affected areas in the state where polling will be conducted between 6:30 am and 1:30 pm. PPE kits have been made available at polling stations to facilitate people suffering from Covid-19. Meanwhile, the SEC has said that the commission will focus on municipalities where unnatural withdrawals are reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/third-phase-of-panchayat-polls-today/articleshow/81005510.cms||Venu Lanka
February 17, 2021||India||Disha Ravi arrest: Followed norms, no leniency on basis of age, says police||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava on Tuesday said all procedures laid down in the law were followed during the arrest of Disha Ravi from Bengaluru. Shrivastava told mediapersons that law does not differentiate on the basis of age. “Law does not differentiate between a 22-year-old and a 50-year-old. She was produced before a court which sent her to five-day police custody. It is wrong to say there were lapses in the arrest,” he said. Read AlsoSeveral legal eagles question sedition charge against Disha RaviMUMBAI/ DELHI: Legal experts on Monday questioned the invoking of the sedition law in the Disha Ravi case, saying Delhi Police had ‘over-reacted’ and the 22-year-old climate activist’s arrest was ‘unwarranted’. Former chief justice of Bombay high court Pradeep Nandrajogsaid the purpose of usingThe police commissioner’s reaction came amid accusations that police did not follow due procedure during the arrest. Shrivastava said the investigation was at an initial stage and details will be shared at an appropriate time. Delhi Police has been vehemently denying allegations of any excesses on its part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disha-ravi-arrest-followed-norms-no-leniency-on-basis-of-age-says-police/articleshow/81023218.cms||---
February 17, 2021||India||Worried parents ask kids to lie low||BENGALURU: A year ago, 22-year-old Fabia (name changed) was an active participant in protests relating to the environment, CAA, Section 377 and any other political issue. After multiple cases against youngsters during the anti-CAA protests and now the arrest of Disha Ravi, Fabia prefers to keep a low profile. “My parents want me to stay safe and not get involved in anything that may cause trouble. Though I feel suffocated, I understand their concern,” said Fabia. She is among many youths in Bengaluru who have been asked to keep a low profile on social media and beyond by fearful parents. “The recent events have created a sense of worry and my parents are urging us to tone down our social media activities. This is true with a lot of friends too,” said a Christ (deemed-to-be) University student. But experts feel it’s too early to judge. “It will definitely have a psychological impact. The worry is this fear may get institutionalised. But it is too early to say that,” said Christ professor MJ Vinod. Yet, there are others who believe the only way to overcome this is to resist further. “The more the government tries to silence us, the stronger we become,” said Suraj Dipta, a student who was at the protest site on Monday. “Parents will have to understand youngsters should take up such issues for a better future,” said Aratrika Dey, a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/worried-parents-ask-kids-to-lie-low/articleshow/81023429.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
February 17, 2021||India||ED charges Hooda in Panchkula case||CHANDIGARH: The Enforcement Directorate has filed a prosecution complaint (chargesheet) against former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and 20 others, including some IAS officers, in a money laundering case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with the Panchkula industrial plot allotment scam. Significantly, the daughter-in-law of a judge of Punjab and Haryana high court, who was allotted one of the plots, also figures in the report. The prosecution complaint was filed with the special court for ED cases in Panchkula. Special judge for ED cases Jagdeep Singh will consider the report submitted by the ED on February 18. Hooda had allotted 14 industrial plots worth around Rs 30.3 crore in a prime area of Panchkula to 14 acquaintances in 2013 allegedly at rates four-five times below the circle rate and 7-8 times below the market rate. Prominent beneficiaries of the scheme included close members of the Hooda family, his MLAs/party workers and his personal staff in the chief minister’s office. Prominent among those named in the prosecution complaint include Hooda; Dharam Pal Singh Nagal (retired IAS officer and the then chief administrator, Haryana Urban Development Authority); Surjit Singh, IAS and the then administrator, HUDA; Subhash Chandra Kansal, the then chief controller of finance, HUDA; Narinder Kumar Solanki, the then zonal administrator, Faridabad zone, HUDA; and Bharat Bhushan Taneja, the then superintendent, HUDA. The ED also found that the criteria were altered a few days after the last date of application and when all the applicant data was in possession of HUDA to favour the allottees who had been selected in advance. An FIR was registered on December 19, 2015, against Hooda, who was the chairperson of HUDA at the time of the allotment, and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-charges-hooda-in-panchkula-case/articleshow/81023512.cms||Ajay Sura
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Bhagwat-Mithun meet sets rumour mills agog||Mumbai: When Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat met National Award-winning Bollywood actor Mithun Chakraborty at his residence on Tuesday morning, it naturally ended up triggering intense speculation in political circles. Bhagwat, 70, came calling on Chakraborty at his bungalow in the Madh area of Malad west suburb, fuelling theories of the star’s potential comeback to active politics after a five-year hiatus. The duo spent close to two hours in presence of the actor’s entire family, though it is not known what may have exactly transpired in the morning ‘chai pe charcha’. However, after giving a warm send-off to Bhagwat, Chakraborty, sporting a dark woollen cap, firmly dismissed all rumours of his possible return to politics in a soft tone. The actor added that Bhagwat, whom he had met in Uttar Pradesh last October, just paid him a return visit. Earlier, the duo had also met in Nagpur, where the RSS headquarters are located. “Do not speculate, I and Bhagwat have a spiritual connect. We had met in Lucknow and I had requested him to visit me whenever he visited Mumbai,” Chakraborty said. The actor revealed that “Bhagwat-ji is very fond of my family” and had promised to visit him whenever he would come to Mumbai. To persistent queries about ending his ‘political sanyas’, Chakraborty laughed and said: “You are linking (this) because of the (West Bengal) elections. If there were no elections, you wouldn’t..!”. He added that he would love to work with the poor but prefer to keep off any politicking. Chakraborty is a former Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP, but had quit in 2016 on health grounds. An RSS functionary in Mumbai endorsed the actor’s stance, stating that “the meeting was purely private in nature and nothing more should be attached to it”. ians||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bhagwat-mithun-meet-sets-rumour-mills-agog/articleshow/81010223.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||TMC MLA’s house attacked in Malda, finger at party leaders||Malda: A 150-strong mob, armed with rods and sticks, attacked the residence-cum-office of Trinamool Congress MLA and Englishbazar Municipality chairman Nihar Ghosh here on Monday night, in a fresh pointer to faction feud six days after CM Mamata Banerjee addressed a public meeting in the district. Ghosh has lodged a formal police complaint against Trinamool’s Malda chairman Krishnendu Chowdhury, the party’s district youth president Prasenjit Das and four others. The Englishbazar MLA has also informed the state leadership about the “planned” attack. According to Ghosh, the mob first ransacked his office around 10pm. They broke furniture and destroyed documents and pictures of the Trinamool chief. A two-wheeler parked outside the office was also damaged. Next, they allegedly barged into the MLA’s house and vandalised his bedroom, prompting the latter to send an SOS to police. The mob dispersed before cops arrived. “There were around 150 of them, armed with rods and sticks. They wanted to kill my family and me. The goons were led by former minister Krishnendu Chowdhury and his followers,” Ghosh said on Tuesday. The MLA has handed over to police CCTV camera footage to support his claims. Chowdhury denied the allegations. “What happened was the outcome of a tiff kicked off by Ghosh’s wife. I have nothing to do with the incident. This is all made-up. It was arranged as part of a political plan. He (Ghosh) is now inching towards BJP and is trying to defame the party. I went there to control the mob,” Chowdhury said. SP Alok Rajoria said: “We have received a complaint and are looking into it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-mlas-house-attacked-in-malda-finger-at-party-leaders/articleshow/81010287.cms||Subhro Maitra
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||One held for cop assault, a Left supporter still missing||Kolkata: Non-bailable charges have been slapped against 250-odd SFI and DYFI supporters who had clashed with police and ripped the uniform of a Taltala cop on Monday evening following the death of Left worker Maidul Islam Midda. A 45-year-old Bangur Avenue resident was also arrested on Tuesday for the assault, based on CCTV camera footage. The detective department has, meanwhile, taken over the probe into the disappearance of Left activist Dipak Kumar Panja, a resident of West Midnapore’s Panskura. A notice has been sent to CPM leader Dr Fuad Halim to appear for questioning. Sources said Srijan Bhattacharya, the SFI state secretary, has been named a suspect in the FIR. Police said they had “identified the exact spot” from where Midda was picked up in an ambulance. This is close to Hotel Aura and around 600m from the place where police charged tear gas shells on February 11. Police said they were “collecting and analysing CCTV footage”. Cops will also seek Midda’s medical treatment details on February 11 and 13. Halim, in whose clinic Midda was treated, has said he will give police everything in writing. The post-mortem report has arrived and police are now waiting for the histopathological test reports to ascertain if Midda was suffering from any disease. An unnatural death case has been registered at Shakespeare Sarani police station. The Left Front said it was lodging “a strong protest” over Midda’s death. This includes a police station gherao, which began from Tuesday. Left supporters are likely to continue their thana agitation on Wednesday. On Thursday, they will sponsor a ‘rail roko’ across the state. Left parties are also likely to move Calcutta High Court, seeking justice for Midda. The SFI on Tuesday already demanded an independent probe under the aegis of the high court. “We will approach the HC on this issue,” Bhattacharya said. Calcutta HC lawyer Samim Ahammed said a complaint had been made to Kolkata police commissioner Soumen Mitra. “We have asked (him) to treat the complaint as an FIR, compensate the family and initiate action against errant officials,” Ahammed added. (With inputs from Falguni Banerjee in Bankura)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-held-for-cop-assault-a-left-supporter-still-missing/articleshow/81009888.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Kol experts in thyroid cancer testing leap||Kolkata: A team of experts at the Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education and Research (IPGMER), Kolkata, has identified a non-invasive test that can accurately indicate whether thyroid nodules are cancerous after standard clinical tests fail to arrive at a conclusion. The test could be a breakthrough, as it can prevent hundreds of patients from going under the scalpel. The standard management protocol for patients with thyroid nodules currently requires blood tests for thyroid function assessment, ultrasonography and fine needle aspiration test to determine whether the nodule is malignant. However, nearly a third of the patients land up with a result that is indeterminate or inconclusive. These patients are required to then undergo an operation to obtain thyroid gland tissue for biopsy. In three out of four cases, the result is benign. The remaining patients are then subjected to a second extensive surgery to remove the rest of the thyroid gland. The new protocol, developed by the team at IPGMER, will spare those who aren’t malignant from being put under the scalpel for biopsy. It will also ensure that the remaining patients who are malignant undergo a single operation to remove the malignancy, instead of being operated upon twice: first for biopsy and then to completely remove the gland. Based on studies on patients with thyroid nodules, Susmita Dutta, Sohan Tarafdar, Pradip Mukhopadhyay, Nitai P Bhattacharyya and Sujoy Ghosh from the department of endocrinology and metabolism at IPGMER have concluded that the concentration of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in a patient’s blood can indicate malignancy with 100% sensitivity. “As part of the normal physiological process when cells in the body disintegrate, they release cfDNA, which circulate in the blood. In case of malignancy, it is anticipated that the concentration of cfDNA is higher than normal. We have, through the study of cfDNA concentration, been able to accurately predict all cases of malignancy in the indeterminate group,” said Ghosh. According to the team, patients with cfDNA of 67.9 nanogram per millilitre of blood are most likely to have malignancy, while anything under that indicates benignity. The team’s study is also able to determine the extent of cancer spread by analysing the cfDNA concentration. The research has further revealed that the cfDNA concentration normalizes after a successful operation, indicating the patient is cancer-free. Driver mutations for thyroid cancer have also been established from the cfDNA in those with cancer. The research paper, titled ‘Plasma Cell-Free DNA to Differentiate Malignant from Benign Thyroid Nodules’, has been accepted as a lead article by the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism, the world’s leading journal on endocrinology published by the Endocrinology Society of the US. Since it is a lead article, the publishers have invited an accompanying commentary article from an opinion leader in the field which, incidentally, is a first for any research in endocrinology from India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-experts-in-thyroid-cancer-testing-leap/articleshow/81013461.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||BJP, TMC leaders reach out to Saraswati pandals ahead of polls||Kolkata: Saraswati Puja pandals this year was the preferred destination of politicians ahead of assembly polls as contenders from Trinamool Congress and BJP made use of Sree Panchami celebrations as part of their public outreach programmes. TMC ministers and BJP seniors visited Saraswati pandals from Monday, some for inauguration and others to participate in it. On Tuesday, Trinamool secretary general and education minister Partha Chatterjee, flanked by Kartik Banerjee, went to Asutosh College, reminiscing their days as students. “This is a very special moment. Mamata Banerjee had studied in Jogomaya (college), Subrata Bakshi had studied here, so did I. Kartik, too, studied here. Whatever we are is due to this college,” Partha said. Senior minister Subrata Mukherjee went to Ekdalia Evergreen, a club he patronises. “The Saraswati Puja here is organised by women and children,” he said. On Tuesday, most BJP leaders were busy attending Saraswati Pujas in their neighbourhoods. At Kamarhati in North 24 Parganas, BJP workers distributed Saraswati idols to people for Rs 2. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh reached out to Uluberia, four years after a school there denied students from performing Saraswati Puja in 2017. “They (Trinamool) have decided to observe Saraswati Puja in each neighbourhood this year. Seems that life is coming a full circle for them and they are admitting their mistakes. No wonder their decisions are derived from political motives,” Ghosh said after attending a puja. The scene in Uluberia was entirely different from what it was in 2017 when students took out a protest rally with Saraswati idol in hand after they were denied permission to perform the puja. On Tuesday, the puja was held on the school premises under tight police cover. “They observed puja this year although the number of students present at the school was less due to Covid-19 concerns,” said Howrah BJP leader Umesh Rai. In the areas like Shyampur in Howrah, schools decided not to celebrate Saraswati Puja this year following Covid-19 measures put in place.  “TMC’s direction to observe Saraswati Puja this year is clearly prompted by the fact that 30% vote is not enough for them,” BJP MP Locket Chatterjee said. “Ask students. BJP is trying to make a mountain out of a molehill. We are believers and take part in religious ceremonies,” Partha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-tmc-leaders-reach-out-to-saraswati-pandals-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/81010342.cms||Rohit Khanna
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Minister visits Midda’s kin||SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya on Tuesday said they would fund the education of the two children of Maidul Islam Midda. State rural development minister Shyamal Santra visited Midda’s home in Bankura’s Kotulpur and assured his family that a job would be provided to his kin. Santra extended condolences on behalf of CM Mamata Banerjee. “I come from the same party and represent the same government. We will stand by you,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/minister-visits-middas-kin/articleshow/81010005.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Ranchi||Legal fraternity hails decision to set up high court bench in Dumka||Dumka: Members of the legal fraternity in the state, especially in the Santhal Pargana, have welcomed the decision of chief minister Hemant Soren to set up a bench of the Jharkhand high court in Dumka. “We are glad to learn that the chief minister has approved the proposal for setting up a high court bench in Dumka, directing the building construction department to identify a plot for the same. The fact, however, is that around 13 to 15 acres of land have already been acquired by the district administration about a decade ago,” Jharkhand Bar Council advocate Gopeshwar Prasad Jha told TOI. Jha had recently submitted a memorandum to Soren in connection to the demand for a separate bench. “With the land already in possession of the district administration, the state government now just needs to transfer the plot to the public works department to develop the required infrastructure. A proposal should also be sent to the Union law ministry for it to initiate the process to get approval of the Parliament,” Jha added. Jha said that nearly 40,000 cases from the Santhal Pargana were pending in the Jharkhand high court, and a bench here would largely help in reducing that figure. “The Santhal Pargana is an impoverished region and so a large number of litigants fail to appear before the high court as they do not have the money to frequently travel to Ranchi,” Jha said. The chairman of Jharkhand State Bar Association, R Krishna, said that the government’s step would make pursuing cases in the high court easier for litigants from the Santhal Pargana. “I hope that the project sees the light of day and does not remain a mere announcement,” he said. The treasurer of the Advocates’ Association, Dheeraj Kumar, too, welcomed the move. He said, “People from the Santhal Paragana face a lot of inconveniences in pursuing their cases in the high court. Many of them have to travel around 250 km to reach the court. If the high court bench comes up, several lawyers from this region or the ones who have a large client base here may shift to the Dumka bench.” (Additional reporting from Sanjay Sahay in Ranchi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/legal-fraternity-hails-decision-to-set-up-high-court-bench-in-dumka/articleshow/81004572.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
February 17, 2021||Ranchi||Shut since lockdown, edu institutes give Saraswati Puja a miss||Ranchi: Saraswati Puja was held with traditional fervour in Ranchi on Tuesday with people offering prayers to the deity at home and pandals, albeit in a low-key manner, keeping in mind the ongoing pandemic. With coaching institutions remaining shut since the Covid-induced lockdown in March last year, many were seen giving the celebrations a miss this year. While Saraswati idols are generally not theme-based, the pandemic helped creative minds make wonders with several committees installing Covid-themed idols at the pandals. At Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (Rims), Saraswati came along with her entourage consisting Ganesh and Kartik where the latter was seen slaying a coronavirus-shaped demon. Rims director Dr Kameshwar Prasad performed the rituals in the presence of doctors and students. The day was also observed at Durga Bari with traditional fervour. Devotees also thronged to Pahari Mandir to mark the ‘tilakotsav’ of Shiva on the occasion of Basant Panchami. The administration had deployed a large number of police personnel at the pandals and sensitive places to ensure law and order. SP (city) Saurav said, “Around seven hundred police personnel have been deployed in different parts of the city. The puja passed off peacefully. The main focus now will be to ensure peace during the immersion which will take place at Bada Talaab, Chadri Talaab and other waterbodies of the city. Policemen will be deployed at sensitive places where incidents have occurred in the past.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/shut-since-lockdown-edu-institutes-give-saraswati-puja-a-miss/articleshow/81004302.cms||Sanjay Sahay
February 17, 2021||Ranchi||NIT student from Bihar goes missing in Steel City||JAMSHEDPUR: An NIT Jamshedpur student from Bihar has gone missing from a lodge here, police said on Tuesday. The student, Raja Kumar from Saharsa in Bihar, is a student of mechanical engineering and visited Ranchi to sit for Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) on Sunday. Since the NIT's hostel is shut because of the Covid-19 pandemic, Kumar stayed at Hira Lodge under Golmuri police station along with his classmate Aniket Raj. According to Raj, who filed the missing person's complaint, Kumar left the lodge on Sunday afternoon leaving behind his wallet and mobile phone. Kumar also did not appear in the examination. Golmuri police said they cross-checked with the examination centre at Pardih and found that Kumar was absent. Raj further said since their institute was shut, classes were held online but Kumar seemed uninterested and spoke very little when they met, which is unusual for him. Soon after getting the information, Kumar's family members have arrived here. His brother said Kumar had boarded a train fro Patna on February 13 and last spoke to him after he reached Jamshedpur. Officer-in-charge of Golmuri police station, Arvind Kumar, said efforts are on to locate Kumar and are hopeful of finding him soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nit-student-from-bihar-goes-missing-in-steel-city/articleshow/81004358.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
February 17, 2021||Ranchi||JMM serious about fulfilling poll promises: Supriyo||Ranchi: JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya on Tuesday said his party is serious about fulfilling the promises made to the people of Jharkhand in its election manifesto. Bhattacharya’s remarks came after chief minister Hemant Soren approved the setting up of a division bench of the Jharkhand high court in Dumka. “The bench was a long-pending demand of the people of Santhal Pargana and will save people’s time, money and 350-km travel to Ranchi,” the CM had said. “BJP had governed Jharkhand for 16 out of the state’s 20 years of existence. But it could manage to conduct only six Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) examinations. Our government had promised to hold JPSC every year and this year, we are clubbing four exams in one. We had promised to lower the JPSC fees and we did that. We had also promised to establish a division bench in Dumka within the first fiscal of our government and we did that as well,” Bhattacharya said. JMM also attacked BJP over rising inflation and prices of petrol and diesel. “BJP must come up with a new slogan, Ab ki baar, petrol Sau (100) ke paar (This time petrol prices will cross Rs 100 a litre),” Bhattacharya said targetting the saffron party. The saffron party also announced that it is preparing a blueprint for a phased protest against the Centre over rising petrol and diesel prices. “We appeal to the people to unite and let the Prime Minister know about the Mann Ki Baat of the people,” Bhattacharya said. He further said JMM is surprised to see the growth in the stock market despite the country’s GDP stagnating at a negative scale. “In the 2014-15 FY, India’s GDP was over 7% and the sensex had touched a high of 22,000 points in April 2014. Now, when GDP is running in negative, the sensex is finishing at over 52,000 points. How is this happening? No one has a clue,” he remarked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-serious-about-fulfilling-poll-promises-supriyo/articleshow/81004434.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Ranchi||Cop martyred as bomb planted by Maoists explodes in Lohardaga forest||Gumla: A policeman died at a Ranchi hospital while he was being treated for injuries sustained when an Improvised Explosive device (IED) planted by CPI (Maoist) exploded during a search operation at Dundru forest near Chapal village under Serendag police station in Lohardaga district around 9am on Tuesday morning. Jharkhand police personnel Duleshwar Prass (30) was part of small action team (SAT) of Lohardaga police and CRPF. The security personnel were on foot inside the forests when Prass stepped on the IED. He was a resident of Katimba village under Albert Ekka (Jari) police station in Gumla district, police said. In the evening, chief minister Hemant Soren paid tributes to the martyred cop at JAP-1 ground in Ranchi. Lohardaga SDPO Parmeshwar Prasad said, “Prass came in contact with a landmine (IED) laid by Maoists while the team was undertaking an operation against the squad of regional commander Ravindra Ganjhu. He flown to Ranchi by a helicopter, but he attained martyrdom.” He added that innocent villagers who ventured in to forests to collect firewood had also fallen victim to landmines laid by Maoists in the recent past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cop-martyred-as-bomb-planted-by-maoists-explodes-in-lohardaga-forest/articleshow/81004513.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 17, 2021||Kolkata||Congress-Left firms deal in 230 Bengal seats||KOLKATA: The Left Front and Congress on Tuesday claimed they had worked out a seat-sharing mechanism in 230 of Bengal’s 294 assembly seats in the upcoming polls, which are likely to be announced sometime next week. The parties, however, kept their plans in the remaining 64 seats close to their chest, mainly because they needed more time to fine-tune arrangements with Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui’s newly launched Indian Secular Front (ISF) — which has sought 50 seats — and with RJD and NCP, with whom the Left has had similar arrangements in the past. “We have completed discussions over seat adjustments in the coming assembly polls. But we are not announcing the list right now,” said Left Front chairman Biman Bose after a three-hour meeting, in which Congress Lok Sabha leader and Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury was also present. According to sources close to the development, both parties needed some more time to work out the details with ISF, whose president, Nausad Siddiqui, had written to them asking for seats in South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Nadia and East Midnapore. At nearly all of these places, Left parties have had a greater vote share than Congress. Sources indicated the Left would have to sacrifice some seats to ISF if the deal has to materialise. The ISF had declared itself a party for Muslims, Dalits and Adivasis, a demography that could prove very crucial, giving the party an important bargaining point. Abbas Siddiqui, in a recent jalsa (religious gathering), held that he wanted a “half-century (50) seats” to make the seat adjustments work. Left and Congress leaders had agreed to talk to the party on condition that it would have to dissociate itself from Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM. ISF support to Left and Congress candidates might fetch some seats for the Left-Cong tie-up, particularly for the Left, in south Bengal. At the same time, the deal might spark debate on the tryst of mainstream parties with a party floated by a cleric. CPM politburo member Mohammad Salim refused to call ISF “Abbas Siddiqui’s” party. “Correct your information. I have the letter with me. Sibu Soren is the ISF chairman,” Salim had recently told reporters. But a deal with the ISF is something the Left would like to tread with caution, especially over fears of how it would be spun by the BJP. The saffron party could dub the alliance as one “close to minorities”, trying to consolidate the majority Hindu votes in its favour, like it had done in Uttar Pradesh. “We are aware of the risks involved. The ISF has to show the secular card in the run-up to the polls,” said an LF leader. Then, there is the matter of seat-sharing with RJD and NCP. Left partners admitted that working out a smooth seat-adjustment formula was easier said than done. “Problems over seat adjustments with Congress remain in Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia. Congress stands stubborn, leaving it to the Left to sacrifice seats,” said a Left leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cong-left-firms-deal-in-230-bengal-seats/articleshow/81013429.cms||---
February 17, 2021||Vadodara||Covid numbers hold up in Vadodara amid surge fears||Vadodara: For many in the city, it is back to the old normal as the number of Covid-19 cases started reducing significantly over the past few months. But if the latest data is anything to go by, it is hardly time to let down one’s guard against the invisible enemy. After peaking in September, the number of coronavirus cases detected every day in the city and district was on a steady decline. But the rate at which this was going down has slowed down significantly and in the last couple of days there has been a minor rise. Sources said that historically as well as during the present pandemic, it was an experience that a second wave of the disease was witnessed. They pointed out that in the case of Vadodara, this would become clearer in the coming days. It took eight days for the number of cases reported per day to fall from 80 to 70 and six days to fall from 70 per day to 60 per day. It took nine days for the number to reach from 60 cases a day to 50 per day. But the number has still not reached 40 and has started rising by a case a day since Monday. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said that the rise was significant and could be due to persons from a large family or group testing positive together.“The spread of the disease is much less now and the hospitalization due to it is also steady. This is expected to stay amongst us for quite some time,” he said. The VMC is closely watching the situation elsewhere. Patel said that they were monitoring the situation closely. Sources added that whatever was happening in other cities could not be ruled out in Vadodara. Sources involved in the testing of samples said that the number of samples tested positive was going up. The facility tests samples from across the Central Gujarat region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-numbers-hold-up-in-vadodara-amid-surge-fears/articleshow/81003369.cms||Sachin Sharma
February 17, 2021||India||‘History not just what is written by people with slave mindset’||LUCKNOW: PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday accused the previous governments of not giving due honour to “deserving” national icons like Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Vallabhbhai Patel and Baba Saheb Ambedkar. Paying rich tributes to the 11th century king Maharaja Suheldev on his 1012nd birth anniversary, the PM termed him a saviour of the country’s cultural identity, who did not get the due in history books. “But histroy is not just what is written by those who enslaved the country and those having a mindset infested with slavery. Indian history is also alive in people’s collective memory, in folklores. Though Suheldev’s valour and courage did not get due recognition in history books, his identity continues to persist in the heart and soul of people in Awadh, terai region and Poorvanchal (east UP),” he said, while virtually addressing the anniversary celebration held in Bahraich. The foundation of a memorial in the name of King Suheldev was also laid on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/history-not-just-what-is-written-by-people-with-slave-mindset/articleshow/81023619.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 17, 2021||India||STF arrests 2 PFI members, claims they had planned blasts across UP||LUCKNOW/DELHI: Uttar Pradesh Police’s Special Task Force (STF) on Tuesday arrested two members of Popular Front of India (PFI) in Lucknow for allegedly planning bomb blasts across the state, reports Pathikrit Chakraborty. The STF sleuths claimed that powerful improvised explosive devices were recovered from the possession of the two — Anshad Badruddin and Firoz Khan, both natives of Kerala. “Their immediate goal was to target at least 20 to 25 RSS and other Hindu outfit functionaries in the next few months,” said ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar. Badruddin is the national head of PFI’s hit squad division, a black belt and expert in bomb making while Firoz is national trainer of PFI on bomb making, he said. The two have confessed to having a plan to trigger blasts to mark ‘Popular Front Day’ — the foundation day of their outfit on February17, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stf-arrests-2-pfi-members-claims-they-had-planned-blasts-across-up/articleshow/81023695.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 17, 2021||India||Trend to tarnish judges ahead of elevation: CJI||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it has become a trend now to level allegations against Judges ahead of their appointment to a higher court or to a post. This poignant observation came from a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian while dealing with the case of a District Judge, whose chances of getting considered for appointment as a High Court Judge were spoiled after a women colleague accused him of sexual harassment. Ironically, the woman judge later refused to give evidence against him before the gender sensitization committee (GSC). The CJI said, "This phenomenon has become ubiquitous. All kinds of allegations against Judges come when they are about to get something." The trend of levelling allegations against SC Judges prior to their appointment as CJI is as old as the SC itself but it picked a trend with appointment of Justice A S Anand as CJI in 1998. Since then, few CJIs have escaped the dragnet of allegations that is spread prior to their appointment as head of the judiciary. The case in hand related to the sexual harassment complaint lodged by a Madhya Pradesh woman civil judge against the District Judge, when he was in the zone of consideration for appointment as Judge of the HC. The woman produced Whatsapp intimate chats between her and the DJ to prove her allegations. But, before the gender sensitization committee she refused to give evidence following a conciliation between the two. The MP High Court initiated a disciplinary proceeding against the District Judge terming his conduct unbecoming of a judicial officer based on the Whatsapp chats. Appearing for the DJ, senior advocate R Balasubramanian told the bench that under the law, once a conciliation is reached between two parties, the evidence in the case could not be taken into consideration to start another proceeding. The HC, through senior advocate Ravindra Srivastava said the HC wants to send a message against such conduct of judicial officers by going ahead with the disciplinary proceedings. The CJI-led bench said, "These are adults who could do whatever they intend to. She could have terminated the whatsapp conversations, but she did not as she appeared to go along." However, the bench disapproved of the conduct of the DJ in having intimate chats on Whatsapp with his junior woman colleague. "This matter before the GSC has come to an end with the woman declining to participate in the proceedings. But, the HC wants to proceed with the disciplinary proceedings. It is an inherent right with the employer to initiate disciplinary proceedings against any employee." The SC told the DJ, who retired last year, to withdraw the petition and face disciplinary proceedings to question the evidence. Balasubramanian took a week's time to get back to court with his client's response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trend-to-tarnish-judges-ahead-of-elevation-cji/articleshow/81023876.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
