February 18, 2021||Bengaluru||Expect light showers in Bengaluru on Friday & Saturday||BENGALURU: The city is expected to receive light showers on Friday and Saturday, while rainfall may be isolated elsewhere in the state over the next three days under the influence of the easterly trough. The easterly trough is wind moving from the west to the east to form a trough (circulation) to bring in rainfall. Coastal Karnataka is likely to receive isolated rain till February 20, while north-interior parts of the state are expected to get showers from February 18 to 20 and south-interior till February 21. Due to cloudy sky, minimum temperature in the city is likely to rise by a degree or two. IMD director C S Patil said, “Rain won’t be widespread, so we cannot say which are the districts that will receive showers. The weather will be dry and temperature will vary between 18 and 32 degrees Celsius.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/expect-light-showers-in-city-on-fri-sat/articleshow/81077824.cms||---
February 18, 2021||India||Suspected IED found on Jammu-Poonch highway||JAMMU: Traffic remained suspended on the Jammu-Poonch national highway on Wednesday morning after a suspected improvised explosive device was found lying abandoned in Manjakote area in Rajouri district. Rajouri SSP Chandan Kohli said, “A road opening party of the Indian Army found a suspicious object along the highway near Manjakote. Traffic was stopped on the highway, the area was cordoned off and a bomb disposal squad called in. The suspected explosive, packed in a fruit packing box, was destroyed through a controlled explosion.” A case was registered in this connection at Manjakote police station under relevant sections of the law. Further investigation was underway. Earlier, a suspected IED was similarly defused along the Mendhar-Gohlad road in Poonch district on January 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/suspected-ied-found-on-jammu-poonch-highway/articleshow/81079295.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Battling stigma and pandemic, Delhi’s pole-dancing fitness community continues to grow||In 2018, Delhi-based fitness enthusiast Manavi Prasad came across a line uttered by Ryan Gosling’s character in Crazy Stupid Love: “The war between the sexes is over. We won the second women started doing pole dancing for exercise.” The throwaway, somewhat misogynistic dialogue piqued Manavi’s curiosity and she researched pole dancing as a fitness activity and if any classes existed in Delhi. “I connected with Tania (her trainer) and now, pole dancing is part of my routine,” she tells us. Hollywood (and Bollywood too, in parts) may have presented pole dancing as a solely erotic, sensuous dance form, limited to strip clubs, but over the last couple of years, the form has found a home in studios across NCR where women learn in a bid to enhance their fitness. Lavanya Dontukurthi and Shinjani Aggarwal practise pole dancing as Tania Sudan looks on‘Was looking to learn a special skill and get fit side-by-side’Even the pandemic has failed to slow the growth of pole dancing in Delhi. Delhi-based wedding planner Mandakini Lama recounts how she found pole-dancing during the lockdown. “I was looking to find some unusual fitness activity because like everybody else, I was gaining weight. I thought I’ll learn some special skill and get fit side-by-side and that’s how I came across pole dancing as a fitness activity on YouTube. I researched and found an instructor in Delhi. Classes, of course, began after lockdown,” she says. In the short space of two years, Delhi has seen the rise of a small, niche community of pole dancers with a handful of trainers, most of who are self-taught or have learnt it abroad. Tania Sudan, 28, started out as a student herself three years ago and graduated to teaching girls herself. “I met a pole dancer from New York a few years ago who told me it’s great for fitness and that’s how I encountered it,” says Tania, who has trained over 300 women over the last two years. “The pandemic forced us trainers to shut studios but since then, I have resumed one-on-one classes at my home studio. There I can control who comes and goes and since there are no groups, it’s safer. The demand is such that on days, I am taking eight classes a day.” ‘My family isn’t aware I pursue pole dancing’The one thing that all trainees deal with is the notion that pole dancing is only an erotic dance form. A 26-year-old trainee from south Delhi who did not want to be named says, “For the longest time, I didn’t tell anyone. I would say I’m going for dance classes. Even now, only my mom knows. The rest of the family doesn’t. I know I can’t keep it a secret forever. I do plan to tell others in my family, but just don’t know when and how. Because of the image of pole dancing in mainstream media, there is this notion ki achhe ghar ki ladkiyan yeh sab nahin karti.” Trainers say they try and create a hospitable and safe zone in their studios for the clients. “The idea is to create a community for like-minded women, which is safe and non-judgemental, so that they can enjoy and not feel embarrassed about it,” says Vesna Jacob, who says she opened Delhi’s first pole dancing studio in 2018, having come across it in Serbia in 2017. ‘I don’t share my pole dancing videos with a lot of people’Even those who face no family pressure are cautious. “I am lucky that nobody has ever objected to my pole dancing. That includes my husband, parents, and in-laws. In fact, my husband is more than happy about me having a pole at home to practise. But this is something I do for myself, I don’t post about it on social media. I don’t share my videos with a lot of people,” says Manavi Prasad. Mandakini adds, “I am a wedding planner and my circle consists of grooms’ and brides’ parents. So I don’t share anything related to pole dancing on social media platforms that have my clients or their families on my friends’ list.” It’s not just for the youngAlthough it is an extremely demanding activity, it’s not just the young women who are drawn towards it. Some of the trainees across Delhi are even 50+. At 51, Shinjani Aggarwal is one of the older trainees under Tania. She tells us, “I was looking at something unconventional and this struck me as challenging. Of course, I have to be more careful than the girls in their 20s because their bodies are younger, more flexible and they heal quicker. But that’s true for any fitness activity. I want to do this much before I can’t do it anymore, given my age.” In fact, the Noida resident says that she often practises with her daughter, which surprises many of her friends and acquaintances, “I posted it on Instagram and some people were taken aback. I don’t really care about people’s perceptions, to be honest.” How pole dancing helps with fitnessAccording to the trainers, the mere strength required to climb onto the pole and stay there requires considerable upper body strength, which trainees have to build. Additionally, the routines help improve core strength, tone arms and thighs, as well as increase flexibility. In addition, it has a cardio component as well. Stigma attached to pole dancing: Delhi Vs MumbaiMumbai, it seems, has a much larger, burgeoning pole dancing community as compared to the capital. Trainers chalk it down to the stigma surrounding pole dancing, which is much more acute in Delhi they say than in Mumbai, but add that the perceptions are changing. Vesna Jacob says, “Delhi is far more conservative regarding things that women do and how they behave. Mumbai, maybe, is much more exposed to (these) things because of the entertainment industry. Things like pole take time to catch on in Delhi. But it is refreshing that it’s changing now. We get calls from women daily, enquiring about pole dance classes.” Vesna plans to reopen her studio soon and bring in international trainers for masterclasses once the pandemic is under control. For now, it’s women-only classes in DelhiTrainers say there are requests and queries from men as well, but they haven’t entertained any so far. Vesna tells us, “So far, we have done women-only classes even though we have had a few requests from men as well. But given that the focus is on creating a safe space for women who may not be comfortable doing pole with men around, we don’t have plans for mixed classes.” Fitness on the poles: Celebs show the way fitness on the polesMany celebrities have taken to social media to share pictures and videos of them pole dancing. While sometimes, these posts have attracted the ire of trolls, celebs continue to swear by pole dancing as a great fitness routine The different formsAccording to experts, pole-dancing can be broadly categorised into three parts:  Sensuous/exotic: The one we see in movies and found predominantly in strip clubs in the west Artistic pole dancing as a dance or art form with focus on the fluidity of movements Fitness-based pole dancing to train the body and increase strength and flexibility However, since it’s a niche form, all forms of pole dancing are often confused with the first part Watch Battling stigma and pandemic: Delhi's pole dancing fitness community grows||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/battling-stigma-and-pandemic-delhis-pole-dancing-fitness-community-continues-to-grow/articleshow/81071213.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
February 18, 2021||India||Srinagar veg dhaba scion hurt in terror attack||SRINAGAR: Terrorists of a little-known outfit shot at and critically injured the 22-year-old scion of Srinagar's landmark Krishna Vaishno Dhaba on Wednesday, timing the attack with a 24-member European Union delegation's two-day visit to the Valley. In a statement later, the Muslim Janbaz Force, which the South Asia Terrorism Portal lists as a Pakistani outfit, said the attack was in retaliation to "outsiders" being allowed to settle in J&K under the new domicile rules. Victim Aakash Mehra was at the popular Dalgate eatery owned by his father Ramesh Kumar Mehra, whose roots are in Jammu's Janipora, when the terrorists singled him out and shot him in the chest around 7.15pm, J&K Police said. Medical superintendent Dr Nazir Choudhary of SMHS Hospital told TOI that Aakash underwent surgery and his condition remains critical. Krishna Vaishno Dhaba was established in 1993 and went on to become one of the favourite vegetarian restaurants of both tourists and residents. Although its owner is a permanent resident of the Valley, the Muslim Janbaz Force claimed Wednesday's attack was just the beginning of its campaign against those who had newly acquired domicile certificates. "We will reward those who successfully carried out the assigned task. Brace for more attacks," the outfit said in a statement in Urdu. The fledgling TRF, another Pakistan-backed terror group with moorings in Jaish-e-Mohammad and Hizbul Mujahideen, had been among the first to threaten and mount attacks on non-Muslim beneficiaries of the domicile law. The outfit said allowing "outsiders" to settle was part of an "RSS-BJP plot to change the demography of Kashmir".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/srinagar-veg-dhaba-scion-hurt-in-terror-attack/articleshow/81079356.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 18, 2021||India||Dubai’s princess narrates 'Indian' angle in capture||LONDON: Princess Latifa, daughter of Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, has for the first time described how she was captured by Indian special forces three years ago on a boat off the coast of India and how despite kicking and screaming that she was seeking political asylum she was tranquilised and carried onto a private jet. In the first video footage seen of Latifa since she was sent back to Dubai, the 35-year-old described how on March 4, 2018, around 12 to 15 Indian commandos and two Emirati sergeants came on board her yacht and one injected her with what she presumed were tranquilisers. Read AlsoUK judge finds that Indian military did capture Princess Latifa and send her back to detention in DubaiLONDON: A UK family court has found that Indian military forces conducted a seaborne assault to capture Princess Latifa from a yacht off the coast of India on the instructions of her father, the ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, when she was trying to escape living with him. TheThe Indian government has never commented on its involvement. On Wednesday the UN said it would raise the developments with the UAE. Latifa’s Finnish friend Tina Jauhiainen, who was on the yacht, described to BBC Panorama’s ‘The Missing Princess’ on Tuesday how they were both asleep when they heard noises on the upper deck which sounded like gunshots. “The boat was taken over by Indian special forces. Latifa was lying on the floor and her hands were tied behind her back and she kept repeating ‘I am seeking political asylum’ but they were not listening,” said Jauhiainen. Latifa was taken to an Indian military ship, the programme said. Read AlsoThe failed escape: Sheikha Latifa's doomed flight from DubaiThree years ago, in secluded corners of a sprawling mall in Dubai, Sheikha Latifa, the daughter of the emirate's ruler, plotted with close friend Tiina Jauhiainen to escape her father's clutches.“The commandos carried me to a big room where there were four or five generals. I repeated that I want to get asylum and don’t want to go to Dubai. Then I saw a private jet,” said Latifa. Next an Emirati commando picked her up as she was kicking, so she bit him, she said. Another man tranquilised her again. “They put me on a stretcher and I passed out as they carried me onto the jet. When I woke up, I found the jet had landed in Dubai. I have been in solitary confinement ever since without medical access,” she said. A year later, Jauhiainen managed to get a phone to her. Latifa started to make videos locked in the bathroom in a Dubai villa where, she said, she was held hostage, guarded by police officers. Several months ago the messages Jauhiainen sent were not received. This spurred her to release the videos to Panorama. In one video, Latifa explains how she was tricked by her stepmother, Princess Haya, to meet Mary Robinson, a former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, when the UN was investigating her disappearance. She said Haya had told her that if she acted well at the lunch, she would be released soon. “I was never told Mary Robinson was the former UN human rights commissioner. Had I known, I would have said everything to her,” she said. Photos of that lunch were released by the UAE to prove Latifa was fine and Robinson gave media interviews saying the same. But on Panorama, Robinson claims she was misled. Back in the villa, nothing changed for Latifa and she was back in her “prison”, with no new clothes or medical access, not even a toothbrush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-special-forces-tranquilised-me-carried-me-on-pvt-jet-dubai-princess/articleshow/81079487.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 18, 2021||World||After Twitter threat, Malala asks Imran why Pak let Taliban man flee||ISLAMABAD: Pakistani Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai has questioned PM Imran Khan and the military leadership about the escape of Ehsanullah Ehsan, once counted among the top functionaries of the Pakistani Taliban, from government custody. Yousafzai, 23, posed the question after being threatened on Twitter from an account purportedly belonging to Ehsan. "Come back to your original home in Swat, we have special unfinished business with you and your father (Ziauddin Yousafzai). We will end what we had started this time around," the user of the micro-blogging site threatened. "This is the ex-spokesperson of Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, who claims responsibility for the attack on me and many innocent people. He is now threatening people on social media. How did he escape, Prime Minister Imran Khan and Inter-Services Public Relations Director General Major Gen Babar Iftikhar?" Malala responded. Dr Arslan Khalid, PM’s focal person on digital media, however, said that Ehsan’s account on Twitter was a fake one. "It’s a fake account Malala and there is zero tolerance for extremism in Pakistan. Have forwarded this fake account to authorities and Twitter as such miscreants using fake accounts and spreading hate shouldn’t be allowed on any social media platform," Dr Khalid said in a tweet, prompting the Twitter authorities to suspend the account. Following Ehsan’s escape from the custody of security agencies last year, he disclosed how he had surrendered to Pakistani security forces in 2017, and how he escaped from a military-run safe house in a posh neighbourhood of the northwestern city of Peshawar. The former Taliban spokesperson was one of the most notorious Pakistani Taliban terrorists during the height of the group’s bloody war against the Pakistani state, which saw more than 20,000 civilians killed in suicide bombings, IED blasts and other attacks, according to the South Asia Terrorism Portal (SATP). The group also killed more than 6,000 members of Pakistan’s security forces, according to SATP data. While the government offered no comment on Ehsan’s imprisonment or escape since it occurred, although the former Interior Minister, Ijaz Shah, a retired brigadier, had confirmed last year in February that he was no longer in Pakistani custody. In 2012, Ehsan claimed responsibility on behalf of the Pakistani Taliban for the assassination attempt on the then 14-year-old Malala Yousafzai in her native Swat Valley, threatening reporters after the attack for taking the victim’s side and publishing "propaganda against Islam and the Taliban".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/after-twitter-threat-malala-asks-imran-why-pak-let-taliban-man-flee/articleshow/81079883.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 18, 2021||Goa||Setback for India as World Cup qualifiers pushed to June||Panaji: India’s preparations for the World Cup 2022 qualifiers have been disrupted again with the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) postponing the rest of the group E games to June. The AFC had initially planned to host the World Cup qualifying matches at a centralised venue in either Oman or Qatar. All participating teams in the group, except Bangladesh, had agreed to the proposal. However, AFC has now communicated to the All India Football Federation (AIFF) that fresh concerns over Covid-19 means the tournament cannot be organised next month. According to the new dates suggested by AFC, India will face Asian champions Qatar on June 3, then take on Bangladesh on June 7 and conclude the qualifying campaign on June 15 against Afghanistan. “This is not an ideal situation for India,” a senior official told TOI on Wednesday. “Our plan was to have the camp from March 1, and with the players joining after finishing their engagements in the Indian Super League (ISL), all of them would have had excellent match fitness. They will now be forced to take a break before they return to the field.” National coach Igor Stimac had planned to kickstart preparations from March 1 in Dubai. India are currently fourth in Group E with three points from their first five matches. Qatar top the table with 13 points while Oman are close behind with 12 points. India are aiming for a third-place finish in the group which will provide them with a direct spot in the third round of the Asian Cup 2023 qualifiers. India’s best performance came against the top-ranked teams in the group. While they started with a narrow 1-2 loss against Oman at home after conceding towards the closing stages of the match, they played their best against Qatar, holding the Asian champions goalless in Doha. FIXTURESJune 3: India vs Qatar. June 7: Bangladesh vs India. June 15: India vs Afghanistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/setback-for-india-as-world-cup-qualifiers-pushed-to-june/articleshow/81080018.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 18, 2021||Goa||ISL: FC Goa outsmart Odisha for first win after six draws, enter top 4||After a run of six straight draws, FC Goa returned to winning ways with a comfortable 3-1 win over bottom-placed Odisha FC in the Indian Super League at Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, on Wednesday. Alberto Noguera (18’) and Jorge Ortiz (26’) gave Goa a two-goal cushion, but Odisha had a lifeline through a strike from Diego Mauricio before the half an hour mark. However, Ivan Gonzalez, who had an assist in the first half, scored Goa’s third after the change of ends. Unbeaten in 11 games now, Goa moved back among the top four with 27 points after 18 matches, the same as third-placed Hyderabad FC. Goa made two changes with Princeton Rebello replacing suspended captain Edu Bedia while James Donachie took the place of Adil Khan in the centre of defence. Odisha interim coach Gerald Peyton knew Goa would attack from the start, and they did just that. Juan Ferrando’s side could have taken an early lead when Ortiz weaved past the Odisha defence and found Noguera outside the six-yard box. But the Spaniards right-footer was blocked by goalkeeper Arshdeep Singh. Goa looked comfortable with the ball and had to remain patient. They got the opening in the 18th minute when Noguera, after providing eight assists, got his first goal of the season. Ortiz played the ball to overlapping Gonzalez and the defender crossed perfectly for Noguera to head past the goalkeeper. Goa carried on with the momentum and got their second eight minutes later through a counter attack. It was meant to be Odisha’s chance to create something from a corner, but Goa custodian Dheeraj Singh cleared the ball to safety which eventually found Saviour Gama. The latter sent in a delightful through ball to Ortiz, who covered some distance and beautifully chipped over the ball over the onrushing Arshdeep for his sixth goal. Odisha reacted quickly with a powerful shot from Daniel Lalhlimpuia which was blocked by Dheeraj. They managed to pull one back at the half an hour mark when Rakesh Pradhan’s cross from the left found Mauricio at the far post for an easy tap in. Soon, the tide changed as Odisha looked threatening and created chances. At the other end, Igor Angulo thought he had won a penalty after going down to a challenge from Pradhan on the edge of the box. The match referee initially pointed out to the spot, but gave a free-kick after consulting his assistant. Odisha continued to trouble Goa after the restart. Mauricio nearly had another, but mistimed his kick and then Princeton came up with a crucial tackle in the box before the Brazilian could do any damage. Goa have been poor at set pieces all through the season, but they did restore their two-goal advantage through one in the 75th minute. Ortiz’s corner was headed by Gonzalez and Arshdeep did manage to block the ball initially, but couldn’t do much when the rebound fell back to the Goa defender. Minutes later, Gonzalez was unlucky as his header struck the crossbar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-fc-goa-outsmart-odisha-for-first-win-after-six-draws-enter-top-4/articleshow/81080120.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
February 18, 2021||Goa||Churchill Brothers eye full points after three consecutive draws||Teams have been catching up with Churchill Brothers FC in the I-League after three straight draws and the former champions will want to get back to winning ways when they face Chennai City FC at the Kalyani Stadium in Kolkata on Thursday. Churchill started their campaign on the front foot with 10 points from the first four games. But a 1-1 result against TRAU, followed by goalless draws against Aizawl FC and Real Kashmir FC brought them down to third. “Chennai City is a tough match. Difficult because of tall and experienced players. This year the league is more difficult. You can see the quality. We have to show ambition to win and we will for sure,” Churchill head coach Fernando Varela said in an online interaction on Wednesday. Churchill missed the explosiveness of star striker Clayvin Zuniga who suffered a knee injury in the first session against TRAU. He missed the clash against Aizawl but did come on as a 71st minute substitute in the last game. The league’s top scorer with five goals will want to make it in the starting 11 alongside striking partner Luka Majcen. Both have combined to score Churchill’s eight goals so far while only Bryce Miranda has been the other scorer in the team. “It’s a very good combination. They understand and support each other very well. We have to prepare the game and will see how it is in the evening after the training session. Will have to check very well to be sure to play Clayvin after taking inputs from the physio and trainer,” said Varela. A win against Chennai could help them reclaim the top spot and open a two-point gap. Churchill and Real Kashmir are the only unbeaten teams so far. Chennai City are ninth in the standings after their recent 2-0 defeat against Punjab. The 2018-19 champions, though, are no pushovers. “Churchill Brothers are one of the contenders for the championship and are a very strong team. It is going to be a difficult game for us. We are looking for three points and they want to keep their momentum. They had a good rest for this match. It is going to be a tough one for us,” said Chennai coach Satyasagara. There are three teams with nine and 10 points and Satyasagara knows a win will take them into the top half of the table. “If we keep believing in ourselves and do what we do in training, we will get positive results,” said Satyasagara. Serbian forward Demir Avdic is still getting acclimatised to the conditions although he has got one goal and an assist so far in seven games. He will be the key man, alongside Iqbal Hussain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churchill-brothers-eye-full-points-after-three-consecutive-draws/articleshow/81080141.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
February 18, 2021||Goa||My target is to reach top 100, says Goa shuttler Anjana||Panaji: Goa’s top shuttler Anjana Kumari is set to resume her international journey from Uganda with the international series badminton tournament, starting February 25. Anjana has been participating in the women's category since October 2019 when she took part in Dubai International Challenge by qualifying for the main draw. The 20-year-old featured in five international tournaments in Iran, Dubai, Bangladesh, Nepal and Mumbai. While she registered an impressive result in Iran to reach quarters, she played in the main draw in Dubai, Bangladesh and Nepal. "I kept myself motivated during the lockdown and trained hard own. I won the women's singles and doubles crown (with Yasmin Sayed) in the state level tournament. I am ready to do whatever it takes to reach the top 100. That's the target," said Anjana. Anjana has set her sights on the National Games as well. "Being No. 1 player in Goa, I hope to win laurels for the state. I am excited to feature in the National Games at home. However, I must also focus on keep improving," said Anjana who won bronze in the team championship for Goa at the last National Games in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/my-target-is-to-reach-top-100-says-goa-shuttler-anjana/articleshow/81080232.cms||Paresh Mokani
February 18, 2021||India||Covid-19: Can our vaccine fight new strains? India to test||PUNE: The efficacy of the two Indian vaccines currently in use — Covishield and Covaxin — is likely to be tested against the Brazil and South Africa variants soon, scientists have said. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had announced on Tuesday that Pune-based National Institute of Virology was in the process of isolating and culturing the South African variant in its lab. The NIV has already readied a culture of the Brazilian variant for testing. “Serum samples drawn from those who have received the vaccines in India will be used in the lab to test if they can neutralise the two variants that recently entered India,” said Dr Samiran Panda, head of ICMR’s epidemiology and communicable diseases division. The South African variant is also known as 501.V2. The Brazilian one has been tagged as P.1. So far, India has recorded four Covid-positive cases with the South African variant and one with the Brazilian variant. “It is not necessary that a variant that is more transmissible will turn out to be more virulent. Another question to ask is whether they are associated with rapidly spreading outbreaks,” said Dr Panda. Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, director of National Centre for Disease Control, said the South African and Brazilian variants have public health implications. “For one, the Brazilian variant is believed to be more transmissible and it may have the ability to evade antibodies,” he said. Studies show the South African variant too is more transmissible.Dr Singh did not disclose the locations in the country that reported cases with the mutated versions. Watch Covid-19: India to test efficacy of vaccines on new strains||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-can-our-vaccine-fight-new-strains-india-to-test/articleshow/81080392.cms||Neha Madaan
February 18, 2021||India||PM Modi to review China, Pak situation at military meet||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will review the operational situation on the China and Pakistan fronts as well as the progress in the much-needed integration of the armed forces during the combined commanders’ conference (CCC) in the first week of March. The CCC, which will be held at Kevadia in Gujarat with all top commanders of the Army, Navy and IAF, will come after Phase-I of the ongoing troop disengagement between India and China in Pangong Tso area of eastern Ladakh is completed this weekend. It will also take place ahead of the impending creation of two unified tri-Service commands in the shape of the “functional” Air Defence Command (ADC) and the “geographical” Maritime Theatre Command (MTC) this year, as was reported by TOI in December. “The PM, for the first time in his second tenure, will address the CCC and is likely to give directions to the armed forces to be prepared to meet all challenges with greater integration among themselves in a cost-effective manner,” said a senior official. Within 48 hours of the Pangong Tso disengagement being completed, India and China will hold the tenth round of corps commander-level meeting to discuss the remaining trouble spots at the strategically-located Depsang Plains as well as Gogra, Hot Springs and the Charding Ninglung Nallah (CNN) track junction in the Demchok sector. The new unified commands, in turn, are part of the biggest-ever military restructuring plan to build an integrated land-air-sea war-fighting machinery.The MTC, with its headquarters at the Karwar naval base in coastal Karnataka, will have operational control over the western and eastern naval fleets, maritime strike fighter jets and transport aircraft, two amphibious infantry brigades and coastal patrol vessels, as was reported by TOI earlier. This becomes crucial in face of China’s ever-expanding naval footprint in the IOR. China already has the world’s largest Navy with 350 warships and submarines, and plans to reach a force-level of 420 by the end of this decade. The theatre commander will report to the joint chiefs of staff committee led by the chief of defence staff. Similar will be the case when the theatre commands for the land borders with China and Pakistan come up subsequently. At present, India has as many as 17 single-service commands (Army 7, IAF 7 and Navy 3), with very little synergy in planning and operations as well as disjointed command-and-control structures.  The only two existing tri-Service commands came up after the 1999 Kargil conflict. The Andaman & Nicobar Command was set up as a “geographical” command in October 2001, while the “functional” Strategic Forces Command to handle the country’s nuclear arsenal came up in January 2003.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-review-china-pak-situation-at-military-meet/articleshow/81080745.cms||Rajat Pandit
February 18, 2021||India||Banned outfit & PJF joined hands to spread unrest in country: Cops||NEW DELHI: The investigation into the controversial toolkit case has indicated that banned outfit Sikhs For Justice had joined hands with London-based Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) sometime in 2019-20 to spread unrest in Delhi and other parts of the country, according to police sources. For this purpose, the masterminds, while sitting abroad, carefully chose their foot soldiers to give shape to their plans in the backdrop of the farmers’ agitation, said the sources. Delhi Police is currently scanning around 120 GB of data seized from devices and emails of Disha Ravi, who was earlier arrested, and Nikita Jacob. The sources claimed that the accused were using a plethora of apps and VPNs for communication regarding the agitation. Technical experts are scanning apps like Sufshark, Cyberghost and Proton besides examining their Telegram and Signal accounts. Till now, the police have identified and gathered details about 26 of the 70 participants of the Zoom meeting, a majority of whom are based abroad. The police said on Wednesday that they were in the process of piecing together the sequence of events from the information gathered so far. The sources claimed that Nikita, Shantanu and Disha had connected with each other in 2019-20, much before the farmers’ protest began on the Delhi border on November 27, 2020. It was in first week of December last year that Puneet from PJF approached Nikita and Shantanu on Instagram. By December 6, Nikita, Shantanu and Disha allegedly started a Whatsapp group, and on December 11, the e-mail, scrapfarmacts@gmail.com, was created. According to officials privy to the investigations, the PJF then began working towards the protest rally on January 26. On January 9, the PJF announced a global day of action and a Zoom meeting was held on January 11 which was attended by 70 people, including Mo Dhaliwal, Anita Lal, Nikita and Shantanu. On February 1, Marina Patterson from UK, along with Nikita and Shantanu, allegedly drafted another set of content for the next tweet storm on February 4 and 5. The content was later added to the toolkit. The antecedents of Patterson are being verified, said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/banned-outfit-pjf-joined-hands-to-spread-unrest-in-country-cops/articleshow/81080789.cms||---
February 18, 2021||India||Uttarakhand flash floods linked to Char Dham project: Panel chief||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Wednesday trashed Supreme Court-appointed high powered committee (HPC) chairman Ravi Chopra’s attempts to link recent Uttarakhand flash floods to the widening of roads for the Char Dham project in an eco-fragile zone and told the court that it was a “unilateral” expression of “baseless and unwarranted” views. In its December 31 report to the SC, 16 HPC members had approved the Char Dham project and widening of roads up to 10 metres. Chopra and two others opposed widening of roads beyond a width of 5.5 metres. In its January 15 affi davit, the Centre termed Chopra’s views as “personal” and “bereft of a holistic approach”, which required keeping in mind the need of armed forces, especially in view of India-China border standoff. Attorney general K K Venugopal and solicitor general Tushar Mehta on Wednesday informed a bench of Justices R F Nariman, Hemant Gupta and Bhushan R Gavai about Chopra’s February 13 letter. “Yesterday we received a letter from the chairman of the HPC, written on his own and linking the recent disaster to the Char Dham project. According to the defence ministry, the chairman’s observations in the letter are baseless and unwarranted. There is no link at all between the disaster and the project,” the AG said. The bench accepted the AG’s request for two weeks to respond to the letter, in which Chopra said, “I am compelled to write this letter to the Supreme Court in light of the recent disaster in Uttarakhand’s Char Dham region. Thirty-six bodies have been recovered so far and over 170 people are reportedly missing.” After the 2013 Kedarnath disaster caused by a cloudburst, the SC-appointed expert body (EB) headed by Chopra gave areport in April 2014 to the court on the disaster potential of hydroelectric projects on the Alaknanda river. The EB report had highlighted the potential threat of paraglacial zones and emphasised that they were disaster-prone areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-flash-floods-linked-to-char-dham-project-panel-chief/articleshow/81080821.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 18, 2021||India||India, China came close to war last year, says Lt-Gen||NEW DELHI: India and China came close to a full-fledged conflict during the jostling between rival soldiers for Ladakh’s Kailash range heights towards 2020 end-August, said Northern Command chief Lt General Y K Joshi Wednesday. “We were on the edge, absolutely on the brink... war was actually averted”, he said. Joshi, speaking to some journalists in Leh, also said the number of PLA soldiers killed during the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 could be as high as 45. LAC face-off: Disengagement process continues at Pangong TsoIndia lost 20 soldiers during the Galwan Valley clashes, while China has so far refused to disclose the number of casualties in its ranks. Lt Gen Joshi, speaking to CNN-News 18, said while India has not ceded any territory to China, the latter has “achieved nothing except a loss of face”. Read AlsoSatellite images show China emptying military camps at border flashpoint with IndiaNEW DELHI: China has dismantled dozens of structures and moved vehicles to empty out entire camps along a disputed Himalayan border, where Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off since last summer, satellite images released on Wednesday show. The nuclear-armed neighbours last weekHe said there were situations after Indian troops surprised the PLA by occupying the Kailash range heights to the south of Pangong Tso on August 29-30, and even moved up tanks there, which “could have blown up into an armed conflict”. Read AlsoLAC disengagement: Pictures, videos show India, China pulling back troopsNEW DELHI: After a standoff lasting almost ten months, India and China have finally started disengaging their troops and tanks from the banks of Pangong Lake in Eastern Ladakh. In images and videos released by the Indian Army, Chinese troops can be seen removing several bunkers, temporary posts andWith the PLA also moving its tanks up the heights and Indian troops sitting on the top with tanks and rocket launchers, the “easiest thing would have been to pull the trigger after seeing them in the cross-hairs of the telescopic sights” but utmost restraint was maintained, he said. Read Also'LAC disengagement in India’s favour, China will vacate most prickly parts'Once concluded, the disengagement at Pangong Tso will work well for India as it means vacation of the most prickly part of Chinese intrusions along the LAC. Top government sources said concerns that India was giving up hard-won tactical gains of control of the heights along the south bank of the“Those were very tense and challenging moments for us,” he said, even as troop disengagement in the Pangong Tso area is now under way. As for the Galwan clashes, Lt Gen Joshi said Indian observation posts had “picked up a large number of PLA casualties that were being taken back on stretchers. More than 60, actually. But whether they were fatal or non-fatal, we can’t say with authority”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-came-close-to-war-last-year-says-lt-gen/articleshow/81080832.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Vijayawada||Troubles aplenty for realty sector as input prices soar in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: As prices of cement and steel skyrocket in Vijayawada, hurting a real estate sector already hit by Covid-19, builders and construction companies have temporarily shelved their projects and are preparing the ground to stage protests, demanding immediate action. The construction industry in Vijayawada and the rest of Krishna district has been struggling ever since the government proposed shifting the executive capital to Vizag city. The Covid-19 pandemic worsened matters as projects were kept aside for nearly six months. Supply of labour, too, became a challenge once lockdown measures eased but the industry gradually started to recover from November 2020. But the sudden hike in cement and steel prices has served another blow to builders. “This hike in cement and steel price will affect the dream of the middle class to own a house. Construction industry has been facing hardships for the last two years and this price hike has badly affected us. Many of our builders suffered losses and failed to finish their projects,” D Pankaj Reddy, chairman of Builders Association of India, AP unit said. Cement and steel prices have increased up to 40 per cent in the last six months and this needs to be addressed, Pankaj Reddy added. Dasari Rambabu, secretary of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), Vijayawada unit, said the impact of price rise has meant a corresponding rise in the price of flats and villas. “All expenditure including sand, labour, steel and cement increased and we are not in a position to bear losses. Cost of flats in apartments will soon increase by 30 per cent, which will add to the burden of the middle class who invest all their savings to own a home,” Rambabu said. While a few cement companies have lowered prices by 10 per cent in the last three days, the move is an eyewash, builders said. Builders’ associations, meanwhile, are demanding the government appoint a price regulatory committee and review the hike in cement prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/troubles-aplenty-for-realty-sector-as-input-prices-soar/articleshow/81075501.cms||Venu Lanka
February 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Trio held for stealing jewellery from car in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Three persons were arrested for stealing diamond and imitation gold jewellery worth Rs 1.5 lakh from a car near Beach Road in Vizag city. The arrested were identified as R Revathi (29), an MBA graduate and her husband R Visweswara Rao (30), a BTech graduate and Revathi’s brother B Vinod Kumar, a BBM graduate. All three are from Hiramandalam in Srikakulam and were staying at Yendada in the city. DCP (crimes) V Suresh Babu said the trio had stolen the jewellery from one P Ramalakshmi, a native of TPT Colony, Seethammadhara. On the evening of February 14, Ramalakshmi and her two daughters had gone to a hotel on Beach Road for the engagement of her elder daughter. While parking the vehicle, they forgot to roll up the window and also left the jewellery bag in the car. Upon returning from the hotel, they found the bag missing. Based on a complaint from Ramalakshmi, police examined CCTV footage at the hotel and noticed three persons taking the bag from the car and fleeing the spot in another car. Police traced the trio and recovered the stolen jewellery. The arrested have been produced before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/trio-held-for-stealing-jewellery-from-car/articleshow/81075670.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Rajkot||In CM’s home town, BJP repeats promises, say works are underway||Rajkot: The BJP manifesto released for the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) election looks a mere repetition of the promises made in the previous corporation polls.In fact, there are several projects that are already underway, which have been highlighted to lure voters.BJP has ruled the RMC since its inception, but for five years from 2000-2005.Surprisingly, the party has promised water connection to all 137 public toilets and modernize them. However, water is regularly supplied to the 137 public toilets. As many as 55 more are in the pipeline.A dedicated pedestrian lane on city roads for senior citizens is another enticement. Sources said RMC is yet to provide a dedicated cycle track on Rajkot roads as promised in previous civic body elections. Till date, the cycle track promised on Raiya Road is only on paper.BJP leaders say they have something for the citizens of all the age, class and profession. But a closer look shows that many of the schemes mentioned in the manifesto have already been announced or under implementation. For example, the party announced to start classes of foreign language for the youth. This was part of the e-library project under the Smart City mission. But, later these classes were excluded. Now, the party has again included the foreign language classes under this project. The party has proposed to develop a newly merged areas like Kothariya and Vavdi that were merged with RMC ahead of the 2015 elections. But four years on these areas are still devoid of basic facilities like drinking water. The 24-hour pipeline water was promised in 2015 manifesto also. However, it’s in a pilot stage. BJP promised an auditorium on lines of the iconic Prithvi Theatre in Mumbai. But a convention centre with 5,000 seating capacity and auditorium is already part of Smart City project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/in-cms-home-town-bjp-repeats-promises-say-works-are-underway/articleshow/81074951.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||GVMC grapples to raise tax mop-up before end of fiscal||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the end of the fiscal nearing, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is on overdrive to achieve its target of collecting Rs 380 crore property tax, including vacant land tax, this financial year. The civic body has so far realised about Rs 260 crore tax with hardly 40 days left for the end of the financial year. After severely affecting revenue flow in the last financial year (2019-20), the pandemic has eaten into revenues of the civic body this year too. The disease has exacted a heavy toll on GVMC’s revenue collections, starting March 2020. The GVMC, which earns about Rs 100 crore in the form of taxes in March alone, ended up with only Rs 11 crore collection in March 2020. The lockdown, travel bans and other restrictions led to a subdued response from taxpayers before collections picked up in the second quarter of this fiscal. In a bid to improve tax collection, the civic body extended the 5% tax rebate till June-end, which would otherwise have ended in April. Revenue wing officials of GVCMC said they laid more focus on improving tax collections in the last few months. The civic body has started issuing notices, warrants and property sealing notices to defaulters to reach the target, officials said. For the first time in its history, the GVMC realised more than Rs 300 crore tax revenue in the 2018-19 financial year, a Rs 50 crore increase over 2017-18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-grapples-to-raise-tax-mop-up-before-end-of-fiscal/articleshow/81075314.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 18, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: SEC seeks report on forcible withdrawals||AMARAVATI: The suspense over elections to Macherla municipality turning unanimous is expected to continue for a few more days as the State Election Commission has directed the district collector to submit a report on complaints from opposition parties. No one from the TDP had filed nomination for any ward in Macherla when the process was completed last March. Sixty nominations were filed for 31 wards, of which 10 wards received only a single nomination. Sources said that multiple nominations in 21 wards were filed by YSRC dummy candidates and they are expected to withdraw on the day the withdrawal process commences on March 2. According to local YSRC leaders, the party is set to win all 31 wards uncontested. This is a rare situation where the opposition party has failed to field even a single candidate in the town in its history. With the SEC deciding to start the municipal elections process where it was stalled last March, opposition parties have not had a chance to search for and field candidates afresh. However, the SEC has decided to look into complaints about forcible withdrawals if someone approaches the district election authority with evidence. But, “it is very difficult that anyone who withdrew their papers in the past will come forward with evidence that they were forced to stay out of the race,” said a former municipal chairman. Macherla constituency is represented by government whip Pinnelli Ramakrishna Reddy. In fact, 73 village panchayats of the total 77 in the constituency have turned unanimous. Elections to the four village panchayats were held on Wednesday where the contest was mainly between two groups within the ruling YSRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-seeks-report-on-forcible-withdrawals/articleshow/81075585.cms||Samdani MN
February 18, 2021||Business||As chip makers focus on electronics, auto mfg hits a road bump||Chennai: As chip makers prioritise the more lucrative mobile phone or consumer electronics market, the semiconductor shortage is beginning to hurt production of cars and SUVs in India. Dealers and manufacturers are saying that several models — both old and new, bestsellers and otherwise — are now getting into waiting periods of a few weeks to a month.And the production crunch is not likely to ease up till June. “There is a severe shortage of chips as the manufacturers have diverted the production to personal devices. The impact that we are facing is relatively less as our volumes aren’t that much. But, I hear that bigger volume players are facing severe supply crunch,” said MD of Renault India, Venkatram Mamillapalli. “Right now 80%-90% of all passenger vehicle models are on the waitlist. The semiconductor issue has resulted in shortage in supply for all categories even though enquiry levels and bookings are high and new launches and SUVs continue to see high traction,” said Vinkesh Gulati, president of the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA). Average dealer stock levels are now down to 10-15 days as compared to the usual 30-45 days.According to EY India, Indian auto companies import nearly Rs 30,000 crore of electronics and related systems and the auto industry competes with others like mobiles, IT, consumer electronics and medical devices all of which saw very sharp demand increase during the pandemic. In Q3 TV sales were up 13% and mobiles up 8% yoy said the EY study. Notebook sales in 2020 was up 26%. As a result chip makers routed supplies to these industries. Worse, no one expects things to ease up immediately. “The semiconductor shortage situation may normalise only by June-July,” said Rajesh Jejurikar, executive director, M&M.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/as-chip-makers-focus-on-electronics-auto-mfg-hits-a-road-bump/articleshow/81078463.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
February 18, 2021||Patna||Patna Municipal Corporation passes Rs 1,500 crore budget||PATNA: Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Wednesday approved a budget entailing an expenditure of around Rs 1,500 crore in fiscal 2021-22, including Rs 780 crore on infrastructure development alone. The budget was ratified in a special meeting of the PMC’s board comprising all 75 ward- councillors, including Mayor Sita Sahu and senior officials of the civic body, including municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma. Pataliputra MP Ram Kripal Yadav was also present in the meeting. While the total estimated expenditure in the ongoing fiscal has been pegged at Rs 1499.85 crore, the revenue of the civic body from different sources has been estimated at Rs1359.23 crore. As per the budget document, the PMC has targeted to spend R s256.80 crore on solid waste management works, including garbage removal and drainage cleaning. A salient feature of this year’s PMC budget is air pollution control expenses, under which the civic body has targeted to spend a whopping Rs204cr. Funds to the tune of Rs 102crs are targeted to be spent on composting and recycling plants, waste to energy, road pavement, footpath, green buffering and other expenses for reducing air pollution. Another Rs 14.4 crore will be spent on operations and maintenance of sweeping machines. Under the infrastructure development works, Rs110crs are estimated to be spent on construction of roads and drains in the state capital and Rs 215cr on water supply works. Also, Rs10crs have been specifically allocated for waterlogging prevention and mitigation works. The PMC has also allocated Rs 1.5cr for purchasing a boat, which will ply in river Ganga along the city. Incidentally, the PMC’s revenue through various sources has been showing a gradual rising trend over the last few years. From Rs286.3crs in fiscal 2019-20, PMC’s revenue receipt in fiscal 2020-21 surged to Rs 600.67 cr, which is further estimated to increase up to Rs 635.8 cr in fiscal 2021-22. Out of the total estimated receipts of Rs1359.23crs for fiscal 2021-22, grants from central and state governments form the biggest chunk, amounting to Rs1127.45 cr. Tax revenue of the PMC is expected to be Rs 105.30cr. Speaking on the occasion, Mayor Sita Sahu said the budget is dedicated to sanitation workers, who worked in a dedicated manner amid the Covid-19 pandemic in the year 2020. “The sanitation workers ensured that our city remained cleaned for a better fight against the pandemic,” she said. She added that PMC has funds to the tune of Rs839.77crs as opening balance to meet the difference between the estimated expenditure and revenue. Deputy Mayor Meera Devi claimed that the Covid pandemic had an adverse impact on the resources of the civic body from the beginning of fiscal 2020-21. “The PMC, however, continued to provide basic civic amenities including water supply and sanitation. From special cleanliness drive the pandemic to providing Ganga water during Chhath and timely drainage cleaning works, the PMC executed all works in a planned manner,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-passes-rs-1500-crore-budget/articleshow/81077843.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||Coconut seller from Bhangor, security guard from Katwa queue up for Rs 5 ‘dim-bhaat’||KOLKATA: Electrician Adhiram Nayek from Panskura, coconut seller Habibur Sardar from Bhangor, security guard Buddhadeb Banerjee from Katwa and vegetable vendor Majnu Dewan from Sonarpur had been coming to Sector V for years but their paths had never crossed till Monday. Since then, the four, along with 200 others, have been converging daily at the Bidhannagar Municipality Ward 28 office beside Technopolis over a wholesome afternoon meal. As part of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s affordable food scheme, a plate of rice, cooked vegetables, dal and an egg is being offered at just Rs 5 — less than what it costs for a packet of jhalmuri. Inaugurated on Monday, the subsidized canteen is currently operational at the Salt Lake address and 27 centres across 16 boroughs of Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) between 1pm and 3pm. “Forget a meal, one can’t even have a pack of telebhaja and muri at this cost. Till last week, I used to eat a veg meal at a hotel in Mahisbathan for Rs 25. Enjoying better food at Rs 5 was unimaginable,” said Sardar, who parked his cycle stacked with coconuts outside the office and sat down for the lunch on Wednesday. Banerjee was found making a video call to his wife in Katwa, showing her the quality of food. “The food is excellent, just like a home-cooked meal,” he said. At the Sector V centre, the ward employees said they are yet to set up a full-fledged kitchen and are bringing the food from the mid-day meal central kitchen for now. KMC is running the project through self-help groups. The number of centres will rise from the existing 27 as more central kitchens are set up, officials said. “We are being flooded with requests to increase the number of such centres to reach out to the urban poor in every possible way,” a KMC social-sector senior official said. Although the chief minister had stressed the canteen was primarily for the poor, TOI found a number of small-time businessmen and blue-collar employees have been regulars since the canteen started. The government is bearing a subsidy of Rs 15 per plate. While opposition parties blamed the food scheme as a political gimmick, the beneficiaries had nothing to complain about. “If the political parties are competing to come up with cheaper and affordable food options for poor people like us, we welcome such competition. We could only dream of such a lunch and, thanks to the competition, it has become a reality. I just hope this scheme remains even after the polls,” said Amit Adhikari, an ambulance driver who had a meal at a Maa kitchen centre in College Street outside the university institute hall on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/coconut-seller-from-bhangor-security-guard-from-katwa-queue-up-for-rs-5-dim-bhaat/articleshow/81077792.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 18, 2021||Vadodara||Polls only for teachers category, 10 win uncontested||Vadodara:Syndicate elections at M S University will be held only for one category — that of teachers — on February 25. On Wednesday, as many as ten seats were declared won uncontested as the otherwise warring saffron camps reached a final compromise just hours before the deadline to file nominations on the last day of filing nominations. The university’s syndicate body comprises of 15 elected representatives. Of these, the one seat representing head of departments (HoDs) was already declared won uncontested as Satyajit Chaudhary was the sole candidate to file nomination in this category. The poll battle for the remaining 14 seats was scheduled on February 25 with Wednesday being the last day of submitting nominations. These 14 seats include two seats representing deans of faculties, one principal of constituent college, five teachers (other than deans, HoDs and principals) and six persons who are neither teachers nor employees nor students of the university or of college. Professor Hemant Mathur and prof R C Patel were elected uncontested on the two seats representing deans category while Dr Virendrasinh Kher got elected uncontested on one seat representing principal’s category. On the six seats in general category, Jigar Inamdar, Satyen Kulabkar, Mayank Patel, Dinesh Yadav, Dr Mitesh Shah and Hasmukh Vaghela won uncontested. Senate member Kapil Joshi who had filed his nomination in this category withdrew his candidature. Of the five seats in teachers category, professor Ranjan Aiyer got elected uncontested on the seat representing professor. Against the remaining four seats in teachers category, there are five candidates including Dilip Kataria, Minesh Shah, Dr Beejaysinh Rathod, Dr Nikul Patel and Chetan Somani. Technically, the poll contest will be only for one seat representing Faculty of Technology and Engineering (FTE) as both Patel and Somani are from FTE. While Kataria belongs to arts faculty, Shah belongs to commerce and Rathod belongs to medicine faculty. The saffron camp is hoping that Nikul Patel, who is contesting the VMC polls, as a Congress candidate will withdraw his candidature before February 25. If Patel withdraws his candidature, there will be no elections even in teachers category. Nomination of Dr Dharmendra Shah, who had filed candidature in teachers category, from Faculty of Science was declared invalid. When asked a university official said that he had made an error in his nomination paper because of which it was declared invalid after scrutiny.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/polls-only-for-teachers-category-10-win-uncontested/articleshow/81075656.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Patna||Matric exams begin at 1,525 centres||PATNA: The annual matriculation examination of the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) commenced on a peaceful note in the state on Wednesday. Boys and girls took the examination in science paper in both the sittings at 1525 earmarked examination centres under tight security arrangements. In Patna district, the examination was held quite peacefully at all the 74 centres. BSEB chairman Anand Kishore himself visited different examination centres, including Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav High School, Punaichak, and Government Boys’ Plus Two School, Shastrinagar, and inspected the conduct of examinations. He also visited the model examination centre at Govt Girls’ High School, Shastrinagar, and saw the special arrangement made for girl examinees. The centre was beautifully decorated with balloons and flowers and the examinees were welcomed with flowers at the entrance gate. There are three more such model centres, namely, Govt Girls’ School, Gardanibagh, Kamla Nehru Girls’ High School, Yarpur and Bankipur Girls’ High School in Patna where the examinees, invigilators, support staff and law and order personnel are all women. A special help desk for the examinees was created at all these special centres. For the first time, the examinees got 100 per cent additional choice in both objective and subjective questions this year. Most examinees appeared to be satisfied with the questions asked in the science paper. Examinees were frisked twice, both at the main entrance gate and inside the examination hall. The examinees were not allowed to carry calculators, mobile phones, bluetooth, earphones or any other electronic gadgets inside the examination hall. There was one invigilator on 25 examinees and the entire examination process was videographed. Adequate number of police personnel accompanied by magistrates were deployed at all the centres to ensure the conduct of peaceful and fair examinations, BSEB sources said. Students will take the examination in mathematics paper on Thursday. Visually challenged examinees would take the examination in home science paper in the first sitting. They would be given 20 minutes extra time to write the paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/matric-exams-begin-at-1525-centres/articleshow/81077889.cms||B K Mishra
February 18, 2021||Varanasi||Woman stops CM after Janata Darshan, seeks house for self||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held Janata Darshan at Hindu Sevashram on Wednesday morning and met 300 people, heard their problems and asked officials to resolve their grievances. After Janata Darshan, the CM was coming out of Sevashram when a woman, Asha, a midget from Barhalganj area, stopped him and urged him to hear her request for a house. Asha, who had arrived late for Janata Darshan, stood in the CM’s way and told him aloud that no one can stop her from meeting ‘Yogiji’, leaving people in the crowd at the spot in splits. “I have come from faraway after spending money on fare, please listen to me,” Asha said in Bhojpuri. CM Yogi patiently heard her out and directed officers to look into her complaint. When the chief minister asked the woman to give an application to officials, she said she had already given one to officials. She even complained verbally that officials don’t properly check who is getting a house under the government scheme. Amused by the woman’s boldness, the CM, in a lighter vein, said, “Give your application to the DM. He will provide you a house and will also arrange your marriage.” Asha, however, refused to get married and thanked CM Yogi. Earlier, during Janata Darshan, CM Yogi asked administrative and police officials to suspend police station in-charges and take action against tehsil level officials if large number of complaints come from their areas of jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-stops-cm-after-janata-darshan-seeks-house-for-self/articleshow/81076147.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Patna||J&K police take Saran man on transit remand||PATNA: The Jammu and Kashmir police on Wednesday took Saran man Javed (25) on transit remand in Patna for allegedly supplying pistols to Pakistani terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad. The court of judicial magistrate Roji granted transit remand to take him back to Jammu and Kashmir where a case has been lodged against him. Javed was picked up by the anti-terrorist squad (ATS) of Bihar Police from Dev Bahuara village under Marhaura police station area in Saran district on Monday after the inputs received from J&K police. “An inspector rank officer of the J&K police reached Patna late Tuesday night. Five more J&K police personnel reached the state capital on Wednesday morning. They interrogated Javed, who confessed to supplying six pistols to his brother in Punjab, who further supplied it to the terror group in the Valley. The J&K cops then took him to the court praying for transit remand in their case related to hatching a conspiracy of terror attack in the Valley and Delhi,” anATS source said. Sources, quoting Javed, said he had picked up the consignment from Saran in January. “Javed said he supplied such a consignment for the first time,” a source said. “His brother Mushtaq has already been arrested by J&K police in the same case. Javed had allegedly supplied pistols to Hadaitullah Malik, the head of Lashkar-e-Mustafa, which is the J&K based front of Jaish-e-Mohammad. J&K DGP Dilbag Singh, after Malik’s arrest on Sunday, said he had conducted recce of NSA Ajit Doval’s office and residence in Delhi and was planning terror attack in the Valley and the national capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jk-police-take-saran-man-on-transit-remand/articleshow/81075834.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 18, 2021||Patna||Frontline workers taking Covid vax 3 times less than health workers||PATNA: A total of 1,686 healthcare workers took the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday, and in the past three days since the second dose of immunization was rolled out, a total of 13,975 have taken their second shot. However, this figure is three times less than the total number of healthcare workers who had taken their first dose in the first three days in January. As per data shared by the state health society, a total of 46,880 healthcare workers were vaccinated across the state in three days since it started on January 16 and only 13,975 of them have taken their second dose so far. Even the number of frontline workers coming to the session site is less than the average number of healthcare workers who used to come daily for their vaccination. Vaccination for frontline workers began in Bihar on February 6 and in the past 12 days, 1,05,477 of them have taken the jab. However, in the same 12 days duration, 3,11,475 healthcare workers had taken their vaccine. A health department official said the turnout of frontline workers was much less than healthcare workers. “We cannot force anyone to take the vaccine, but it is clear that the vaccine is safe as nearly four lakh healthcare workers have been vaccinated. Individual departments should counsel them,” the official added. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said several frontline workers like home guard jawans were deputed at other places and this was the reason for not getting themselves vaccinated. So far, a total of 5,02,806 beneficiaries (both healthcare and frontline workers) have taken the first dose of the vaccine and 15,183 beneficiaries have taken their second dose. Meanwhile, 38 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,61,879. In the same period, 82 people have recovered taking the total recovery to 2,59,830 and recovery rate to 99.22%. One official death was reported and the toll has reached 1,529.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/frontline-workers-taking-covid-vax-3-times-less-than-health-workers/articleshow/81077939.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Patna||Council chairman for smooth budget session in Bihar||PATNA: Legislative council acting chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh held an all-party meeting on Wednesday which focussed on smooth running of the budget session of the state legislature, which is scheduled to commence on Friday. Similarly, state assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha is also scheduled to hold a meeting on Thursday, assembly sources said. Singh held the meeting in his council chamber. Several ministers and representative MLCs from across political parties including ruling BJP and JD(U), RJD, Congress and CPI participated in it. The participants included parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and health minister Mangal Pandey, members Nawal Kishore Yadav, Kedar Nath Pandey, Neeraj Kumar, Ghulam Gaus, Ramchandra Purbey, Aditya Narayan Pandey, Prem Chandra Mishra and Ghulam Rasool. Acting secretary of the council secretariat, Vinod Kumar, was also present on the occasion. Council chairman stressed on the need for efficient running of the House as per the standing rules of business, so that questions put by the members for replies from the government and other matters on the business agenda are successfully taken up. He also urged the participants to maintain a healthy atmosphere during the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/council-chairman-for-smooth-budget-session/articleshow/81078099.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||Gallantry award for UP’s Army Major who neutralised terrorists||LUCKNOW: A Major in Indian Army hailing from Khurja of Bulandshahr will be awarded a gallantry medal for bravery in the line of duty. An investiture ceremony will be organized on February 27 in Jabalpur where Lt Gen Iqroop Singh Ghuman, general officer commanding-in-chief Central Command, will award the Major and other bravehearts. Maj Ashutosh Tomar will be awarded with Sena medal (gallantry) for his close combat encounter with terrorists in Jammu & Kashmir. Commissioned in December 2013, Maj Tomar led a team to cordon 20 houses in the valley on July 27, 2019 following inputs of terrorist presence. As terrorist started firing indiscriminately, the Major crawled, closed in and neutralized him at point blank range, said a defence statement. Also recommended for Sena medal is Naib Subedar Sunil Singh from Almora district of Uttarakhand. He was part of an ambush team in a forested area of J&K on March 28, 2019 when three terrorists walked inside the ambush. As the ambush party opened fire, one terrorist tried to escape. Naib Subedar Singh dashed to the flank, fired and neutralized him, read the statement. A total of 20 gallantry awards including two posthumous ones will be presented. In addition, 11 medals and citations to 15 army units will be given for professional excellence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/army-major-from-khurja-to-be-awarded-for-gallantry/articleshow/81079971.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 18, 2021||Patna||Bihar: EOU traces UP man who created fake Facebook profile of DG||PATNA: The Economic Offences Unit (EOU) of state police has traced the accused of creating a fake Facebook profile of DG (training) Alok Raj and trying to dupe those on his friends’ list by asking them to transfer money via digital wallets. ADG (EOU) Nayyar Hasnain Khan on Wednesday said the EOU is in touch with Uttar Pradesh police to nab him. “The exact location of the person in UP cannot be disclosed from investigation point of view. Necessary action would be taken against him soon,” Khan said. The ADG said several such cases had surfaced in the recent past. “EOU would take the required action in order to curb this kind of cybercrime,” he added. At least three incidents have been reported since November last year about creating fake FB profile of Raj, a 1989-batch Bihar cadre IPS officer. Raj had lodged an FIR with Kankarbagh police station on November 14 last year after the first incident came to his knowledge. The latest incident took place hardly two days back where another fake profile of Raj was created with the same modus operandi, but friends alerted him about it and the EOU was informed. EOU is the nodal agency to deal with cybercrime in the state. EOU sources said a report was sent to Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma on Wednesday about three fake profiles of Raj. Two of them were created from two different districts in Uttar Pradesh while one was created from Gujarat. “This report was sent in connection with the FIR registered in November last year,” a source said. Sources said the police had sent a fresh letter to the Facebook and to the company which owns the digital wallet app for details of the person involved in the crime. Besides common people, several bureaucrats and even a judicial officer in state have fallen prey to such cybercrime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/eou-traces-up-man-who-created-fake-facebook-profile-of-dg/articleshow/81077945.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Bhopal||Sidhi tragedy: Errant bus driver arrested in Satna||BHOPAL: “We four bothers rushed to the accident site in Sidhi district and kept searching for our brother among the bodies that were taken out the entire day”, said Rakesh Vishwakarma, brother of Balendra Vishwakarma, who was driving the bus when the accident took place.  Balendra had jumped off the bus before it plunged into a canal in Sidhi district in the accident, where so far around 51 people have been killed. “It was only on Wednesday morning that we were informed by police that he has been arrested,” added Rakesh. Satna police had arrested Vishwakarma and then handed him over to the Sidhi police for further investigations. SP Satna, Dharmveer Singh said, “The accused was arrested late on Tuesday night from Basti area of Satna district and was handed over to the Sidhi police”. Meanwhile SP Sidhi, Pankaj Kumawat said, “The accused driver has been booked under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 304 (Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) is being added; he is being interrogated further”. The accused’s brother Rakesh said, “Balendra is younger to me and third among the six siblings. Four of us had gone to Sidhi, the accident spot, to search for him after getting the information about the accident. He is married and has three children, our entire family was worried on Tuesday, it is only on Wednesday that we came to know that he is alive and has been arrested by police. I can’t say anything on how the accident took place, what were the consequences as we could not talk to Balendra, but normally he is the cool-headed one amongst us brothers”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sidhi-tragedy-errant-bus-driver-arrested-in-satna/articleshow/81077705.cms||Amarjeet Singh
February 18, 2021||Patna||Two brick kiln workers die in Gopalganj, hooch suspected||PATNA: Two brick kiln workers died in the early hours of Wednesday due to suspected hooch poisoning at a village in Gopalganj. The deceased Karma Panna, 50, and Buddhua Panna, 48, had reportedly complained of stomach and chest pain. Police said the deceased workers are from Gumla in Jharkhand and worked at a brick kiln at Majhaulia village under Vijaypur police station area of Gopalganj. Police said both started complaining of the complications around 4 am and died within two hours. Vijaypur police station SHO Manoj Kumar told this newspaper over the phone that Karma complained of acute abdominal pain while Buddhua complained of chest pain and breathlessness. “Both were taken to the primary health centre at Bhore from where the duo was further shifted to the district Sadar hospital, but none could survive,” the SHO said, adding both had gone together somewhere and returned late at night. “They had gone to sleep directly after returning. In the morning, both started complaining of pain before dying,” he said. He said the statement of the daughter of one of the deceased is awaited to registered an FIR in connection with the mysterious deaths. Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar told TOI over the phone that both persons died on the way to the Sadar hospital. “Both deaths are suspicious. The reason may be anything. It may be due to hooch or even food poisoning,” the SP said. “Viscera has been preserved. Nothing is clear. The exact reason behind the deaths would become clear from post mortem and viscera reports,” SP Kumar said. The SP said he along with DM Nawal Kishor Choudhary had visited the area but didn’t find anything suspicious like liquor pouch or its smell to establish that they had consumed liquor. He said several people with the deceased persons were medically examined but were found to be completely fit. “Such a step was taken as generally in hooch cases multiple persons consume liquor and fall ill,” Kumar said. Kumar said at least 12 people from Gumla were working at the kiln and they were set to return within two or three days. “Bodies have been handed over to the family. Ambulances have been arranged too for family members to take back the bodies to Gumla,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-brick-kiln-workers-die-in-gopalganj-hooch-suspected/articleshow/81075647.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 18, 2021||Business||WABAG raises Rs 575cr via debt, equity and government grant||Chennai: Water technology company VA TECH WABAG (WABAG) on Wednesday announced the financial closure of Rs 575 crore hybrid annuity model project bagged from Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority. This fund raising includes Rs 165 crore (40%) from the Government of India via NMCG grant, Rs 175 crore (45%) from a consortium of International Finance Corporation and Tata Cleantech Capital Limited via debt, and Rs 70 crore (15%) from Kathari Water Management Private Limited via equity, a wholly owned subsidiary of EverSource Capital and the company’s own fund inclusion. “This move is an important turnaround for the water industry. Water (projects) never had this kind of models. It was always for road, power projects. Now, water projects are taken seriously because of the PM led Namami Gange programme,” said MD and Group CEO Rajiv Mittal. WABAG had earlier signed a Rs 575 Crore hybrid annuity model (HAM) concession agreement under the Namami Gange programme administered by the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) which included the scope of engineering, supply and construction of new sewage treatment plants, renovation and up-gradation of existing sewage treatment plants, rehabilitation of pumping stations and other associated infrastructure in Kolkata. The company said it will execute the Engineering, Procurement and Construction portion of this project over 24 months followed by O&M of 15 years.On completion, the project with a cumulative wastewater treatment capacity of 187 MLD aims to contribute in reduction of untreated sewage discharge into the Holy Ganga from the state of West Bengal by around 15%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wabag-raises-rs-575cr-via-debt-equity-and-government-grant/articleshow/81078485.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Business||Rising bond yields weigh on sensex||Mumbai: Financials and IT stocks dragged the sensex by 400 points on Wednesday to close at 51,704 points as market players are increasingly turning cautious on rising bond yields in the US, which could slow down the current strong buying momentum by foreign investors. In India too, the benchmark yield in 10-year government bond rose past the 6% mark. On Wednesday, foreign funds recorded a net buying figure of Rs 1,008 crore, BSE data showed. According to Motilal Oswal Financial Services’s Siddhartha Khemka, global cues were weak on account of rising bond yields and inflation. US 10-year bond yield touched 1.29%, the highest level since February 2020. On the domestic front, profit-booking dragged the indices lower, while broader markets bucked the trend and ended higher, Khemka said in a post-market note. In Wednesday’s market, selling in HDFC Bank, HDFC, Kotak Bank and TCS together contributed about two-third of the sensex’s total loss. On the other hand, buying in RIL and SBI cushioned the fall to some extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rising-bond-yields-weigh-on-sensex/articleshow/81079040.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Patna||Man kills mother over property dispute, held||PATNA: A man allegedly throttled his mother to death over property dispute at Nooruddinganj under Malsalami police station area of Patna City on Wednesday. The accused, Ranjan Kumar (35), then informed the police about the murder and surrendered. Malsalami police station SHO Pramod Kumar said the deceased was identified as Urmila Devi (55). “The accused was arrested around 8am. Ranjan had dispute with his parents and his sister’s husband over family property,” he said. “Ranjan said his mother and father Kameshwar Prasad (68) had authorized their daughter’s husband to handle or sell family property. His mother was more inclined towards her son-in-law,” the SHO quoted Ranjan. The SHO said Kameshwar told the police that Ranjan had already sold his share and was now eyeing the rest of family property. He said Ranjan, who is unmarried, lived with his parents. “On Tuesday night, all went to sleep after dinner. However, Ranjan woke up at 2am and sneaked inside his mother’s bedroom and throttled her to death,” the SHO said. Kumar said Ranjan has criminal antecedents and had been to jail in Arms Act case 12 years ago. “At least three more criminal cases are lodged against him with different police stations, including Patrakar Nagar and Chowk police stations,” he said. The SHO said Ranjan has two brothers but they had no dispute over the property and lived separately. Kameshwar lodged an FIR against his son for killing Urmila. Kameshwar was earlier a PDS dealer. The body was handed over to the family after postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kills-mother-over-property-dispute-held/articleshow/81077882.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman tells Sebi to bring out markets law code soon||MUMBAI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman met Sebi board members on Wednesday and asked the markets regulator to implement the Budget proposals relating to capital markets on a timely basis. The FM had proposed in the budget that several securities laws should be consolidated into a single securities code, a move that has the potential to combine several legislations into a unified one. According to securities lawyers, the move could eliminate duplication among various existing laws, enhance clarity relating to these laws and bring down cost of compliance for the regulated entities. Sebi laws that could be consolidated into a single code are Sebi Act, 1992, Depositories Act, 1996, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and Government Securities Act, 2007. Minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur and finance secretary Ajay Bhusan Pandey were also present at the meeting, a Sebi release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fm-tells-sebi-to-bring-out-mkt-law-code-soon/articleshow/81078858.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Horticulture department to promote beekeeping in tribal areas||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the success of the Aranya brand of honey produced by the Farmer Producer Organisation (FPOs) pilot project in Chittoor district, the horticulture department is extending the beekeeping value chain development intervention to tribal areas of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, and East Godavari districts to produce honey with Vijayavani Charitable Foundation and Tata Trust. The horticulture department during 2019-2020 had extended support for beekeeping by Rs 1.4 crore to 2480 beneficiaries in Chittoor district. The department has implemented Modal FPO concept project in coordination with the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA). Nearly 25 per cent of the honey produced by FPO in Chittoor district under the brand name Aranya is procured by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). Nearly 20,000 kg honey was produced in 2019-20, out of which 5,000 kg were procured by the TTD. Chiranjiv Choudhary, commissioner of horticulture, Andhra Pradesh, said after the success of the pilot project in Chittoor, they have decided to extend the beekeeping value chain development intervention to tribal areas in some districts. Beekeeping is an important, supplementary income generation activity that supports agricultural production by enhancing productivity through pollination support, he said. Beekeeping provides nutritional, economic and ecological balance while providing employment and income. Being a low investment industry, it has the potential to offer direct employment to many, especially hill-dwellers, tribal and unemployed youth and farmers. The sustainability of this industry is therefore vital to the state’s economic wellbeing and development, Choudhary added. During 2020-21, the department earmarked Rs 1.76 crore for providing financial support for honeybee colonies, beehives and honey extraction equipment and implementing the project in Srikakulam, West Godavari,Guntur, Ongole, Nellore, Chittoor, Kurnool and Anantapur. Selvi, a beneficiary, made an initial capital outlay of Rs 30,000 through subsidies from the horticulture department under the Mission of Integrated Development of Horticulture that provided for 40 per cent (Rs 12,000) of the expenses while Rs 18,000 was funded through loans from DRDA-Chittoor. In a matter of six months, she harvest increased, which raised her revenue from Rs 2,500 to over Rs 5,400 per month in addition to regular income from other activities, demonstrating the overall efficacy of beekeeping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/horticulture-dept-to-promote-beekeeping-in-tribal-areas/articleshow/81075931.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 18, 2021||Goa||Goa: Urban civic bodies may have date with elections on March 20||PANAJI: The municipal polls are likely to be held in Goa on March 20 with the state government on Wednesday concurring with the date suggested by the Goa State Election Commission (SEC). “It is up to the SEC to take a final decision on the date to hold the municipal elections,” a senior government officer said. Elections will be held for 11 municipalities, and the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP). The SEC has decided to conduct the polls along with by-elections to village panchayats and ZPs. The term of the 11 municipal councils ended in November last year after which the government appointed administrators. Ponda and Sakhali municipalities are not going to polls now. This will be the major civic polls before the state goes for assembly elections. The term of the present assembly ends in early March 2022. Though the government has said that the municipal polls will not be held on party lines, political observers say that the election will generate much heat. Chief minister Pramod Sawant has said that he is not considering the municipal elections as a semi-final to the assembly election. “Every election is a final election for BJP,” he said. Earlier this month the government announced the reservation and delimitation of wards, which has attracted criticism against the government, including from the ruling side. Transport minister Mauvin Godinho said he was not consulted, while BJP’s Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida demanded that the urban development minister Milind Naik be dropped from the cabinet in view of the faulty reservation policy for municipalities, including that of Mormugao Municipal Council, which consists of wards from three assembly constituencies — Mormugao, Vasco and Dabolim. As per rules, the government has not given the SEC powers to conduct reservation and delimitation of wards. The directorate of municipal administration continues to carry out the exercise. Political observers said that after winning the zilla panchayat election in both districts, BJP will work hard to continue the momentum of winning elections. They also said that it would be a testing time for opposition parties, who want to make their presence felt in electoral politics. Recently, Sawant had ruled out holding municipal elections on party lines saying that wards consist of a very small number of voters. Sawant said that each ward has around 700 to 1,200 voters. BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Monday said that BJP will win all municipal elections as also the Corporation of the City of Panaji polls. BJP has appointed its MLAs and senior party functionaries as observers to oversee activities pertaining to elections. BJP said it will announce its candidates within two days though it is against holding polls on party lines. In January, the SEC postponed the upcoming elections by three months due to the Covid vaccination drive. The SEC said that it is aware that officials responsible for holding elections — deputy collectors, mamlatdars, etc — are those who would also be engaged in the management of the vaccination drive. So, it wouldn’t be appropriate to burden them with the additional responsibility of holding elections. On January 12, the urban development department sent the SEC a letter raising concerns about crowds during the campaign period, which may have implications for Covid management. The government also requested the SEC to conduct municipal and CCP elections together to avoid a prolonged code of conduct period, which could halt development works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/urban-civic-bodies-may-have-date-with-elections-on-mar-20/articleshow/81079769.cms||Murari Shetye
February 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Teacher dies on poll duty in Andhra Pradesh||RAJAHMUNDRY: A government teacher died of a heart attack on Wednesday while on duty as assistant polling officer (APO) in the gram panchayat elections in East Godavari district. Dokuburra Daiva Krupavathi, headmistress at a municipal primary school in Purlova Peta under Kakinada Municipal Corporation, was assigned duty as APO in Kothapalli village under Agency mandal of Chinturu in the district. She complained of chest pain at about 5.15 a.m on Wednesday and was shifted to Chinturu area hospital immediately. As her condition deteriorated, she was shifted to Rampa Chodavaram area hospital for better treatment and died while receiving treatment. Kakinada municipal commissioner Swapnil Dinkar extended condolences to the family members of the deceased. Krupavathi’s body was shifted to her native village of Balabhadrapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/teacher-dies-on-poll-duty/articleshow/81075642.cms||Samson Raj
February 18, 2021||Allahabad||Results have been made available on official website||Further in the merit, Kunal Gaurav of Muzaffarpur, Bihar stood at number four position and Priyanka Kumari of Kanshiram Nagar of the state stood fifth at the overall merit list. Talking of rest of the candidates, who stood among the top 10, Abhishek Kumar Singh of Ratanpura, Mau stood sixth place, Kunwar Sachin Singh of Jaunpur bagged seventh place, Neelima Yadav of South Delhi came at eight position. At number nine is Siddhartha Pathak of Pandeypur locality of Varanasi and Vikalp of North East Delhi bagged the tenth place in the overall merit list of the exam.  Talking of the number of vacancies and other details of the exam, Jagdish further informed that one post each of Extension Services Officer category-2 and Labor Enforcement Officer besides two posts of district horticulture officer category-2 of Grade-1, six posts of accounts and audit officer, four posts of law officer in public works department, one post of senior sugarcane development inspector as well as two posts each of Veterinary and Welfare Officer and Food Safety Officer remained vacant due to non-availability of qualified candidates, he added. UPPSC secretary said that the results have been made available on the official website of UPPSC—http://uppsc.up.nic.in/ for the benefit of the candidates. The results of PCS (Main) Examination-2019 were declared on December 24. A total of 811 candidates were declared successful and eligible for interview round in it. The interviews were conducted from January 28 to February 4 in, which three candidates remained absent. UPPSC secretary said that those candidates who have declared selected provisionally and have so indicated in the results in front of their names should submit the desired documents within the stipulated time, otherwise their candidature will be cancelled. He said that the information related to details of the results including category wise and post wise cut off marks will be uploaded on the website soon. Therefore, applications under RTI Act 2005 will not be accepted by the commission in this regard, he added. The PCS (Mains)-2019 exam was held in two shifts between September 22 and September 26 in Prayagraj, Lucknow and Ghaziabad. As many as 4,783 candidates had appeared in the examination. Of them, 811 candidates had been declared successful. This exam was held for 453 posts, including 65 posts for ,which there was no provision for an interview. The posts on offer had included 46 posts of deputy collector, 19 of assistant commissioner (industries), 34 of block development officer, 150 of Naib Tehsildar, 16 of accounts and audit officer, 22 of law officer and 9 posts of food safety officer among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/results-have-been-made-available-on-official-website/articleshow/81075100.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Nagalakshmi S is new GVMC commissioner||Visakhapatnam: Nagalakshmi S, a 2012-batch IAS officer, has been posted as commissioner of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation. Serving as CMD of Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited, headquartered in Visakhapatnam, before being posted as GVMC chief, her services were withdrawn from the state energy department. In an earlier order released on February 12, the outgoing commissioner G Srijana has been sanctioned earned leave from February 15 to March 15 on personal affairs. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao has been kept in full additional charge for the post of GVMC commissioner during this period. But as per the new order, the state government sent a panel for the post of commissioner at the request of the State Election Commission. Nagalakshmi’s name was concurred with by the State Election Commission. Srijana has been directed to report to the government in the general administration department for further posting after returning from leave. Srijana served as the GVMC commissioner for 18 months. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nagalakshmi-s-is-new-gvmc-commissioner/articleshow/81075424.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Several LJP leaders to join JD(U) today||PATNA: Chirag Paswan-led LJP may suffer yet another jolt in Bihar because many of its senior leaders are likely to join the JD (U) on Thursday. Rameshwar Chourasia, the party’s candidate from Sasaram constituency in the last assembly polls, quit the LJP on Wednesday. According to sources, a section of LJP leaders, who are disgruntled with the style of functioning of Chirag, are set to join the JD (U) in the presence of its national president R C P Singh. “The joining programme will be held at the JD (U) office around 2pm on Thursday,” LJP’s former spokesperson Keshav Singh told TOI. Keshav, who was expelled in the last week of November 2020, will join the JD (U) along with at least four former district presidents of the LJP and several state level leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/several-ljp-leaders-to-join-jdu-today/articleshow/81078097.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Vijayawada||Corporator candidate, son attacked in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Political tensions in Vijayawada are on the rise following the notification for municipal elections issued by the State Election Commission (SEC). In Gunadala, TDP third division corporator candidate Vani and her son were attacked, prompting the TDP to allege that the YSRC was behind the attack. MLA Gadde Rammohan Rao, mayor candidate Kesineni Seetha and other TDP leaders rushed to the spot and lodged a complaint with Machavaram police and alleged that YSRC workers from Vijayawada East constituency were responsible for the attack. “We never encourage violence and attacks on our opponents. YSRC is using miscreants to threaten our candidates. TDP is very strong in the city and they are afraid of us. We will put up a tough fight,” Gadde Ramamohan Rao said. The YSRC condemned the allegations and asked the opposition party to stop blame games. Addressing the media, one Koneru Vasubabu, claiming to be a TDP functionary, said there are disputes between him and Vani’s family and he argued with them on Tuesday. He added he accidentally hit them and had not wanted to start a physical fight. Police have increased security for candidates following the incident. Meanwhile,VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh inspected the single-window counter and helpline arranged to facilitate the candidates. One Koneru Vasubabu, claiming to be a TDP functionary, said that there are disputes between him and Vani’s family and he had argued with them on Tuesday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/corporator-candidate-son-attacked-in-vij/articleshow/81075634.cms||Venu Lanka
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal poll officials to get vaccinated||KOLKATA: Bengal will vaccinate all 4.7 lakh poll officials ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections. Several hundred poll officers, mostly teachers and professors, have started receiving SMSes asking them to attend designated vaccination sites from next week. The state health department has asked the district administration for a complete list of all poll officers to be uploaded to the Co-WIN application. The move comes after the Centre informed the state that National Expert Group on Vaccination and Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended all officials and employees engaged in election-related duties would be treated as frontline workers (FLWs) and will be vaccinated. State health secretary N S Nigam has held a virtual meeting with the district administration to prepare a list of employees to be engaged in election-related duties. “As the number of the booths has increased from 78,903 to 1,01,790 this year, the requirement of polling personnel will be around 4,76,000, apart from 15,000 micro observers. The first phase of training will start on February 19 and vaccination must start immediately,” an EC official said. “There should be a 7-10 day gap between the last dosage and the polling day,” said joint secretary of Headmasters’ Association Sougata Bose. “I think it should be optional because it depends on the person to get vaccinated or not,” said JU professor Samar Mondal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/poll-officials-to-get-vaccinated/articleshow/81077664.cms||Saibal Gupta
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||Muslim bizman from Chennai donates Rs 1 lakh for Ram temple||Ayodhya: Blurring religious barriers, a Muslim businessman from Chennai has donated Rs 1 lakh for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, adding to rising contribution from minorities to temple Trust coffers. A realtor by profession, businessman W S Habeeb, donated a cheque of Rs 1,00,008 to members of Tamil Nadu-based organization, Hindu Munnani, and Vishwa Hindu Parishad volunteers. “I want to forge harmony between Hindus and Muslims, so I donated money in this faith,” said Habeeb, adding he was pained to see Muslims being portrayed as anti-Hindu or anti-India by certain sections of society. Also, there was nothing wrong in donating for the temple, he said. Reacting to the donation by a Muslim businessman, Dr Anil Singh, RSS leader and president of Muslim Rashtriya Manch, Ayodhya, said, “Muslims are generously contributing for construction of Ram temple and this is a message to the world that communal harmony prevails between the two communities in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/muslim-bizman-from-chennai-donates-rs-1-lakh-for-ram-temple/articleshow/81062124.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Varanasi||Kashi’s tribal art earns praise at Tribal Fest in Delhi||Times News Network Varanasi: The tribal artisans from parliamentary constituency of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi represented Uttar Pradesh in the Adi Mahotsava organised by the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED) under the ministry of Tribal Affairs at the Dilli Haat in New Delhi. The fortnight-long Tribal Fest concluded on Monday. Two artisans Vinod Kumar Gond and Ravi Kumar, belonging to Gond tribe, showcased famed Banarasi saree and wooden toys, both Geographical Indication (GI) tagged products of Varanasi, at their stall in Adi Mahotsava. Loaded with lots of appreciation for their mastery, they returned home satisfied after the end of the fest. “Our stall was one of the major attractions in the festival,” said Vinod, who is skilled in saree weaving. “Though majority of tribal populace is engaged in menial occupations like daily wage workers and farm labourers, some of them have mastered themselves in saree weaving and handicrafts,” said Brijbhan Maravi, the secretary of Janjatiya Shodh Evam Vikas Sansthan (Tribal Research and Development Institute), which is registered with the TRIFED. He said that about 35 saree weavers and 17 wooden craft artisans of his tribe are registered with his organisation. These artisans are engaged in these crafts for generations. According to him, around 300 skilled artisans of the Gond tribe in different parts of the district are enriching the crafts of Varanasi. “However, according to the 2011 census, the population of Gond tribe in the district is 28,000,” he said adding that there is an urgent need of proper backing to the tribal populace. The TRIFED is doing well to improve the socio-economic condition of the tribals, he added. The GI expert Dr Rajani Kant said that the TRIFED has been facilitating the promotion of GI Tag products along with tribal products and transforming them into a brand, symbolizing empowerment of tribal artisans. There was a separate GI-products stall, which features renowned exquisite items like Banarasi silk from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan’s blue pottery, the Kota Dariya fabric, Madhya Pradesh’s Chanderi and Maheshwari silk, Bagh print, Odisha’s Pattachitra, Karnataka’s Bidriware, Darjeeling tea from West Bengal, Kala jeera from Himachal Pradesh, the extremely spicy Naga chilli, and the large cardamom from the North-east. According to the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, the Aadi Mahotsav is an annual event that was started in 2017. The festival is an attempt to familiarise people with the rich and diverse craft, culture of tribal communities across the country, at one place. However, due to the pandemic, the 2020 edition of the festival could not be held. The fortnight-long festival featured the exhibition-cum-sale of tribal handicrafts, art, paintings, fabric, jewellery and much more through 200 stalls to showcase this. About 1,000 tribal artisans and artists from across the country are participating in the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashis-tribal-art-earns-praise-at-tribal-fest-in-delhi/articleshow/81075605.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Patna||Complete Kanhauli-Daniyawan part of Patna ring road by June: Minister||PATNA: Road construction minister Nitin Nabin on Wednesday asked the officials to complete the construction of 70km stretch from Kanhauli to Kachchi Dargah under the Patna ring road project by June. The minister issued the instructions during his first spot inspection of any project of the department after assuming charge last week. The Bihta-Naubatpur-Dumri-Beldari Chak-Kachhi Dargah-Bidupur bridge-Saran-Astipur-Naya Gaon-Dighwara-Sherpur-Bihta alignment of Patna ring road is 130km. Nitin inspected the work from Kanhauli via Naubatpur, Dumri and Daniyawan to Kachchi Dargah at Patna City where a six-lane bridge is being constructed across the Ganga. “Work on Patna ring road project is progressing at a fast pace. The project will especially augment development of the areas on the outskirts of the state capital. Besides, it will smoothen vehicular movement around Patna and its connectivity to other districts,” Nitin said. He said the soil stabilization method used in the construction of ring road is highly efficient in terms of protection of the road from damages due to rainfall. “The work on the 70km stretch is in progress and we want it to be completed in time bound manner,” the minister said. Senior RCD officials said the entire stretch between Kanhauli and Daniyawan is part of the state highway (SH)-78. Pankaj Kumar, managing director of Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited (BSRDCL), an executing wing of RCD, said land acquisition for construction of SH-78 has been completed and earthwork has also been initiated at the acquired stretch. RCD officials said the 16km stretch of ring road between Dumri and Daniyawan has been made ready and earthwork has started on the remaining 54km between Kanhauli and Daniyawan. “The Kanhauli-Daniyawan stretch is two-lane at present. Once completed, it will be handed over to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which will made it six lanes,” said a senior BSRDCL official. He said the entire stretch of Patna ring road is proposed to have six lanes. The ring road project entailing an estimated outlay of Rs1500 crore is a part of PM Narendra Modi’s special package for Bihar, which he had announced before the 2014 general elections. It is getting constructed in batches through projects being executed by state as well as central government agencies, like the NHAI. For instance, the Kachchi Dargah- Bidupur bridge is being constructed by BSRDCL. From Bidupur, the ring road will move to Vaishali, enter Saran and return towards Patna with construction of a bridge over river Ganga connecting Sherpur in Maner block. The minister also inspected the Lakhana village site in Patna district, which will fall under the ambitious Bharatmala project of the Centre. “From Aurangabad, the Bharatmala road will go via Hajipur and Darbhanga in Bihar,” the BSRDCL officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/complete-kanhauli-daniyawan-part-of-patna-ring-road-by-june-minister/articleshow/81077951.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 18, 2021||Patna||RJD and Congress youth wings protest against price hike||PATNA: The youth wings of RJD and Congress on Wednesday staged protests against the skyrocketing fuel and cooking gas prices in state. Their members symbolically pulled motorcycles and cars with ropes to express their anger against fuel price hikes. RJD state youth wing president Qari Sohaib, who led party members in the ‘aakrosh march’ from party office till Income Tax roundabout, said they will continue with such protests unless the government reduces the fuel price. He said protests would be organized at all the district headquarters on Sunday. “Increase in fuel price and cooking gas has made life very difficult. From eatables to public transport, everything has become expensive. Where are people like Amitabh Bachchan, Akshay Kumar, Smriti Irani and Lala Ramdev? These people used to protest when petrol was at Rs62 per litre despite expensive crude oil in the international market. But now when the crude oil price is almost half, the fuel prices are high due to excise duty and these people are not commenting, ” Sohaib told TOI. He said the government was befooling people in the name of Lord Ram. “In Nepal, which is the land of Goddess Sita, petrol is at Rs53/litre and in Sri Lanka, it is Rs51 per litre,” he said. Congress state youth wing president Gunjan Patel said “this government of ‘hum do humare do’ has increased the fuel prices to benefit only two businessmen in the country”. He took a jibe at the petrol price crossing Rs100 at several places. “During Nehru’s time, petrol pumps were Indian, but now these pumps have been captured by two corporate houses. In fact, fuel is cheaper in Pakistan, but the Modi government in India is busy extracting money from the common man’s pocket to pass it on to Ambani and Adani,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-and-congress-youth-wings-protest-against-price-hike/articleshow/81078003.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 18, 2021||Vijayawada||Three heading to cast vote die in bike accident||Vijayawada: Three persons belonging to the same family died on the spot after their two-wheeler traveling from Ongole to Hanumanthulapadu village rammed against a car near Podili in Prakasam district on Wednesday morning. The deceased were identified as K Nagaraju, his mother K Kolamma and sister-in-law Nagamaleswari—natives of Hanumanthulapadu village. According to Podili sub-inspector Subbaraju, the incident happened at around 9 am when all three were heading to their native village to cast their vote in the third phase of gram panchayat elections. Cops said they were triple riding and a speeding car travelling from the opposite direction rammed into their vehicle while trying to avoid a pothole in its lane on the Podili-Kanigiri road. The impact of the crash caused fatal injuries to all three. Locals rushed to their aid, but upon realising they were dead, alerted the police. Cops examined the scene and found that all three died of severe head injuries. A case under section 304A of IPC (causing death due to negligence) was registered at Podili police station. The bodies were taken to Ongole Government Hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-heading-to-cast-vote-die-in-bike-accident/articleshow/81075845.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Patna||New rail bridge at Katihar to open in March: ADRM||KATIHAR: The construction of bow-gutter railway overbridge, parallel to the existing one, is expected to be thrown open for vehicular traffic next month. The 72-metre-long single span bridge is being constructed at an estimated cost of Rs29 crore. Talking about the project, additional divisional railway manager (ADRM), Katihar, Vijay Kumar Choudhary said, “The bridge is likely to be ready for vehicular traffic in March. But, some shops will have to be shifted as the bridge’s north flank will land there. The shops are on the municipal land and the state government will have to take a call on this. The south flank of the overbridge will land on railways land. Therefore, we don’t have any issue on our side.” The bridge can take 25-tonne axle load per metre and it can go up to 70-90 tonne axle load, said Choudhary, adding, “The new bridge will be higher compared to the old overbridge, which was constructed in 1964.” On being asked about the reason for constructing the new ROB, the ADRM said, “The old ROB was constructed in 1964, when this route had not been electrified. Now, the gap between overhead catenary wire and the old bridge when trains travel below the bridge, has become narrow. It was not possible to raise the height of the old overbridge. Therefore, the necessity of a new bridge.” He said experts from the Railway Design and Standards Organisation (RDSO), Lucknow, will give green signal after checking the quality and other technical parameters of the bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-rail-bridge-at-katihar-to-open-in-march-adrm/articleshow/81076016.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Kochi||Ekm rural gets 2 new sub-divisions||Kochi: Two new sub-divisions headed by DSPs would be inaugurated in Ernakulam rural limits on Thursday paving way for increased efficiency in policing the vast police district. Rural police said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the new sub-divisions at Munambam and Puthencruz via videoconferencing. A child-friendly station would be inaugurated at Angamaly as well. Rural police said police stations including Njarackal, Munambam, North Paravur, Varapuzha, Vadakkekara and Puthenvelikkara would come under the Munambam sub-division. The Puthencruz sub-division would include Piravom, Koothattukulam, Mulanthuruthy, Chottanikkara, Ramamangalam and Puthencruz stations. With the introduction of the new sub-divisions, the rural police limits would now have five sub-divisions, including the existing Aluva, Perumbavoor and Muvattupuzha divisions. The new divisions were launched as part of the programme to gradually separate law and order maintenance and investigation. “Circle inspectors were made station house officers and DSPs were given supervisory charge, as part of the transformation,” said a police officer. A new sub-division is being launched in Ernakulam Central as well. With this the city police would have four sub-divisions, including the existing sub-divisions at Thrikkakara, Ernakulam and West Kochi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-rural-gets-2-new-sub-divisions/articleshow/81077736.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Business||P&G delinks parental leave from gender, marriage||MUMBAI: Procter & Gamble (P&G) India has introduced an inclusive parental leave policy called ‘share the care’. The move will enable all new parents working at the FMCG company to avail of the leave, irrespective of gender or marital status. The company said in a statement this will entitle all new parents — including biological parents, domestic partners, adoptive parents or parents in same-sex couples — to 8 weeks fully paid leave. This builds on the company’s existing maternity leave policy of 26 weeks for birthing mothers and adoption leave of 26 weeks for primary caregivers. P&G VP and head (human resources), Indian sub-continent, P M Srinivas said, “We believe care for home and family has no gender. Our new ‘share the care’ parental leave policy drives positive change by providing equal opportunity to all parents to share caregiving for new family members. ‘Share the care’ programme is not just a policy change, but a step towards shifting cultural norms in India by making child caregiving unbiased. It also helps new parents spend more time with the child and enable effective bonding, especially in the early weeks. It also allows both parents to provide support to each other on this journey.” Over the last few years, more companies have progressed on the parental leave front. Companies like Deutsche Bank India offer parental leave of 26 weeks to the primary caregiver irrespective of gender. Zomato too offers a 26-week paternity leave. Tata Steel, on the other hand, rolled out an HR policy that enables colleagues from the LGBTQ+ community to declare their partners and avail all HR benefits including adoption leave, new-born parent leave, child care leave. As part of new declarations made by P&G on gender equality in India, the company said it will drive equality behind the camera by creating equal opportunities, capability and resource sharing. Over the next three years, P&G has committed to have equal representation of female directors for its advertisements across brands in India. Further, P&G said it will spend Rs 300 crore by deliberately working with women-owned businesses in India over the next three years. In order to provide equal opportunity for women in STEM roles, P&G said it will build digital and technological capability of 10,000+ women across P&G’s external network (including customers, retailers and agency partners) over the next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pg-delinks-parental-leave-from-gender-marriage/articleshow/81078883.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Do not drop your guard, and mask; coronavirus fight not over yet||KOLKATA: With only 44 fresh cases on Wednesday, Kolkata currently has 1,065 active cases. Like Kolkata, the number of cases has nosedived across the districts, too. Bengal reported only 133 new cases on Wednesday. But health experts warn that Covid protective norms should still be followed, especially since parts of Maharashtra and Kerala have seen a surge in cases and fear of a second wave is looming. “Covid vaccination is the ray of hope in this pandemic. But we should not forget Covid-appropriate behaviour to decrease the infection rate even after vaccination. The decline in Covid cases in recent times may give a false sense of security, but we need to be cautious in order to prevent a second wave,” said Anirban Dalui, public health specialist at Swasthya Bhavan. “Many European countries are seeing a second wave with the mutated virus. We are seeing an increase in cases in Kerala and Maharashtra as well. We are not sure yet if the vaccines are enough to protect us from the new strain. We cannot let our guard down yet, and most importantly, we must keep masks on,” said Prabhas Prasun Giri, associate professor at Institute of Child Health. A study on the use of masks during the pandemic published by the Cambridge University Press revealed that a ‘gut feeling’ of being at risk was the strongest trigger for adopting self-protecting measures, like social distancing, avoiding gatherings and using masks. As opposed to this, the study said that even if someone knew he or she was at risk, it did not necessarily mean they would be more cautious and take the prescribed preventive measures. “On the other hand, a person who had a gut feeling of being at risk was more likely to adopt self-protective measures,” said Sugato Lahiry, president of TTMS-PepleProfit — a consulting firm that provides organizational psychology-based solutions and was part of the study. “If people show reluctance about wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and using sanitizer, then the government does not have an option other than announcing another lockdown. We are not sure about the sustainability or efficacy of different vaccines since more new strains are coming up,” said community medicine specialist Sanjib Bandyopadhyay of ID Hospital. “If Covid cases continue to rise in Maharashtra till the end of the week, the rest of the country will be at risk. Maharashtra can’t remain isolated now that travel restrictions are off,” said Raja Dhar, director-pulmonology at CMRI Hospital. He added that a certain degree of laxity has crept into general behaviour. “Even healthworkers — who have been extremely cautious since the beginning of the pandemic — have started taking it easy. I myself have been a little slack over the last few weeks. But now I have started making sure that my mask is on all the time and am strictly maintaining distance from my patients and colleagues. I have again started warning my patients about the dangers and am recommending Covid tests to those with even the slightest symptoms,” said Dhar. Even the vaccine doesn’t guarantee fool-proof protection against Covid, said oncologist Subir Ganguly. “Many believe that once they have taken the vaccine, they are immune to the virus. This could be dangerous since a vaccine has around 70%-80% efficacy, which means there’s always a 20%-30% chance of catching the virus even after inoculation. Also, there are new strains now that may not be foiled by the vaccine,” said Ganguly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/do-not-drop-your-guard-and-mask-virus-fight-not-over-yet/articleshow/81077636.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 18, 2021||Business||RBI tightens norms for housing finance companies||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has tightened norms for housing finance companies (HFCs), particularly those raising public deposits. In terms of the master directions issued on Wednesday, HFCs must cease lending if they are not in a position to repay fixed deposit holders. The central bank on Wednesday came out with a comprehensive rule book for HFCs. The comprehensive rule book for HFCs is in the wake of the central bank taking over the regulation and supervision of these specialised lenders from the National Housing Bank in 2019. The norms require all HFCs to have a minimum capital adequacy ratio of 14% by March 31, 2021. The master directions include prescriptions on liquidity coverage, asset classification and other prudential norms that are almost in line with what is prescribed for banks. The guidelines also incorporate a fair practices code, which requires all communications to the borrower to be in a language that is easily understood. HFCs must disclose upfront to the borrower all fees and conditions under which the interest would be reset. The central bank has also come out with rules for engaging recovery agents. For maintaining the prescribed liquidity coverage ratio, the RBI has given banks until 2025 to meet the target in a phased manner. If an HFC extends loans to a group company, the total exposure cannot be more than 15% of its net-owned fund for a single entity and 25% of owned funds for group entities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-tightens-norms-for-housing-finance-cos/articleshow/81079012.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Business||Term cover costs set to go up as reinsurers hike life rates||MUMBAI: Indian life insurance companies are set to hike premiums for their term plans after several reinsurers increased rates for underwriting portfolios of these pure-protection covers. The move comes even as the domestic life companies face higher-than-expected mortality claims due to Covid. Reinsurance rates for Indian life companies had been hardening before the pandemic. Global underwriters, led by the US-based RGA, turned wary in the wake of lower rates in the Indian market, which some said were cheaper than the cost of a life cover in European countries with better life expectancy rates. Given that this hike has come during a pandemic, insurers do not have the headroom to absorb the higher costs. Domestic reinsurer GIC Re is also understood to have raised rates on some contracts. “Some reinsurers changed rates at the start of this fiscal year. While others, who may not have fully reflected the hike then, are seeking to change rates now. We believe the current increases are only a catch-up with market rates. In line with our reinsurance arrangements, we reflected the rates in the new product we launched in July 2020,” said Satyan Jambunathan, CFO at ICICI Prudential Life Insurance. According to insurance distributors, some companies have indicated that rates will go up from April 2021, when the new reinsurance contracts come into force. The companies that are understood to be revising their rates include Max Life Insurance, Tata AIA Life Insurance, IndiaFirst Life and Aegon Life. Reinsurers price their rates based on life expectancy — which is a long-term trend — and not on a single-year experience. However, this time the concerted action has coincided with the pandemic, which has caused nearly 1.5 lakh deaths in India. “The industry is seeing a worsening of mortality claims among policyholders due to Covid. The actual claims paid is turning out to be higher than what was estimated by actuaries at the time of pricing the policies” said R M Vishakha, MD & CEO of IndiaFirst Life Insurance. “We have received 630 death claims for Rs 41 crore arising out of Covid. These included 291 from individual policies and 324 claims from group policies,” she added. According to Vishakha, reinsurance cover is provided by multinationals in some cases and they are outside the purview of the insurance regulator. “If domestic insurers do not increase their rates in line with what is quoted by reinsurers, they will end up bearing the risks on their books,” she said. Insurance distributors say that there has been a secular trend of improvement in life expectancy in India. As a result, the term insurance rates have fallen dramatically over the last decade. Even after the rate increases, the cost of life insurance will be cheaper than what it was 10 years ago. Over the last two years, reinsurers turned wary of the decline in rates. Insurers have been bringing down rates for high-value policies because policyholders in that income segment had better life expectancy because of frequent medical tests and treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/term-cover-costs-set-to-go-up-as-reinsurers-hike-life-rates/articleshow/81078955.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 18, 2021||Patna||Rs 33 lakh withdrawn from Siwan college account using cloned cheques||PATNA: An intermediate college in Siwan is left with no money to pay its teaching and non-teaching staff after Rs 32.75 lakh was fraudulently withdrawn from its bank and deposited in three different accounts in Patna, Jamui and Lakhisarai using cloned cheques. The college, Rajdev Singh Mahavidyalaya, is located at Mairwan Road in Siwan. Principal Dr Abhimanyu Singh told TOI over the phone that the account with the Bank of India's main branch at Babuna Mor was affected. “Altogether Rs 33.5 lakh was in the bank account from which Rs 32.75 lakh was transacted via RTGS by conmen using four cloned cheques on January 25 and January 27,” Singh said. Singh further said the original cheques having same serial numbers used by conmen are still in his possession. “Those cheques were of a new booklet. I am yet to finish the old booklet,” he said, adding, he had issued a cheque bearing an amount of Rs 1.35 lakh on February 11 for the salary payment of staffers for January. “When the salary was not credited even after four days, some staffer informed me. I sent a professor and the college accountant to the bank on Monday when the authorities informed them that the account has insufficient balance,” he said. The principal said he went to the bank on Tuesday to take out a detailed statement after which the fraudulent transactions came to light. Singh said hardly Rs 45,000 is left in the college’s bank account and even the January salary is yet to be paid. “None, including myself, will be able to get the salary until the bank pays back the money lost due to their negligence. Bank authorities have assured that they would pay the money lost by forgery but have not clarified any timeframe,” the principal said, adding, he has lodged an FIR in connection with the forgery with the Town police station. Quoting the bank authorities, the principal said Rs 5 lakh has been transacted to the account of one Surat Sah with IndusInd Bank in Patna, more than Rs 9.5 lakh has been deposited to the account of one Sameer Kumar with Bandhan bank in Lakhisarai and Rs 17.5 lakh has been deposited into an account in the name of Sonu Kumar with Canara Bank in Jamui. The principal said he didn’t receive any call before clearance of the cloned cheques nor any SMS for the four fraudulent transactions. Town police station SHO Jaiprakash Pandit said an FIR has been registered in which the applications of Singh as well as bank the manager have been clubbed. “The manager has made Surat, Sameer and Sonu as accused of the fraudulent transactions. With further investigation, it would become clear if any bank employee is also involved in it nor not,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-33l-withdrawn-from-siwan-college-a/c-using-cloned-cheques/articleshow/81075717.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||Ram Lalla dressed in yellow Khadi silk on Basant Panchami||Ayodhya: For the first time, the Ram Lalla idol at Ram Janmabhoomi was draped in yellow with the fabric intricately woven from khadi silk in keeping with the vibrant hue of Basant Panchami. Idols of Sita, Lakhsman, Bharat, Shatrughan and Lord Hanuman in the sanctum sanctorum also donned khadi. The designer ‘angvastram’ for Ram Lalla was created by a Lucknow-based fashion designer Manish Tripathi in collaboration with UP Khadi and Gramodyog department. After morning prayers and rituals, chief priest of Ramjanmabhoomi, Acharya Satyendra Das dressed the idols in yellow khadi, which were displayed before chief minister Yogi Adityanath a day before. To add glint and grandeur, pure silver foils were woven into the attire of the deities. Talking to TOI, Acharya Das said, “The designer had visited Ramjanmabhoomi a week ago to take measurements for dresses. On Basant Panchami, the idols were dressed in yellow, marking the onset of spring. Going by Hindu tradition, the idols will wear dresses of seven different hues in all seven days of the week during Basant. It will be yellow on Tuesday, green on Wednesday, red on Thursday, cream on Friday, blue on Saturday, pink on Sunday and orange on Monday.” Earlier Tripathi told reporters that the idea of designing khadi dresses for the deities struck him when he was in Ayodhya recently. He discussed the idea with a top government official, who agreed to provide the best khadi silk for the idols. “Khadi is the only ethical cloth in the world. I had designed these dresses for Lord Ram after much research,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-lalla-dressed-in-yellow-khadi-silk-on-basant-panchami/articleshow/81062197.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Kochi||Anshad’s wife filed ‘man missing’ plaint on Tuesday: Police||Kottayam: Wife of Anshad Badruddin, a Popular Front of India (PFI) cadre, had filed a ‘man missing’ complaint with the Pandalam police on Tuesday evening, said Pandalam station house officer S Sreekumar. Badruddin had left his home in Cherikkal west ward in Pandalam municipality in Pathanamthitta district towards the end of January this year. He was staying with wife and three children at a rented house near his ancestral house in the municipal ward. He had told his wife that he was leaving for Delhi for some work. According to police, he had been in touch with his wife over mobile phone till February 11. However, after that his mobile was in a switched-off mode. Since he had told wife that he would return home on February 16, his wife waited till Tuesday evening before filing a complaint with police, said the officer. According to local residents, Badruddin had learned carpentry after class 10 and had left for north Kerala, where he lived for some time. He used to be away from his native place most of the time. However, he was at home during the lockdown and was engaged in selling vegetables and fish. According to his wife, he had contacted her over the phone everyday till February 11 after he left for Delhi. Badruddin was the fourth accused in a clash between the DYFI and SDPI in 2010. Badruddin along with Firoz Khan, who were alleged to have links with PFI, were held by UP STF on Tuesday for allegedly plotting violent acts in Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/anshads-wife-filed-man-missing-plaint-on-tuesday-police/articleshow/81075748.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Fee protest: Meeting with min on Mon||Mumbai: Parents of students from schools across the metropolitan region on Wednesday gathered at Azad Maidan, demanding 50% reduction in tuition fee, a 100% waiver of term fees collected twice a year and ensuring that access to online classes continues even in case of non-payment. Later, they went to meet school education minister Varsha Gaikwad. “Parents have spent extra amount this year to buy computer or laptops, data pack, printers... We hope the government understands parents’ hardship and gives some relief,” said Jayant Jain of Forum for Fairness in Education. A few went to meet Gaikwad to put forth our demands but a long wait later, we were told that she would meet us on Monday, said Anubha Sahai, member of the India Wide Parents Association. Gaikwad was unavailable for comment. —Vinamrata Borwankar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fee-protest-meeting-with-min-on-mon/articleshow/81080427.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Delhi||To speed up work, SDMC to digitise functioning at seven cremation grounds||New Delhi: In a bid to upgrade crematoria infrastructure and increase the pace of issuing death certificates, South Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to computerise the functioning of seven of its major cremation facilities. The sites incorporated in the project include key facilities in Punjabi Bagh, Dwarka, Green Park, Kakrola, Hastsal and Mangolpuri cremation grounds which receive the bulk of bodies under the south Delhi jurisdiction. TOI had earlier reported how the deaths occurring in institutional facilities like hospitals get automatically registered for a certificate generation mechanism, but relatives in cases of non-institutional deaths still run from one zonal office to another for this essential document. A senior municipal official said that daily records and updates on number of bodies received every day and their details will be maintained in digital format so that the data can be processed and communicated quickly. After the systems are installed, the records and bills of wood purchase, which are being issued manually, will also be generated through computers. “The record registers are also maintained manually. The manual process takes time. In future these facilities can also be linked with birth and death certificate generation system so that relatives don’t face any hassles in the subsequent process,” the official said. The announcement to computerise these seven crematoria was also made part of the budget provisions announced by commissioner Gyanesh Bharti. Out of these seven facilities, CNG furnaces are available in Punjabi Bagh and Green Park. The Punjabi Bagh facility is the second biggest cremation ground in the city after Nigambodh Ghat, which falls under North Delhi Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/to-speed-up-work-sdmc-to-digitise-functioning-at-seven-cremation-grounds/articleshow/81079397.cms||---
February 18, 2021||India||#MeToo: Priya Ramani acquitted of defaming M J Akbar||NEW DELHI: A person’s right to reputation can’t be protected at the cost of dignity, a Delhi court said on Wednesday, while acquitting journalist Priya Ramani of the charge of defaming former Union minister MJ Akbar whom she had accused of sexual harassment. In a verdict emerging out of litigation relating to the Me Too movement, the court said a “woman can’t be punished for raising (her) voice against sex abuse on the pretext of criminal complaint of defamation as the right of reputation can’t be protected at the cost of right of life and dignity of woman as guaranteed in Constitution.” Additional chief metropolitan magistrate R K Pandey accepted Ramani’s statement that Akbar is “not a man of stellar reputation” while believing her testimony of being sexually harassed by him in a hotel in 1993, a meeting Akbar claimed had never occurred. The woman has a right to put her grievance on any platform of her choice and even after decades. It is shameful that the incidents of crime and violence against women are happening in the country where mega epics such as ‘Mahabarata’ and ‘Ramayana’ were written around the theme of respect for women,” observed additional chief metropolitan magistrate R K Pandey, dismissing the criminal defamation complaint filed by Akbar, who had also questioned the delay by Ramani in levelling these allegations. The court said it can’t be ignored that most of the time, the offence of sexual harassment and sexual abuse is committed behind closed doors or privately. Ramani had made allegations of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of the global “MeToo” movement in 2018 following which Akbar filed the complaint on October 15, 2018, accusing her of defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago when he was a journalist. He resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018, and denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward against him. Ramani said there was a lot of anxiety, stress and fear as a powerful man took her to court. “My reputation is much better than his and everybody believed me,” she said, adding that she felt vindicated on behalf of all the women who have ever spoken out against sexual harassment at workplace. “It was me, the victim, who had to stand up in the court as an accused. I thank everyone who stood by me, especially my witness Ghazala Wahab,” she said. In its 91-page verdict, the court noted that “despite how well-respected some persons are in society, they in their personal lives could show extreme cruelty to females.” Akbar had earlier told the court that Ramani’s allegations were fictitious and cost him his stellar reputation but Ramani countered these claims, arguing she made allegations in good faith and public interest, and for public good.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/metoo-priya-ramani-acquitted-of-defaming-m-j-akbar/articleshow/81080884.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Trio assaults, kidnaps RTO agent; 2 held||Mumbai: An RTO agent was kidnapped and assaulted by three men over a dispute recently. Kurar police arrested two of them. Shankar Gupta (39) from Kandivli (E) had a dispute over domicile certificates. Around midnight on February 12, Prashant Parab (42), Rakesh Dalvi (28) and another person reached Gupta’s residence, argued with him and assaulted him physically and with iron rods. They dragged him towards a car, bundled him in, drove him around. They let him off at Malad (E). Gupta complained to Kurar police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/trio-assaults-kidnaps-rto-agent-2-held/articleshow/81079418.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Man’s plan to end life foiled just in time||Mumbai: A 21-year-old “severely depressed” man from Borivli was saved in the nick of time just before he planned to end his life. He had posted a message on social media about his plan which was noticed by a Dadar resident who alerted the police.  The man lost his mother a few years ago. His father, who had remarried, passed away during the pandemic. He has no siblings. “He was severely depressed after he lost his parents... His stepmother was harassing him,” said deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Rashmi Karandikar. After his soical media post on Monday, the Dadar resident alerted the cops. It took four hours to trace him. On Wednesday, police counselled him and took him to hospital. It is the ninth such case of a person being saved in the past six months. —V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mans-plan-to-end-life-foiled-just-in-time/articleshow/81072508.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||Three girls found unconscious in a field in UP's Unnao; two die||LUCKNOW: Three girls aged 13, 16 and 17 were found in their field in an unconscious state in Baburaha village of Asoha police station in Unnao district on Wednesday evening. Police said that two of them were declared brought dead at the district hospital while the one aged 17 is battling for life at a Kanpur hospital. The incident surfaced after the brother of the 16-year-old girl went out to the fields to look for his sister around 7 pm. Police suspect it to be a case of poisoning. “I spotted my sister along with my two other cousins with their hands and legs tied. My sister had gone to bring fodder for the cattle around 2 pm,” said the brother of the 16-year-old girl in his statement to the police. SP, Unnao, Anand Kulkarni, told TOI that the three girls are cousins. “A white substance was oozing out of their mouths, and was visible, when the police teams reached there,” he said. However, police team that reached the spot first said the bodies were not found to be tied while hands and the legs also bore no impression of it. No injury marks found on body of any girl: CopsKulkarni said that the three were taken to district hospital where the girls aged 13 and 16 were declared brought dead and the one aged 17 was shifted to Kanpur district hospital for further treatment. Inspector General of Police, Lucknow range, Laxmi Singh, who also rushed to the spot and was supervising the probe, told TOI that the clothes of all the three girls were intact and there was no injury found on the body. “We are probing from all angles while statements of the relatives and family members are being taken separately. We are trying to first concretise the entire sequence of the events and also hunt for evidence,” she added. Sources also said that one of the brothers of the deceased girl who works in Lucknow and commutes daily from Unnao to Lucknow when questioned was unaware of the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-girls-found-unconscious-in-a-field-in-unnao-2-die/articleshow/81080104.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 18, 2021||Kanpur||Woman gored to death by bull in Unnao village||(With Pic) Kanpur:A 50-year-old woman was gored to death by a stray bull in Unnao’s Singhupur village of Bichhiya block on Wednesday morning. Angry over the incident, villagers allegedly attacked the bull with sticks killing the animal on the spot. They then locked a herd of stray cattle in a basic school and created ruckus and demanded authorities of prompt solution to the issue of stray cattle in that area not only causing crop loss, but also putting the lives of locals in danger. Alleging that the district administration had failed to reign in the menace of stray cattle, they demanded compensation for the victim Guddi’s family. Police said the victim, identified as Guddi, was living with her married daughter and son-in-law in the village after the death of her husband Tejpal. On Wednesday morning, Guddi was gored by a bull. She sustained critical wounds and died at the spot. Following the incident, villagers herded stray cattle in a school and started creating ruckus. Senior district and police officials besides education department officers rushed to the school and tried to pacify the villagers. They asked the villagers to clear the school premises of the cattle. When the villagers declined, additional police force had to be called in to control the situation and the cattle were later moved out. Circle Officer (City) Gaurav Kumar Tripathi said, “The incident took place while the victim had gone to her farms to guard the crops. While she was returning home, she came across two bulls engaged in a fight. One of the bulls suddenly attacked her and she died on the spot. The crowd attacked the animal with sticks killing it on the spot.” District magistrate Ravindra Kumar told reporters that “instructions have been given to the concerned department to capture and send stray cattle to city ‘gaushalas’. We are also seeing if necessary compensation could be released in this regard.” Sensing gravity of the situation, cattle catching drive was launched in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-gored-to-death-by-bull-in-unnao-village/articleshow/81076293.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 18, 2021||Varanasi||Village head shot dead in Jaunpur in enmity||Varanasi: A 50-year-old village head, Rajkumar Yadav, was shot dead by four miscreants in Saraikhwaja area of Jaunpur on Tuesday leading to protest and dharna by villagers who also damaged some vehicles after blocking the road. According to reports, as the news spread of the murder spread hundreds of villagers blocked Shahganj-Jaunpur city road by placing the body near Koiridih village and staged a violent protest. The mob of villagers also damaged police vehicles and threw bricks at the police. The incident took place at a time when Governor Anandiben Patel was present at VBSP University some three kms away from the spot. District magistrate Jaunpur Manish Kumar Verma, SP Rajkaran Nayyar, SP (rural) Tribhuvan Singh along with heavy police force rushed to the spot and managed to pacify the crowd to lift the dharna late in the evening. SP Jaunpur said that the family of Yadav gave a complaint against two persons in this connection. “A named FIR has been lodged on their complaint and the killers would be nabbed soon. During initial investigation, old enmity has surfaced as reason behind the murder,” he added. Police said that Yadav, who was the head of Makhmelpur village under the limits of Saraikhawaja police station, was returning home from the city on his motorcycle. When he was passing through Saraikhwaja area, four miscreants on two motorcycles intercepted him and sprayed him with bullets and fled the scene. Yadav died on the spot. When the locals reached the spot, they found the body lying in a pool of blood. News of his killing spread like wildfire and hundreds of villagers from Makhmelpur reached there and blocked the road. Initially, police from Saraikhwaja and neighbouring police stations tried to disperse the mob, which indulged in brick batting and damaged some police vehicles. Later, DM and SP along with heavy police force reached the spot while Samajwadi Party MLA from Malhani Lucky Yadav also reached there and convinced the villagers to lift the dharna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/village-head-shot-dead-in-jaunpur-in-enmity/articleshow/81075999.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Kanpur||Bag with cash worth Rs 1.40cr found in Swatantrata Senani Exp||Kanpur: The cash recovered from a trolley-bag abandoned in the pantry of Swatantrata Senani Express at Kanpur Central amounted to Rs 1.40 crore. A red colour trolley-bag containing cash was found abandoned in the pantry of Swatantrata Senani Express heading towards Jai Nagar from Delhi. The train arrived at Kanpur Central 2.51am on Tuesday. Pantry staff had found the bag and informed the authorities about the matter after the train arrived at Kanpur Central at 2.51am on Tuesday. Subsequently, the GRP and RPF sleuths conducted scanning of the bag and found that it contained currency notes. Later, a search operation was launched to look for any suspicious person, but in vain. The police later counted the notes in denominations of Rs 500 and 100 amounting to Rs 1.40 crore. The GRP, which is investigating the matter, told TOI that they will procure CCTV footage from Delhi railway station from where the train had originated. “Chances are that it could be the hawala money being sent by operators to Bihar. However, to ascertain the same, investigations are on. We will also question the pantry staff members, who were the first to spot the bag,” said a senior GRP official Deputy CTM Himanshu Kumar Upadhyai, however, said, “The notes found in the bag amounted to Rs 1.40 crore. We are in the process of handing the recovered notes to the income tax department. Further investigation to ascertain about its origin is still on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bag-with-cash-worth-rs-1-40cr-found-in-swatantrata-senani-exp/articleshow/81076266.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||Riverfront scam: CBI files chargesheet against executive engineer, five others||LUCKNOW: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against six persons including former executive engineer of irrigation department Roop Singh Yadav, his junior assistant Raj Kumar Yadav, two directors of a firm and an advisor of another private firm in the Rs 1,600-crore Gomti Riverfront Development Project scam case. The private firm has also been named in the chargesheet. The project was launched by the previous Samajwadi Party government. The CBI started investigating the case following a recommendation by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath just after he took over in March 2017. In November same year, the CBI took over the case. It filed an FIR against eight engineers of the irrigation department of different ranks in connection with Gomti River Channelization Project and Gomti River Front Development by the department. The Enforcement Directorate also filed a criminal case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in this regard in March 2018. The CBI said that the chargesheet was filed before the CBI court in Lucknow under the charges of criminal breach of trust, forgery of valuable security, forgery for purpose of cheating, demand of illegal gratification, criminal misconduct by public servant and prevention of corruption act. The chargesheet has been filed against the then executive engineer Roop Singh Yadav, junior assistant (Irrigation Works) Raj Kumar Yadav, two directors of a private company -- Himanshu Gupta and Kavish Gupta -- along with senior advisor of another firm Badri Shrestha. The CBI officials said that during the probe, it has surfaced that the accused awarded the work for intercepting trunk drain to an ineligible private firm and the date of tender was twice extended to accommodate the said firm. “Forged documents of another bidder and private partner were also arranged by the accused to complete the quorum of three participants in the tender. The agreement for the work was allegedly executed by the accused without obtaining the approval and allotment of funds,” said the CBI. The probe was still pending against others named in the case. Investigators said the exact value of the scam and financial irregularity would be ascertained only after getting full details. The project involved construction of a rubber dam to maintain the water level in the Gomti river, a stadium, an amphitheatre for 2,000 people, bicycle and jogging tracks, a play area for children and a musical fountain. The project was partially inaugurated by former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav in November 2016. However, after taking over as the CM, Yogi Adityanath got a probe done by a high court judge and handed over the case to the CBI after prima facie evidence of irregularities were found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/riverfront-scam-cbi-files-chargesheet-against-executive-engineer-five-others/articleshow/81080112.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||CDRI tech to make RT PCR cheaper||LUCKNOW: Considered the most reliable method to confirm Covid-19 infection, the RT PCR test will cost much lesser soon. Besides, it will give results in a few hours instead of taking a day as it does now. The reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) test detects the virus in a human cell using a reagent. This reagent is imported from foreign countries due to which the cost of the test is high. Now, the reagent has been indigenously developed by CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI). The reagents present in an RT PCR diagnostic kit bind with the viral genome to indicate whether a person is infected with a virus. With CSIR-CDRI developing the technology and transferring it to Hyderabad-based M/s Biotech Desk Pvt Ltd, the test will become cheaper and also give results quicker. The transfer happened during CSIR-CDRI’s 70th annual day celebrations held on Wednesday. It was after year-long research that senior principal scientist Atul Goel and his team made fluorescent dyes and quenchers (reagents) for use in RT PCR tests. “The team began working on this technology in July when the cost of a Covid test was around Rs 4,000 per sample. RT PCR is the most robust and reliable method of testing for Covid-19 infection. It utilizes the costly imported TaqMan probes (reagent),” said Goel. “CDRI’s dyes and quenchers will reduce the dependency on supply of reagents and kits from foreign manufacturers. Our larger goal is capacity building for India to make India self-reliant,” he added. “The technology of fluorescent dyes and quenchers for the development of indigenous RT PCR diagnostic kit will not only furnish the indigenous Covid-19 testing kit but is also a step on the path of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat,” said CDRI spokesperson Sanjeev Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cdri-develops-reagent-used-in-rt-pcr-kit-test-to-become-cheaper/articleshow/81080031.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||DPA asks Arvind Kejriwal to launch Abhyudaya scheme in Delhi||LUCKNOW: Lauding efforts of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for launching ‘Abhyudaya’ scheme to provide free coaching to students preparing for competitive exams, the Delhi Parents Association (DPA) on Wednesday wrote to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to replicate a similar scheme for the aspirants in the state. DPA’s president Aparajita Gautam has in her representation to the CM stated that UP’s Abhyudaya is unique as it is free of cost and doesn’t target any category of students. Usually, government schemes are meant for a particular class and category, leaving aside the middle class. But the best part of Abhyudaya is that it is open for students from all sections of society, reads the letter. Representing the association, Aparajita said Abhyudaya coaching centres, which are set up under direct supervision of the CM at the divisional level in first phase and at district level in the second phase, provides free guidance and teaching by none other than IAS, IPS, IFS and PCS officers. From virtual sessions to interview calls, career counselling and subject matter expertise are main highlights of the scheme. Urging Kejriwal to help aspirants of Delhi, the DPA in its letter stated that meritorious students hailing from rural belt are unable to make way in private coaching institutes due to lack of resources. Just because they come from socially and economically poor backgrounds, they fail to prepare well for the competitive exams which subsequently affect their overall development. The free coaching facility like the one started in UP provides a level playing field to all aspirants, irrespective of their financial and social backgrounds, Aparajita wrote in her letter to Kejriwal. She further stated that the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted people in a big way and the middle class is facing additional burden of costly school education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dpa-asks-kejriwal-to-launchabhyudaya-scheme-in-delhi/articleshow/81080075.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Railways recycles 6,000 litres waste water daily at loco shed||LUCKNOW: As a part of green initiative, 6,000 litres of waste water mixed with grease, oil and cleaning agent post locomotive engines wash is being recycled daily at the diesel locomotive shed at Alambagh. On an average 80-90 diesel locomotive engines are washed every month at the loco shed, for which the railways extracts 1.80 lakh litres of groundwater. According to railways, in August 2020, a waste water recycling plant was installed at the shed at the cost of Rs 4.80 lakh. With the help of this plant, now every drop of water used in washing the engines is recycled. Sanjay Tripathi, divisional railway manager, Northern Railway, said, “After the installation of water recycling plant, the diesel locomotive shed has made tremendous improvement in the usage of water. The effluent discharge from shed is processed to remove oil, grease, cleaning agents and then is collected in the pond, thus helping the shed staff to use the recycled water again and again — reducing their need for fresh water.” The project was introduced by senior divisional mechanical engineer Anand Kishore Tiwari. Some part of the recycled water is also used in watering the green plants and trees in the railways vicinity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rlys-recycles-6k-litres-waste-water-daily-at-loco-shed/articleshow/81080048.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Allahabad||Basant Panchami marks the beginning of Dhuni Tap of seers at Magh Mela||Prayagraj: The monthlong period from Basant Panchami to Magh Purnima is considered to be the most important period for the seers at Magh Mela as they perform a challenging sadhana (meditation) called ‘Dhuni Tap’. Performed on the sandy banks of Ganga, the sadhak (seers who undertake this practice) fast for the entire day, meditate and pray in a fixed posture of yogasan. The sadhana goes on under the scorching sun and the meditating seers are surrounded by burning cow dung cakes emanating fire and thick smoke. Also known as ‘Panch Agnitap’, this harsh form of self-denial and austerity is practiced by many saints for years together. “This is among the oldest forms of penance which finds mention in ancient Hindu scriptures like the Padma Purana and Shiv Purana, wherein a Naga sadhu is surrounded with burning fire, and he sits for hours in sadhana,” shared Mahatyagi Manoharcharan Dasji. Initially, a seer is surrounded with fours fires made by cow dung, and the midday sun acts like the fifth source of fire. But as the penance progresses, the number of fires keeps increasing during the 18 years of tap (austerity), and in the last leg of sadhana, the sadhak carries a fire pot on his head, explained a saint. The final stage of the fire austerity is called kapal dhuni, which means fire pot (dhuni) on the skull (kapal), he added. An integral part of the exercise is the ritual of putting food into the holy fire made ups of smoldering heaps of cowdung, while reciting mantras. Having made offerings to the fire, the saint blows the conch shell to invoke the deity. This marks the the end of preliminary rituals, and now the saint is ready to sit in meditation. At Magh Mela ground, this practice is undertaken by seers between the sandy banks of the two bridges, which connect the city to Junshi, on the Ganga. While the seers perform Dhuni Tap, it is ensured that ordinary pilgrims do not venture into the area or indulge in any practice that would would disturb their sadhana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/basant-panchami-marks-the-beginning-of-dhuni-tap-of-seers-at-magh-mela/articleshow/81075156.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||30% discount likely on flats in Avadh Vihar, Vrindavan Yojana||Lucknow: You may soon get a lucrative deal on the flats in Awadh Vihar Yojana and Vrindavan Yojana. Uttar Pradesh Housing and Development Board (UPHDB) is planning to give a discount up to 30% on its 1,400 flats in the two residential colonies. The proposal will be tabled before the board members meeting next month. There are 1,443 ready-to-move vacant flats in Awadh Vihar Yojana and Vrindavan Yojana. They have remained unsold since their completion four years ago. The cost of the two projects was Rs 850 crore. A committee headed by UPHBD finance controller Dharmendra Verma is preparing a detailed report for the proposal. “The flats are equipped with branded tiles, marble work, lighting and ventilation facility. These flats are much better than the units provided by private developers. However, due to less publicity we have not found many buyers,” said Verma The flats are available under two categories — one BHK and two BHK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/30-discount-likely-on-flats-in-avadh-vihar-vrindavan-yojana/articleshow/81080044.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Varanasi||2 Gorakhpur girls elope to marry each other, 1 held for abduction||Revised Gorakhpur: Police arrested an 18-year-old girl and sent her to jail on Tuesday evening on the charges of abduction, after she and a minor girl together ran away from their homes in Sahjanwa area of the district last week to allegedly marry each other. The minor girl’s family filed a complaint against the adult girl, following which the police had registered a case of kidnapping against her. “A week ago, two girls of Sahjanwa ran away from their homes and reached Ludhiana to marry each other. One of them is an adult while the other is a minor. On Tuesday, they were both brought back from Ludhiana where they were traced with the help of electronic surveillance,” said SO Sahjanwa Sudhir Singh told TOI on Wednesday. “Both the girls study in the same college and are NCC cadets. They told the police that they want to marry each other,” police added. “The adult girl has been sent to jail as the minor girl’s family accused her of kidnapping their daughter. The action has been taken on the basis of a case of kidnapping and not of same sex live-in partnership. No action would have been taken if both the girls were adults,” said Piprouli police post in-charge SI Abhishek Rai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/2-gorakhpur-girls-elope-to-marry-each-other-1-held-for-abduction/articleshow/81076179.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Kanpur||Work of New Expressway project worth Rs 4700 crore to begin in October||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: The new project of Expressway connectivity between two Metro cities of Kanpur and Lucknow besides boosting industrial growth will ensure seamless connectivity and enhance the overall economic growth of the region. Both the Union and the state governments are pursuing the project regularly on priority basis. On Wednesday, senior district officials, including divisional commissioner visited the alignment site and decided to go towards Kanpur end. The visit was accompanied by project director National Highway of India (NHAI) Lucknow NN Giri, general manager, Setu Nigam Kanpur Rakesh Singh, executive engineer PWD, city magistrate, and Neeraj Srivastav, member Kanpur High Level Development Committee. Commissioner Raj Shekhar informed that the total length of the Expressway will be 63 km. “It will have six lanes and can be extended to eight lanes if required in future,” he added. The total cost of the project will be around 4700 crore which will be borne by NHAI, said an official.. Project director NN Giri stated that the land purchase/acquisition is in progress and will be completed in next two months by the administration of Lucknow and Unnao districts. He said that the work would start in October or so after completion of the bidding out process and will take around 30 months to complete. “The starting point is near Lucknow Airport and the end point is at Azad Chauraha near the Ganga bridge,” he said. During the field visit, it was felt that the present connectivity of Kanpur from Ganga Barrage side to the Expressway at the Azad Chauraha has intersection at NH 27, and for smooth and hassle free movement of vehicles on to the Expressway point, there is a need of a flyover on the existing NH-27 near Azad Chowk. The commissioner asked NHAI team to study the site by technical team in next one week and to take up the issue accordingly with NHAI headquarters and the state government. At present, the Expressway would be connected to Kanpur from two sides. “One from NH- 27 Ganga bridge side and second from existing New Ganga Barrage sides,” he said. The Ganga Barrage road is two lane road but its four lane proposal has been sent to the state government and also for declaring it as a state highway (From Mandhana in Kanpur to Mohanlalganj in Lucknow). Once the Kanpur Ring road alignment is made final and the project is approved, it will be connected to the Expressway as an appropriate point, the official said. “Once the project is completed, the distance of 63 km (from Lucknow Airport to Azad Chowk near Ganga bridge) can be covered in 45 minutes or so,” the official further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/work-of-new-expressway-project-worth-rs-4700-crore-to-begin-in-october/articleshow/81076278.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Varanasi||CM dedicates ghats, urgespeople to keep Rapti clean||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath dedicated Rajghat and Ramghat on the banks of river Rapti in Gorakhpur on Tuesday evening on the occasion of Basant Panchmi. The CM also laid the foundation of a concrete road and drainage channel from Herbert Dam to the ghat. The ghat used for snan, till now known as Raj Ghat, has been named after Guru Gorakshnath, while the opposite ghat is famous as Ram Ghat. The ghat used for cremation will now be known as Baba Mukteshwarnath Ghat as earlier Rapti flowed next to the Mukteshwar temple. The CM also inaugurated smokeless crematorium that uses wood as well as the gas-based crematorium constructed by the Nagar Nigam. Before inauguration, CM Yogi took a ride in a steamer on the Rapti to review the beautification of Ram Ghat and also performed aarti at the ghat. “Two years ago, this place was full of filth, but now people find it beautiful. The Ramgarh lake has been developed into a beautiful place and it is the responsibility of people to ensure cleanliness and cooperate in its maintenance,” he said. “We should also maintain the purity of river Rapti. It is a sin to throw trash in the river and an aarti should be done on with the help of administration,” Yogi added. “Rs 28 crore was allocated for Mahayogi Guru Gorakshnath ghat, Rs 15 crore 60 lakh has been spent on construction of Ram Ghat, and Rs 5 crore on Mukteshwar Ghat. The beautification work is still underway,” the CM said. Jal Shakti Minister Mahendra Singh, MP Ravi Kishan, MLA rural Vipin Singh and Bansgaon MLA Kamlesh Paswan were also present on the occasion. The CM instructed the administration for high level two-lane street, for no sewer at the ghat and also for providing facility to people for taking a dip in the river on the occasion of festivals. “The Gorakhpur Zoo will open at the end of next month as animals have already started arriving. We are constructing six-lane and four-lane roads to develop infrastructure which will help create employment opportunities and will check migration of people,” Yogi said. CM Yogi also attended the oath-taking of Guru Gorakshnath Nursing School and College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-dedicates-ghats-urgespeople-to-keep-rapti-clean/articleshow/81076034.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Varanasi||Crowds throng Rapti ghats after beautification, hail CM||Gorakhpur: The three ghats of the Rapti, Mahayogi Guru Gorakshnath Ghat, Ram Ghat and Baba Mukteshwar Ghat, dedicated by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanth a day earlier evening, witnessed a huge rush of people on Wednesday. People started thronging the ghats which have undergone beautification and said it has become so beautiful that it will turn into a tourist spot. The locals appreciated the project and thanked CM Yogi. Gorakhpur Mayor Sitaram Jaiswal said the demand for a paved bathing ghat at Rajghat was two-decade old and has been finally fulfilled by the chief minister. “Gorakhpur is fortunate that it is the ‘karmabhumi’ of Yogi Adityanath. If you ask for one thing, you get four,” he added. “The cremation ghat has become so beautiful and clean that it looks like a tourist spot. People can now readily take a holy dip in the Rapti, though earlier they hesitated and sprinkled some water on themselves as a ritual of purification,” said one Ashish Singh, a local resident. “All this has been possible only because of CM Yogi Adityanath's love for Gorakhpur and his dedication for fulfilling people’s needs. I’m happy that a bathing ghat has also been constructed here,” he added. Huge crowds of devotees throng the ghats for bathing on festivals, while Chhat Puja is also celebrated on the ghats. “It is a dream come true. None of us had ever thought that Rajghat could become so beautiful. I wish to thank CM Yogi for this,” said Neeraj Srivastav, a resident of Golghar area. “The cremation ghat has been beautified and facilities like changing rooms, toilets for both men and women have come up. As MP, CM Yogi had raised the issue of development of Rajghat in parliament after which then Union minister of tourism and culture Dr Mahesh Sharma had visited Gorakhpur in 2016 and agreed to build a bathing ghat, but the then Samajwadi Party government did not do anything,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/crowds-throng-rapti-ghats-after-beautification-hail-cm/articleshow/81076255.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||Police HQ turned into vax centre for today’s round||Lucknow: The UP Police headquarters in Signature Building near Shaheed Path has been made a vaccination centre with 14 booths for the fourth round of Phase-II for vaccination of frontline workers on Thursday. The decision has been taken to allow easy communication and access to the police personnel selected for the shots to increase the turnout which has been poor so far. In Phase-II, frontline workers — officers and employees of civic agencies, police, urban, revenue and panchayat departments — are being inoculated. It will have four rounds and a mop-up round. The first three rounds witnessed 64% (Feb 5), 24.2% (Feb 11) and 54% (Feb 12) turnout, respectively. All these rounds saw beneficiaries, who missed their jab, complaining that they did not receive messages about vaccine schedule on time. Overall, 11,134 (25%) of 45,000 frontline workers in the city have received their first dose so far. Around 33,866 workers are still to be vaccinated. About 10,375 workers have been called for Thursday’s vaccination drive which will be carried out in 83 booths in 20 centres. Other big centres in the city include KGMU (15 booths), SGPGIMS (11), Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital (8) and RMLIMS (5). However, even if turnout remains 100% on Thursday, around 23,491 workers will have to be inoculated in the mop-up round on February 22. Officers admit that the target is huge and one more mop-up round could be added in Phase-II as done in Phase-I. District immunisation officer, Dr MK Singh, said that at present they are focusing on the fourth-round and added that any decision on increasing the rounds will be discussed after Thursday. Chief medical officer, Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar, said all necessary medical facilities such as vaccination and post-vaccination observation rooms with oxygen cylinders will be set up at the Police Headquarters. A team of doctors will remain present to supervise the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/police-hq-turned-into-vax-centre-for-todays-round/articleshow/81080039.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||CDRI sets up technology devpt hubto support hosps, industry in R&D||Lucknow: The Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI) has established a Common Research and Technology Development Hub (CRTDH) to extend support to hospitals for clinical trials and to pharma industry, MSMEs and academia for conducting advanced research. CRTDH was inaugurated during the 70th annual day celebration of the institute on Wednesday. “CRDTH is not only for scientists but for institutions conducting advanced research in the field of drug discovery. CDRI will not only provide infrastructure support like high-end laboratories and equipment but also the expertise of our scientists,” said CDRI spokesperson Sanjeev Yadav. The Atal National Colloquium on Healthcare and Innovation, a series of lectures from eminent persons, was also virtually inaugurated by Union minister for health & family welfare, science and technology and earth sciences, Dr Harsh Vardhan. The event will be held annually to commemorate the vision of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee for scientific development. “CSIR-CDRI has championed the cause of affordable drugs and has given the world breakthrough molecules like Centchroman (first non-steroidal oral contraceptive) and Arteether (a lifesaving drug for cerebral malaria) among others,” Dr Harsh Vardhan said. He said CDRI had made immense contribution not only in terms of drugs it gave to humankind but also in quality fundamental research and human resource development. The celebration culminated with the institute announcing CDRI Awards-2021 for excellence in drug research which will be conferred on CSIR’s foundation day in September this year. The award in chemical sciences category will be given to associate professor, IISER (Bhopal), Vishal Rai. Associate professor, IISER (Pune) Siddhesh Shashikant Kamat and associate professor, Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics (Kolkata) Chandrima Das have been selected in life sciences category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cdri-sets-up-technology-devpt-hubto-support-hosps-industry-in-rd/articleshow/81080006.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||JDA & JMRC to resolve project overlap issues||Jaipur: As the state government’s ambitious improvement of the crossroad project may create a conflict in construction of the proposed Jaipur Metro Phase-II (India Gate and Ambabari) on Tonk Road in future, the urban development and housing department has called a meeting to resolve the issue at the planning stage. For the same, a meeting of two civic agencies official, Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) and Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) has been called on February 23. The Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) in its revised detailed project report (DPR) has proposed to construct stations at 21 locations including at Rambagh, Tonk Pathak and B2 Bypass. Meanwhile, following the directions of the Urban Development and Housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal, the JDA also initiated the exercise to prepare (DPR) for the construction of underpass and semi-clover leaf structures on the same or nearby locations.A senior JDA official said, “The planning of projects is occurring at the same time and many of the JDA’s structures will be constructed on the Metro route. The JDA will leave provision for the construction of Jaipur Metro structures after the discussions.” As per the initial planning, the JDA has proposed to construct an underpass and an overbridge structure at Rambagh after spending Rs 130 crore. Similarly, an underpass is proposed to be constructed at Laxmi Mandir with an estimated cost of Rs 60 crore. On B2 Bypass, the JDA has proposed to construct underpass and a clover-leaf of approximately Rs 125 crore. “At the same locations, the Metro stations of Phase II are proposed. The projects are capital intensive and requires revision in design at planning stage to avoid future confrontation,” added the official. Sources at the department said the state government in near future is not considering to construct the Phase-II project, however, keeping the provision for Metro on the arterial route, Tonk Road is necessary. “Possibilities will also be explored to construct the Metro Lite and Metro Neo service on the route. This is cheaper alternatives and can be build and run at less than half the cost of the conventional Metro rail. Moreover, the state could receive Centre’s assistances as budget for this rail service will be allocated separately for tier 2 cities, ” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-jmrc-to-resolve-project-overlap-issues/articleshow/81079438.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||JMC in fin crisis, contractors on strike over dues||Jaipur: Drivers in the garage department of JMC-Greater are on strike since Tuesday. After civil contractors and employees of garbage collecting firm, garage workers are the third department who have declared strike due to non-clearance of dues. Both JMC Heritage and Greater are going through severe financial crisis. Both the corporations have applied for loan for Rs 500 crore and are finding ways to increase the revenue. None of the civil contractors is working at present and all the work are put on hold. This is causing difficulty in the day-to-day functioning of the JMC. Puneet Karnawat, deputy mayor of JMC-Greater said, “We are trying to increase the revenue of JMC Greater. Government department like PHED, JVVNL, JDA and Housing Board are supposed to pay us money and very soon we will have a meeting with the departments to know about the status. It’s not just the responsibility of the JMC, but the state government who has been discriminating between us and JMC Heritage should also come in support of us. Welfare of Jaipur’s residents is a combined responsibility.” Munesh Gurjar, mayor of JMC Heritage said that they are in the process of getting the loan cleared by HUDCO after which all the pending dues will be cleared. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-in-fin-crisis-contractors-on-strike-over-dues/articleshow/81079443.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Pune||Pune: Over 10,000 vehicle owners sans FASTags penalized in 2 days||PUNE: Over 10,000 vehicles passing the Khed-Shivapur and Anewadi toll plazas along the Pune-Satara highway were made to cough up double the toll amount since Tuesday for not having FASTags. FASTags became mandatory on Tuesday, leading to chaos and confusion among the commuters. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials on Wednesday said the situation had improved as compared to the previous day. “Having said that, more than 10,000 vehicle owners have had to pay up double the toll tax as their vehicles didn’t have FASTags on them at Anewadi and Khed-Shivapur toll plazas since Tuesday,” an NHAI official said. The official said FASTags were at many points near the toll plazas. “More than 1,600 FASTags have been sold and activated at the outlets near the two toll plazas since Tuesday. The sales will continue for a few more days. The traffic along the toll plazas is smooth now,” the official said. On Tuesday, many commuters got into heated arguments over paying double the toll, which slowed down traffic movement. At the Talegaon toll plaza along the Pune-Mumbai Expressway, it was found that toll was not getting deducted from vehicles with FASTags due to a technical glitch, prompting the toll officials to manually scan the tags. Tukaram Agrekar, who passed the Talegaon toll plaza on Tuesday and Wednesday, did not encounter any traffic issue on both the days. “However, I saw some people paying the toll in cash, which was a surprise as FASTags are now mandatory,” he said. Sources at the toll plazas said some issues pertaining to inadequate balance in FASTags accounts prevailed on Wednesday. “The problem is mainly with heavy vehicles. We have seen that though they have FASTags, many a times, their accounts have no balance. However, it is a new system and these teething troubles will get resolved over the course of time,” a Khed Shivapur toll official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-10k-vehicle-owners-sans-fastags-penalized-in-2-days/articleshow/81079457.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 18, 2021||Kanpur||3 held for looting finance company staffer||Jhansi: Police on Thursday arrested three members of an interstate gang allegedly involved in looting a man a few days ago, while two others are still at large. Two country-made pistols and some cash has been recovered from the accused. The arrested accused have been identified as Kallu Yadav, Neeraj Yadav of Datiya, MP and Vishal Yadav of Babina while Ashok Kushwaha and Prabhu Kushwaha, also from Datiya, are still absconding. As per the details given by SSP Jhansi, Dinesh Kumar P, the accused had looted Sanjive Lodhi, an employee of a micro finance company for Rs 77,800 on February 4 while the victim was returning to office after collecting loan amount. A case was registered against unknown persons under section 392, 506 IPC and police started investigations. “Working on a tip-off, on Thursday the police arrested the three accused near a flyover in Raksa area and recovered two country-made pistols along with live cartages apart from Rs 30,000 from them. All the three have number of pending cases against them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-held-for-looting-finance-company-staffer/articleshow/81096880.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Pilot, fake police held for robbing Thai businessman||Mumbai: A commercial pilot was arrested along with four bouncers late Tuesday for allegedly robbing a couple from Thailand of cash and valuables worth over Rs3lakh. Police said the bouncers, who were hired by the pilot, posed as customs and police officers and barged into the couple’s house in Santacruz (west) in the early hours of February 11 and made away with a wallet containing Rs6,000, debit and ATM cards, ID card, two high-end mobiles, and an ipad. Santacruz police tracked down the bouncers—Gurudeep Singh (28), Saddam Ansari (29), Ismail Sayyed (32) and Shehzad Ahmed Shaikh (30)—from a locality behind Versova’s Mhada telephone exchange. Their arrest led them to key accused, Mihir Chouhan (26), who has a mechanical engineering degree. Chouhan is said to have plotted the crime to settle scores with the businessman over some past rivalry. “We have recovered the stolen gadgets from the accused. The accused were tracked within a week with the help of CCTV footage,” said senior inspector Dyaneshwar Ganore. The bouncers reached Mathew Villa at Juhu-Koliwada, Santacruz (west) around 2.30 am. They knocked on the doors of several other residents before finally locating their target— businessman Ratchapon Tomoisa Buayaem (33), who stays with his partner. Buayaem, in his complaint, has said he was woken up by someone shouting out his name. “When I opened the door, three people barged inside, while one stood outside to keep watch. Two of them claimed they were customs officers and one introduced himself as a policeman. Threatening me with dire consequences, they demanded my passport and other documents. As my passport has been confiscated by immigration officials, I showed them a copy. They got annoyed and snatched two mobiles worth over Rs2.4 lakh and ipad worth Rs90,000 along with my wallet. They said they were taking it for investigation and asked me to be present before the local police,” Buayaem said. Buayaem learnt he had been duped when he went to Santacruz police station the next day. “The mastermind is a commercial pilot and he was supposed to join an international airline next month. CCTV footage from Santacruz, Juhu, DN Nagar and Versova was scanned to track the accused,” said sub-inspector Yogesh Pawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pilot-fake-police-held-for-robbing-thai-businessman/articleshow/81079566.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 18, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Theft accused clears exam to become a cop||BIHAR SHARIF: Giving an opportunity to reform, Nalanda Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) principal judge Manvendra Mishra on Wednesday acquitted a boy from charges of theft as he has cleared the preliminary test (PT) and main examination for recruitment as assistant sub-inspector of police. His physical efficiency test is due to begin on March 15. Justice Mishra also directed Nalanda SP Hari Prasath S not to mention this case while issuing him a character certificate as any negative remarks will disqualify him from getting a job. Assistant public prosecutor Rajesh Pathak said the boy, who was a minor at the time of the crime in 2018, had been made an accused along with four adults in a case of stealing articles, including calculator, sim cards, coupons, data cards, and charger from a shop at Hilsa in 2018. He said since the boy has cleared the PT and main examination for recruitment as assistant sub-inspector recently, the JJB court absolved him of the charges. Pathak said Justice Mishra observed that the boy, then a juvenile, might have been influenced by the adult accused in the case. He said the boy had not been named in any other criminal case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/theft-accused-clears-exam-to-become-a-cop/articleshow/81082861.cms||Farrukh Nadim
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Tiger safety panel hails Sariska officials for shifting village||JAIPUR: A recent successful village relocation programme that provided much needed inviolate spaces for tigers at Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) was presented at a two-day conference conducted by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) in Nagpur. The chief wildlife warden (CWLW), Mohan Lal Meena in his presentation informed that STR administration has entirely relocated two villages Daabli and Paanidhaal, from the reserve and relocation of Sukola and Haripura is under process. Field director, STR, RN Meena informed, “The efforts of relocating approximately 60 families from reserve within a span of six months was appreciated by the NTCA. During the conference officials of different tiger reserve will hold deliberations on various subjects including management effectiveness Evaluation (MEE), All India Tiger Estimation Report, implementation of CA/TS in all tiger reserves and All India Tiger Estimation (AITE).” According to the guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the government of Rajasthan had notified 881.11 sq-km area as CTH on December 28, 2007. As per records, there were 26 villages in CTH that need to be relocated and that are said to be violating the tiger habitat. Out of these, 10 villages are on ‘Priority I’ and the rest are on ‘Priority II’. An official said, STR administration plans to shift six villages including Sukola, Devri, Kankwari, Kraska and Pilapani within a year. “Majority of the families that had shifted opted for land packages as it’s beneficial for them. The package includes 6 bighas of agriculture land, 60x90 square-feet plot and electric connection for agriculture,” said the official. An official said, “Directions will be sought from NTCA to shift tiger T-104, which was captured in September 2019 and declared ‘dangerous to human life’ because it killed three people from out of RTR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tiger-safety-panel-hails-sariska-officials-for-shifting-village/articleshow/81079471.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Road crashes in families devastate kids, affect education’||MUMBAI: Shivam* was just 12 when his teenage brother was killed in a road crash while cycling near their house in 2016. Though the police reached the location, they waited for Shivam's mother to arrive and his brother ended up lying on the road for 30 minutes. The road crash death left Shivam feeling "sad and empty". Road crashes in the family have a devastating impact on children, not only on their mental health but on their education as well as social life. A study by The World Bank and non-profit group, Save Life Foundation, on socio-economic impact of road crashes on Indian society also involved speaking to adolescents between 14-18 from four states-- Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Teenage girls whose mothers had suffered a road crash injury told researchers that they often ended up being the primary caregiver, leaving them with less study time as they had to cook for everyone as well. The other aspect in which education got affected was due to non-payment or late submission of school fees. One of the children interviewed mentioned that his school penalized him by asking him to stand outside the examination hall, since his parents couldn’t pay the school fee on time and as a result, he had to drop a year. Some of the children said they couldn't find enough time to play, post a road crash involving their kin. Since families had to incur expenses on treatment, members of the household were forced to reduce the quantity and quality of food consumed. "After my father suffered injuries in a road crash, my mother asked me to stop buying clothes. I felt bad. I had never thought I would have to see such days.... My mother always stored extra provisions, but she stopped buying them (to save money). We were supposed to give more fruits and vegetables to my father but could not do so, which delayed his recovery," one of the adolescents from Tamil Nadu told researchers. Children also spoke about the apathy of government stakeholders. A child from Tamil Nadu said staffers at a government hospital were not treating his father after admission as a police case was yet to be filed. "They gave me cotton and asked me to clean the blood. I did not like it at all," the child said. A child from Maharashtra said she was unable to concentrate on anything after her mother's crash. She told researchers that everytime she sat down to study, she would see flashes of that day and its aftermath. The study suggested some solutions such as the education department ensuring access to qualified child therapists. "Since road crashes impact nutritional intake of household members, the state government can also create a better mechanism to monitor their calorie intake and ensure they get adequate nutrition through the school Mid-Day Meal Scheme," the study concluded. Researchers suggested support for payment of school fees for children from vulnerable families and ensuring safe transportation of children to school. The government should standardize rules for safety of children by issuing a child road safety policy. (* Name changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/road-crashes-in-families-devastate-kids-affect-education/articleshow/81079494.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur malls lack fire safety, reveals surprise inspection||JAIPUR: During a sudden inspection of three malls in the city, the fire committee of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Greater, found many discrepancies and a weak fire security system in place. Paras Jain, chairman of the fire committee, and other members inspected Crystal Court, Gaurav Tower and OK Plus at Mansarovar, where many loopholes were found in the fire safety systems. According to the information received, although Crystal Court had a fire NOC, the fire system wasn’t functioning and if fire breaks out, there won’t be enough time to get ready. Jain told TOI, “In our first fire committee meeting at JMC, Greater, our members decided to go for a surprise inspection in public places. Fire safety is a serious issue and we were shocked to see that in such big malls there was no security for the public. We will take action against such malls.” In Gaurav Towers, no fire NOC was found and in OK Plus, the fire system was not functioning. According to rules, notices will be served to the administration of these malls and if reasonable reply is not received, then action will be initiated against them. A senior JMC fire official said that there have been many incidences in the past where fire has caused damage to property and lives and the corporation is making a list of such violators. Jain said they will continue such surprise inspections on other commercial properties of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-malls-lack-fire-safety-reveals-surprise-inspection/articleshow/81079463.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Pune||Fly-by-night outfits con investors of Rs 1.25 crore in Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police are investigating an FIR, lodged in a representative capacity for 13 investors, accusing a few fly-by-night companies of cheating them of Rs1.2 crore by promising attractive returns on investment. Senior inspector Milind Waghmare of the Pimpri police said, “Between December 2018 and March 2019, the companies, run by people from Surat in Gujarat, held events in a hotel for pitching various investment schemes to prospective investors. The victims invested varied amounts. However, they never got the promised return.” After pursuing for a refund of their money for two years, Dattatreya Khune, one of the affected investors, lodged an FIR with the Pimpri police on Tuesday on behalf of other investors. Khune stated in his FIR that the suspects had lured investors with good returns in companies working in software, graphics and life care. “Khune invested Rs34 lakh, while 12 more persons invested a total over Rs77 lakh,” he said. “The suspects started bogus companies and took money from investors. The presidents, directors and marketing officers of these companies have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act and the Reserve Bank of India Act,” Waghmare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fly-by-night-outfits-con-investors-of-rs-1-25cr-in-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/81079491.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: She dropped the scalpel to empower women||LUCKNOW: The quest to empower women made this doctor leave the medical profession and take the bureaucracy route. A 36-year old gynecologist and the mother of a four-year-old daughter, Dr Poonam Gautam could not believe her eyes when she saw that she had ranked third in the results of combined state/upper subordinate services examination, popularly known as PCS, on Wednesday. Dr Gautam is the only one in the city among the top 10 in prestigious government examination. She gives credit for her success to every woman in her family, especially her mother-in-law Rajbeti Singh. “If my mother-in-law was my motivation, my husband Shonendra, also a doctor, was my mentor. Over the years, I have deeply felt and tried to help women who face various challenges on different fronts,” said Poonam, who qualified the examination in her third attempt. “I want to empower women and hence I took the bureaucracy route. My success mantra was devotion, determination and discipline in following a study schedule,” she added. Gautam did her MBBS from Motilal Nehru Medical College in Allahabad and PG in medicine from KGMU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/doctor-who-wishes-to-empower-women-is-city-topper/articleshow/81080068.cms||Mohita Tewari
February 18, 2021||Pune||Pune: Wedding halls hosting large crowds face serious action||PUNE: Managements of wedding halls found violating the guest limit of 50 can face cancellation of licence and a fine of Rs 5,000, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Wednesday. The Pune revenue division has been recording small spikes in Covid cases in certain pockets. Rao said besides wedding halls, authorities will carry out surprise checks at political gatherings and restaurants to ensure there’s no overcrowding. “People have been blatantly breaking Covid-19 precautions for the past few months. All local authorities, including the police, have been asked to carry out these surprise checks,” Rao said. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said the administration will deploy flying squads to ensure discipline. “Both the civic bodies — the PMC and the PCMC — have been asked to improve health surveillance. Citizens can also report violations of distancing or mask norms to the administration.” Rao said Pune division — comprising the districts of Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur and Kolhapur — have a total active caseload of 6,517 Covid patients (data till Tuesday 9pm) with an overall case fatality rate of 2.7% and a recovery rate of 96.2%. There has been a small increase in cases in four districts, except Solapur, he said. “We have decided to boost response in the pockets that have been registering high cases. We are also increasing contact-tracing levels to contain the spread,” Rao said. The divisional commissioner added the administration was also mulling the reintroduction of institutional care as a response to reports of protocol breaches among those isolated at home. And with changes in weather conditions, Rao said hospitals and small clinics in these regions have also been asked to report SARI/ILI cases. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state on Covid containment, said Covid care centres have to be started again in some areas to control violations among home-isolated patients. Authorities have said that many home-isolated patients have stepped out without a negative report. They also said the patients were not regularly monitored by civic health officials Dr Salunke said, “We are not out of the woods yet. We have to ensure all precautions are followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wedding-halls-hosting-large-crowds-face-serious-action/articleshow/81079524.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||200 gram gold seized at Jaipur airport||JAIPUR: The customs department seized 200 grams of gold at the Jaipur International Airport from a passenger who was travelling from Sharjah. The passenger had the gold in form of bricks. “The passenger appeared to be behaving suspiciously and on being checked, we found two foreign-marked gold biscuits weighing 200 gms valued at Rs 10 lakh,” said a Customs official. The passenger hails from Sikar and landed from Sharjah where he worked as an electrician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/200-gram-gold-seized-at-jaipur-airport/articleshow/81079492.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Child rights awareness campaign launched in Raj||Jaipur: The state’s child commission launched an awareness campaign from Wednesday during which the department’s officials will visit districts across Rajasthan to tell people about children’s rights.The campaign started from Nagaur and will eventually spread to other districts. For two days, the officials of child commission will be in Nagaur district following which they would again assess the further steps which can be incorporated for spreading awareness.Sangeeta Beniwal, chairperson, Rajasthan state commission for protection of child rights (RSCPCR) told TOI, “We received a very good response on the first day of the campaign and interacted with around 400 girls who were of class 6 to 10. We saw a movie with them about crimes against children and also spoke at length about self-defence, child exploitation, labour and marriage. The girls spoke about the issues faced either by them or their friends as well as the ways to deal with such situation.”On the second day of the campaign, the officials will visit Kuchaman city on Thursday following which they would head back to Jaipur to decide on the way forward as well as the next district to be visited. “We have to cover the entire state in order to make sure that children and their guardian know about the Pocso act and it might take at least 2-3 months to achieve this,” added the chairperson.This campaign will be taken to Sikar, Kota, Ajmer, Udaipur, Jaisalmer and other districts. It will also consider why many children are unable to get access to education. The campaign called ‘Aayog Aapke Dwar’ will talk to children about good and bad touch as well.Officials claimed that the aim of the programme is to ensure that children as well as their parents/guardians are made aware about their rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/child-rights-awareness-campaign-launched-in-raj/articleshow/81079519.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||Fever, malaise only side effects in 10%, 10L vaccinated in UP||Lucknow: Fever and malaise were the commonest side effects of the Covid-19 vaccination reported in UP by just 10% of nearly 10 lakh persons who were vaccinated. Sharing the health department data on Wednesday, state immunisation officer Dr Ajay Ghai said, “Nearly 10 lakh persons have been vaccinated in UP but expected side effects were seen in just 10% of them, the commonest being mild fever and malaise. Also, no one required hospitalisation thereafter.” Speaking at a sensitisation workshop on Covid-19 vaccination organised by National Health Mission in association with Centre for Advocacy and Research, Dr Ghai said the fear of side effects was the commonest reason behind vaccine hesitancy and assured the vaccines are safe. “In medical science, fever is not a disease but a symptom, which is an outcome. In case of vaccines, fever is a result of the body's response to the entry of a foreign entity. The moment the body realises that the foreign object is beneficial, the immunogenic reaction subsides. Also, both the vaccines being used in India are fairly safe,” he said. The vaccination was 90% in some districts of UP, while it was only 16% in some others, he added. When asked to comment on the poor turnout in the last two rounds, Dr Ghai said a detailed assessment was done and the strategy has been tweaked. “Now, front line personnel will be given a list of beneficiaries so that they can contact them. SMSes will also be sent from Covid Command Centres to people,” he added. Employees posted in another district will be inoculated through the Inter District Portability System.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fever-malaise-only-side-effects-in-10-10l-vaccinated-in-up/articleshow/81080071.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Pune||MCCIA, PMC collaborate for investors’ cell initiative||Pune: The Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry, and Agriculture (MCCIA) will tie up with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to set up a facilitation cell for investors looking for opportunities in the city. Leader of the house in PMC Ganesh Bidkar tweeted that the investor facilitation cell (IFC) will help potential investors address all their concerns through a single cell with multiple stakeholders. The MCCIA, which put forth the model to PMC, said that it is modelled on the lines of civic governments overseas, which often court investments by themselves. “In western countries, the mayor and their equivalents of the commissioner lay out the red carpet for investors. We feel that the civic bodies in India should take a more proactive stance in attracting investments to the city, for the sake of more jobs and economic growth. PMC also does not need to spend much capital on this cell, it’s more about the desired mindset among leaders and officers of the corporation,” said Prashant Girbane of MCCIA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mccia-pmc-collaborate-for-investors-cell-initiative/articleshow/81079554.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Pune||NIV expected to test vax against South African, Brazil Covid variants||PUNE: The efficacy of the two vaccines currently in use in India — Covishield and Covaxin — will likely be tested against the emergent Brazil and South Africa variants soon, scientists have said. The Indian Council of Medical Research had announced on Tuesday that Pune-based National Institute of Virology was in the process of isolating and culturing the South African variant in its lab. The NIV has already readied a culture of the Brazilian variant for testing. “Serum samples drawn from those who’ve received the vaccines in India will be used in the lab to test if they can neutralize the two variants which recently entered India,” said Dr Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR’s epidemiology and communicable diseases division. The South African variant is also known as 501.V2. Brazilian one has been tagged as P.1. So far, India has recorded four Covid-positive people with the South African variant and one person with the Brazilian mutant. Dr Panda said, “It is not necessary a variant that is more transmissible will turn out to be more virulent. Another question to ask is whether they are associated with rapidly spreading outbreaks. Isolation and culturing of variants in a lab will help us answer these and test efficacy of vaccines.” Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, director of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said the South African and Brazilian variants have public health implications. “We are monitoring the districts where the cases were found. We traced contacts of those who were found positive with these variants. And none of the positive contacts had them,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/niv-expected-to-test-vax-against-south-african-brazil-virus-variants/articleshow/81079540.cms||Neha Madaan
February 18, 2021||Pune||Containment zones likely in 4 areas, says Pune mayor||PUNE: Forty-five days after the city became free of containment zones, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is likely to introduce them in areas under four ward offices. The micro-containment zones in these areas will be decided on the basis of an increase in positive cases. “There is a possibility of Covid-19 spreading and the citizens are expected to follow all the precautionary measures to avoid containment zones,” mayor Murlidhar Mohol told reporters after meeting health officials in he PMC building. Mohol said cases have increased in Ahmednagar Road, Warje, Sinhagad Road and Satara Road areas. The PMC on February 1 had decided to keep all the areas in its jurisdiction free of micro-containment zones after the first review of the month. Civic officials said the administration announces containment zones after assessing the number of positive cases and deaths. There has been no increase in cases in the last 45 days. But a spike in the number of cases has been noticed since a week. The PMC had sealed the Peth areas from Maharshinagar to RTO and parts of Kondhwa on April 6 last year for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/containment-zones-likely-in-4-areas-says-pune-mayor/articleshow/81079530.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Shift dairies from city limits: Chief secretary||Jaipur: Chief secretary Niranjan Kumar Arya has directed local authorities to shift out dairies operating in the city limits at the earliest.He said accidents are often happening due to stray animals roaming around the city roads causing fatalities to both humans and animals. The Supreme Court and high court had ordered several times that dairies operating in the city needed to be shifted. He said action should be taken urgently on this matter. Arya gave the direction at a meeting of the high-powered committee for the beautification of Jaipur held at the secretariat. The chief secretary said the beautification of Jaipur was a priority of the state government. He also directed to speed up the work related to cleanliness. He said for cleanliness and beautification of the city, all officers had to work with personal commitment and dedication. He assured the officers that there would be no shortage of funds for this purpose.Discussing the traffic management, accident zone and parking system at the meeting, the chief secretary directed the police department to think of an alternative arrangement apart from the traffic signals in the night to prevent accidents.Principal secretary, urban development department, Bhaskar A Sawant, Jaipur Development Authority commissioner Gaurav Goyal were also present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shift-dairies-from-city-limits-chief-secretary/articleshow/81079531.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Maghi Ganesh mandals craft large, beautiful idols as devotee footfalls resume||Mumbai: The Maghi Ganesh mandals have installed beautiful idols during the ongoing 10-day festive season. The “combined persuasion” of festival organisers has ensured that the Central government’s ban on plaster of paris (PoP) for making the idols is yet to take effect. Naresh Dahibawkar, president of the Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti, said, “We had approached BJP leader Ashish Shelar to intervene. We said the Central government should have consulted all stakeholders before formulating such an important policy. In the absence of a viable alternative for mass manufacturing of Ganesh idols, mandals will be bereft of idols and idol makers will permanently lose their livelihood after an already tiresome lockdown. The Maghi Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti also made a similar request. So the PoP ban has been kept in abeyance for now.” Meanwhile, the state government’s delay in issuing guidelines for Maghi Ganeshotsav caused some organisers to go ahead with their routine celebration. The prominent suburban mandal of the Charkop Cha Raja has installed a 9ft idol rather than the stipulated 4ft. Organiser Nikhil Gudekar said, “Our idol was already ready by the time the state notification (for 4ft idols) arrived on January 25 but we are observing all other norms of social distancing. Everybody is wearing masks and the pandal is being sanitised twice a day. We are not distributing prasad either.” Others like the Kandivli Cha Shree, a north Mumbai mandal that will celebrate its landmark 10th anniversary next year, have maintained the idol at 4ft but enlarged the height of the base and decor instead. Treasurer Sagar Bamnolikar said, “Ours is the only prominent mandal which holds a 10-day festival. This year, we are struggling with a massive drop in collections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maghi-ganesh-mandals-craft-large-beautiful-idols-as-devotee-footfalls-resume/articleshow/81080548.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||1.3L downloaded e-EPIC cards out of 2.24L new voters in Raj||Jaipur: After the launch of digital voter ID card (e-EPIC services) in the state on January 25, a whopping 1.34 lakh voters have downloaded e-EPIC cards in the state out of the 2.24 lakh new voters who registered after January 1, making it the highest in the country, said chief electoral officer Praveen Gupta. Rajasthan is followed by Gujarat at 73,363 and Assam at 60,348. Gupta said 59.85 per cent (1.34 lakh) of the total voters (2.24 lakh) downloaded e-Epic cards so far. Jaipur has the highest number of such voters at 28,565. The Election Commission of India (ECI) will announce the bypolls to four assembly constituencies soon. Meanwhile, the candidates can file their nomination forms online for the bypolls. Postal ballot option will be also given to voters above 80 years and persons with disabilities (PwDS). Bypolls have been necessitated due to the death of sitting MLAs of Sujangarh in Churu, Rajsamand, Sahada of Bhilwara and Vallabhnagar of Udaipur assembly seats. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-3l-downloaded-e-epic-cards-out-of-2-24l-new-voters-in-raj/articleshow/81079561.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Pune||1,000 cops on Covid duty to get first dose||Pune: Close to 1,000 policemen will get their first vaccine dose during the vaccination drive that will be held at 28 PMC-run health care centres in the city on Thursday. City police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “Our policemen had earlier participated in the vaccination programs in small numbers. We have now planned to get 1,000 policemen vaccinated in a mega drive. Additional commissioner of police (administration) Jalindar Supekar said, “Of 8,446 policemen, 646 cops have been given Covishield vaccine shots between February 11 and 16.” — Asseem Shaikh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1000-cops-on-covid-duty-to-get-first-dose/articleshow/81079580.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Centres for Covaxin inoculation now given Covishield choice too||MUMBAI: In an important change of stance, the state has decided to offer a choice of vaccine in the centres currently administering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Earlier this week, 23 district hospitals and four medical colleges were told that they could take doses of Covishield as well. Sources said low acceptance of Covaxin could be one of the reasons why a choice was offered. The decision came as a surprise to many, mainly because the Centre, at the beginning of the nationwide vaccination drive, had laid down healthcare workers will not get to choose between Covaxin and Covishield. Centres like JJ Hospital in Mumbai have already received 1,000 doses of Serum Institute’s Covishield, which it plans to administer on Fridays and Saturdays. It has designated Monday to Thursday for Covaxin. Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, said, “Yes, in centres that were previously giving only Covaxin, both vaccines will be available now. However, no two vaccines will be given in one session. One session will use only one vaccine to avoid any mix-up.” The state official didn’t divulge why such a call was taken. Numbers show a little over 5,500 recipients have taken Covaxin that is being administered in a ‘clinical trial mode’. Over 5.8 lakh have taken Covishield. At JJ, over 900 doctors have taken Covaxin so far. Dr Lalit Sankhe said there was no demand from staffers for Covishield, but he was offered to take 1,000 doses and offer it to anyone keen to take it. At Amravati’s district hospital too, they were told to take the doses. Interestingly, not all centres have agreed to take a second vaccine. Government Medical College, Aurangabad, for instance, has said those willing to take Covishield could take it from the nearest centre. Vaccination rollout in private hospitals remained partially successful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centres-for-covaxin-inoculation-now-given-covishield-choice-too/articleshow/81079682.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||HC hauls up ‘social worker’ for opposing film on Rajput’s life||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Wednesday asked a “social worker” who has challenged a film being made on the life of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput if he knew its contents. “How do you know what they are going to do?” asked Justice Prithviraj Chavan, who was told that the film maligns the reputation of Rajput and is based on distorted facts. The court heard an appeal by Manish Mishra against the December 22, 2020 dismissal of his interim plea for injunction in a suit filed by him in Dindoshi civil court over the film ‘Nyaay: The Justice’ which is produced by Sarla Saraogi. “Investigation in respect to the said matter is yet to decide about the correctness of either suicide or murder,” it added. Mishra’s plea has urged HC to restrain Saraogi from releasing, exhibiting, displaying and advertising the film. Justice Chavan questioned Mishra’s locus standi to file a suit and his personal interest. Mishra’s advocate Chetan Agarwal said his client is a “businessman, social worker and a fan and follower” of Rajput. Agarwal said the film’s title itself reveals the contents. “How can they say it is not touching the investigation or distorting facts? The title itself shows,” he added. But the producer’s advocate Ashok Saraogi said, “It (title) can be for anything. The producer has not touched upon police investigation in the actor’s death.” He also said the Dindoshi judge had said unless the film is released, how can it be said that it shows distorted facts. Justice Chavan posted the hearing in the first week of March saying there is no urgency. Saraogi apprehended that the studio dealing with post-production won’t be able to complete its work in case Mishra informs it about his appeal. “If someone is doing something correctly, there is no need to be afraid,” Justice Chavan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-hauls-up-social-worker-for-opposing-film-on-rajputs-life/articleshow/81079655.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 18, 2021||Pune||468 get second shot amid app glitches||Pune: Just 468 healthcare workers turned up to take the second shot of the Covid vaccine in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday as technical glitches in the CoWIN app continued to plague the vaccine administration, mainly at private hospitals, for the third straight day. A total of 1,410 health workers have received the second dose of the vaccine in the region in the last three days. As for first dose, the region recorded the highest vaccination of frontline than healthcare workers for the first time on Wednesday, with 2,606 frontline workers taking the shot as against 1,321 healthcare workers at 81 vaccine sites. In total 3,927 beneficiaries (44%) were administered the first dose in PMR on Wednesday. “We could not administer the second dose as we are told that the second dose allotment feature on the coWIN app will get activated at our vaccination centres from February 25,” said Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director, Bharati hospital. The rural pockets recorded a maximum turnout of second-timers (240) in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/468-get-second-shot-amid-app-glitches/articleshow/81079602.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 18, 2021||Ludhiana||CBI raids FCI depot on graft complaints||Ludhiana: The CBI on Wednesday conducted a raid at a depot of the FCI at Mullanpur Dakha following complaints of alleged corruption by some officials. A team of the investigating agency from Chandigarh conducted the raid, sources said.The Centre Bureau of Investigation (CBI) sleuths conducted the raid after some rice sheller owners alleged that few officials of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) were demanding bribe from them, according to the sources.There were also unconfirmed reports of arrest of a person by the CBI team, but repeated attempts to contact the agency officials for confirmation proved futile. The team was still at the FCI depot when the reports last came in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cbi-raids-fci-depot-on-graft-complaints/articleshow/81076114.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rs 1 lakh fine on officer for cancelling war widow’s job||JAIPUR: Rajasthan high court has imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh on the officer who canceled the compassionate appointment of a war widow as she married her already-married brother in-law and asked the government to reinstate her with all consequential benefits. The single bench of Justice S P Sharma gave the order on a petition by Sarita Devi challenging the cancellation of her appointment for the post of a fourth grade employee on compassionate grounds as a war widow on the ground of her remarriage and pregnancy by the medical jurist. The then district collector of Sikar by an order on June 19, 2007 had cancelled the appointment on the advice of the department of personnel (DOP). The DOP said since the petitioner had remarried and also tested pregnant at the time of appointment, her appointment should be cancelled. The court said the reply of the state government shocked the conscience of the court. “The appointment of the petitioner, a 23-year-old widow, more so a war widow who lost her husband in operation Golden Temple, has been canceled on indifferent grounds by the state.” The court said, “a war widow will invariably hold the status of a war widow irrespective of her status of marriage.” Besides the court said no show-cause notice was served to the petitioner nor any such document was placed on record. The court said the provisions of compassionate appointment of dependent of diseased government servants’ rules 1996 recognizes the right of widows right to get remarried. It also recognizes remarriage of widows appointed under the widow quota even after their appointment. On the question of levirate marriage (marriage within the family of husband) is practiced in many parts of the country specially to give social protection and to own the hefty sum that she gets on the death of her husband. On the marriage of the woman with an already married brother-in-law , the court said, “in the eyes of law, second marriage is no marriage and it is shocking that state authorities at the level of DOP treat such ceremony a second marriage. Such an approach shows lack of compassion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-1-lakh-fine-on-officer-for-cancelling-war-widows-job/articleshow/81079589.cms||Joychen Joseph
February 18, 2021||Pune||Deceased PMC staff’s kin set to get funds||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will complete the process of paying compensation to family members of 46 civic staff who died due to Covid-19 in a week. “Most of the process for paying compensation has been completed. The actual handing over of the compensation will start soon,” mayor Murlidhar Mohol, said in the general body meeting on Wednesday.  The standing committee has cleared the payment. “A meeting to finalize the remaining formalities will be held on February 22, after which the disbursement will start,” municipal secretary Shivaji Daundkar said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deceased-pmc-staffs-kin-set-to-get-funds/articleshow/81079625.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Berozgar Mahasangh declares bypoll candidates||Jaipur: The Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh, a group of unemployed youths, which continued their protest against state government’s delay in fulfilling their demands related to pending recruitment in various departments for the third consecutive day at Bais Godam, on Wednesday announced their candidates for by-polls to four assembly seats in the state. The four candidates are: Savit Kawar (Vallabhnagar), Chandraprakash Sharma (Sahada), Nanadalal Bhil (Rajsamand), Bhagirath Mal (Sujangarh). Upen Yadav of the mahasangh announced that Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra’s nephew, Dinesh Pachar, has been made the election in-charge of Sujangarh assembly constituency. He also said a Congress councillor’s husband Ashok Mehta will election in- charge of Rajsamand. “If the government doesn’t fulfill our demands, we will field our candidates in all the four assembly constituencies and will organise door-to-door campaign against the Congress candidates. We’ll appeal to people not to vote for Congress candidates,” he said.Bypolls have been necessitated due to the death of sitting MLAs of Sujangarh in Churu, Rajsamand, Sahada in Bhilwara and Vallabhnagar in Udaipur assembly seats. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/berozgar-mahasangh-declares-bypoll-candidates/articleshow/81079643.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Pune||Man held on charge of assaulting daughter||Pune: A 45-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday on the charge of sexually assaulting his 10-year-old daughter. The incident came to light on Tuesday when the girl narrated her ordeal after a counselling session conducted by a social organization. A woman, who runs the social organization, later lodged an First Information Report (FIR) with the Pimpri police station. The suspect has been charged under sections 376 (Punishment for rape), 377 (Unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as well as the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Senior inspector Milind Waghmare of the Pimpri police station told TOI, “The suspect is a homeless man and used to live on the road. In November last year, he had repeatedly sexually assaulted his daughter.” The girl was recently sent to a shelter home, run by a social organization. “The organization had conducted a counselling session for the girls currently living in the home. After the session, the girl informed the complainant about being sexually assaulted by her father,” Waghmare said. The investigation also revealed that the suspect had sexually assaulted his daughter earlier when she was seven-years-old, thesenior police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-on-charge-of-assaulting-daughter/articleshow/81079669.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Pune||State okays Pimpri-Nigdi Metro extension plan||Pune: The state cabinet on Wednesday approved the Metro’s extension up to Nigdi. The route between Pimpri and Nigdi will be 4.41km long and will have three stations at Chinchwad, Akurdi and Nigdi. The project will be executed by MahaMetro which is constructing the Swagate-Pimpri corridor. The extension proposal was under consideration. The MahaMetro has prepared a detailed project report which was tabled before the state government. The plan will now go to the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. The extension will be part of the metro’s ongoing phase-I. The total cost of the project is pegged at Rs 946.73 crore. The state government on Wednesday said it will contribute Rs 170.3 crore of which Rs 90.6 crore will come through loans. The Union government will give a 10% of the total expenses while some amount of the project cost will be raised through loans in addition to Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s share. The extension will be completely elevated up to Nigdi and will be aligned with the old Pune-Mumbai route. The MahaMetro has already done adequate provisioning at Pimpri to the existing metro viaduct to carry out the extension. Officials said the extension work can begin after all permissions are received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-okays-pimpri-nigdi-metro-extension-plan/articleshow/81079699.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Narrow escape: Packed bus comes in contact with live wires in Telangana||HYDERABAD: More than 100 passengers had a narrow escape when an RTC bus came in contact with the overhead electric wires in Sanga Reddy district on Wednesday. Three passengers, including two students and a farmer, suffered burn injuries. Police said all three are out of danger. The incident happened at Munipally village in the Sanga Reddy district at around 9.30 am on Wednesday when the RTC bus of Sanga Reddy depot was travelling from Makhtakyasaram village to Sanga Reddy town packed with over 100 passengers, mostly students from various villages of the Munipally mandal. At 9.30 am, the bus arrived at Munipally village and instead of taking a U-turn at the bus station to go towards Sanga Reddy, driver Shakeel attempted to take a turn in an open place in front of a house to save time. It was then the luggage safety railing on top of the bus came in contact with the overhead electric wires and passengers experienced a minor jolt. Three passengers who tried stepping out of the bus suffered burn injuries to their legs, Munipally SI M Maheswar Reddy said. A lineman of the electricity department who was near the accident spot immediately alerted the substation and got the power turned off, preventing further damage. After the incident, angry villagers tried to assault the bus driver and the conductor. but they managed to leave the place. Police booked a case against the driver under section 337 of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/narrow-escape-packed-bus-comes-in-contact-with-live-wires/articleshow/81079703.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Pune||Pune: Slum-dwellers attack Chatushrungi cops for seizing loudspeakers||PUNE: A Chatushrungi police team came under heavy stone pelting and attack from slum-dwellers around 11pm on Monday when it went to Lamantanda vasti in Pashan to seize loudspeakers blaring music at high volume. A constable suffered injuries on his back and shoulder, while a police van was damaged in the stone pelting. Police later arrested six persons and booked another 15 on the charge of attempt to murder, unlawful assembly, rioting, obstructing public servant from performing duty, assault, and other offences. On Monday night, residents from nearby areas called the police and complained against loudspeakers blaring music from the slum pocket. Sub-inspector Sameer Chavan and his team then started impounding the loudspeakers. Irked by police action, a group of slum-dwellers resorted to stone pelting. Police had to then call for a backup team to bring the situation under control. Dhaku Bhiku Meghawat (38), Rama alias Pramod Hanumant Meghawat (24), Hiraman Bhima Rathod (29), Laxman Bhima Rathod, Hiraman Bhima Rathod, Sanjay Waliya Dhanawat (27), all residents of Lamantanda vasti, and Venkatesh Motiram Khetawat (20) from Nande village in Mulshi were among those arrested. Anil Shewale, senior inspector, Chatushrungi police, said, “We received a call from a resident who said that the loud music was disturbing peace and tranquillity in the area. Chavan and four policemen went there to check the matter. They asked the organiser to stop the music and started seizing the loudspeakers.” “When police team was seizing the speakers, one of the suspects pushed the policemen and hurled abuses at them. He urged other men to come forward and teach the cops a lesson. Residents then gathered at the spot armed with stones,” he said. Five policemen took cover behind the police van after the men started hurling stones at them. A few stones hit police constable M B Borse, who sustained injuries on his back and shoulders. The window of the police van and windshield were damaged in the incident. An additional police team rushed to the spot and overpowered the attackers, Shewale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/slum-dwellers-attack-cops-for-seizing-loudspeakers/articleshow/81079658.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Surat||Covid-19: Daily cases up 12.5% in 3 days in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The upward trend in Covid cases in the state and major cities continued on Wednesday with a 5.7% increases in daily cases from 263 to 278. Over three days, the state has recorded a 12.5% increase from 247 on February 14 to 278 on February 17. In terms of cities, Surat recorded a daily increase of 5%, Ahmedabad 7%, Vadodara 14% and Rajkot 31%. The share of the eight municipal corporations of Gujarat was 71% with 199 of the state’s 278 cases, the highest since February 14. “The increase can be attributed to more movement due to various reasons including the ongoing election season. One must be careful about the SMS – social distancing, masks and sanitizing. As herd immunity or large-scale vaccination is still some time away, currently prevention is the only way,” said a city-based infectious diseases specialist. While Gujarat has not recorded a high number of cases, several other states have started showing an upward trend in daily Covid-19 cases. “The new variants in the mix also pose a challenge. Fortunately, the mortality rate is very low in Gujarat at the moment, and several districts have now been recording active cases in single digits,”said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/daily-cases-up-12-5-in-3-days/articleshow/81081439.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Daily cases up 12.5% in 3 days in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The upward trend in Covid cases in the state and major cities continued on Wednesday with a 5.7% increases in daily cases from 263 to 278. Over three days, the state has recorded a 12.5% increase from 247 on February 14 to 278 on February 17. In terms of cities, Surat recorded a daily increase of 5%, Ahmedabad 7%, Vadodara 14% and Rajkot 31%. The share of the eight municipal corporations of Gujarat was 71% with 199 of the state’s 278 cases, the highest since February 14. “The increase can be attributed to more movement due to various reasons including the ongoing election season. One must be careful about the SMS – social distancing, masks and sanitizing. As herd immunity or large-scale vaccination is still some time away, currently prevention is the only way,” said a city-based infectious diseases specialist. While Gujarat has not recorded a high number of cases, several other states have started showing an upward trend in daily Covid-19 cases. “The new variants in the mix also pose a challenge. Fortunately, the mortality rate is very low in Gujarat at the moment, and several districts have now been recording active cases in single digits,”said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/daily-cases-up-12-5-in-3-days/articleshow/81079730.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Pune||Pune ZP to train doctors to treat victims of man-animal conflicts||Pune: The Pune Zilla Parishad has planned a training programme for doctors at the Primary Health Centres (PHC) in leopard-prone Junnar, Ambegaon and Shirur tehsils to give preliminary treatment to those injured in leopard attacks. At present, victims of wild animal attacks are taken to the Sassoon General Hospital for treatment as the PHC staffers are not adequately trained or equipped to deal with the injuries caused in such attacks.Ayush Prasad, the ZP’s CEO, said the issue was brought up by the forest department and based on their inputs and the situation on the ground in the region, they have decided to conduct the programme for doctors working in the zone. “The training could be conducted at Aundh chest hospital. Our endeavour is to orient them on basic aspects of treatment and make necessary medicines available for emergency treatment,” Prasad said. Jayramgowda R, deputy conservator of forest of Junnar division, where maximum leopard attacks occur, said, “ If we train and make medicines available at these centres the victims will get quick treatment.” Forest officials said at least 10 attacks occur annually in the Junnar division. Ambadas Deokar, the head of Manchar sub-district hospital, said, “Making immunoglobulin injections available in adequate quantity at PHCs and sub-centres is necessary to provide treatment to the patients.”Dadasaheb Rokade, a resident of Junnar, said, “Authorities need to pay attention to this aspect as attacks may increase in the coming days as sugarcane crushing is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-zp-to-train-doctors-to-treat-victims-of-man-animal-conflicts/articleshow/81079751.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 18, 2021||Rajkot||Covid-19: Daily cases up 12.5% in 3 days in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The upward trend in Covid cases in the state and major cities continued on Wednesday with a 5.7% increases in daily cases from 263 to 278. Over three days, the state has recorded a 12.5% increase from 247 on February 14 to 278 on February 17. In terms of cities, Surat recorded a daily increase of 5%, Ahmedabad 7%, Vadodara 14% and Rajkot 31%. The share of the eight municipal corporations of Gujarat was 71% with 199 of the state’s 278 cases, the highest since February 14. “The increase can be attributed to more movement due to various reasons including the ongoing election season. One must be careful about the SMS – social distancing, masks and sanitizing. As herd immunity or large-scale vaccination is still some time away, currently prevention is the only way,” said a city-based infectious diseases specialist. While Gujarat has not recorded a high number of cases, several other states have started showing an upward trend in daily Covid-19 cases. “The new variants in the mix also pose a challenge. Fortunately, the mortality rate is very low in Gujarat at the moment, and several districts have now been recording active cases in single digits,”said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/daily-cases-up-12-5-in-3-days/articleshow/81081438.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Pune||Pune motorists rue further rise in prices of premium fuel||PUNE: The continued increase of petrol and diesel prices have also come with the rates of premium fuels shooting up at alarming rates. The rates of some premium fuels, such as 97 octane petrol, have already crossed Rs100 per litre in Pune, though consumption of the fuel is very limited, said fuel dealers. A representative of a filling station said and was sold in only a handful of petrol dealerships in the city. Of more concern is the rate of the more readily used premium fuels, such as higher-octane petrol, which regular motorists with run-of-the-mill cars and bikes use to improve the performance of the vehicles. The owners are of the view that the fuel extend engine life of the vehicles and ensure better maintenance of the crucial parts. Hindustan Petroleum’s Power sold for Rs99.31 per litre on Wednesday, according to the All India Petrol Dealers Association (AIPDA). On an average, premium fuels cost between Rs3.50 to Rs4 per litre more than the regular fuels. “I use premium petrol for my scooter; because I have seen better performance from my vehicle and the ride is much more smooth that when I used the regular petrol. But if the price keeps on increasing like this, that will be unaffordable for me. Paying Rs100 for a litre of petrol is too much,” said Maniram Chaudhary, a businessman from the Chandannagar area, who regularly travels to Market Yard for work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/motorists-rue-further-rise-in-prices-of-premium-fuel/articleshow/81079727.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Aurangabad||Cops file chargesheet on impersonator’s complaint, probe ordered||Aurangabad: The deputy inspector general (DIG) of police (Nanded range) has ordered an inquiry into the investigation and filing of chargesheet by the Parbhani police relating to an FIR by a 70-year-old woman even after they had learnt that she had impersonated another woman and used the latter’s Aadhaar credentials to lodge a complaint. “This is an extremely serious matter. We have initiated an inquiry by an officer of the rank of deputy superintendent of police to ascertain all the facts, including lapses on the part of the investigating officer and those who scrutinized and cleared the chargesheet for filing in court,” DIG Nisar Tamboli told TOI on Wednesday. Rukminibai, the woman whose Aadhaar credentials are suspected to have been altered and used, had died in 1986. Her husband, Kisanrao Taynak, later married Chhababai but got his four-acre farm land transferred in the name of Vrundani Magar, his daughter from Rukminibai, and grandson Yashraj. In 2019, Chhababai filed a private complaint with a court in Parbhani allegedly representing herself as Rukminibai and claiming that Kisanrao had forged her death certificate and fraudulently transferred the farmland to Vrundani and Yashraj. She submitted an Aadhaar card with her photo mentioning her name as Rukminibai. The court then directed the Pathri police in Parbhani to register an FIR. On March 19, 2019, a case of cheating and forgery was registered against Kisanrao, Vrundani, the gramsevak, the talathi and the circle officer on the charge of fraudulent transfer of property executed on February 1, 2011. It was alleged that the accused falsely claimed that Rukminibai had died on March 10, 1986. However, in the ensuing probe by the then investigation officer PSI Awez Qazi, it was revealed that Chhababai got the Aadhaar records forged and had changed her name to Rukminibai before moving the private complaint to the court that resulted in the FIR. Qazi also found that the Aadhaar card submitted to the court was initially registered in Chhababai’s name in 2016. The name was edited in the UIDAI records in 2018 and changed to Rukminibai. The probe also found that the land was purchased in the name of Rukminibai in 1978 and she died in 1986. Statements of the relatives recorded by the then probe officer revealed that Chhababai was impersonating as Rukminibai. In fact, her original name was there in the voters’ ID list for 2009 and 2014 but was later changed to Rukminibai in 2019. Qazi had taken all these findings on record and even made entries to this effect in the police station and the investigation diaries before he was transferred to some other place. The police team which later took over the probe, however, continued investigating the FIR and went on to file a chargesheet against the five persons named in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-file-chargesheet-on-impersonators-complaint-probe-ordered/articleshow/81076260.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Farm laws not binding on T govt: Revanth||Hyderabad: State Congress working president A Revanth Reddy on Wednesday said that the new Central farm laws are not binding on the state government as agriculture is in the concurrent list. “The state government can reject implementation of the farm laws by passing a resolution in the assembly,” he said. Stating that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is trying to mislead the farmers by projecting that he cannot do anything but implement the new farm laws, Revanth said the state government has the power to reject the implementation of the central farm laws by passing a resolution in the state assembly. “KCR, who calls himself a farmer, should stand by the peasants and ensure that the anti-farmer policies of the Modi-government are not implemented in Telangana,” Revanth said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farm-laws-not-binding-on-t-govt-revanth/articleshow/81079723.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Pune||Maha, 17 states get warnings about UK strain||Pune: The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has asked 18 states to keep an eye out for cases with the UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 after nearly 187 positive samples from these regions revealed the presence of the version. The list of states includes Maharashtra and Kerala — both hold nearly 72% of all active cases in the country. Dr Sujeet Singh, director of the NCDC, said the states have been asked to monitor all international arrivals and ensure strict isolation of positive cases, as per protocols. The UK variant, scientists have said, could be more contagious. Dr Singh said almost all the large states — Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan — have detected the UK variant. “The states have been asked to keep a close watch on all their districts,” he said. He added that over 6,000 samples from the country have been sent for genome sequencing to look for the variant. While 187 positive samples were found with the UK strain, four had the South African variant and one had the version out of Brazil. “Unusual spreads have to be monitored carefully. All international travellers have to be tested and if found positive, their samples must be sent in for genome sequencing. They have to be quarantined for 14 days and will need a negative test before release,” Dr Singh said. So far, Maharashtra has had recorded 12 Covid-19 cases with the UK variant. All patients were asymptomatic and have been discharged from care. Also, the state’s epidemiology cell has decided to sequence at least 5% of all daily samples (tested positive via RT-PCR) to look for mutations in the virus. Multiple variants of the coronavirus are circulating globally, experts have said. The UK variant, with critical mutations, was first detected via genome surveillance late in 2020. It’s believed to have caused a recent surge in cases across Britain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-17-states-get-warnings-about-uk-strain/articleshow/81079713.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 18, 2021||Pune||PMR’s daily tally jumps to 77-day high of 857||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 857 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, its highest single-day tally since December 2 last year when 913 people had tested positive for the infection. Between December 2 and February 17, the daily tally had jumped ast 800 only on one occasion — December 2 — when 812 people had tested positive in PMR. Among the new cases, the PMC areas recorded 428, followed by the PCMC limits (227) and the rural parts (202). With this, PMR has recorded more than 3.94 lakh cases so far. As for recoveries, 392 people were discharged in PMR on Wednesday, taking the total cured count above 3.80 lakh. The region conducted 8,507 tests on Wednesday, its highest since January 30. Six more patients died of Covid-19 in PMR on Wednesday. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that four deaths were recorded in the PMC limits, while two in the rural pockets. The PCMC did not report any death due to Covid-19 on Wednesday. The load of active patients increased to 5,373 on Wednesday evening, of whom 3,281 patients were in home isolation and 2,092 in various hospitals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-daily-tally-jumps-to-77-day-high-of-857/articleshow/81079701.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 18, 2021||Ludhiana||5 days after double murder, killer’s body recovered from canal||Ludhiana: Dead body of Pyara Singh of Sherpur village, who had become traceless after killing his wife and daughter five days ago, was recovered from Doraha Canal on Wednesday morning.According to the police, Pyara Singh had killed his wife and daughter using a hammer and later jumped into the canal to end his life. However, with the recovery of his body, the possibility of the exact cause of the double murder being unravelled is almost over.On February 12, Pyara Singh, 60, a labourer, had killed his wife Swaranjit Kaur, 53, and daughter Rajwant Kaur, 28, with a hammer, the police said. Thereafter, he reached Doraha canal and called up his nephew to inform him about his crime and said he was also going to commit suicide. Then he switched off his mobile phone.On hearing this, nephew Gurpreet Singh rushed to the house of Pyara Singh and found the duo lying in a pool of blood. While Swaranjit had died on the spot, Rajwant succumbed at the hospital while undergoing treatment. Rajwant’s marriage was scheduled for February 21.Although the police had recovered the scooter and the phone of Pyara Singh from the canal, his body had not been found until this morning.Confirming that the police on Wednesday morning recovered the body from Doraha Canal, additional deputy commissioner of police-IV Rupinder Kaur Sra said the condition of the body suggests that the man had jumped into the canal the same day. "The face of Pyara singh was buried in the sand in canal and that’s why it took so long to trace the body," she added.The Moti Nagar police have registered a case against Pyara Singh under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC for killing his wife and daughter. As per the autopsy reports of the mother and daughter, they also had burn marks on their bodies.Investigations suggested that Pyara Singh suffered from psychotic disorder and hypertension. He would often lose his temper over petty things and was taking treatment for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-days-after-double-murder-killers-body-recovered-from-canal/articleshow/81076264.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 18, 2021||Ludhiana||51 more Covid cases in Ludhiana, 3 die||Ludhiana: Three Covid-19 patients, including one from Ludhiana district, succumbed to the virus, while 51 persons from the district tested positive on Wednesday. As per the local media bulletin, of the three persons dying in the city hospitals, two were from outside the district, while a 74-year-old male from Mullanpur Dakha area, who suffered from cerebrovascular accident, breathed his last.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said with the latest deaths, the total number of persons from the district dying due to Covid-19 has risen to 1,015, while the count of dead from outside has gone up to 491.So far, 639,132 people have been tested for the infection in Ludhiana district. The overall count of patients from the district now stands at 26,463, while with the addition of nine cases from outside, the number of such patients has risen to 4,068.The civil surgeon said till now, 25,069 patients have recovered in Ludhiana, which constitutes 94.73% of the total cases. At present, there are 376 active patients in the district.Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma has appealed to the residents to adhere to the safety protocols of the Punjab government, including wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently, to keep themselves and everyone around safe from the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/51-more-covid-cases-in-ludhiana-3-die/articleshow/81076262.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Vadodara||Covid-19: Daily cases up 12.5% in 3 days in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The upward trend in Covid cases in the state and major cities continued on Wednesday with a 5.7% increases in daily cases from 263 to 278. Over three days, the state has recorded a 12.5% increase from 247 on February 14 to 278 on February 17. In terms of cities, Surat recorded a daily increase of 5%, Ahmedabad 7%, Vadodara 14% and Rajkot 31%. The share of the eight municipal corporations of Gujarat was 71% with 199 of the state’s 278 cases, the highest since February 14. “The increase can be attributed to more movement due to various reasons including the ongoing election season. One must be careful about the SMS – social distancing, masks and sanitizing. As herd immunity or large-scale vaccination is still some time away, currently prevention is the only way,” said a city-based infectious diseases specialist. While Gujarat has not recorded a high number of cases, several other states have started showing an upward trend in daily Covid-19 cases. “The new variants in the mix also pose a challenge. Fortunately, the mortality rate is very low in Gujarat at the moment, and several districts have now been recording active cases in single digits,”said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/daily-cases-up-12-5-in-3-days/articleshow/81081437.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Pune||Mohol, four others get bail, released from custody||Pune: The police on Tuesday night arrested gangster Sharad Mohol and four others, besides booking some others for disobedience and unlawful assembly on January 26. On Wednesday, a magisterial court ordered the release of Mohol and four others on bail. Senior inspector Srihari Bahirat from Khadak police station said, “Patit Pavan Sangathna office bearer Swapnil Chavan had organized the event on January 26 without seeking permission from the police. Chavan had invited Mohol and his aides in violation of the state government’s pandemic-related guidelines.” Bahirat said, “After we came to know about the incident, we collected video clips and established the identity of Mohol and his accomplices. We registered an FIR relating to disobedience and unlawful assembly under the Indian Penal Code and for offences under the Maharashtra Police Act, Criminal Law Amendment, Disaster Management Act and Covid 19 Rules.” He said, “Mohol and others were released on bail by a local court on Wednesday. A proposal to take preventive action against them is being initiated. We will also arrest Mohol’s other accomplices, who are on the run.” Marne let out on cash security A magisterial court on Wednesday granted bail to gangster Gajanan alias Gaja Marne (48) and eight others arrested by the police on Tuesday. Defence lawyer Vijay Thombare said, “Marne and others were released on cash security of Rs15,000 each.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mohol-four-others-get-bail-released-from-custody/articleshow/81079744.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Pune||Duo rob car driver of cash & valuables worth Rs22,000||Pune: A car driver on Tuesday lodged an FIR with the police alleging that he was robbed of cash and valuables worth Rs 22,000 by a duo travelling in another car after his car brushed against the other car at Urse toll plaza on the Pune-Mumbai expressway. Police probe revealed that one of the suspects is a corporator of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation. “We have asked the corporator to come to the police chowkey and record his statement,” said an officer from Shirgaon police chowkey. Complainant Rajendra Tidke of Alandi in Khed taluka runs a tour business. On Monday, he was returning to Pune. “While waiting in the queue at Urse toll plaza, the complainant’s car slightly brushed against another car,” the officer said. The officer said that after paying the toll, when Tidke crossed the toll plaza, the car driver forced him to drive along the expressway. “The suspect accused the complainant of damaging his car and asked him to pay for the repairs,” he said. Tidke said that the driver and another person in the car then abused him and beat him up. “During the scuffle, the suspects tore the pocket of Tidke’s shirt, snatched his cellphone and Rs 15,000, collectively worth Rs22,000. The duo then drove towards Pune,” the police said. Tidke came to the police chowkey on Tuesday and lodged a complaint. A case under section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the two men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-rob-car-driver-of-cash-valuables-worth-rs22000/articleshow/81079827.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||13kg drugs seized from empty SRA flat||Mumbai: Nearly 13kg ganja worth around Rs2.6 lakh was found in an unoccupied flat at a Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) building at Sainath Society in Sangharsh Nagar on Wednesday. Sakinaka police are trying to find out who stored the drugs there and sought details from SRA. This is the second seizure of ganja from that locality in a month. DCP (zone X) Mahesh Reddy said the drugs were locked for few days. Inspector Arvind Shirke, assistant inspector Padvi, sub-inspector Hanumant Dhavan and detection staff seized the drugs. —V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/13kg-drugs-seized-from-empty-sra-flat/articleshow/81079825.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: BJP demands ‘white paper’ on Maratha quota||MUMBAI: The BJP has demanded that the MVA government publish a ‘white paper’ on the Maratha quota issue. BJP Rajya Sabha MP Udayanraje Bhosale on Wednesday met CM Uddhav Thackeray and submitted a memorandum of demands on Maratha quota. He expressed displeasure over the handling of the Maratha quota case by the government, demanded that the state publish a ‘white paper’ on the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) quota and urged the CM to personally look into the issue. The SC had stayed SEBC quota in education and jobs in an interim order in 2020. Currently, the SEBC reservation is pending in the SC and the hearing has been scheduled in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-demands-white-paper-on-maratha-quota/articleshow/81080558.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Aurangabad||Fresh measures to curbnCov cases in Aurangabad||slug: SURGE IN CASES Aurangabad: A day after fresh cases of Covid-19 reached the three-digit mark again in Aurangabad, district collector Sunil Chavan on Wednesday said that preventive measures would be stepped up, including setting up of checkposts for conducting tests. “Checkposts are essential to keep an eye on the movement of possible carriers of the virus and curb unnecessary travel by people,” Chavan told TOI. The collector said the district administration will join hands with police for strict enforcement of Covid prevention norms. “We will again crack down against those avoiding face-masks. The restrictions on crowding at marriage halls and other public gatherings are sacrosanct and those violating it would face action. Educational institutes too must follow the laid down rules,” he said. Chavan said the mission against Covid-19 needs further push and that citizens should not lower their guard as the pandemic is still present. According to official data, Aurangabad district on Tuesday reported 120 new Covid-19 cases, highest in the recent past, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 47,842. It includes 1,245 deaths and 407 active cases. Earlier, Aurangabad divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar asked the district collectors from Marathwada to step up preventive measures, anticipating a possible second wave of the disease. In a review meeting, Kendrekar asked for strict watch on marriage ceremonies and coaching classes for possible violation of norms besides intensifying contact tracing ratio to at least 20 individuals per one Covid patient. “All the district administrations must take stock of Covid care facilities and ensure arrangements such as sufficient supply of oxygen and ventilators to deal with any possible crisis,” he said. As per official data, the confirmed Covid cases are 1,50,560 across eight districts of Marathwada, including 4,436 causalities and 1,910 active cases. The region has a mortality rate of 2.95 and recovery rate of 95.79%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/fresh-measures-to-curbncov-cases-in-aurangabad/articleshow/81076275.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vaccination at 71% of target, many shy away from 2nd dose||Dr Ketan Desai, former president of World Medical Association and Medical Council of India, along with his wife Dr Alka Desai, a gynaecologist, took their second doses of the Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday at Civil HospitalAhmedabad: With 3,718 vaccinations in 24 hours at 317 centres, Gujarat on Wednesday recorded one of its lowest daily inoculation numbers. While the total reached 8.05 lakh, which is 71% of the registered beneficiaries for Phases I and II of the vaccination programme. Sources said that the state crossed 10,000 beneficiaries for the second dose on Wednesday. To put the figure in perspective, 12,320 healthcare workers had got vaccinated on January 16 – the first day of vaccination in Gujarat. Dr Ketan Desai, former president of World Medical Association, and his wife Dr Alka Desai got their second dose atCivil Hospital on Wednesday. Senior doctors such as Dr Anil Nayak, Dr Nitin Vora, Dr YS Modi, Dr Bhavin Kothari and Dr Mahesh Patel among others were present. “The vaccine is completely safe, and everyone should take it without any fear,” said Dr Desai after the dose. Dr Desai was among the first in the state to receive the vaccine on January 16. Before the third phase of the vaccination for people older than 50 years starts in the first week of March, the state intends to speed up the vaccination process for both first-time recipients and create awareness about the second dose. “There’s no issue with the CoWIN software. All beneficiaries are getting the message. Delay of a couple of days is acceptable.We have also let healthcare workers to get the vaccine at their nearest centre,” said a senior state health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaccination-at-71-of-target-many-shy-away-from-2nd-dose/articleshow/81079782.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Sharmila ropes in two advisors||Hyderabad: YS Sharmila intensified efforts towards floating a party by roping in two bureaucrats— former IAS officer Prabhakar Reddy and IPS officer Udaya Simha —as her political advisors on Wednesday. She will hold a meeting with Mahabubnagar leaders on February 21. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sharmila-ropes-in-two-advisors/articleshow/81079796.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Police drive yet to rid Dugri Road of traffic mess||Ludhiana: A fortnight after serving shopkeepers notices for removing encroachments, the police have started cracking down on the violators. The cops, on Tuesday, also registered FIRs against the encroachers, most of whom were street vendors, a few were shopkeepers and some were those who parked their vehicles on roads. But there are some stretches where there has been no change.Under the anti-encroachment drive, the Ludhiana Police aims to cover 100 roads. Even as Dugri Road—from Atam Nagar Chowk to Dugri canal—is on the list, there is hardly any change there. Dugri Road has a car market, which includes shops selling car accessories and car workshops. Even after 17 days of the drive, the police have failed to make even a small difference on the road, which witnesses traffic chaos every day. On Dugri Road, commuters are required to park their vehicles within the ‘white line’ to avoid those getting towed away by traffic police. However, this designated parking space is used by shopkeepers to park their vehicles. Beyond this space, shopkeepers get the vehicles of their customers parked. This unauthorised and irregular parking leads to traffic mess.The Atam Park police post is on the same stretch, but cops hardly pay attention to the menace.Harsimran Kaur, a resident of Dugri, Phase 1, said, “More than half of the road remains encroached by vehicles outside the car market. There is a police post on the same road, but nobody is bothered about getting the encroachments removed. At Atam Nagar chowk, a few metres away from the car market, traffic cops are deputed, but they too turn a blind eye to the problem.” “Dugri Road, outside the car market, is wide enough for smooth traffic flow. But with vehicles parked in the middle of the stretch, only one car can move at a time. The situation has been the same for years,” said Atinderpal Singh, a resident of Gill Road. A man who works at one of the shops in the car market said, “Initially, there were a few car accessory shops in the market. Gradually, workshops also came up. The shops don’t have space for vehicle parking. Even workshops have space to park only one vehicle inside. Therefore, vehicles are parked on the road.” Joint commissioner of police (city) Deepak Pareek, who also leads the charge of traffic police, said, “The police have started enforcing the orders. Encroachments will be removed from Dugri Road, too.”On February 1, Ludhiana Police had resumed the anti-encroachment drive after a year and set a target of 100 roads of the city. Earlier in 2020, the cops had started the drive at a couple of spots, mainly in Old City. However, the campaign was discontinued due to the pandemic.For the first 15 days of the month, the police requested shopkeepers and street vendors to remove encroachments on their own. Written notices were also served on them. From Tuesday, the cops started enforcement of the orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-drive-yet-to-rid-dugri-road-of-traffic-mess/articleshow/81076272.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand witnesses ‘winter wildfires’ for the first time; about 400 hectares of forest area gutted||DEHRADUN: The forest fire season in Uttarakhand lasts from February 15 to June 15 but for the first time, the state was ravaged by winter wildfires -- a common phenomenon in northeastern states but never seen before in the hill state. The state has lost 395.4 hectares of forest area to the fires from October last year to February this year. With 139 incidences and 105.9 hectares gutted, Pauri reported the highest instances of such fires in the last four months, followed by Uttarkashi (61 cases, 32.8 ha gutted). The fires have cost the exchequer Rs 17 lakh so far and claimed four lives – two of them were forest officials trying to douse a forest fire without proper gear. The scientists at Forest Research Institute (FRI) in Doon said that they have started a study to understand the preponement of fires across the country. “The unusual shift in the fire season may be linked to different reasons like climate change, the lockdown or too much human intervention in the forests. A five-year study across 15 states of the country that witness forest fires, including Uttarakhand, has been initiated to thoroughly understand the actual reasons behind this shift, as it has been recorded all over the country,” said Arti Chaudhary, head, Silviculture and Forest Resource Management Division at FRI, Dehradun. According to data available with the forest department, after Pauri and Uttarkashi, Almora has seen the most forest fires, at 44 cases and 24.7ha gutted, followed by Bageshwar (30 incidences, 45ha gutted), Pithorgarh (18 incidences, 19.6ha gutted), Dehradun (12 incidences, 9ha gutted), Rudraprayag (8 incidences, 6.5ha gutted), Champawat (6 incidences, 1.5ha gutted), Chamoli (3 incidences, 2ha gutted), Tehri (2 incidences, 2ha gutted) and Haridwar (1 case, 0.2ha gutted). Neither US Nagar nor Nainital has seen a case of forest fire in these past months, the data says. Residents of the hill state find this new phenomenon unsettling. Anup Sah, a Nainital-based environmentalist and veteran photographer, said that the Himalayan peaks, usually easily visible from spots like Tiffin Top, Kilbury and Himalaya Darshan, could barely be spotted this winter due to dense smoke in the hills. “Apart from warm places like Almora, Jeolikote, Bhowali or even Bageshwar, forest fires are now ravaging colder regions like Munsyari too. Locals are deeply apprehensive of the fires being way more devastating in the summer, as a dry winter has led to so many forest fires already.” Aditya Babbar, a resident of Ranikhet, said that “it doesn’t feel like winter at all.” “Seeing smoke on several hills out of the windows almost all the time, it feels like April or May. We have never seen anything like it,” he said . “Authorities aren’t much help. There is no control room dedicated to fires that we know of and local forest staff don’t heed our issues. We have been trying to get in touch with the forest department regarding these fires for the last few days but to no avail. Therefore, local residents have to fend for themselves most of the time,” he added. Man Singh, nodal officer of forest fires and chief conservator of forests, Uttarakhand forest department, said, “Forest fires in winter have never been seen before in Uttarakhand. There is no mention of it in any literature nor have we ever seen it in our lifetime. However, it’s not true that we are inactive. We have a twitter handle as well as a Facebook page, on which we regularly update people about forest fires and which can be used to reach out to us as well. Apart from these, Uttarakhand has 40 master control rooms at the divisional-headquarter levels across the state to control forest fires.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-witnesses-winter-wildfires-for-the-first-time-about-400-hectares-of-forest-area-gutted/articleshow/81076281.cms||Shivani Azad
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||4 transgenders beat cop who halts their auto||Mumbai: Four transgender persons have been arrested for allegedly assaulting an on-duty traffic constable on Wednesday after he stopped an autorickshaw ferrying the four in Ghatkopar (east). They allegedly abused the cop and tore his uniform. A video of the transgender persons beating up the traffic cop has gone viral on social media. According to the police, constable Vinod Sonawane (38), who is attached to the Vikhroli beat, was on duty at Chheda Nagar. The police said that he was taking action against vehicles violating traffic rules. Around 6 pm, Sonawane spotted the rickshaw with the four passengers although only three are allowed. As Sonawane stopped the auto and clicked its pictures to issue a challan, the four transgender persons who were inside got down and thrashed him. The police said they also damaged his walkie-talkie. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-transgenders-beat-cop-who-halts-their-auto/articleshow/81077947.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Lawyers in Telangana to boycott court work||HYDERABAD: Stung by the ghastly murder of lawyer couple Gattu Vamana Rao and Nagamani, the executive committees of the Bar associations of Ranga Reddy district courts, city civil court Hyderabad, city civil court Secunderabad, and Metropolitan Criminal Courts at Nampally jointly condemned Wednesday’s brutal daylight attack. They gave a boycott call asking all advocates to stay away from court work on Thursday to protest the killings. The Bar associations have demanded the immediate arrest of all persons involved in the murder and called for an expeditious trial and stringent and instant punishment to the accused. The state and Central governments should bring an enactment providing protection to advocates against such heinous incidents, demanded the presidents of the Bar associations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lawyers-to-boycott-court-work/articleshow/81079816.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Aurangabad||58% consumers pay their power dues in Marathwada||Aurangabad: The cash-strapped Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has recovered power dues worth Rs 3,920 across eight districts of Marathwada from residential category of consumers which account for nearly 58% of the total recovery target. Aurangabad zone leads with highest Rs 2,616.22 crore recovery of arrears, followed by Latur zone (Rs 701.06 crore) and Nanded zone (Rs 602.56 crore). Deputy chief public relations officer for Aurangabad division of MSEDCL Sunil Jadhav said that the remaining consumers should also pay their power dues to enjoy uninterrupted power supply. “Many consumers have responded to an appeal from the state power utility and cleared their dues. The recovery drive is slated to get intensified further witnessing stern action in the form of disconnection of power supply,” he said. The state power utility, which has declared amnesty scheme towards recovery of power dues of agricultural pumps, has been also evoking gradual response. As per official data, total 5,312 farmers from Aurangabad district have responded to the scheme from Aurangabad district, thus helping MSEDCL recover Rs 3.07 crore. MSEDCL public relations officer for Aurangabad zone Dnyaneshwar Ardad said that over 2.2 lakh farmers must also pay their arrears by taking benefit of the amnesty scheme. “As part of Maha Krishi Urja Abhiyan of the state government, a whopping 50% waiver is applicable on pending dues towards agricultural pumps if the defaulter farmers pay half of their dues over a period of next one year,” he said. Meanwhile, MSEDCL has once again warned consumers from urban and rural areas to refrain from drawing power in an unauthorised manner, which authorities said is not only unsafe but can also draw criminal action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/58-consumers-pay-their-power-dues-in-marathwada/articleshow/81076309.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Zero’ Favipiravir tablets sold in Gujarat in February||AHMEDABAD: In what may indicate a clear reduction in Covid-19 cases, zero tablets of Favipiravir were sold in February in the state, according to data from the Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) of Gujarat. Favipiravir is an anti-viral medicine used for treating Covid-19 and is prescribed to those who are getting treated at hospital and at home. In January, the sale of Favipiravir tablets dropped by an estimated 86% from November, according to data from the FDCA Gujarat. Dr H G Koshia, state food and drug commissioner, said, “None of the eight manufacturers have sold a single strip of Favipiravir tablets this month. This is an indication of reduction in Covid-19 cases. There is no demand from chemists and druggists as the inventory stocked up in the previous months is yet to be cleared.” Several stockists are also struggling with oversupply of the medicine as it has a limited expiry period. “Retailers are well-stocked at this point and some are also returning unsold stocks of the drug because it has an expiry period of about six months. Sales at retail counters have also gone down drastically,” said Alpesh Patel, president, Federation of Gujarat State Chemists and Druggists Associations. Interestingly, other drugs which were used for treating Covid-19 have also shown a decline. For instance, sales of Remdesivir injections have significantly slowed. Some 6,564 vials of this injection were traded in the first fortnight of February. The lower number of cases and declining severity of Covid-19 infections have caused a decline in sales of these medicines, pharmacists say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zero-favipiravir-tablets-sold-in-feb/articleshow/81079811.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 18, 2021||Aurangabad||MUHS to expand score of its regional centre||Aurangabad: The city-based regional centre of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) is expected to evolve as a research facility and will also offer more courses and impart training programmes. A day after laying foundation stone for new building for the regional centre, MUHS registrar Kalidas Chavan on Wednesday said that plans have been chalked out to expand the scope of the Aurangabad-based facility. “The MUHS has its regional centre at Aurangabad since 2007. It offers a couple of courses presently. As per our planning, the facility would emerge as a major research hub for us. Besides, it will be offering increased number of courses and impart more number of trainers’ programmes,” he said. Chavan said that the new regional centre will come up on huge 1.25 acre of campus at Mukundwadi. The state-of-the-art facility has budgetary provision of Rs 22 crore and is expected to get ready over a period of next one year. Earlier, speaking on the occasion foundation stone laying ceremony of regional centre on Tuesday, Maharashtra medical education minister Amit Deshmukh asked for setting up a career counselling centre at regional centre of MUHS at Aurangabad. “The regional centre should work on different fronts to improve the research and quality of education offered by the state health university. It should also make youth aware of different career opportunities in the field of health sciences,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/muhs-to-expand-score-of-its-regional-centre/articleshow/81076286.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Aurangabad||No rallies, processions on Shiv Jayanti: AMC||Aurangabad: The followers of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj will not be able to organise any bike rallies or hold processions like every year on the occasion of upcoming birth anniversary of Maratha warrior king on Friday. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Wednesday issued an order banning any such activities in view of Covid-19 outbreak. Announcing curbs on public celebrations on the occasion of Shiv Jayanti, AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey has allowed formal celebration involving garlanding of the statue in presence of only 100 people by following social distancing and wearing masks. “The Shiv Jayanti celebrations have to be toned down in order to contain the spread of Covid-19. The public celebrations and cultural events held to mark the occasion must be avoided this year,” Pandey said. Instead of traditional celebrations, the AMC has encouraged other events such as blood donation camps and mass awareness campaigns against malaria and dengue among other diseases on the occasion of Shiv Jayanti. The civic administration has warned of action as per the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act 2005 against those violating the restrictions related to Shiv Jayanti celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-rallies-processions-on-shiv-jayanti-amc/articleshow/81076360.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||Close contacts still reluctant, slow start for mobile vans||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has claimed it successfully traced over 5,000 close contacts but not many of them are willing to get themselves tested, officials said. The mobile vans deployed in different areas too are not getting good response despite zonal medical officers appealing to residents and close contacts through different mediums. Following a spike in cases, the NMC decided to increase testing, focus on close contacts of those testing positive and also check what it calls superspreaders like vendors, vegetable sellers, delivery boys, and housemaid. The rapid response teams (RRTs) have been able to trace many in door-to-door survey. The measures increased the number of testing at all the public labs. The labs processed 4,069 samples on Wednesday. These were the collections from Tuesday and the impact of Wednesday will be seen on Thursday. The testing was around 2,000 and below in the last few days. The NMC is targeting at least 100 RTPCR tests from each of the 11 mobile vans deployed in each of the 10 zones. An additional van is sent to one of the nine emerging hotspots or crowded markets as per the need. Some of the vans were also deployed near housing schemes reporting high number of cases. The highest sample collection was 78 by one of the mobile vans. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said he visited the Mangalwari zone and found over 70% of close contacts willing to get themselves tested. “Our teams are trying to convince rest of the close contacts too. Due to high number of cases, it is not possible to reach out to each close contact in one day. It is a continues process and goes on for a couple of days,” he said. Regarding mobile vans, Joshi said, “We are expecting 100 or more samples from each van. Yet, to start with, the response is not bad. Hope people will come forward,” he said. Meanwhile, zone officials said the they were entrusted with both contact tracing and testing at mobile vans, thus adding to their workload.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/close-contacts-still-reluctant-slow-start-for-mobile-vans/articleshow/81077949.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: ‘Wheel incident exposes ST maintenance culture’||MUMBAI: Tuesday’s incident of nuts and bolts of a rear wheel of an MSRTC bus popping out during the journey brings into focus the poor maintenance and inferior quality of some of the buses in the 18,000-strong fleet, said activists on Wednesday. They saud it also raised questions about passenger safety in public transport buses across Maharashtra. TimesViewThe incident of nuts and bolts falling off the bus wheel compromises on passenger safety while reflecting poorly on the maintenance of our state transport buses. The state’s road lifeline is the cheapest as well as the preferred mode of transportation for lakhs of citizens, including students. There is an urgent need to replace all decrepit buses with new and safer vehicles while pulling up officials for negligence leading to technical faults and mishaps.While an official said it was a technical fault in just one bus in Kalyan, the MSRTC management is answerable to 25 lakh daily passengers who depend on the road lifeline in the state that runs 13,000 buses today. MSRTC’s procurement of of 2,000 new buses has been pending for some time because of paucity of funds. Transport experts and passengers said they were aghast at the incident. “This ‘chalta hai’ attitude should change. ST should be held accountable for such mishaps and officials involved should be taken to task,” said Shreya Awasthi, a resident of Vasai, who often takes the ST bus. Transport activist Jagdeep Desai said that in the MSRTC, vehicles and equipment are run till they break down and then emergency repairs are done to make them barely function. “This is called breakdown maintenance and I am observing this trend in the state buses lately. It is dangerous for passengers and makes travelling unsafe and risky,” he said. Shrirang Barge of Maharashtra ST Karmachari Congress said many buses were in decrepit condition. “The maintenance is not up to the mark and the condition of some of the buses is pathetic and they need to be urgently replaced. They have become ‘bhangar’ [junk], he said. MSRTC MD Shekhar Channe said he was on leave. “The Kalyan incident is serious and will be looked into. However, I will not be able to answer any questions as I am presently on long leave,” he said. An official, who requested anonymity, said an inquiry had been ordered but “nobody has been held responsible for any negligence”. A staff member from the maintaintaince department said that senior officials had told their department that “even though the incident was caused due to technical fault”, they should be extra vigilant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wheel-incident-exposes-st-maintenance-culture/articleshow/81079896.cms||Somit Sen
February 18, 2021||Ludhiana||15 more students of Chaunta school test positive||Ludhiana: Two days after 15 students and two staff members of Government Senior Secondary School, Chaunta were tested positive for Covid-19, another 15 students of the same school have been found carrying the virus, an official said on Wednesday.Results of samples of 15 students, a female teacher and a male peon of the school had come positive between Monday morning and Tuesday evening, while the second lot of 15 students were declared positive late on Tuesday night.Confirming the cases, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said 30 students, a teacher and a peon of the school have tested Covid-positive, and sampling continues there.Another health department officer said most of the infected students and teachers from the school are asymptomatic and being home-quarantined. Till Wednesday, samples of around 620 students have been collected and reports of many samples are pending.Chaunta school’s principal Roma Rani said on Tuesday, the health officials had collected samples of 109 students, whereas 90 were collected on Wednesday, and the process would continue on Thursday as well. There are 747 students in the school and 20 staff members, including the teaching staff, she said.Health department officials said sampling is being done in the schools as part of the exercise to identify positive patients and isolate them, so that the spread of the disease could be checked.75 students tested +ve in a monthThe total number of students in the district, who have tested positive for the disease in the last about a month, has crossed 75.35 teachers found infected in a monthSince the second fortnight of January, about 35 teachers of various government schools of in the district have tested positive for Covid-19, while one teacher of Government Senior Secondary School, Ghalib Kalan has succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/15-more-students-of-chaunta-school-test-positive/articleshow/81076374.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Schools foresee low attendance in Classes 6 to 8||Ahmedabad: Schools in Ahmedabad are likely to see low attendance from students of Classes 6 to 8, for whom instudies will resume beginning February 17, according to the heads of half a dozen schools with whom TOI spoke on Wednesday. Concerns about a new spike in Covid-19 cases seems to weigh heavily on the minds of parents, who are not ready to send their wards to school in the near future, said the head of a private school in Ahmedabad. Another common reason cited by parents is that the syllabus for the academic year 2020-21 has largely been covered and they are content with online education that is presently going on. According to rough estimates, some schools expect less than 10% attendance while others expect 20% to 25%. After the re-opening of schools for Classes 9 and 12, the education department had earlier this month, announced the resumption of in-person classes for students of Classes 6 to 8 from February 18. Attendance will not be compulsory though, and online classes will continue, the education department clarified in its statement earlier this month. Classes at schools of all boards will resume with strict adherence to the Covid guidelines issued by the state and central governments. Instructions have been given to all district education officers and primary education officers to ensure schools comply with the standard operating procedures. Educational institutions will have to get the prescribed consent form from parents before allowing students to attend classroom studies. The present system of online classes will continue for students who do not join in-person classes. About 40% of students of Classes 9 and 12 had joined in-person classes earlier. This figure has risen to 70 to 72 per cent, the state education department had stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-foresee-low-attendance-in-classes-6-to-8/articleshow/81079835.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Aurangabad||Woman found murdered in Aurangabad, husband at large||AURANGABAD: A 32-year old woman was bludgeoned to death, allegedly by her husband, in the Pisadevi road area on the outskirts of the city on the night intervening Tuesday and Wednesday. Their children, aged three and six, started crying loudly when neighbours got anxious and peeped into the house from the window, only to find the woman, Kavita Siddhesh Trivedi, lying soaked in blood, said police. Police quoted the children as saying that their father latched the house from outside and escaped after hitting their mother. Aurangabad rural police on Wednesday formed four teams, including one from Chikalthana police station, to track down Siddhesh, who is the prime suspect in the case. Assistant police inspector Vishwas Patil said preliminary probe has revealed that Siddhesh allegedly hit his wife with a rod and smashed her face and head with a stone following a heated argument over some issue. “We are investigation the case and it is too early to say anything before the prime suspect is interrogated,” said police. Based on the complaint lodged by father of the victim, Jagdish Awasthi, a murder case has been registered against her husband, who is an employee of an Agricultural Produce Market Committee. An autopsy was conducted on the woman’s body at the Government Medical College and hospital on Wednesday morning before it was handed over to her parents, who performed the last rites in the Pisadevi area. Police said the children have been handed over to their maternal grandparents, who hail from Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-32-found-murdered-in-aurangabad-husband-at-large/articleshow/81076328.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Cong wins hands down||Ludhiana: The Congress made a clean sweep at all the six municipal councils for which elections were held on February 14.Along with elections to municipal councils and nagar panchayats in Khanna, Jagraon, Samrala, Raikot, Doraha and Payal, by-polls for ward 8 (general) of Mullanpur Dakha and ward 6 of Sahnewal in Ludhiana district were also held.Out of the total 114 wards in the district, the Indian National Congress (INC) won 82 seats, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) 16, Independents 11, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) three and Bharatiya Janata Party two.Of 33 wards of Khanna MC, Congress won 19, SAD six and BJP and AAP got two each, while four went to Independents. As compared with the previous MC elections, the Congress improved its tally by one seat, SAD retained its previous score, but BJP’s number of seats dropped by three. In the last elections too, four independents had won.Of 23 wards of Jagraon MC, Congress won 17, Independents five and SAD one. In the last elections, Congress had won 10 seats, SAD six, BJP five and Independents two.Of 15 wards of Samrala, Congress grabbed 10 and SAD five. Here, SAD had won seven seats and Congress and Vikas Manch four each in the previous elections.Congress bagged all 15 wards of Raikot, where BJP had clinched two seats in the previous elections, but had not fielded candidates this time. However, a former MC president from the BJP had indicated that he had fielded 15 candidates as Independents. Of 15 wards in Doraha, Congress took 11, SAD two and AAP and Independent one each. Here, all four BJP candidates lost, while the party had two seats in the previous MC and both the councillors had switched to the Congress after elections.Of 11 wards of Payal, Congress won nine and one each went to SAD and Independent.In the by-elections, SAD won at Sahnewal and Congress at Mullanpur. Only Muslim candidate who has won in six MCs was Mohammad Imran of the Congress from ward 2 of Raikot. He defeated his nearest rival Buta Singh, an Independent, by 321 votes. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said polling and counting were largely peaceful and there were no reports of any untoward incident from anywhere in the district. He thanked the voters, poll and security staff, candidates and political parties for cooperation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-wins-hands-down/articleshow/81076351.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Metro ride from Kavi Subhas to Dakshineswar in 62 mins||KOLKATA: It will take 62 minutes to cover the 32km length between Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhas Metro stations. Currently, the time needed to cover the 28km Noapara-Kavi Subhas stretch of the existing north-south corridor is 59 minutes. So, the calculated time for travelling the 4.1km extension from Noapara to Dakshineswar is only three minutes. The railways on Wednesday officially announced that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be inaugurating the much-awaited Rs 464-crore Noapara-Dakshineswar Metro on Monday along with other railway projects. “The average speed is around 50kmph from Kavi Subhas to Noapara. But the train will zip faster between Noapara and Dakshineswar,” said an official. TOI had reported that the new section’s tracks were laid in such a way so as to equip them to accommodate speed higher than the existing north-south line. The railways’ statement said that around 50,000 commuters coming from Howrah, Hooghly and North 24 Parganas will be benefitted when the Dakshineswar stretch is added to the north-south Metro. Many suburban train travellers of Eastern Railway (ER) will be able to avail of Metro services by crossing the Bally Bridge. “Students, professors and scholars of ISI’s Baranagar campus, RBU and CU’s economics department will also be benefited,” said the railways’ statement, adding that the Baranagar and Dakshineswar Metro stations are close to the suburban railway stations and Belghoria Expressway, the gateway to North 24 Parganas. Modi will unveil a host of railway projects on Monday, according to the statement. These projects include South-Eastern Railway’s 30km third line between Kalaikunda and Jhargram. “The PM will also dedicate the doubling of Azimganj to Khargraghat Road section, which is a part of Howrah – Bandel-Azimganj section of ER at a cost of Rs 239.3crore and the fourth line between Dankuni and Baruipara of Howrah-Bardhaman chord line and the third line between Rasulpur and Magra of Howrah-Bardhaman main line,” said the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-ride-from-kavi-subhas-to-dakshineswar-in-62-mins/articleshow/81077953.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 18, 2021||Kolhapur||2 German nationals held under NDPS Act||Kolhapur: The local crime branch of Satara police has arrested two German nationals for allegedly cultivating marijuana in a rented bungalow in Wai taluka. Police have also seized marijuana, fertilizers and equipment allegedly used for plantation and distribution of the banned product. The action was taken on Tuesday after a Pune-based forensic laboratory confirmed that the plants grown were indeed marijuana. The plants were found in clay pots in a polyhouse in the bungalow. District superintendent of police Ajay Bansal said 29 kg marijuana, fertilizers and other items like chemicals and pumps were recovered. Police have also seized three motorcycles, laptops and cellphones. The suspects have been identified as Sargis Victor Manka (31) and Sabastien Stain Muller (25). Preliminary investigation has revealed that both the Germans were arrested in Goa two years ago in a similar case. LCB police inspector Vijay Kumbhar, who conducted the raid, told TOI that they had called the bungalow owner to take his statement. He said that the suspects have been booked under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. “They have been remanded in police custody till Friday,” Kumbhar said. Police conducted the raid following information that two foreigners were staying in the bungalow and they rarely went out. Police found that the power bill of the bungalow was abnormally high and the bill had not been paid for a few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-german-nationals-held-under-ndps-act/articleshow/81076438.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Surveillance intensified after Covid strain of other countries detected in India||JAIPUR: Amid the scare of new Covid variants found in the UK, South Africa and other European countries, the health department has intensified its surveillance across the state to ensure its early detection. The Centre has confirmed that four persons were detected with the South Africa variant of SARS-CoV-2 in India in January, while one tested positive for the Brazil variant in the first week of February. Health department officials in the state claimed that they were keeping a close eye on all returnees from foreign countries. The passengers returning from any country are being screened for Covid symptoms and a Covid test is mandatory on their return to the state, a health department official said. “We are getting the details of passengers reaching any part of the state from any foreign country on a regular basis. On the basis of that, we act on it and take their samples for Covid test,” said a senior health department official.If any of the foreign returnees test positive, his/her samples are sent to CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB, Delhi) for checking the strain. “Earlier, we used to send the samples to the National Institute of Virology in Pune to check any mutation or change in strain in the virus, but now we have been continuously sending the samples to Delhi for the same purpose,” said the official. The health department is not sending the samples of those persons who have not come from any foreign country to Delhi for checking any mutation in the virus, only samples of foreign returnees are being sent. In the state, 15 UK returnees had been found infected with the mutated Covid strain of the UK a month ago and since then no such case of mutated strain has been found. The health department is also ensuring that passengers reaching any part of the state should have a negative RT-PCR report with them of the test done in the country 72 hours before travelling. If a person travelling from other country and does not have negative RT-PCR report, he should have to stay at institutional quarantine facilities for 7 days and if he is possessing RT-PCR test report, he is allowed to remain under home quarantine for seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/surveillance-intensified-after-covid-strain-of-other-countries-detected-in-india/articleshow/81077971.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Waqf board members move HC against disqualification||Ahmedabad: The chairman of the Gujarat State Waqf Board, Sajjad Hira, along with four members, moved the Gujarat high court against the Gujarat Waqf Tribunal’s order holding them unfit to hold the posts and for adverse remarks made against them with regard to permission given for sale of waqf land in Bharuch district.On December 24, 2020, the tribunal ordered the removal of members of the Waqf Board who allegedly illegally granted permission to sell property despite prohibition in the law and a negative opinion from the state legal department and the Central Waqf Council, for a property belonging to a trust named Anjuman-e-Hifzul Islam at Karmad village near Bharuch.Holding the waqf board’s resolution improper, the tribunal observed that the board members violated the law and tarnished the state government’s image by granting illegal permission. It also ordered that those board members should not be appointed to these positions in the future. It also ordered action against those responsible for the land transaction under the new laws against land-grabbing.Against this order, the board chairman Hira and members Afzal Pathan, Badruddin Halani, Ahmed Jat and Siraj Madakiya approached the high court, challenging it on the ground that these directions affected the board and its members, but the tribunal did not grant them an opportunity for a hearing, sources said.After a preliminary hearing, Justice Vipul Pancholi temporarily stayed the tribunal’s order and issued notices to the respondents. The high court has posted further hearing on March 3.The tribunal has intervened in the Waqf Board’s resolution granting permission to sell 4,400-sq metre land for Rs 20 lakh in lieu of purchase of 1,400-sq metres of land on payment of equal amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/waqf-board-members-move-hc-against-disqualification/articleshow/81079871.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||R4.7K fine imposed for corona violations||Jaipur: A person was fined Rs 500 for not wearing mask and a total penalty of Rs 4,700 was imposed in 47 cases for not maintaining social distance on Wednesday. In all, action was taken in 48 cases amounting to a penalty of Rs 5,200 under Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, stated a press note issued by Jaipur police.However, no action was taken for violation of the ordinance/Covid norms under a few other heads including - shopkeepers selling items without wearing face masks; spitting in public place; sale of paan, ghutka and tobacco and consuming liquor in public place. No action was also taken for violation of Covid guidelines at marriage ceremonies.As per data received from police department, from January 1 to February 16, total penalty of Rs 20.17 lakh was slapped in 15,743 cases for not wearing face masks (public and shopkeepers), not maintaining social distance, spitting in public places, consumption of liquor in public places and sale of tobacco, paan and ghutka under the epidemic diseases ordinance.Action was taken in 296 cases amounting to a penalty of Rs 7,341 against vehicles for violation of Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance and motor vehicle Act on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/r4-7k-fine-imposed-for-corona-violations/articleshow/81077950.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Vadodara||Man arrested for klling wife’s lover||Vadodara: Investigation into the allegations of death due to custodial torture revealed that the 40-year-old victim had died due to severe injuries suffered in a fight with man who reportedly had an affair with his wife. Mahendra Padhiyar, a resident of Bajwa-Karachiya Road, had complained of chest pain in Jawaharnagar police station after being detained on Monday night. He was taken to a hospital Bajwa where he died during treatment. After Padhiyar’s family alleged custodial torture, investigation was handed over to assistant commissioner of police (B) division, Bakul Chaudhary According to police, Padhiyar, a land agent, was having an affair with the wife of Mahesh Panchal. On Monday night, when Panchal returned home in Giriraj Flats, he saw Padhiyar and his wife together. An enraged Panchal then got into heated arguments with Padhiyar and thrashed him with a wooden bat. Panchal then called up the police and complained against Padhiyar who was then taken to Jawaharnagar police station. During investigation, ACP Chaudhary learnt about the fight between Panchal and Padhiyar over the extra-marital affair. Padhiyar’s post-mortem report showed that he died due to injuries on his head and other body parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-arrested-for-klling-wifes-lover/articleshow/81076764.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||British deputy high commissioner visits Dholera||Gandhinagar: British deputy high commissioner to Gujarat and Rajasthan, Peter Cook, visited the Dholera special investment region (DSIR) this week and interacted with officials and delegations from the UK. Dholera is the first greenfield industrial city which is being established to meet the requirements of ‘Industry 4.0’. Speaking during his visit, Cook said, “It is interesting to visit Dholera and explore mutually beneficial opportunities. There is a lot of potential in Dholera which UK industry will be interested in. We will surely take this forward through further discussions with industry officials in UK. The establishment of such a special investment region will further accelerate its holistic development and make Gujarat a pioneer in a manufacturing-driven economy.” Hareet Shukla, MD, Dholera Industrial City Development Ltd (DICDL) said, “We welcome Peter Cook to Dholera and thank him for his wonderful industry insights. Dholera is likely to be an international investment destination for defence, manufacturing, heavy engineering, auto and auto ancillary, pharma and bio-tech, agro and food processing and many more industries, which will be an aggregator to the economic growth of India.” A government statement said the visit emphasized the growth trajectory of the greenfield industrial smart city’s operational efficiency and various initiatives implemented to promote Ease of Doing Business (EODB) and adoption of technology to improve efficiency and quality of business at Dholera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/british-deputy-high-commissioner-visits-dholera/articleshow/81079842.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ludhiana||AAP protests against ‘irregularities’ in counting||Ludhiana: Activists of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), led by Jagraon MLA Sarvjit Kaur Manuke, blocked the busy Ludhiana-Jagraon highway in protest against alleged irregularities in the counting of votes of the civic election. The district administration, however, refuted the allegations.The Jagraon MLA, who staged a sit-in on the road, insisted that there were irregularities in the counting, citing that in one booth, only 1,200 votes were cast, but the counting put the figure at 1,400. She also alleged that despite being an elected representative, she was not allowed inside the counting booth, whereas Congress functionaries were allowed.Pointing out that before the counting, EVMs were not shown to them, Manuke demanded re-counting of votes.The AAP MLA and her supporters blocked the road for about six hours and raised slogans against the state’s Congress government.As they sat on dharna, police officers reached the spot and tried to persuade them to lift the blockade. Later, ADC (general) also reached Jagraon and talked to Manuke. Finally, it was towards the evening that the protestors lifted the blockade.Supporters of a losing candidate in Jagraon also scuffled with a supporter of the winning candidate in Jagraon. Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma has refuted the allegations against the administration, terming those as false.An officer said the aggrieved representatives could file an election appeal as a legal means if they were not satisfied against the counting process. AAP members also protested in Raikot against the alleged irregularities in the counting process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/aap-protests-against-irregularities-in-counting/articleshow/81076393.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||Guests brought uninvited people, venue owners asked us to pay fine: Brides’ families||Nagpur: A day after Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) cracked down on marriage ceremonies, now seen as superspreader events, TOI spoke to the 11 violators levied Rs5,000 fine for crowding and maskless guests. It came to fore that the fines were not paid by the owners of the halls and lawns, but by the bride and groom’s families. As per NMC’s directives, the fines had to be paid by the owner of the venue, but they seem to have forced the families to pay the penalties. The revelation came when TOI dialled the numbers mentioned on the fine receipts only to find that these were not owners. In fact, a penalty of Rs10,000 was introduced with effect from Wednesday only after NMC revised its guidelines in view of rising cases. On Wednesday, the NDS squad didn’t find any violation though it inspected 90 lawns and marriage halls across the 10 zones. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said though it will take time for people to comply with the latest norms, good impact was seen in the city in one day. “Places the NDS squads visited were either not hosting any event or had small gatherings. A message has gone out to venue owners as well as citizens,” he said. Officials said the citizens too seemed to have become alert in view of the rising cases, and bride or groom’s families too would be directly fined Rs20,000. The fine for venue owners has been increased to Rs15,000. Officials said at one venue, the NDS squad did find more number of people in Nehru Nagar zone, but it was a post-death ritual (terawi), so the squad withdrew from there on compassionate grounds after appealing to maintain distancing. The families penalized on Tuesday told TOI they had invited only 50 persons but each guest brought more relatives and friends. “How can we send them back once they have turned up fully dressed,” they said. Families of two brides said most such people were from the groom’s side and therefore they couldn’t do much. Asked if they were expecting more than 50 guests, one of them said, “It is a common practice in our society. Nothing can be done. We had made arrangements for food and seating as per 200 only, since even if our side keeps the numbers low, the other side will definitely invite more people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/guests-brought-uninvited-people-venue-owners-asked-us-to-pay-fine-brides-families/articleshow/81077976.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot asks people to follow Covid protocol||JAIPUR: Is the third wave of Covid in the offing! At several places, words of caution such as ‘No Mask, No Entry’ are being ignored as people are getting careless and paying no heed to warnings from the government to continue following Covid protocol. Realising that ignorance could open a Pandora’s box, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has warned people of the possibility of a third wave of Covid in the state viewing rising fresh infections in Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. With the daily Covid graph going down, people have started taking liberty and have been openly flouting the norms. “Strict restrictions related to Covid as been made in some countries including Britain and Germany. In Mumbai too, cases have increased in the last few days. It could be an indication of the third wave,which is why people should not be careless and should follow the protocol completely,” Gehlot tweeted. District collector Antar Singh Nehra also expressed resentment and appealed to the people to continue following Covid protocol. “People should understand that the pandemic has not ended yet. Cases might have reduced, but it may resurface again in increased numbers if people do not follow Covid protocol. Even those who are getting vaccinated should take precautions,”said Nehra. A lot many people are going to shops and malls and riding bikes without masks. Also, at marriage lawns, it is quite common that guests are gathering in large numbers without masks and flouting Covid protocols. The health department, district administration and home department are taking action against such people for flouting the norms and penalising them on regular basis. Pradeep Agarwal, a stationery shop owner at Murlipura said, “I have pasted the message ‘No Mask, No Entry’ at my shop, but a lot of people still come without masks. When I ask them, they start giving reasons that Covid has gone, there is no such thing like Covid, but I counsel them that I am the victim of the virus and I had to remain admitted to the hospital for a long time for treatment and that experience was quite painful.” A senior health department official said the government was playing its part in containing spread of the virus and treatment of Covid. Now, people should understand it that they should continue following Covid protocol to keep the virus at bay in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-asks-people-to-follow-covid-protocol/articleshow/81077952.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||As Covid cases rise, more healthcare workers come up to take 1st dose||Nagpur: After skipping Covid-19 vaccination despite repeated scheduling, healthcare workers (HCWs) have finally started to take the first dose. The number has been on the rise in the district over the last two days, though 45% HCWs are yet to be vaccinated, despite the state government’s deadline ending four days ago. As per state government data, 550 HCW took first dose in the district on Wednesday. The number was 466 on Tuesday and 317 on Monday. The government had rolled out the vaccine on January 16 beginning with HCWs. To commence second dose from February 15, government had set deadline of February 13 for first dose of all HCWs. The number of HCWs taking the jab had been declining since February 8, when 946 took the vaccine. Since then, number started to decline despite the approaching deadline. Only 666 were vaccinated on February 9, 355 on February 10, 316 on February 11, 404 on February 12, and 408 on February 13. The office of deputy director of health services had said 45,413 HCWs — doctors, nurses, technicians, attendants etc working in government and private hospitals — had registered for taking vaccine in the district. From January 16 to February 17, 24,975 (55%) have turned up for the inoculation. As on February 13, the deadline, 23,642 (52.06%) had taken the jab. The turnout in the district was less than the average of Vidarbha. However, the government continued to allow HCWs to take the first dose after the deadline. Accordingly, first dose and second dose of HCWs and first dose of Frontline Workers (FLWs) from departments falling under ministry of housing and urban affairs, revenue and home affairs have been continuing simultaneously since February 15. The district started to witness rise in Covid-19 positive cases over the last 10 days. This is probably one of the reasons behind rise in HCWs coming to take the first dose. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar told TOI, “NMC is taking all efforts to ensure all registered HCWs and FLWs are vaccinated. Our target is to vaccinate 80-90% of registered HCWs. Now, HCWs like nurses, Asha workers and attendants, who were not willing to take vaccine earlier, seem to be encouraged with doctors and their colleagues also taking second dose and suffering no side effects. Also, we are regularly calling HCWs from NMC control room and encouraging them to take the vaccine.” In 11 districts of Vidarbha, 1,10,909 HCWs have taken first dose till February 17. The achievement is 61.61% as total registered HCWs is around 1.80 lakh. The number of HCWs who took second dose increased to 4,776 in the region since second dose was started on February 15. In first three days of vaccination programme, 11,430 HCWs had taken the jab. Thus, 41.78% HCW turned up for the second dose. The government has made provisions for HCWs to take second dose as per their convenience. They can visit any centre across the state and take the jab if they have completed 28 days after first dose. The number of FLWs who took first dose increased to 42,646 in the region on February 17. No case of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was recorded in the region on February 17 in Nagpur and Amravati divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/as-covid-cases-rise-more-healthcare-workers-come-up-to-take-1st-dose/articleshow/81078049.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 18, 2021||Goa||In SC, former Cong MLAs say party doesn't exist in Goa||Panaji: Raising a significant legal issue before the Supreme Court in the disqualification matter, the former Congress MLAs who switched to BJP in 2019 claimed that after ten of them merged into BJP, constituting two-thirds of the party’s MLAs, Congress doesn’t exist in Goa. The remaining MLAs cannot claim that they belong to Congress, and hence the disqualification case filed against them on behalf of Congress is not valid, the respondents said. The issue raised by the BJP MLAs may have a bearing on the outcome of the petitions before the Speaker. Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa and Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias said that post-election, Congress had a total legislative strength of 17, of whom 3 resigned, thereby bringing down its strength to 14. In their reply in the case filed by state Congress president Girish Chodankar in the apex court, D’Sa and Dias said that out of these 14, "our group of 10 MLAs merged with BJP with an approval of two-thirds majority of the legislative party". The MLAs said that the merger was covered under the legal ambit of Para 4(2) of the Tenth Schedule, which states that “...the merger of the original political party of a member of the House shall be deemed to have taken place if and only if not less than two-third members of the legislative party concerned have agreed to such a merger”. “Pursuant to the merger with BJP, insofar far as proceedings before the Speaker under the Tenth Schedule are concerned, Congress has ceased to exist and has merged in BJP, and therefore the remaining MLAs are a group of independent MLAs who are allowed to continue as members of the legislative assembly," they said. "Thus, Congress being merged with BJP and the remaining being independent MLAs, the petitioner (Chodankar) has no locus standi to file the present petition in his capacity as president of the party, and hence, the petition is liable to be dismissed.” D’Sa and Dias said that Chodankar filed the petition on June 1, 2020, almost 11 months after the merger. They also said that between the merger and the petition being filed, there had been three sessions of the House, and since Chodankar neither approached the SC or high court, the petition should be dismissed as it's barred by gross delay and laches. Congress had earlier filed a disqualification petition before the Speaker of the Goa assembly in August 2019. Citing delay on his part to take it up, Chodankar then moved the Supreme Court. The MLAs also said that the merger was pursuant to a decision taken during a Congress meeting on July 10, 2019. In that meeting, of 15 MLAs, five decided not to join BJP and decided to stay out of the merger in a separate group. Chodankar’s plea also challenges the merger on the grounds that there was no “split” in the party or its Goa unit. Last week, when the disqualification petitions seeking a direction to the speaker to decide the pending pleas came up for hearing, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for speaker Rajesh Patnekar, informed the court that the matter would be taken up for disposal on February 26. Following his assurance, the court listed the next hearing of the case in the first week of March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-sc-former-cong-mlas-say-party-doesnt-exist-in-goa/articleshow/81079894.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Bareilly||Budaun horror: Priest to face trial for rape, murder||BAREILLY: About one-and-a-half month after an anganwadi worker, 40, was killed on the premises of a temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Budaun district, the state police have filed a charge-sheet in a court and invoked rape and murder charges against the main accused, a priest. The two other accused in the case were spared the stringent charges and were booked for causing disappearance of evidence. In the FIR, filed two days after the woman’s death on January 3, all the three accused were booked for gang-rape and murder. The seriously injured woman was dumped by the three accused at her home on the night of January 3. She had died in the arms of her husband a few minutes later. Initially, local police had tried to pass it off as a case of accident. But as the brutality of the crime came to the fore, and grabbed national attention, several policemen were suspended and an FIR was filed on January 5. Station house officer (SHO) and an outpost in-charge were booked after it was found that they did not take prompt action in the case and delayed the autopsy for many hours. The family of the woman had alleged that she was raped and murdered inside the temple by priest Satyaveer Singh alias Satyanarayan and his two disciples. The woman's husband who was unable to deal with the trauma was later admitted to a psychiatric hospital. All the three accused were arrested and sent to jail. The post-mortem report had confirmed that the woman sustained multiple injuries, including some deep ones in her private part as well. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Budaun, Sankalp Sharma, told TOI, “During our probe after filing of the FIR, statements of witnesses, doctors of private hospitals and forensic reports were taken into consideration. We have now filed charge-sheet in the court where we have booked priest Satyanarayan under IPC sections 376 (rape), 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence). The rape and murder charges have been dropped against his two disciples. They were booked for causing disappearance of evidence.” The National Commission for Women (NCW) had also taken note of the incident. But a member of the NCW team had stirred a controversy with her comment, inviting rebuttal from her chief. “If women do (venture out), they should be accompanied by someone. I think if she (the victim) had not gone out in the evening, or had a child of the family accompanied her, it would not have happened,” NCW’s Chandramukhi Devi had told reporters on her visit to the victim’s village. She, however, had added, “There is clear negligence on the part of the police. They could have saved the woman’s life. The autopsy report suggests the extent of brutality.” Devi’s comments had drawn sharp criticism from all quarters. NCW chief also issued a clarification. “I don’t know how and why the member (Chandramukhi Devi) said this but women have all the right to move as per their will whenever and wherever they want to. It’s society and state’s duty to make places safe for women,” Rekha Sharma had said in a tweet. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/budaun-horror-charge-sheet-filed-accused-priest-to-stand-trial-for-rape-murder-of-anganwadi-worker/articleshow/81067450.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Holiday on wheels: Cabinet OKs caravan tourism in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: You will now be able to explore picturesque locations across Maharashtra from the comforts of a home-on-wheels as the state cabinet on Wednesday cleared the caravan tourism policy. Maharashtra is now the third state after Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka to unveil a caravan tourism policy, said officials. As part of the policy, private players can procure caravans for tourism and as supportive infrastructure for the vehicles, the government will allow setting up of caravan parks. “Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, caravan tourism is gaining popularity as it is a safer way to travel. We want to set up infrastructure with basic amenities where these caravans can be parked,” said an official. “The private players who will run the parks will generate revenue through parking fees and services provided.” The caravans will have to be registered with the transport department. Caravan parks are places where recreational vehicles can be parked and all the facilities, including water refill, battery charging and disposal of sewage, will be made available, along with food courts and information regarding local sights. The investors can either set up the caravan parks on private land or seek government concessions like providing help in getting government land on lease and reduction in stamp duty, refund of state GST and rebate in electricity bills. “Maharashtra has immense tourism potential and with this policy, we want to promote the scenic beaches, forts, hill stations, and dams here. We want caravan parks to be set up in the buffer zone of a forest, near a dam, or foot of a fort. These are places where you will not find conventional resorts or accommodation facilities as rules don’t allow for permanent construction,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/holiday-on-wheels-cabinet-oks-caravan-tourism-in-state/articleshow/81080606.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 18, 2021||Kolhapur||9,483 voters added in city since 2015 elections, KMC publishes draft list||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has released ward-wise draft list of voters for upcoming civic body election. As compared to 2015 election, the city has 9,483 increased number of voters. The state election commission had recently asked the KMC to refer to the voters list for legislative assembly and update the recent additions and deletions till January this year. Accordingly, the KMC has updated the list and drafted a separate list for each of the 81 constituencies. Election officer of KMC Vijay Vankudre said, “We have sought suggestions and objections from voters. If they find that their name is listed in a different ward or there is mistake in their name, they can approach us for rectifying the error. There will, however, be no addition or deletion now as it is the authority of the commission. Once the suggestions and objections are worked out, we will publish the final voters list.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/9483-voters-added-in-city-since-2015-elections-kmc-publishes-draft-list/articleshow/81076536.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||Illegal cylinder godown gutted, 2 injured||Kolkata: A fire broke out in a shanty at the Garfa canal slum due to the leakage of a gas cylinder around 9.45am on Wednesday, leaving two persons injured. An illegal gas cylinder godown was allegedly operating from the shanty. The quick intervention of slum dwellers and residents of local flats in the Doctor Bagan area of Garfa averted a major fire like the one that tore through hundreds of homes at a Bagbazar slum barely a month ago. According to cops and locals, several gas cylinders were illegally stored close to the shanty that caught fire in Garfa. “We rushed to remove the cylinders as fast as we could. We threw the cylinders into the adjacent canal. Had the fire spread to the cylinders, this area would have been devastated,” said Pratap Chandra, a local. One fire tender reached the spot, though locals controlled much of the fire. It was alleged that two locals, Ram Prakash Haldar and Dipu Bera, were running an illegal gas supply business in the area by lending cylinders to small hotels and caterers at high rates. The owner of the business was Rabindra Nath Ghosh, a carpenter. Haldar was in the toilet and Bera was cooking when the fire broke out. Bera rushed out of the shanty while Haldar jumped into the canal to save his life. The duo suffered burn injuries and was taken to CNMC Hospital. Various articles kept in the shanty were reportedly damaged. “We will record the statements of the two workers and ascertain whether the illegal gas godown had been running there for a long time,” said an officer. Cops have confiscated the cylinders and decided to send a couple of them to FSL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/illegal-cylinder-godown-gutted-2-injured/articleshow/81078040.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 18, 2021||Kolhapur||Satara adds 90 cases, Solapur 51||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district reported 11 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 50,132. Of these, 1,731 patients have succumbed to the contagion. At present, the district has 134 active patients. On Monday, seven patients were discharged from various facilities across the district. Of the 11 fresh cases registered, Kolhapur city alone reported ten cases. Deputy municipal commissioner Nikhil More said, “The cases are not local. They are the returnees from Mumbai, Goa and other places. Now, everything is opened and the spread of infection to locals is quite obvious. We have activated teams to ensure decongestion of crowds and fine those not wearing face masks.” In addition, Sangli district reported eight new cases along with one death on Wednesday. The district has 105 active cases as of now. The total count of Covid cases in Sangli district has reached 48,305, of which, 1,755 patients have succumbed to the infection while 46,445 have been cured. Satara district, on the other hand, reported 90 new cases along with three deaths since late night on Tuesday. The district has reported 57,671 cases and 1,843 deaths till date. As many as 54,848 patients have been discharged from various facilities across the district while 980 patients are currently undergoing treatment. Besides Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara, Solapur, too, registered new cases. Solapur city reported 24 new cases while the rural areas added 27 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-adds-90-cases-solapur-51/articleshow/81076495.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cops stand guard as traders tortured in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A man from the Sabarmati area of city and his friend from South Bopal were allegedly abducted, thrashed and tortured with electric shocks on Monday over a financial dispute by two financiers and five of their accomplices. This allegedly happened in the presence of the police as a PCR van guarded the perpetrators when they were committing the offence, CCTV footage shows. An FIR filed with Bopal police on Tuesday states that a man from Sabarmati, Saurabh Gupta, 27, who runs a cellphone shop, and his friend Narendra Gupta, 30, who also runs a cellphone shop, were attacked. Saurabh stated that he had gone to meet Narendra at his shop in South Bopal on Monday night when he saw that two men were assaulting Narendra while demanding money. “They were telling him to vacate the shop and were demanding Rs 1.9 lakh from him. When I tried to intervene, they grabbed me also and began telling me to mediate and recover their money from Narendra,” Saurabh said. Saurabh said after a while they began attacking Narendra with sticks, iron rods and knuckledusters, causing him to fall unconscious. “They even removed his pants and gave him electric shocks on his stomach. When I intervened, they thrashed me and put us in a car and began driving around. They then forced me to give them Rs 2.50 lakh,” said Saurabh. While this was happening, cops from Bopal police station allegedly provided an escort to the goons and kept a PCR van ready to provide transport to the accused. The accused had even taken the DVRs from multiple shops, so that their offence would not be exposed, said a source in the police. Saurabh told TOI, “The accused are into cricket bookmaking and bootlegging. When they were attacking us, the cops were their guardians and police personnel were trying to make us pay them the money.” He further said, “They took us near the police station and when an ambulance arrived there, the goons sent it back so we could not file a medico-legal case.” The FIR states that after Saurabh paid them Rs 2.50 lakh, they released them. The victims were then admitted to the Asarwa Civil hospital for further treatment. Sources in the police said that senior officers swung into action only after visuals of the goons’ brutality went viral and charges of abduction were added against the accused persons. However, no action was taken against the errant cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-stand-guard-as-traders-tortured/articleshow/81079931.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Regular petrol tops Rs 100/litre for first time, in Ganganagar||JAIPUR/NEW DELHI: The price of regular petrol consumed by the masses shot up to Rs 100.13 a litre in Sriganganagar on Wednesday, the first time an automotive fuel has crossed the Rs 100-mark anywhere in the country. But that’s not all. Consumers in the district will have to pay more from Thursday as petrol price was again hiked by 26 paise taking its cost to Rs 100.39. With the latest hike, petrol and diesel prices in Jaipur climbed to record highs of Rs 96.37 and Rs 88.69 per litre, respectively. In other states, the prices mostly ruled above Rs 90 a litre mark as high central and state taxes bumped up the impact of rising crude prices. Diesel prices too made a record at Rs 92.1 a litre in Sriganganagar, while generally raging well above Rs 80 per litre in other states. Unmoved by these record prices, the Centre has ruled out any tax cut and is blaming oil exporters for jacking up crude prices. This is unlike in October 2018, when, after petrol price rose to Rs 84 a litre and diesel Rs 75.45 in Delhi, the Centre had reduced excise duty by Rs 2 per litre on October 4 and again by Rs 1.5 the next day. Some 18 states also reduced VAT at the Centre’s behest. Consumers in Rajasthan currently pay more than others because the state has the highest tax on petrol and diesel in the country. After reducing VAT by 2% last month, the state now charges 36% VAT and road cess of Rs 1,500 per kilolitre on petrol. Diesel attracts 26% VAT and road cess of Rs 1,750 per kilolitre. Since VAT is charged as per cent of the basic price, there is a proportionate increase every time pump prices are raised. Higher freight charges for Sriganganagar further push up retail rates in the district than, say, Jaipur. On January 25, the district had seen branded petrol, which has a market share of 4-5% and costs about Rs 5-6 per litre more than regular petrol, breaching the Rs 100 per litre-mark for the first time. On a litre of petrol, the Centre charges Rs 1.4 as basic excise duty, Rs 18 as road and infrastructure cess, Rs 11 as special additional excise and Rs 2.5 as agriculture cess. On diesel, it levies Rs 1.8 as basic excise, Rs 18 as road and infrastructure cess, Rs 8 as special additional excise, and Rs 4 as agriculture cess. So a consumer in Delhi, which is the reference market and has comparatively lower state taxes, pays Rs 32.9 on a litre of petrol and Rs 31.8 on a litre of diesel as central taxes. These taxes make up nearly 33% and 40% of the retail prices of petrol and diesel, respectively, in the capital. In the country’s financial capital Mumbai, central taxes make up over 32% and 36.5% of the retail prices of petrol and diesel, respectively. The Centre had raised excise duty on petrol cumulatively by Rs 13 per litre and diesel by Rs 16 in two tranches on March 16 and May 5 when crude prices collapsed as demand evaporated in the wake of the economic shutdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Fuel retailers adjusted the increased excise against higher margins resulting from cheaper crude and did not revise pump prices. But as states followed with higher VAT, retailers raised prices. Yet, consumers largely remained unaffected since only essential service vehicles were out on the roads. Now that life is nearly back to normal, the record pump prices are pinching consumers hard. Pump prices began rising from June 7, 2020 as lockdown curbs were eased and oil prices headed north. Since January, crude has risen almost 50% from October levels, with the benchmark Brent settling above $63 per barrel, an 11-month-high, on Wednesday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the state assembly on Monday blamed the Centre for not reducing taxes. He said by reducing VAT on fuels by 2%, the state government now stands to lose annual tax revenues of close to Rs 1,000 crore. Sunit Bagai, president of Rajasthan Petroleum Dealers’ Association, said during the lockdown period, the state government had increased VAT on petrol and diesel by 6% each. “After coming to power, the current government has increased VAT by 10%. They should reduce the hike,” said Bagai. “While the state government needs to reduce VAT substantially, an equal reduction in taxes should come from the Centre. The Centre’s tax on the two auto fuels is more than the state’s VAT. Tax on fuels will remain a sticky issue because neither the Centre wants to lose revenue nor the states. There should be some mechanism to address this,” said Suresh Agarwal, president of Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/regular-petrol-tops-rs-100/litre-for-first-time-in-ganganagar/articleshow/81079952.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
February 18, 2021||Ludhiana||SAD claims MC poll result warning bell for Cong, BJP||Ludhiana: Claiming that SAD has managed to strike into the urban vote bank, which was BJP’s strength, and it was their aim to weaken the saffron party’s grip, SAD leaders maintained that it had still emerged the second largest party in the state in the municipal polls. The leaders also accused the Congress of using power to scare away voters and get the nominations of their candidates cancelled in some parts of the state. Gurdeep Singh Gosha, president of Youth Akali Dal (YAD), Ludhiana, said, “Performance of our candidates has been quite impressive and there are a huge number of seats which were decided by a very narrow margins. All our candidates are in high spirits and our top leadership too has thanked all contestants who fought this battle even after such huge hurdles created by the Congress during these elections. The Congress was so desperate to win the elections that it used government machinery, goons and all sorts of dirty tactics to scare away our candidates and voters. At a large number of places the nomination papers of dozens of candidates were cancelled on frivolous grounds, but even then we did not bow down to them and at some places our candidates have registered thumping victory and toppled the candidates of the ruling party.”  Gosha added that, “Another achievement of our party this time has been that we have finished the base of anti-farmers’ party BJP, whose voter base in the urban areas was increasing. What could be worse that relatives of several prominent BJP leaders have lost the elections miserably. But if you look at the overall results, the SAD vote share in urban areas has increased a lot. These election results are warning bells for the Congress and BJP as SAD is going to win the next assembly elections in Punjab with record majority. On the other hand, the election results are a tight slap on the face of Aam Admi Party (AAP), which was trying to project itself as the biggest well-wisher of the farmers, but it has been crushed badly all over Punjab with some of its candidates losing by record margins.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-claims-mc-poll-result-warning-bell-for-cong-bjp/articleshow/81076627.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||Amravati reports highest Covid deaths in a day, spike spreads in five districts||Nagpur: Five days after reporting highest number of cases in a day in region for the first time, Amravati reported single-day highest Covid deaths for the first time among all the 11 districts of Vidarbha. Nagpur (5), which has always seen highest number of fatalities in Vidarbha, was behind Amravati (6) by a notch. At 596, Nagpur reported its highest number of cases since October 22 (602). This was due to large number of gathering taking places in the district and increased testing by Nagpur Municipal Corporatoin (NMC) in the last few days. Hospital admissions too were on the rise in Amravati district with many reporting with fever, cold and cough. This district too has decided to increase testing as many patients with fever, cold, cough and loose motions are testing positive. The five district of Amravati division have reported 1,053 cases, which was 326 more than six district of Nagpur division at 727 cases. Similarly, of the 18 deaths in the day, 11 were from Amravati division. Cases are also on the rise in Akola, Yavatmal, Buldhana and too some extent at Washim. Health authorities have made Covid care centre (CCS) admission must for all asymptomatic patients in Washim and Buldhana too in order to avoid Amravati like situation. All districts in Amravati division, Nagpur and Wardha districts have revived restrictions on gatherings besides keeping schools and colleges closed till February 28. Excluding Nagpur, the districts of Bhandara, Gondia, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli reported only 134 news cases only two deaths. The 18 deaths were from Nagpur (5) Wardha (1), Chandrapur (1), Amravati (6), Yavatmal 2 taking the toll to 7150. The large numbers of cases from Amravati division also swelled the active cases beyond the 10,000 mark. No deaths were reported from Bhandara, Gondia, Gadchiroli, and Washim. The day’s 1,783 cases were from Nagpur (596), Bhandara (14), Wardha (85), Gondia (2), Chandrapur (22), Gadchiroli (11), Akola (204), Amravati (498), Yavatmal (109), Buldhana (199) and Washim (43). Now, the total cases are 2,89,438. Only 667 recoveries were reported form Nagpur (279), Bhandara (5), Wardha (14), Gondia (16), Chandrapur (26), Gadchiroli (2), Akola (49), Amravati (149), Yavatmal (78), Buldhana (42) and Washim (7). Total discharged are 2,71,980 while 10,135 are under treatment in Vidarbha. Amravati: Six Covid deaths and a 400-plus spike on the third successive day has taken the district’s toll just two shy of the 450-mark on Wednesday. Keeping its upward graph growing, the district today posted 498 new cases, highest single-day jump since the lockdown imposed in March last year, to take the caseload to 26,726. Also, 149 discharge took the recovery rate to 91.37% for total recoveries of 24,419. This left 1,859 patients under treatment. Yavatmal: Wednesday saw two Covid deaths — 54-year-old man from the city and 71-year-old woman from Arni — and 109 new cases. The day also witnessed discharge of 78 persons after recovery. Out of total 15,462 patients detected in the district so far, 14,380 have recovered. The collector has ordered enhancing the number of daily tests in Covid hotspots cities — Yavatmal, Pandharkawda and Pusad — mandating to test at least 500 persons. Chandrapur: There were 22 new detections and 26 discharges registered on Wednesday leaving 105 Covid patients under treatment. The day witnessed lone Covid death taking the toll to 394. The Covid case count has climbed to 23,278, while total recoveries to 22,779. Wardha: The district witnessed 85 new Covid cases on Wednesday, thus the caseload increased to 10,916. A 62-year-old woman from Wardha died due to coronavirus, taking the toll to 324. The number of patients under treatment increased to 606 while 14 patients were discharged. Total recoveries stood at 9,986 as on Wednesday. New cases detected are from Wardha 60, 7 form Hinganghat, 5 from Selu, 4 from Ashti, 3 each from Karanja and Arvi, 2 from Deoli and one from Samudrapur. Gadchiroli: No Covid death reported. New cases count increased by 11. 2 recoveries were reported during the day. The district now has just 38 active cases. Washim: The district did not report any death. 43 tested positive on Wednesday. The district reported 7 recoveries. Death toll remains at 156. 178 are active cases. Buldhana: One Covid death took place while a whopping 199 new cases were reported in the district. 484 are active cases. Bhandara: No Covid death was reported. Cases were low at 14, and 5 recoveries. The district has 113 active cases. Gondia: The district saw 16 recoveries and 2 new cases. Number of patients under treatment are 65. Akola: The district crossed 200 mark after over two months with 204 cases on Wednesday. Only 49 recoveries were reported. Two Covid death also took place. 1,031 are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-reports-highest-covid-deaths-in-a-day-spike-spreads-in-five-districts/articleshow/81078092.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Students in Telangana struggle to cope with pre-boards||HYDERABAD: With pre-boards under progress in most CBSE schools, students are found struggling in subjects such as mathematics and science due to lack of exposure to practicals and in-person practice sessions with the teachers. During this academic year, online classes were held for almost 10 months. With students returning for in-person classes only from February 1, learning outcomes of students set to appear for the board exams this year reveals that many are facing issues in coping up in subjects that have more practical knowledge over theory. TimesViewKeeping in mind the pandemic and difficulties associated with studying online from home, all schools must provide special care for students appearing in boards. Once their weaknesses are identified, these students can be called for special classes.“Mathematics is a key subject where difficulty levels of students are high. We have assessed that while the concept is clear among students, application of those concepts is emerging as a challenge for many. It’s largely due to lack of practice that students are struggling in maths,” said Sophia Reena Leo, principal of Johnson Grammar School (CBSE), Nacharam. Due to lack of exposure to regular classes, many students are finding it difficult to understand even basic concepts related to chemical reactions, units and measurements, laws of motions and forces.  “Almost 60 per cent of the syllabus is theory. The remaining 40 per cent syllabus which we could have grasped better through practicals is where I struggle the most. If we would have had in-person classes since day 1 then understanding level could have been much higher,” admitted Urav Nikesh Dedhia, a class 12 student. Schools are now assessing areas where students were unable to cope during online classes held throughout the year. “We are conducting subject-wise revision for all the students. Since the board exams are scheduled only in May, there is enough time for students to cope up,” said Shailaja Gopinath, principal of Delhi Public School, Secunderabad. Keeping in mind the pandemic and difficulties associated with studying online from home, all schools must provide special care for students appearing in boards. Once their weaknesses are identified, these students can be called for special classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-struggle-to-cope-with-pre-boards/articleshow/81078090.cms||Preeti Biswas
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||Car turns turtle on Maa flyover, three injured||Kolkata: Three persons were injured when a car overturned on Maa flyover near Park Circus around 5.15am on Wednesday. The car involved with the accident was heading towards Science City at the time of the accident, cops said. The three injured were identified as Md Shahnawaz (21), Md Nossad Alam (20) and Imamuddin Khan (21). “Luckily, the youths had a close shave with minor injuries. They were rushed to CNMC Hospital, from where they were discharged after treatment,”said a police officer probing into the accident. Cops are going through the CCTV footage to ascertain the reason behind the accident. “It seemed that the car had first hit the median divider before it turned turtle on the flyover,” said the officer. However, this was the fifth accident that took place on the flyover in the past two months. A case of rash and negligent driving has been registered at Karaya police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/car-turns-turtle-on-maa-flyover-three-injured/articleshow/81078084.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Chennai||No licence? Victim’s kin may lose chunk of compensation||CHENNAI: Not having a valid driving licence can hurt the victims’ families in case of fatal accidents and grievous injuries as motor accident claims tribunals have shown near-zero tolerance to accidents involving critical road rule violations. Dubbing violations such as invalid driving licence, outdated insurance, wrong-side riding or footboard travel as contributory negligence, tribunals have been reducing compensations. “Since this is a welfare legislation, we request judges to not further burden the victim’s family with higher percentage of contributory negligence,” said V S Suresh, an advocate who has been appearing for accident victims for the past 20 years. For instance, triple riding on two-wheeler, drunk driving, driving down the wrong lane are obvious instances where the judges will slap contributory negligence on the victim while for MV Act violations such as non-possession of documents, the insurance firm has to argue and prove the case, said Suresh. According to Suresh, on an average, tribunals pass judgments in 50 cases a month and 10% of them have contributory negligence. In most cases, the percentage deducted as contributory negligence is at the discretion of the tribunal judges, say advocates dealing with such cases. As a thumb rule, judges decide that the larger vehicle involved in the accident is at fault. However, there are exceptions too. Two judgments passed this year highlight the discretion of judges in deciding contributory negligence for similar cases. On February 7, the family of an accident victim lost more than `8 lakh in compensation after a city motor accident claims tribunal slapped 40% contributory negligence on the motorist for driving on a one-way road in T Nagar, which resulted in his bike colliding with an MTC bus. The tribunal, which awarded `20.3 lakh compensation to the victim’s family, deducted 40% and held that MTC shall pay `12.1 lakh. In January, an engineering graduate who had moved a tribunal seeking a compensation of `30 lakh for his injuries in a road accident was slapped 60% contributory negligence by the tribunal for riding his two-wheeler in the wrong direction and colliding with a private bus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-licence-victims-kin-may-lose-chunk-of-compensation/articleshow/81078086.cms||Srikkanth D
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Two couples booked for abandoning ‘love children’ in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Vejalpur police on Wednesday booked two couples, for allegedly abandoning newborn daughters, in the Vejalpur and Juhapura areas on Sunday. Police found out that both the abandoned newborns had been conceived from ‘clandestine relationships’, said officials. In the first case, the autorickshaw driver who masqueraded as a saviour turned out to be the devil himself, as he had abandoned the girl but later fabricated the tale. On Sunday, Sarfuddin Shaikh, 31, had told police that he had saved an abandoned baby girl from a stray dog. “When we questioned him about the incident, he gave some illogical answers. We then inquired about him and found that the newborn was his and his second wife’s,” said L D Odedara, inspector of Vejalpur police. Odedara said Shaikh, a resident of Rakhial, married a woman from his locality, Jayshree Vaghela, 25, around a year ago. Shaikh’s wife was not aware of their relationship and when his second wife delivered a baby girl, he first went to dump her at a secluded place. When he went to abandon her, he thought he could fabricate a story so she would be taken care of. “He took her to his first wife and told her that he had saved her from stray dogs. Later, his wife, his elder brother and he went to Rakhial police station to hand over the child to them. As the area of offence was the jurisdiction of Vejalpur police, they were sent to Vejalpur police station and the girl was sent to a hospital,” said Odedara. In the second case, a newborn girl was found under a car parked at Shyamsundar Society in Vejalpur. Police scoured CCTV footage and identified the woman who abandoned her. Kusum Bheel, 27, who was already the mother of three girls, left her fourth daughter, who was conceived by her relationship with her boyfriend, Chetan Koli, 28. “Bheel had separated from her husband for around a year and meanwhile got into a relationship with Koli. For the last two months, she again began thinking of returning to her husband but as her lovechild was a hurdle, she placed her beneath a car,” said Odedara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-couples-booked-for-abandoning-love-children/articleshow/81079950.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru’s CFR crosses 1.1%; highest since September||BENGALURU: The case fatality rate in Bengaluru has increased over the past week and crossed 1.1%. The February figure has been the highest for the past five months. A majority of the state’s Covid deaths are from Bengaluru and the overall fatality rate in Karnataka has increased to 1.3%. The spike has led to concern and Covid technical advisory committee members point at the delay in death reporting. The data of many victims who died in Bengaluru in January were added to the bulletin in February second week. On February 16, the state reported six deaths, four from Bengaluru. While two had died in December 2020, two others had passed away in January 2021. On February 12, the bulletin reported eight Covid deaths, of which seven occurred in Bengaluru in January. BBMP: We’re collecting death data from multiple sourcesDue to the delay in compiling data and reporting deaths, the bulletin is not reflecting today’s scenario. The high CFR seen now need not necessarily be a reflection of the current scenario. But this is definitely a concern,” said Dr MK Sudarshan, chairperson, Covid Technical Advisory Committee. However, BBMP commissioner Manjunath Prasad said CFR appears to be high because the denominator is small now. “The average number of cases has not increased over the past two months, with the daily average around 200,” he said. He added that delayed reporting of deaths is because of delay in receiving death reports or confirmation from hospitals. According to Rajendra Kumar Cholan, special commissioner, health, BBMP, the civic body has been collecting data of Covid deaths from crematoria and cross-checking them with hospitals. “We’re aware of seven deaths in January that were reported in February, due to delay in data entry from hospitals. We’re collecting data from multiple sources, including crematoria. There were a few isolated cases wherein Covid patients died at home after 2-3 days of discharge from hospital,” he said. Cholan said updating Covid fatalities in the index app of the government has been slow from a few smaller hospitals which is leading to delay in reporting of deaths. “We’re reviewing the situation every week,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/blurus-cfr-crosses-1-1highest-since-september/articleshow/81081027.cms||Sunitha Rao R
February 18, 2021||Bengaluru||Ram temple fund: Sangh Parivar, BJP deny HD Kumaraswamy charges||BENGALURU: The war of words between ex-CM HD Kumaraswamy and Sangh Parivar continued on Wednesday over collection of donations for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. A day after alleging that donations are being collected “forcefully” and houses which refused to make the contribution are being “marked”, the JD(S) leader said collection of donations was arbitrary as it lacked both transparency and accountability. The BJP dismissed the allegations and asked Kumaraswamy to show even one house marked for not contributing. Nobody is forced to make donations: CMThe BJP asked Kumaraswamy to show even one house marked or one incident where donation was extracted. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel said the former CM should “not stoop low” and added that collection was voluntary. Kumaraswamy told reporters he’s not opposed to construction of the temple but was demanding transparency in fund mobilization. “The government has a responsibility to find out who is collecting funds since all and sundry are on the road in this exercise. Who authorised them to hit the streets and who’ll keep account of the money thus collected,” he said. He sought to know why online collection of donations was not being encouraged since “so many Jan Dhan accounts” have been created in the recent past. He said his family has faith in god and it has never misused the name of god. BJP minister KS Eshwarappa accused Kumaraswamy of manufacturing an issue out of the collection drive to extract political mileage and said his statements will only hasten the party’s slide into oblivion. “Irrespective of religion, people are making voluntary donations to the construction of the temple. Without knowing the ground reality, making false allegations will do no good to anybody,”said chief minister BS Yediyurappa . Basavaraj, organising secretary, VHP, Karnataka, said these are baseless allegations, “VHP condemns Kumaraswamy for making unwarranted remarks on RSS. The fund-collection drive started on January 14 and ends on February 27,”he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ram-temple-fund-sangh-parivar-bjp-deny-hdk-charges/articleshow/81081031.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gold price plunges to 8-month low||Ahmedabad: Gold price in Ahmedabad market plunged to an eight-month low at Rs 48,500 per 10 grams on Wednesday. The price of the yellow metal price declined by Rs 800 in a single day against Tuesday’s Rs 49,300 per 10 grams. According to bullion traders, the price dipped below Rs 49,000-mark after almost eight months. The last time prices were in the range of Rs 48,000-Rs 49,000 per 10 grams was soon after the easing of the lockdown. According to analysts, several factors have been responsible for declining yellow metal prices. “The reduction in basic customs duty cut in the Union Budget announcement, high energy prices, record-high returns on equity and even better yields from the treasury – all amidst expectations of more stimulus in the US have caused gold price to increase,” said a city-based analyst. Reduction in gold prices has infused much-needed optimism amongst jewellers who are expecting spike in sale. “With the ongoing wedding season, slated to last at least a month, jewellery sales may get a good boost in the days to come. Pent-up demand for ornaments may see an increase. Moreover, individuals who had planned gold jewellery purchases in the past but were compelled to defer it due to income shortfall or high price of gold have once again begun making purchases,” said Jigar Soni, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). “This indicates a drastic improvement in the consumer sentiment. As a result, we expect better sale in the times to come,” said Soni. Meanwhile, silver price plunged below the Rs 70,000-mark on Wednesday to touch Rs 69,000 per kg – down by Rs 1,300 per kg on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-plunges-to-8-month-low/articleshow/81079955.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 18, 2021||Chennai||Every sixth accident in Tamil Nadu involves a driver without a licence||CHENNAI: In January 2020, the Centre awarded Tamil Nadu for the ‘best performance in road safety’. Road accident deaths in 2019 had fallen by 32% compared to the previous year and coordination among departments and strict enforcement were cited as reasons, among other things, for the achievement. But in 2019, around 9,500 vehicles involved in accidents in TN were driven by people who did not have a valid licence. The state had recorded 57,200 accidents and that every sixth case involved someone driving a vehicle without a licence raises questions about the quality of enforcement. “The data shows enforcement is very poor in Tamil Nadu which received the best state award for road safety. This needs serious introspection. This also means that there was either not much fear among such drivers of getting booked by police or there was corruption even if they were caught,” said Kamal Soi, member of National Road Safety Council. According to data from traffic police, in 2019-20, around 41,000 people were booked for driving without a valid licence. Among them, 6,100 were in Chennai. This was almost 30% higher compared to the previous years. “We have of late increased the number of traffic checking points, particularly near accident-prone zones and blackspots along arterial roads,” said a Chennai city traffic police officer. However, some motorists take narrow interior roads to avoid police checkposts. More vehicles have been deployed now to nab such violators. Public coordination is the key in bringing down these numbers, said the officer. Soi said police should not restrict themselves to collecting fines. “Instead they should impound the vehicles and not allow them to proceed since such drivers were putting others’ lives at stake” he said. That around 47,800 who had valid driving licences met with road accidents reflected the need to strengthen the driving licence testing system, he said. On Tuesday, Nitin Gadkari, Union minister for road transport and highways, while speaking at a road safety awareness program in Chennai, said getting a licence in the United States was difficult but it was very easy in India. “This is not a good thing for the country,” he said, stressing on the need to bring in a more stringent procedure while issuing licences. Senthil Arumugham from Satta Panchayat Iyakkam, an anti-corruption NGO, said the state was yet to introduce automatic testing tracks with video recording options for driving tests. He said the exam on traffic signs and rules was a farce as brokers make sure applicants clear the exam at the regional transport offices. A senior transport department official said they have overhauled the procedure and work to set up computerised testing tracks in 14 RTOs have been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/every-sixth-accident-in-tn-involves-a-driver-without-a-licence/articleshow/81078096.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||EC, state on clash course over dates for local body elections||Mumbai: The state election commission and MVA government appear to be headed for confrontation over declaration of election schedule for the local bodies. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar recently wrote to state election commissioner U P S Madan suggesting that the state government be consulted before declaring the election programme for the local bodies to ensure better coordination and deployment of manpower, particularly to maintain law and order. State election commission has taken the view that as per legal provisions, the commission is an independent institution with powers to decide on the election schedule. A section of senior cabinet members from the Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena were irked over the manner in which the commission unilaterally declared the election schedule for the recent elections to 14,000 gram panchayats. Confirming the receipt of letter from the chief secretary, state election commission secretary Kiran Kurundkar said the commission is an independent organisation. “The commission has full powers to decide on the election schedule,” Kurundkar said. A senior bureaucrat acknowledged the commission was independent, but said at the same time it must be noted that for effective and smooth conduct of elections, coordination with the state government is essential. “We have to make arrangements for deployment of manpower to maintain law and order, facilitate coordination with divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners and chief executive officers of the zilla parishad. Under such circumstances, it is expected that the commission should hold an informal consultation with the state government,” he said. The bureaucrat pointed out even before the Lok Sabha and state assembly elections, the chief election commissioner holds at least two meetings with the chief secretary and DGP and all officials involved in the election process to ensure elections are conducted in a fair and free manner. The bureaucrat said prima facie it appears that the state election commission does not recognise the authority of the state government, which is wrong. A state election commission official countered the argument of the state government saying the role of the state government is limited. “Its responsibility is to provide us funds and manpower, conduct of elections is the task of the state election commission,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ec-state-on-clash-course-over-dates-for-local-body-elections/articleshow/81080010.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Chennai||Serving Pondy experience of lifetime, Bedi thanks Centre||Chennai: A day after President Ram Nath Kovind removed Kiran Bedi as the Lt Governor of Puducherry, she thanked the Centre for the experience of a lifetime of serving Puducherry. “Whatever was done was a sacred duty, fulfilling my constitutional and moral responsibilities. Puducherry has a very bright future. It is now in the hands of the people,” Bedi said in a letter, signing off by wishing for a ‘Prosperous Puducherry’. She thanked all those who worked with her closely and said the team worked diligently to serve larger public interest. On Tuesday night, soon after Bedi ceased to be the Lt Governor, Puducherry chief minister V Narayanaswamy termed it as people’s victory. “Her removal is the victory of the people, who waged a prolonged struggle and protested against her,” he said. Meanwhile, DMK president M K Stalin on Wednesday termed Bedi’s removal a belated action. She not only prevented an elected government from functioning but also created crisis on a daily basis. “The BJP government’s move to remove her just three months ahead of the election is just an eyewash,” Stalin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/serving-pondy-experience-of-lifetime-bedi-thanks-centre/articleshow/81078100.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||Mayor orders action after UPHC staff stops collecting swabs||Nagpur: Despite increase in Covid-19 cases in the city, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Zingabai Takli Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) had stopped collection of swab samples for the last two days and didn’t trace contacts. Immediately after learning about the issue, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari paid a surprise visit to the UPHC and directed the administration to issue show-cause notice to the staff concerned. As per NMC’s press release, Tiwari first spoke to the staff and inquired about the reasons. The staff said they stopped collecting swab samples as the hand gloves provided at the kiosk were damaged. When mayor asked NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar reason behind not providing new gloves, the latter said staff should have used PPE kit to take samples. Tiwari then directed Dr Chilkar to issue show-cause notice to the staff for stopping swab collection and misleading the city’s first citizen. He also directed the UPHC staff to resume contact tracing. According to Dr Chilkar, Zingabai Takli UPHC collects 10-15 swab samples in a day. “The staff should use PPE kit which is provided in sufficient numbers. Notices will be issued to the staff tomorrow,” he said. The civic body had facilitated swab collection at 53 centres, including all UPHCs, from August. Covid-19 testing is done free of cost at the centres. Dr Chilkar also said kiosk is necessary where large number of samples is collected. “Also, there was no written communication from the centre about hand gloves at kiosk being damaged,” he said. Ruling party leader in NMC Sandip Jadhav accompanied Tiwari when he visited the UPHC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mayor-orders-action-after-uphc-staff-stops-collecting-swabs/articleshow/81078098.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Schools focus on learning outcome for promotions||Hyderabad: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) affiliated schools in the city are now shifting focus to class 9 and class 11 students in order to decide their promotion to the next grade. In a recent notification, the CBSE had directed affiliated schools to conduct in-person annual exams for class 9 and class 11 students with phased reopening of schools in many states. While some schools are holding online exams considering the fear of Covid-19 among parents, others are conducting offline exams and have decided to promote students based on their performance. “Students have the option of appearing for the annual examinations at home. However, they will have to scan the answer sheet and then submit them in a drop box at the school along with a consent form. Promotion to class 10 and class 12 is conditional. Until students come and appear for the examination in-person, their promotion to the next class will be conditional,” said Minu Salooja, director, Glendale International School. Other schools have decided to give students three chances to be able to get promoted to the next class. “We don’t want them to suffer further by putting any academic pressure. We have decided to give them three chances to clear the annual exams,” said Simi Nagi, principal, Pallavi Model School, Alwal. While some schools are holding online exams given fear of Covid among parents, others are conducting offline exams and have decided to promote students based on performance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-focus-on-learning-outcome-for-promotions/articleshow/81078095.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||Partly cloudy sky, drizzle in some Kolkata pockets today||KOLKATA: A cloud cover hung over the city on Wednesday even as some of the districts received light rain under the impact of a circulation over Vidarbha and a trough over Uttar Pradesh. The city may continue to remain partly cloudy on Thursday with the chance of a light drizzle in some parts, said the Met officials who have not ruled out mist or fog. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 19.5°C and a maximum temperature of 31.2°C on Wednesday. “A circulation over Vidarbha and an upper air trough over UP led to the clouds that hung over the city on Wednesday. While the parts of Nadia, East Burdwan and Hooghly received rain, Kolkata may receive light rain on Thursday. While it will remain cloudy, the chances of rain are low on Friday,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director, GK Das. The clouds have been floating into the city from both systems, Das added. “The mercury will rise marginally due to the cloud cover. Since the wind direction has already changed, the temperature will not slide below 18-19°C,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/partly-cloudy-sky-drizzle-in-some-city-pockets-today/articleshow/81078094.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||Zantye ignored Mayem, failed to resolve issues: GFP||Panaji: Mayem MLA Pravin Zantye has ignored his constituency and has failed to resolve the custodian property issue, Goa Forward Party (GFP) said on Wednesday, and challenged Zantye and BJP to come out with a performance report for Mayem. GFP joint secretary Santosh Sawant, who is expected to be the party’s Mayem candidate for the assembly elections, said that BJP has stalled several projects initiated through the agriculture and water resources (WRD) departments when GFP was part of the government. “The BJP government has been in place for nearly four and a half years and Mayem MLA Pravin Zantye is from BJP. Now let him come and tell us what work he has done in that constituency,” Sawant said while addressing a press conference. He said that the move by some panch members to quit GFP and join BJP would not affect them. “Many works that were in the pipeline in Pilgao through the WRD and agriculture department were stopped once GFP fell out with the government. It is not that GFP kept the work on hold, and people know this and so they are still with us,” Sawant said. GFP claimed that the sarpanch and three panchs, who quit GFP for BJP, had done so after being lured away with the promise of jobs and with some of their personal works being taken care of. Sawant said that the biggest grievance of the constituency has been the lack of land ownership and the delay in getting custodian property transferred onto the names of those who cultivate or own homes on the land. “Many of them have been living on the land for generations but they don’t own the land. Most people are farmers so are they supposed to go to the fields or run to the courts?” Sawant asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zantye-ignored-mayem-failed-to-resolve-issues-gfp/articleshow/81079999.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Gaming fraud: Crypto trader from Guj gets bail||Hyderabad: Justice G Sri Devi of the high court has granted bail to Naisar Shailesh Kothari, an engineer-cum-cryptocurrency trader from Gujarat, in the money laundering case booked by the ED against him. Though the Hyderabad police claimed his role in the Chinese gaming fraud, the court said that ED could not show anything that linked him to the scam. The judge noted the contention of the probe agencies that the accused in the main scam used Kothari’s cryptocurrency account to transfer proceeds of crime. They could not extract any evidence from him during the custodial examination. As cryptocurrency transactions are not banned and as they are all done through the banking system, the judge felt that it was a fit case for bail. The judge also said the probe agencies too did not make Kothari an accused initially, but later added him as an accused charging him with non-cooperation. The judge directed the authorities to set him free after obtaining Rs 5 lakh bond and sureties.  The judge in her order said that the allegations in the ED's case are that certain companies were involved in organizing online gaming, cheating the public, and diverting profits to China. The petitioner is neither connected with the alleged companies nor has anything to do with the alleged online gaming business of the alleged companies. Judge noted the contention of the probe agencies that the accused in the main scam used Kothari’s cryptocurrency account to transfer proceeds of crime. They could not extract any evidence from him during the custodial examination||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gaming-fraud-crypto-trader-from-guj-gets-bail/articleshow/81078116.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Class XII board exams from May 3; surprised, say schools||CHENNAI: The Class XII state board exam schedule took many schools by surprise as they were expecting the exams to be held by the end of May or early June. According to the timetable announced by the directorate of government exams (DGE) on Wednesday, the exams will begin on May 3 and end on May 21. More than 8 lakh students will appear for the boards this year. Exams will be conducted from 10 am to 1.15 pm with the first 15 minutes being given to read the question paper and verify particulars in the answer sheet. Schools said the new time-table gives them just 74 days to complete the syllabus, revise the lessons and hold model exams. Some teachers said they may have to rush through the lessons to finish the syllabus. However, others said the time-table will ensure the next academic year started on time. Students TOI spoke to said they need more time to prepare and lack writing practice. “We are hoping to get our doubts from online classes cleared. With two to three chapters in each subject still pending, we needed more time. But the board exam schedule gives only around 70 days to prepare,” said Divya, a Class XII student from the city. Tisha Karen, another student, said a one-day gap between biology and chemistry exams is “not ideal”. Principals said DGE could have given one more month time considering the pandemic. “We have not completed the portions,” said Agnes Rita, principal of GRT Mahalakshmi Vidhyalaya Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Ashok Nagar. “June would have been ideal as schools need more time. Exams before June will have a huge impact on the performance of students,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram. But K John, headmaster of Thiru Vi Ka Higher Secondary School in Shenoy Nagar said being an election year, the DGE has come out with a schedule “keeping various aspects in mind”. “Students also need to prepare for exams JEE and NEET and schools have to start next academic year on time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/class-xii-board-exams-from-may-3-surprised-say-schools/articleshow/81082548.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Newcomers raise the bar: 8,400 applications filed for 159 licences||HYDERABAD: A record 317 applications have been filed from the temple town of Yadagirigutta — where the Yadadri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple is being refurbished — to get hold of one bar licence. Similarly, 193 applications were filed to bag the licence of one bar in Haliya where CM K Chandrasekhar Rao had addressed a public meeting recently. As the fate of 8,464 applications will be decided in a draw of lots on Thursday across the state (for Hyderabad, it’s on February 19), it begs a question as to why such a large number of applications have been filed for bidding of just 159 bars. Industry sources attribute this trend to newcomers entering the trade and wanting to buy licences of existing owners at an extra fee apart from enjoying lucrative profits. The government increased bidding fee from Rs 10,000 to Rs 1 lakh, which is non-refundable. Government earned Rs 84 crore from this bidding fee alone. The licence fee is Rs 45 lakh per annum, while the renewal fee is another Rs 1 lakh, which needs to be paid every year. Sources in the industry say each bar has a minimum Rs 12 lakh expenditure every month and going by current business trend, only 30 per cent margin is possible. Large part of the expenditure goes towards maintenance and other issues. Bar owners say that they would be able to bear monthly expenditure of Rs 12 lakh only when they do Rs 1 lakh worth sales every day. “Owners are not able to renew their licences, while the newcomers are ready to buy licence from the existing licensee. I owned a bar for two years. I could not handle the pressure and got out of it,” a liquor shop owner, who earlier ran the bar a few years ago, told TOI. Many newcomers are lured to buy the licences in the hope that they can exchange them for at least Rs 30 lakh. Once a licence is issued, the licensee has to the pay the fee within three months. “If licence fee has to be exchanged, extra Rs 90,000 has to be paid in addition to regular licence fee,” a trade analyst said. Rash of applications was also attributed to targets set by excise department to officials to generate more applications. Government initially set a target of 10,000 applications for 159 bars and received 7,000 applications in first round. When it extended filing date, it managed to get 8,464 applications. In view of election code, excise department had to approach State Election Commission seeking permission to go for draw of lots. With SEC giving a green signal, bidding process will be taken up on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/newcomers-raise-the-bar-8400-applications-filed-for-159-licences/articleshow/81078104.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 18, 2021||Chennai||Poor must organise themselves and fight for their rights: Rahul||Puducherry: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi appealed to the poor people in the country to unite and organize themselves to fight for their rights. Interacting with fisherfolk at Solai Nagar in Muthialpet during his one-day visit to the Union territory of Puducherry on Wednesday, he accused the BJP-led NDA government of favouring a few corporate giants and ignoring the small and medium enterprises. He charged that the Centre proposes to let a few corporates plunder the marine resources whereas the Congress party strongly believes that crores of people from the fishing community must be custodians of the seas. He pointed out that the Centre extended Rs 1.5 lakh crore loans to huge corporates during the Covid-19 pandemic but did not come forward to bear the bus or train fare of poor guest workers returning home during the pandemic. Stating that fisherfolk are ‘farmers of the seas’, he mooted the idea of establishing an exclusive ministry of fisheries and fishermen’s welfare on the lines of the ministry of agriculture and farmers’ welfare and extending all necessary benefits to the fishermen as extended to the farmers. He appealed to the fishermen to take him into the sea when they went fishing during his next visit so that he could understand the problems they faced. Later in the evening, while speaking at a public meeting, Rahul accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of using the lieutenant governor’s office to insult the mandate of the voters of the Union territory. “Puducherry has had an elected government for the past five years but the Prime Minister did not allow the government to work. He insulted the mandate of the people of Puducherry,” he said. “Modi has taken away your dreams and aspirations. He destroyed the institution of the lieutenant governor to work against the people of Puducherry just as he destroys all other institutions”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/poor-must-organise-themselves-and-fight-for-their-rights-rahul/articleshow/81078155.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Lodhi Club elections may be held on Feb 28||Ludhiana: The election campaigning for the city’s Lodhi Club seems to have gathered steam as the date of the annual general meeting (AGM) of the club draws near. As per orders of the club president-cum-deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, Varinder Kumar, the AGM has been scheduled to take place on February 21. It is on or after the AGM that the date of club elections will be decided by the president. As per sources in the club circle, the elections may be held on February 28, which is the last Sunday of February because as per last trends, elections have been held in February only. According to CA Nitin Mahajan , general secretary of the club, said, “As per orders of our president, the AGM is going to be held on February 21 on the club premises, where income, expenditures and other aspects will be discussed in the presence of members. As far as elections’ date is concerned, as of now it has not been finalised. Things will be more clear about the date after the AGM.” Meanwhile, Mahajan is also going to contest for the post of general secretary again. Speaking on it, he said, “I am contesting the elections for the post of general secretary based upon my present tenure, where the club has seen unprecedented developments like affiliation with 26 more domestic and international clubs. Another highlight has been extension of discounted health check up package at the DMC Hospital for the spouses of our members.” On the other hand, candidates who are contesting the elections are doing their best to woo the voters of the club. Sending greetings of good morning, good evening and wishes for festivals, along with vote appeal to the members of the club, has become the most common phenomenon right now as far as all candidates are concerned. However, some of the members have went ahead and hired callers for calling the club members and requesting them to vote for them. A total of nine office-bearers have to be elected for the managing committee of the Lodhi Club. So far, for the post of general secretary Nitin Mahajan and Gaurav Sachdeva are contesting against each other, for the post of vice-president Kawaljeet Singh Dang and Jogesh Gupta are the candidates, for the post of joint secretary Sarju Ralhan and Amrit Bhambri are contesting against each other. For the post of mess secretary, Nishit Singhania is contesting against Avinash Jindal, for the post of finance secretary CA Vishal Mahajan is contesting against Munish Gupta. Besides these posts, for the post of sports secretary Ram Sharma is contesting against Vibhor Garg, for the post of bar secretary Jagatvir Singh Bittu is contesting against Sachin Goyal. On the post of executive member Rajiv Gupta is contesting against CM Jindal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lodhi-club-elections-may-be-held-on-feb-28/articleshow/81076827.cms||Mohit Behl
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||From 5% in January, positivity rate in Maharashtra close to double digits||MUMBAI: Maharashtra’s daily positivity rate is inching towards double digits after dipping to 5% in January. On Wednesday, daily positivity crossed 8%, while in several districts, it was two to five-fold the state’s average. A persistent dip in positivity rate was one of the factors considered for reopening of all sectors in the state and the city. Data shows that till February 5, daily positivity rate was within 5%, which has nearly doubled in the last week. From 4.8% on February 4, it jumped to 6.9% on February 10 and to 8% by February 14. On February 15 and 16, the state’s daily positivity remained over 9%. On Wednesday, it dropped marginally after tests were scaled up by more than 20,000 compared to previous days. A rise in positivity rate is an indicator of continued transmission and inadequate tests being carried out in a region. The state on Tuesday had revealed how the rate in districts, particularly from Vidarbha, was exceptionally high. For instance, Amravati was 56%, Bhandara was 26%, Akola had a positivity rate of 22%, while in Buldhana it was 26.5%. In other regions too, such as Sindhudurg, positivity rate was 44%. Analysis of testing numbers for early February had shown 14-15 districts were conducting fewer than 500 tests in a day. Abysmal decline was observed in districts such as Parbhani, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, where on certain days 200 samples were tested in the district. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said testing numbers have increased. On Wednesday, over 58,000 tests were carried out in the state, up from 37,000-50,000 in the previous few days. But testing has to be scaled up manifold and swiftly, said experts. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical committee, who is monitoring the situation in Vidarbha, said scale-up is not up to desirable levels. “There are reasons for it. Primary one is contact tracing and tracking has slacked and that impacts samples tested,” he said. He said groups across districts have to regroup and carry out tracing intensely. A member of the state Covid task force said that for every positive person, at least 20 contacts must be traced. “It has to be more intensive in districts like Amravati, where a new variant could be behind the spread,” the member said. The state had seen daily positivity of up to 22% inSeptember. “As testing increases, we will see a dip in positivity,” Awate said. In Mumbai, AMC Suresh Kakani said the daily positivity rate is 4% despite a marginal spurt in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/from-5-in-jan-positivity-rate-in-maha-close-to-double-digits/articleshow/81078148.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Pregnant woman thrashes husband||Ahmedabad: A Thaltej resident has accused his pregnant wife of thrashing him and his mother. He alleged that she threatened to kill them after claiming that his mother wanted her to abort the child. Viral Patel, 28, resident of Jay Ambenagar Society on Drive-In Road, filed a complaint in this regard with Vastrapur police. Patel, who works with a private firm in Satellite, said he had married Shakuntala Patel, a resident of Amraiwadi, on December 1, 2020. He said that Shakuntala, who is two-months pregnant, had on February 8 told him that his mother wanted her to abort their child. But when he said that his mother could not say such things, she became angry and began punching him. At the time, he had called up police control room but avoided filing to file a complaint when police approached them. Later, she went to her parents’ place for a week as her uncle had passed away. When she returned on Tuesday, she again picked up a fight with Viral and his mother, and ran towards the terrace of their house where she began screaming and abusing them. His neighbours rushed there and tried to pacify her, but she again thrashed him and his mother while threatening to kill them. As Shakuntala was also threatening to commit suicide, he called up police again and filed a complaint against her. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pregnant-woman-thrashes-husband/articleshow/81079963.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Rakhial man throws epileptic wife out of house||Ahmedabad: A 27-year-old woman filed a complaint of domestic violence against her husband and seven of her in-laws, alleging that they had tormented her and evicted her from the marital home because she had epilepsy. The complainant also alleged that her husband tried to give her ‘triple talaq’, but Rakhial police have not invoked charges under the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019. Afreenbanu Ansari, who is now living at her parents’ home in Gomtipur, alleged that her husband, Naushad Ansari, who has a clothing shop, had been ill-treating her and tormenting her for the past couple of years. She alleged he was instigated by his parents, uncle, aunt, and other members of his household. She alleged that on February 9, she was beaten and evicted from the marital house in Rakhial by her in-laws, claiming they did not want to keep her because of her illness. She then called her father to the scene. However, her husband -- in the presence of her father, and egged on by his mother -- gave her ‘triple talaq’ and turned her out of the house. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rakhial-man-throws-epileptic-wife-out-of-house/articleshow/81079991.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||Congress’ membership drive hits roadblock||Panaji: The Congress membership drive, part of a strategy to overhaul the party’s Goa unit, appears to be off to a rocky start. Ponda MLA Ravi Naik, who is in charge of five assembly constituencies, claims to be in the dark about the drive while several other party functionaries have been giving the coordination committee meetings a miss. Naik, who has been put in charge of the party’s membership drive in Ponda, Priol, Shiroda, Madkai and Valpoi, claims that he has not been given a roadmap on how to go about the membership drive. “I have been put in charge of five constituencies, but I have not got any list of the presidents of the blocks and the other workers. Who am I supposed to contact? I can’t find anyone to ask,” Naik said. Naik, a former chief minister of the state, was castigated by the Congress workers after his sons quit the party and joined BJP. State Congress president Girish Chodankar had even gone to the extent of publicly stating that Naik was no long being considered as a Congress MLA. Coordination committee chairman Ramakant Khalap said that he would talk to Naik in order to address any confusion. “I will be talking to everyone, including Ravi Naik, in the coming days. We will tell them how to go about it,” said Khalap. Aside from Naik’s disconcerting remarks, sources also said that several block presidents and general secretaries of the North Goa were absent for a coordination committee meeting held in Mapusa a few days earlier. “As you talk to people, you will find that it will be tough to make a good membership drive. People are not so comfortable with a digital membership drive,” said a member of the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-membership-drive-hits-roadblock/articleshow/81079964.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Gattus helped juniors, won hearts during lockdown||HYDERABAD: Gattu Vamana Rao and Nagamani, the lawyer couple who were waylaid and hacked to death in Peddapalli, won the hearts of the legal fraternity during the Covid-induced lockdown, which caused severe hardship to advocates in general and junior advocates in particular. They were returning from Manthani court when the incident happened. They arranged rice, groceries and other essentials, packed them into hundreds of packs, and distributed them to several needy advocates. They were seen extending the help to several other sections of society too. Scores of advocates were shocked when they heard about the brutal murder and demanded justice to the lawyer couple. They gathered at gate number 4 of the high court and held a protest demonstration condemning the brutal murders. Manthani MLA D Sridhar Babu lamented that the law and order situation was deteriorating in Peddapalli. “The scene of offence was not protected,” he alleged. “It is unfortunate that on the birthday of chief minister KCR, his party leaders are facing allegations of being instrumental in this inhuman double murder case,” the legislator said, addressing the media at Peddapalli on Wednesday. Police brass must own responsibility for the crime, Sridhar Babu said, demanding a CBI probe into the incident. Seeking a thorough probe into the brutal murders, Telangana Bar Council chairman A Narasimha Reddy demanded the state should enact Advocates Protection Act to safeguard the Advocate Community, who discharge their duties to protect the rights of citizens.  The lawyer couple was fighting cases on behalf of the voiceless sections and were filing cases in the high court, district courts and also the State Human Rights Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gattus-helped-juniors-won-hearts-during-lockdown/articleshow/81078123.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Class XII board exams from May 3; surprised, say schools||CHENNAI: The Class XII state board exam schedule took many schools by surprise as they were expecting the exams to be held by the end of May or early June. According to the timetable announced by the directorate of government exams (DGE) on Wednesday, the exams will begin on May 3 and end on May 21. More than 8 lakh students will appear for the boards this year. Exams will be conducted from 10 am to 1.15 pm with the first 15 minutes being given to read the question paper and verify particulars in the answer sheet. Schools said the new time-table gives them just 74 days to complete the syllabus, revise the lessons and hold model exams. Some teachers said they may have to rush through the lessons to finish the syllabus. However, others said the time-table will ensure the next academic year started on time. Students TOI spoke to said they need more time to prepare and lack writing practice. “We are hoping to get our doubts from online classes cleared. With two to three chapters in each subject still pending, we needed more time. But the board exam schedule gives only around 70 days to prepare,” said Divya, a Class XII student from the city. Tisha Karen, another student, said a one-day gap between biology and chemistry exams is “not ideal”. Principals said DGE could have given one more month time considering the pandemic. “We have not completed the portions,” said Agnes Rita, principal of GRT Mahalakshmi Vidhyalaya Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Ashok Nagar. “June would have been ideal as schools need more time. Exams before June will have a huge impact on the performance of students,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram. But K John, headmaster of Thiru Vi Ka Higher Secondary School in Shenoy Nagar said being an election year, the DGE has come out with a schedule “keeping various aspects in mind”. “Students also need to prepare for exams JEE and NEET and schools have to start next academic year on time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/class-xii-board-exams-from-may-3-surprised-say-schools/articleshow/81081269.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Class XII board exams from May 3; surprised, say schools||CHENNAI: The Class XII state board exam schedule took many schools by surprise as they were expecting the exams to be held by the end of May or early June. According to the timetable announced by the directorate of government exams (DGE) on Wednesday, the exams will begin on May 3 and end on May 21. More than 8 lakh students will appear for the boards this year. Exams will be conducted from 10 am to 1.15 pm with the first 15 minutes being given to read the question paper and verify particulars in the answer sheet. Schools said the new time-table gives them just 74 days to complete the syllabus, revise the lessons and hold model exams. Some teachers said they may have to rush through the lessons to finish the syllabus. However, others said the time-table will ensure the next academic year started on time. Students TOI spoke to said they need more time to prepare and lack writing practice. “We are hoping to get our doubts from online classes cleared. With two to three chapters in each subject still pending, we needed more time. But the board exam schedule gives only around 70 days to prepare,” said Divya, a Class XII student from the city. Tisha Karen, another student, said a one-day gap between biology and chemistry exams is “not ideal”. Principals said DGE could have given one more month time considering the pandemic. “We have not completed the portions,” said Agnes Rita, principal of GRT Mahalakshmi Vidhyalaya Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Ashok Nagar. “June would have been ideal as schools need more time. Exams before June will have a huge impact on the performance of students,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram. But K John, headmaster of Thiru Vi Ka Higher Secondary School in Shenoy Nagar said being an election year, the DGE has come out with a schedule “keeping various aspects in mind”. “Students also need to prepare for exams JEE and NEET and schools have to start next academic year on time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/class-xii-board-exams-from-may-3-surprised-say-schools/articleshow/81081273.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Class XII board exams from May 3; surprised, say schools||CHENNAI: The Class XII state board exam schedule took many schools by surprise as they were expecting the exams to be held by the end of May or early June. According to the timetable announced by the directorate of government exams (DGE) on Wednesday, the exams will begin on May 3 and end on May 21. More than 8 lakh students will appear for the boards this year. Exams will be conducted from 10 am to 1.15 pm with the first 15 minutes being given to read the question paper and verify particulars in the answer sheet. Schools said the new time-table gives them just 74 days to complete the syllabus, revise the lessons and hold model exams. Some teachers said they may have to rush through the lessons to finish the syllabus. However, others said the time-table will ensure the next academic year started on time. Students TOI spoke to said they need more time to prepare and lack writing practice. “We are hoping to get our doubts from online classes cleared. With two to three chapters in each subject still pending, we needed more time. But the board exam schedule gives only around 70 days to prepare,” said Divya, a Class XII student from the city. Tisha Karen, another student, said a one-day gap between biology and chemistry exams is “not ideal”. Principals said DGE could have given one more month time considering the pandemic. “We have not completed the portions,” said Agnes Rita, principal of GRT Mahalakshmi Vidhyalaya Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Ashok Nagar. “June would have been ideal as schools need more time. Exams before June will have a huge impact on the performance of students,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram. But K John, headmaster of Thiru Vi Ka Higher Secondary School in Shenoy Nagar said being an election year, the DGE has come out with a schedule “keeping various aspects in mind”. “Students also need to prepare for exams JEE and NEET and schools have to start next academic year on time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/class-xii-board-exams-from-may-3-surprised-say-schools/articleshow/81081271.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Class XII board exams from May 3; surprised, say schools||CHENNAI: The Class XII state board exam schedule took many schools by surprise as they were expecting the exams to be held by the end of May or early June. According to the timetable announced by the directorate of government exams (DGE) on Wednesday, the exams will begin on May 3 and end on May 21. More than 8 lakh students will appear for the boards this year. Exams will be conducted from 10 am to 1.15 pm with the first 15 minutes being given to read the question paper and verify particulars in the answer sheet. Schools said the new time-table gives them just 74 days to complete the syllabus, revise the lessons and hold model exams. Some teachers said they may have to rush through the lessons to finish the syllabus. However, others said the time-table will ensure the next academic year started on time. Students TOI spoke to said they need more time to prepare and lack writing practice. “We are hoping to get our doubts from online classes cleared. With two to three chapters in each subject still pending, we needed more time. But the board exam schedule gives only around 70 days to prepare,” said Divya, a Class XII student from the city. Tisha Karen, another student, said a one-day gap between biology and chemistry exams is “not ideal”. Principals said DGE could have given one more month time considering the pandemic. “We have not completed the portions,” said Agnes Rita, principal of GRT Mahalakshmi Vidhyalaya Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Ashok Nagar. “June would have been ideal as schools need more time. Exams before June will have a huge impact on the performance of students,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram. But K John, headmaster of Thiru Vi Ka Higher Secondary School in Shenoy Nagar said being an election year, the DGE has come out with a schedule “keeping various aspects in mind”. “Students also need to prepare for exams JEE and NEET and schools have to start next academic year on time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/class-xii-board-exams-from-may-3-surprised-say-schools/articleshow/81081270.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Class XII board exams from May 3; surprised, say schools||CHENNAI: The Class XII state board exam schedule took many schools by surprise as they were expecting the exams to be held by the end of May or early June. According to the timetable announced by the directorate of government exams (DGE) on Wednesday, the exams will begin on May 3 and end on May 21. More than 8 lakh students will appear for the boards this year. Exams will be conducted from 10 am to 1.15 pm with the first 15 minutes being given to read the question paper and verify particulars in the answer sheet. Schools said the new time-table gives them just 74 days to complete the syllabus, revise the lessons and hold model exams. Some teachers said they may have to rush through the lessons to finish the syllabus. However, others said the time-table will ensure the next academic year started on time. Students TOI spoke to said they need more time to prepare and lack writing practice. “We are hoping to get our doubts from online classes cleared. With two to three chapters in each subject still pending, we needed more time. But the board exam schedule gives only around 70 days to prepare,” said Divya, a Class XII student from the city. Tisha Karen, another student, said a one-day gap between biology and chemistry exams is “not ideal”. Principals said DGE could have given one more month time considering the pandemic. “We have not completed the portions,” said Agnes Rita, principal of GRT Mahalakshmi Vidhyalaya Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Ashok Nagar. “June would have been ideal as schools need more time. Exams before June will have a huge impact on the performance of students,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram. But K John, headmaster of Thiru Vi Ka Higher Secondary School in Shenoy Nagar said being an election year, the DGE has come out with a schedule “keeping various aspects in mind”. “Students also need to prepare for exams JEE and NEET and schools have to start next academic year on time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/class-xii-board-exams-from-may-3-surprised-say-schools/articleshow/81081272.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||Aleixo seeks meet on IRB camp plans||Panaji: Congress MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco on Wednesday called for a gram sabha meeting to discuss the move to handover land to Goa Police to set up an Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) camp. Lourenco wrote to Curtorim sarpanch Milagres Rodrigues and stressed on the need for a gram sabha meeting to be convened to discuss the proposal, which will see 1 lakh sqm of land currently in possession of the Leprosy hospital at Curtorim being handed over to Goa Police. “I would like to request your good self to call the gram sabha of Curtorim panchayat before the upcoming budget session of the legislative assembly,” he said. In the past, Curtorim villagers along with Lourenco have strongly opposed the move to set up the IRB camp on the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aleixo-seeks-meet-on-irb-camp-plans/articleshow/81080012.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||JIH drive for strong family & society||Hyderabad: The women’s wing of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH) is conducting a countrywide campaign —‘Strong Family Strong Society’ for restoring the core values of the family and the society between February 19 -28. The aim of the campaign is to create awareness among people to strengthen family system disturbed during the Covid pandemic.  Asiya Tasneem, president, JIH women’s wing told that they would hold a campaign with a purpose to create awareness among people with regard to strengthening relations and normalizing the uncertainty around Covid-19. The women’s wing said that the National Commission of Women had reported a rise in number of domestic violence cases during the lockdown. “Other survey reports say that the increase in domestic violence is at a 10-year high record. The numbers are much higher if one bears in mind the fact that only 7 per cent turn to authorities for help. Divorce rates have increased and cases registered against family disputes have also gone up,’’ said Asiya. Letters will be sent to community leaders, imams of mosques and various religious scholars to draw their attention towards this theme. “The rising trend of live-in relationship, homosexuality, abortion as well as virtual revolt against all value systems of family and society pose a clear danger towards the health of a vibrant society,” added some women participants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jih-drive-for-strong-family-society/articleshow/81078134.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Two Gujarat villages first in India to get LiFi||AHMEDABAD: In the first step towards creating smart villages in Gujarat, an Ahmedabad startup has powered up two villages with high-speed internet using LiFi-based technology. Akrund and Navanagar villages in Aravalli district of Gujarat have become India’s first smart villages with LiFi-based internet connectivity. With this facility from the startup, Nav Wireless Technology, schools, hospitals, post offices, and government offices in these two villages will get faster and safer internet connection through existing electricity lines. LiFi technology involves transmitting data with a light beam spectrum through open space in outdoor and indoor environments. LiFi systems provide ultra-fast data connections, and are especially useful in urban areas where radio spectra are congested, and are also handy in rural areas where fibre-optic cables or networks are not reachable. The company has invested Rs 20 lakh for executing the project in these two villages. Hardik Soni, co-founder and CTO of Nav Wireless Technologies Pvt Limited, said: “We are proud to bring this technological revolution to our home state of Gujarat.” Soni added: “Nav Wireless has extended Gujarat Fibre Grid Network’s fibre internet connectivity from Akrund gram panchayat building to Navanagar primary school, which is at the distance of 1.5km, with LiFi wireless optical communication.” Soni went on to say: “We had also implemented Hybrid Microwave LiFi-enabled LED lights in schools, hospitals and in post office rooms over the existing power lines of the buildings.” The startup has collaborated with BharatNet for implementing similar technology in about 6,000 more villages of Gujarat. This will be achieved by the end of the calendar year 2022. Funds worth Rs 500 crore will be allocated for the project. The startup also plans to provide fast internet connectivity in remote areas of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand where conventional technologies are not functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-gujarat-villages-first-in-india-to-get-lifi/articleshow/81080015.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu assembly elections: Elderly, disabled to get 5 days to apply for postal ballot, says EC||CHENNAI: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has informed the Madras high court that physically challenged voters and those aged above 80 will get five days’ time after the Tamil Nadu assembly election is notified to apply for voting through postal ballot. The commission informed the court that the final list of such voters will be made available to all political parties. ECI made the submission on Wednesday when a batch of pleas moved by the DMK and others challenging the constitutional validity of the amendments made to the Conduct of Election Rules under the Representation of People Act to facilitate extending ballot voting to the old, and disabled voters came up for hearing. Recording ECI’s submissions, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the commission to file an affidavit by February 22, indicating as to when such a list will be made available to political parties. According to the petitioner, the newly added Section 60 (c) of the Representation of People Act is against the basic feature of the Constitution as it violates the secrecy in voting guaranteed in direct elections. “Secrecy in voting is guaranteed in the Act, which forms a fundamental foundation for free and fair elections and for establishment of parliamentary democracy,” the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/elderly-disabled-to-get-5-days-to-apply-for-postal-ballot-ec/articleshow/81078160.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 cases in single digit in city||Lucknow: The number of new cases in the city in 24 hours dropped to single digit for the first time in nearly 250 days with just nine persons testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection on Wednesday. Still, the new infections were highest in the state. Lucknow accounted for the 9% of the total cases in UP and shared the top slot with Ghaziabad. Earlier, on June 13, five cases were recorded in the state capital in a day. Adding to the relief, no casualty due to the disease was reported for the third consecutive day on Wednesday. Also, 11 patients recovered over the 24 hours. With this, the number of patients with infection status have dropped to 370. The transmission rate has witnessed a drastic drop in the past two months. If this continues, the city may expect zero transmission by March, said experts. As vaccination is also underway, it will help in breaking the chain, they added. However, they advised people to follow safety protocols - masks, distancing and hand hygiene - till the virus is eradicated. The overall case count of Lucknow since the outbreak now stands at 81,717. Of these, 80,161 (98%) have recovered, while 1,186 (1.4%) have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-19-cases-in-single-digit-in-city/articleshow/81080019.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP asks state to protect advocates||Hyderabad: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday demanded that the state government formulate special legislation for the protection of advocates in the state. Addressing the media, he demanded that investigation on the double murder of advocate couple Gattu Vamana Rao and Nagamani should be carried out by the sitting judge of the high court. He alleged that the TRS government failed to give protection to him despite him seeking it. “The lawyer couple was very honest and always wanted to fight for people. They had details of major figures and they were targeted,” he said. He said the incident took place on birthday of chief minister, and he should take it seriously. BJP MLC A Ramachander Rao, who is also a former member Bar council, said the attack was on one that affected the entire advocate community. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-asks-state-to-protect-advocates/articleshow/81078166.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Chennai||BV Brothers: Twinning in concert||By Bhama Devi Ravi The names of Carnatic vocalists B V Raman and B V Lakshmanan bring to mind traditional guru parampara tradition and music mastered over the years, but their initiation into the world of Carnatic music was a result of a curious turn of events. Their began as observers until formal training commenced at 17, considered late for classical music. As first-generation concert performers, they ended up leaving a mark in the crowded field of Carnatic music. They were 35 by the time they decided to turn performing artists, but were one of the earliest to design thematic concerts and made a unique contribution by bringing prominence to rare ‘kritis’ of Thyagaraja, Shyama Sastri and Muthuswami Dikshitar. Read the entire story 0n TOI+The twins who inspired a generation of singers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bv-brothers-twinning-in-concert/articleshow/81078139.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Travel portal, bank to pay lawyer Rs 1L for ticket trauma||Mumbai: A 42-year-old Ghatkopar-based lawyer who was forced to re-book a Birmingham-Mumbai flight and travel separately from her daughter despite Rs 63,258 being debited from her account, but not acknowledged by the travel portal, Goibibo, was awarded Rs1 lakh compensation for harassment. “The complainant had to pay extra charges for tickets. The complainant could not travel along with her daughter. Her daughter was required to change flight to reach Mumbai. Certainly they have gone through mental agony, harassment and wastage of time,” the district forum said. A consumer forum held the fact that the travel portal had subsequently refunded the debited amount showed it had received the money. Both the Allahabad Bank and the travel portal will have to pay the compensation. Geeta N Sharma submitted the complaint in February 2019. She told the additional Mumbai suburban consumer disputes redressal forum that on July 8, 2017, she booked two tickets online for herself and her daughter. However, the travel portal confirmed only her daughter’s ticket though the amount for two tickets was debited from her bank account. She further said the bank had even sent her an e-mail with the endorsement that “the payment has been successfully settled to the merchant via transaction reference.....” Sharma said she had to rebook her ticket and was required to take another flight, at a higher price. She said despite sending notices, she did not get a satisfactory response from the bank and the travel portal. The bank denied any wrongdoing and alleged both the payments were made to the travel portal through the payment gateway. It also said in December 2017, it received refund for the unsuccessful transaction and it was credited to Sharma’s account. The travel portal said it was not responsible for the failed payment and it had subsequently refunded the amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/travel-portal-bank-to-pay-lawyer-rs-1l-for-ticket-trauma/articleshow/81080627.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Couple got HC shield from ‘cop harassment’||Hyderabad: Twice in the last five months, the high court gave protection from police harassment to Gattu Vamana Rao and Nagamani. The couple had filed a PIL in the high court seeking a thorough probe into the alleged custodial killing of Seelam Rangaiah at Manthani police station on May 25, 2020. The high court directed Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar to inquire into the case and furnish a report. When he gave a clean chit to the Manthani police, the couple raised objection over it. The HC allowed them to go through the CP report and file their objections in writing. Later, they went to the HC in September, 2020, and February, 2021, complaining to the court how police started foisting criminal cases against them all over the state. “We are being called by station house officers from remote police stations in the state asking us to join the investigations. This ordeal began ever since we filed the PIL seeking probe into the Manthani lock-up death case,” Vamana Rao and Nagamani said. The high court then directed police not to call the couple to police stations. This protection was accorded to them on September 10, 2020, by a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy. The protection was extended till April 2021 by a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy on February 8, 2021. The HC had directed the DGP to ensure that his men do not harass the couple till further orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-got-hc-shield-from-cop-harassment/articleshow/81078138.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Chennai||Written in stone: A Devadasi’s gift to a Shiva temple||Chennai: From the exploits of warriors, to the benevolence of kings, the knowledge of the high priests and the laws of the land, temple inscriptions record accomplishments and the way of life of our ancestors. Among these an uncommon discovery was a 16th century Tamil inscription slab belonging to the Nayaka period with details of temple land being donated by a Devadasi. The stone slab was found abandoned in Vadivelkarai, a village in Tirupparangunram in Madurai. Unlike contributions of kings, records of donations by Devadasis are neglected, says senior epigraphist S Rajagopal who deciphered the inscription. The inscription reads: Devadasi Sokki Thummisi of the Shiva temple here donated the paddy land on the outskirts of Thattankulam village to one Manickam. "It was during the time of Sadasivaraja (who ruled the Vijayanagar kingdom) and Visvanatha Nayaka (who ruled Madurai) that the inscription was engraved by Vinotha Brahmathirajan," said Rajagopal. The inscription slab was discovered by B Athmanathan, coordinator of the Centre for Historical Research of the Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College, Madurai, and research scholar Udhayakumar. The two sent the estampages of the inscriptions to Rajagopal to decipher it. "When we visited the site, the inscription slab was lying abandoned and covered by shrubs. After cleaning the surroundings, and the slab with water, we took estampages of it. No one in the locality was aware of its significance," said Athmanathan. This inscription was engraved in the Saka Era 1480 (equivalent to 1558AD). "The inscription has a charter of the year of Uttarayana (movement of the sun towards north) and the seasons, yoga (calculation for the separating distance of the sun and moon) and karna (half a lunar day) marked on it. The characters, however, are not clear because the charter might have been constantly written depending on the orders issued in the name of the Shiva temple," said Rajagopal. Inscription slabs help us know about the social and cultural life of our ancestors. "We have been documenting abandoned and neglected inscription slabs in Madurai and surroundings for long. We will study these inscriptions in detail with the help of a team of epigraphists soon so that we get a clear idea about the significance of the inscription slab," said Athmanathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/written-in-stone-a-devadasis-gift-to-a-shiva-temple/articleshow/81078197.cms||M T Saju
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Cong wants CBI inquiry into murder||Hyderabad: The Congress on Wednesday demanded a CBI probe or an inquiry by a sitting judge into the murder of the advocate couple.  MLA D Sridhar Babu, MPs A Revanth Reddy and Komatireddy Venkat Reddy of the Congress said the day-light murder only reflected the deteriorating law and order situation in Telangana. “When there is no safety to the lives of advocates of the high court, one can imagine the fate of the common man in the State,” Sridhar Babu said. Komatireddy Venkat Reddy said: “This incident exposes the total failure of law and order situation in Telangana.” Revanth said: “At least now CM KCR should respond.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-wants-cbi-inquiry-into-murder/articleshow/81078183.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Rise in cases not the beginning of a second wave, says Maharashtra govt||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai recorded a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. The state also recorded 40 deaths, of which 13 occurred in the last 48 hours and the rest were from previous weeks. Deaths in Mumbai remained consistent at 3. The city’s toll is now 11,428, while that of Maharashtra is 51,631. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas told TOI that the rise cannot be called the beginning of a second wave in Maharashtra. “It is still the first wave. It is the second spurt in the first wave,” he said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, an advisor to the government, echoed that it was not a second wave but a localised increase that can be tackled with testing and tracing. “We may see an upward climb for the next two weeks as testing is intensified. In any viral disease, such fluctuations are known,” he said. For the jump in Mumbai’s cases, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said increase in local train commute, international as well as domestic travel and higher testing were responsible. Amravati deputy director of health services Dr Rajkumar Chauhan on Wednesday said the division comprising five districts of Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Washim and Buldhana was witnessing a second community spread mainly because of rampant breach of home isolation by asymptomatic positive patients. The observation came on a day Amravati reported the most number of Covid deaths (6) in Vidarbha for the first time. Public health officials believe a combination of factors ranging from gram panchayat elections in 14,000 villages, erratic weather with wide difference in day and night temperatures and social gatherings almost like pre-Covid days have all contributed to the rise in the state. “In some districts, where there was wide-scale canvassing, some rise in cases has been noted. It has also been seen in places where big weddings took place,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. There was also a discussion on the rising Covid-19 cases in the cabinet meet on Wednesday. Ministers raised concerns over lack of adherence to Covid-19 norms and even SoPs being violated by establishments. “Cases are on the rise and it is a cause of concern. The government is making an effort, but people have to also cooperate,” said deputy CM Ajit Pawar. He said it has been seen that people are travelling in local trains like in pre-Covid days. “Everyone is under the impression that Covid-19 doesn’t exist,” he said. The state will crack the whip on wedding halls, banquet halls and restaurants for violating rules on maximum occupancy, said Pawar. He reiterated the state will be forced to go into a lockdown if people do not follow rules. Officials said there are four districts -- Amravati, Akola, Buldhana and Jalna -- where restrictions on movement have been placed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rise-in-cases-not-the-beginning-of-a-second-wave-says-state-govt/articleshow/81078216.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 18, 2021||Puducherry||Puducherry: CM V Narayanasamy translates complaint into compliment||PUDUCHERRY: Chief minister V Narayanasamy faced a major embarrassment in the presence of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday when a fisherwoman accused him of not visiting them after nature’s fury ravaged their coastal hamlet. The woman, during an interaction with Rahul, alleged that none from the government visited the hamlet in the wake of cyclone. “The sea is always rough. But no one is supporting us. Even he (Narayanasamy)… Did he visit our hamlet even once after the cyclones?” she asked. For his part, Narayanasamy, who was translating people’s queries and Rahul’s replies, told Rahul, “the woman said I visited the hamlet after the cyclones for distributing relief,” landing him in a controversy. He was accused of mistranslating the accusation against him into a compliment. He translated another woman’s query wrongly, thrice. #WATCH| #Puducherry CM translates complaint into compliment#TamilNadu https://t.co/4B49RsCFYY— TOIChennai (@TOIChennai) 1613628114000When a woman posed a query in English, Rahul requested her to speak in Tamil. “We are in the land of Tamil-speaking people. Speak in Tamil first. Let them also understand what you are saying. Later, you can translate,” Rahul said. Watch Watch: Puducherry CM 'translates' woman's complaint into compliment in front of Rahul||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/cm-translates-complaint-into-compliment/articleshow/81078184.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ludhiana||Xcelerator Ludhiana catalysing growth of Ludhiana Inc||Ludhiana: The six-month-old ‘Xcelerator Ludhiana - Sadda Karobaar, Punjab Di Shaan’ business accelerator programme has started yielding results for the entrepreneurs, who have signed up for the programme, and is paving the way for the participants to become local success stories. The programme — led by the government of Punjab, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) and Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship (GAME) — is aimed at catalysing the growth of businesses in Ludhiana. “After the first session of Xcelerator with customers, I was able to strike better conversations with my end retail customers and got new orders by talking about my products and my business value proposition. This has helped me scale up my business in a short period,” said Siddhant Pruthi of Robin International, associated with the programme. Similar, WePay Finance director Jasjot Virk decided to take his lead generation on to social media platforms. “Our aim was to help people realise that WePay Finance could help them fulfil their dreams of owning a house and a car. With taglines such as ‘Rent Ko Kaho Bye, Apna Ghar Banaye’ and ‘Drive your Dream’, we were able to increase the weekly leads from six to 60 in the very first week of joining Xcelerator Ludhiana and have ever since multiplied our leads to 600,” said Virk. With sessions spread over six months, the programme is facilitating hands-on training with the best trainers and practitioners from India, peer-to-peer learning and mentorship focused on ‘3Cs’ - Customer, Capacity, and Cash. The mentoring sessions so far have been hosted by industry stalwarts like Sachit Jain, MD and vice-chairman of Vardhman Special Steels and GAME Punjab Taskforce chair, CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja and Romi Malhotra, former MD, Dell India and DXC India. “The sessions have helped me train the sales team to identify and quantify the value while working with new prospects. It also helped us win a business that was stuck for quite some time,” shared Tarvinder Singh, founder, Technocrat Horizons, adding that based on the mentoring sessions, they segregated the sales and production departments, which has led to increased sales and higher output. “We also introduced a new incentive scheme for dealers to motivate them to increase sales while incentivising timely payments instead of penalising late payments,” said Deepjyot Singh Sethi, Founder, Vellbond Industries on the impact of the mentoring sessions on his business. Speaking about the success of the entrepreneurs, industries and commerce and information technology principal secretary Alok Shekhar said, “The programme had received 450+ applications from growing businesses across Ludhiana and after a rigorous selection process, 27 entrepreneurs were invited to participate in the first cohort of the Xcelerator Ludhiana programme. It is heartening to see that entrepreneurs have started noticing the growth in their business in such a short period,” he said. He added that with over 70% of the programme yet to be completed, there is ample room for all participating entrepreneurs to grow and turn Ludhiana into the entrepreneurship capital of Punjab. The Xcelerator Ludhiana includes workshops on customers, techniques on working with large clients, building an energetic team and getting international collaborators for their businesses. The programme was launched on January 5 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/xcelerator-ludhiana-catalysing-growth-of-ludhiana-inc/articleshow/81076895.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||Another 6-month extension for offshore casinos||Panaji: The state cabinet on Wednesday granted yet another six month-extension to offshore casinos operating in the Mandovi, as it was yet to identify an alternative site for them. Chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters that till an alternative site is identified, the casinos would continue to operate from the Mandovi. Thus, the time has been extended “for a further period of six months from April 1, 2021,” he said. Over the past few years, the state government has granted several extensions to the casinos, thus letting them operate from the river unimpeded. During the last election, Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate had assured the people of the city that he would remove the casinos within 100 days of getting elected. Monserrate later switched from Congress to BJP, and then said there is “no demand” from residents to move them, and claimed businesses said that without the casinos they wouldn’t have customers. Monserrate also said that he has learnt that “the casinos have come to the Mandovi to stay”. The state home department, along with captain of ports, had tentatively identified four sites for moving the casinos — the mouth of the Mandovi near Aguada jail, two locations in the river Zuari, and in the Chapora. A cabinet note said that objections were invited for the proposed sites, and the government received many from panchayats and citizens. Since the identified sites were found to be “technically not feasible”, the issue of relocating the casinos could not be finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/another-6-month-extension-for-offshore-casinos/articleshow/81080034.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||Goa assembly budget session to commence from March 24||PANAJI: The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to summon the budget session of the state assembly from March 24. Chief minister Pramod Sawant will present the budget during the session. TOI was the first to report that the cabinet would decide on the assembly session on Wednesday. The state government, in consultation with speaker Rajesh Patnekar, will take a call on the duration of the assembly session following the cabinet’s decision. The chief minister has already begun holding meetings with various departments and private organisations to prepare the state budget. Representatives of Credai, GSIA and the small and medium Goan hoteliers’ associations have met him and presented their demands to be considered in the budget 2021-22. During the budget session, the opposition will get time to speak specifically on the matters of particular departments during the presentation of demands. It hadn’t got much time to corner the government over various issues during the winter session in January — including the three linear projects at Mollem — as the business advisory committee had decided to allow only three calling attention motions. The government had also defeated a private member’s resolution to scrap the three projects at Mollem. The state cabinet on Wednesday extended the deadline for water supply bill defaulters to avail the one-time settlement scheme (OTS) up to February 28. The scheme was earlier meant to be available only up to January 31. “Extension of validity of dues recovery and settlement scheme 2020-21 which is open for registration of consumers for one month from the date of notification on the official gazette,” cabinet note stated. It stated that further extension to the scheme may be given by the public works department with prior approval of the government based on the response to the scheme. The scheme is also available to defaulting consumers whose cases have been referred to the revenue recovery court as on October 31, 2020, and also consumers whose installations have been temporarily or permanently disconnected as on October 31, 2020, for non-payment of arrears. The scheme is also applicable to consumers currently availing supply from the PWD or active consumers with accumulated arrears up to October 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-assembly-budget-session-to-commence-from-march-24/articleshow/81080026.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Side effects, rumours keep many away from taking vax 2nd dose||Hyderabad: The fear of side effects related to Covid vaccine is leading to several vaccine dropouts with 14,056 healthcare workers in the state giving the second dose a miss (up to Tuesday). This is 21% of 77,173 beneficiaries who were targeted for second dose of vaccination. The coverage of second dose of the vaccine has been sluggish across states. Telangana stands fourth among states in second dose coverage. “Apart from people who are unwell and out of town, apprehensions and myths are reasons for many giving the second dose a miss,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health. It is learnt that majority of the beneficiaries who have not turned up for the second dose are class IV employees including sanitation workers, lab technicians, ward boys and even nurses. “While minor side effects like pain at the site of the injection and fever are common, the problem is that now anything that happens is being ascribed to the vaccine. As a result, there is lot of rumour mongering which has led to more hesitancy. There is this rumour that the vaccines lead to impotency which has already discouraged many Class IV employees. Whereas among doctor’s coverage is over 90%,” said Dr Manish Gupta, resident medical officer, Government ENT Hospital Koti. The state has so far seen 724 cases of side effects of vaccine, of which 46 were serious which required hospitalization. Four deaths were also recorded which have not been associated with vaccination as per initial findings. However, these have triggered more concerns. “There were also a few people who had panic attacks after taking the first dose, who have refused,” said the superintendent at one of the hospitals in the city. The coverage of second dose of the vaccine has been sluggish across states. Telangana stands fourth among states in second dose coverage||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/side-effects-rumours-keep-many-away-from-taking-vax-2nd-dose/articleshow/81078233.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Fear of unknown fuels vaccine hesitancy’||HYDERABAD: Researchers have decoded the reasons for vaccine hesitancy during the ongoing mass immunisation drive against Covid-19 in India. They have listed six primary reasons for health workers, who are covered under phase I of the vaccination drive, staying away from the vaccine. In Telangana and Andhra Pradesh about 30% of the target groups do not turn up for the vaccination. Amidst this backdrop, a study published by a group of researchers from Kerala, has found that it is the “fear of the unknown” that’s preventing even those in the medical and health field from taking the vaccination. The research group took up an online survey covering people, who underwent vaccination between January 29 and February 4. The result of the study was uploaded on MedRxiv. The prime reason for vaccine hesitancy stated by healthcare professionals was “doubt regarding the duration of immunity from vaccination”. This means many are not sure for how long the vaccination will protect. In case of flu vaccine, for example, it must be taken every year to stay protected. The second reason was the fear of anaphylaxis or severe reaction. The third reason was the fear of the novel coronavirus infection. Fourth reason was doctors, who participated in the survey, were also sceptical of studies done so far. Fifth, they did not believe in the quality of vaccine. The sixth reason was the fear of long-term complications. “Fear of the unknown is a driver of vaccine hesitancy. By describing what to expect, the findings of this study will be reassuring to those who are fearful of the new vaccine. The fact that post-vaccination symptoms were mild, predictable and short-lived will help reduce vaccine hesitancy,” the researchers, said. The study was led by Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, former president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Others who were part of the study were Dr Ramesh Shenoy and TS Anithadevi. The survey posed questions among others related to the immediate post vaccination experience in India. “While discussing post vaccination experience, it is noteworthy that placebo injections produce comparable symptoms. In the phase 3 trial of Pfizer-Biontech vaccine, the incidence of headache following vaccination was 42% in the vaccine group and 34% in those who received saline placebo. This has been termed the nocebo effect, which results from enhanced anticipation of negative outcomes from an intervention,” the study said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fear-of-unknown-fuels-vax-hesitancy/articleshow/81078207.cms||Syed Akbar
February 18, 2021||Goa||14 PWD works with single tender receive cabinet nod||Panaji: The state cabinet on Wednesday granted approval for 14 PWD works that have a single tender to carry out developmental work across the state. In the single tender category, some are quoted below the estimated cost while most are above the tender cost. The total cost of the tender is around Rs 25 crore. All the tenders were placed before the Goa State Works Board (GSWB). It was decided to place the below tenders before the cabinet for a decision. The work includes improvement, renewing and hot-mixing of various roads, improvement of various drainages in VP Cavelossim of Benaulim constituency, maintenance of RWSS to Canacona, replacement and improvement of distribution pipeline at Daptamol and surrounding areas in VP Loliem-Pollem in Canacona, and operation and maintenance of 12.5 MLD capacity STP, including overhauling and repairing various metal components at Tonca, Caranzalem for the period of three years. Other works include repair and maintenance of display moat of jackal enclosure at Bondla zoo, proposed automobile building for directorate of skill development and entrepreneurship at ITI, Cacora, construction of cowshed for stray cattle under Sansad Adarsh gram yojana in village panchayat Querim in Priol, improvement of water supply to Bondbag in Betoda village in Shiroda, construction of 25 MLD water treatment plant on Mhadei at Ganjem-Ponda including rising main, conveying mains and reservoirs at various places in Ponda, Bicholim, Sanguem and Sattari taluka, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/14-pwd-works-with-single-tender-receive-cabinet-nod/articleshow/81080040.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||Cabinet approval for apprenticeship scheme||Panaji: The cabinet on Wednesday granted approval for the appointment of Sukhaji Gajanan Naik as member of Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) which is headed by Jose Manuel Noronha.  Naik is an associate professor in commerce and head of the department of commerce, Vidhya Prabhodhini College of Commerce, Education, Computer and Management, Porvorim. The government also approved the Goa Chief Minister’s Apprenticeship Training Scheme 2021. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-approval-for-apprenticeship-scheme/articleshow/81080036.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||With election code in force, wait for sops gets longer||Hyderabad: The election code for the two graduate MLC constituencies has affected lakhs of people waiting for welfare schemes and sops from the state government. Schemes such as unemployment allowance, issuance of new ration cards and extension of Aasara pensions for the new category of people aged between 57 and 65 years among other benefits cannot be rolled out as the poll code is in force for the MLC elections. The two graduate MLC constituencies of Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahabubnagar and Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam are going to the polls on March 14 and the poll code will end on March 22. Chief electoral officer Shashank Goel told TOI that while no new schemes can be implemented in the six districts of Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda, Warangal and Khammam, the state government cannot implement any new scheme in other parts of the state too unless cleared by the Election Commission of India. Even the much-awaited notifications for recruitment of candidates in various government jobs cannot be issued until the poll code expires. There are nearly eight lakh candidates aged between 57 and 65 years who are awaiting implementation of Aasara pensions in addition to thousands of applicants who turned 65 and applied for the pension scheme, nearly 30 lakh candidates have registered their names with Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC) seeking government jobs and at least 50% of them are expected to be jobless. The unemployment allowance of Rs 3,016 per month is the December 2018 election promise made by the ruling TRS. The hopes of unemployed youth had soared high when TRS working president and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao recently said that the chief minister may soon announce the implementation of unemployment allowance. Nearly, 10 lakh applications for ration cards are pending with the civil supplies department. Recently, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao in a public meeting in Haliya of Nagarjuna assembly constituency had announced that the state government will soon start issuing ration cards. If notifications for bypoll to Nagarjunasagar assembly constituency and seven urban local bodies are also issued, the implementation of these schemes will be delayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-election-code-in-force-wait-for-sops-gets-longer/articleshow/81078227.cms||Roushan Ali
February 18, 2021||Ludhiana||31 FIRs filed, 57 challans issued against encroachers||Ludhiana: The police have lodged 31 FIRs and issued 57 challans against the encroachers under the ongoing anti-encroachment drive in the city. Most of these FIRs lodged on Tuesday are against street vendors, followed by commuters, who had parked their vehicles on the road, and the shopkeepers for keeping their commodities outside their shops. Under the drive, the police, along with the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation officials, managed to remove encroachments from several areas, including College Road, Ferozepur Road, Clock Tower Area, Chaura Bazar and nearby markets, Salem Tabri, Chandigarh Road and Basti Jodhewal Chowk. The officials also got the vendors’ carts removed from the roads. Joint commissioner of police (city) Deepak Pareek, who also heads the traffic police, said they have issued over 2,000 notices to encroachers to remove encroachments on their own. Many have already got their encroachments removed, while the remaining would be cleared with the help of police, he said, adding that a number of teams under all the 28 police stations of the city have been formed for the purpose. Officials of the municipal corporation form part of these teams. Pareek said a total of 31 FIRs were filed against the encroachers, besides issuing challans to 57 violators on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the drive was not carried out, but it will resume on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/31-firs-filed-57-challans-issued-against-encroachers/articleshow/81076948.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Maharashtra, Kerala scene triggers alert in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With neighbouring Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala seeing a rise in Covid-19 cases, the state health department is on high alert once again. Since a lot of people are travelling to these places, people need to raise their guard against Covid-19, said health officials. State health authorities are also revising daily testing targets for bordering districts along with the state, hoping to record surge in cases. Currently, both Kerala and Maharashtra are recording about 4,500 new cases each daily. “It is becoming a matter of concern even as most other states are witnessing a dip in numbers. Regular flights connecting both the states and Telangana sharing border with Maharashtra, are also reasons for concern,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health. “Whether cases increase or not is solely dependent on people’s behaviour. If people do not take necessary precautions, cases might increase again,” said Dr Rao. “Another problem is that with the number of Covid cases significantly reducing in the state from nearly 3,000 per day to 100-150 currently, there is an impression among people that the pandemic is over. They have stopped taking precautions and a large chunk of the population is not even wearing masks,” said a official from the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maharashtra-kerala-scene-triggers-alert/articleshow/81078248.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||MSEDCL office wrecked by MNS activist||Navi Mumbai: An office-bearer of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena vandalised the MSEDCL’s Nerul office. The MNS activist reached the MSEDCL’s Nerul office after power supply was disconnected to his house in Karave for non-payment of bill and went berserk after an argument with an official. He damaged a glass top of a table in the cabin of an MSEDCL official with a baton and then went on to break a glass door and furniture on Wednesday afternoon. A video of the incident went viral. Shyam Shinde, senior inspector of Nerul police station, said: “Acting on a complaint by MSEDCL’s assistant engineer Dighe, whose cabin was ransacked, we have registered an FIR against accused Naresh Kumbhar and two others accompanying him.” He said: “Kumbhar was reportedly drunk when he came to the MSEDCL’s office with two others and caused damage to public property after an argument with MSEDCL Assistant Engineer Dighe over power supply being disconnected to his house for non-payment of outstanding bill.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msedcl-office-wrecked-by-mns-activist/articleshow/81080637.cms||George Mendonca
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Man arrested for job fraud||Hyderabad: Central Crime Station (CCS) police arrested a fraudster for duping 25 railway job aspirants of Rs 1.6 crore. Police arrested P Khaja (46) of Kurnool for cheating job aspirants by promising to secure group ‘D’ jobs in the South Central Railway (SCR). Based on a complaint lodged by the victims, police arrested the accused and sent him in judicial remand. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-job-fraud/articleshow/81078246.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||Two new parks, drain clean-up in Sec V under beautification drive||Kolkata: The Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) will take up landscaping and beautification drive across Sector V and Salt Lake Bypass soon. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is also engaging agencies for the upkeep and maintenance of green verges and several parks across the township. The beautification plans for Sector V include setting up of two parks close to Chinrighata off Salt Lake Bypass, cleaning up the eastern drainage channel to prevent dengue and constructing footpaths with paver blocks and decorative painting on road kerbs. “We are taking up an overall beautification and upgradation drive in Sector V with street furniture, general repairs, painting, new signage and others to bring a green, clean and vibrant look of the IT hub,” said an NDITA official. Officials said two small parks will be set up — one near a local club and the other close to Chinrighata crossing. The authorities will spruce up both the sides of Street No 18 connecting SDF More with Nayapatti More by replacing the damaged railings on the footpath, including painting and allied works on the road kerbs. A footpath will be constructed with paver blocks in front of pumping station No 4 near Sector V Metro station. The authorities will also take up electrical installation work for power supply in the proposed cycle stands at three places in Sector V. NDITA is planning to set up a welcome gate to Sector V near Nicco Park crossing. Also, two streets — Street No 2 and Street No 27 — will get a facelift with street furniture, smart bus stand, smart fencing and benches on the pavements, water ATMs, public art, CCTV surveillance, decorative illumination and signage. The authorities are already working on their plans to turn Street No 25 that connects Infinity Benchmark with RDB Boulevard into a pedestrian plaza, where no cars will be allowed. NKDA is also developing several theme parks and greenery in New Town and they are set to engage an agency that will take up the maintenance and upkeep of nine playgrounds in Action Area I for a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-new-parks-drain-clean-up-in-sec-v-under-beautification-drive/articleshow/81141770.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||799 polling stations for 5L voters||Hyderabad: A total of 5,17,883 people have so far enrolled to vote in the elections to Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad graduates’ constituencies, scheduled to be held on March 14. They will be able to exercise their franchise across 799 polling stations. “The number of voters will increase; the final number will be announced on February 26. Of the 799 polling stations, 183 are proposed auxillary stations,” said a GHMC official. “People who are Covid-19 positive, people above 18 years and differently-abled can cast their vote using postal ballots,” said Priyanka Ala, GHMC additional commissioner for revenue wing, who is the returning officer. Meanwhile, two nominations were filed on Wednesday, taking the total to five. The last date for nominations is February 23. Candidates can file the papers at GHMC head office between 11am and 3pm. Polling is scheduled between 8am and 4pm, and results will be declared on March 17. The votes will be counted at the LB Stadium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/799-polling-stations-for-5l-voters/articleshow/81078249.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Villagers stage protest after forest employee found dead in mysterious circumstance||UTTARKASHI: Locals of Purola village staged a sit-in protest and blocked the main road for nearly five hours after a villager — who was an out-source employee in the forest department — was found dead on the Kedarkantha trek route in mysterious circumstances on Tuesday afternoon. The victim forest employee, identified as 45-year-old Ravindra Aswal, was posted in Sankari forest check post. On the basis of the marks on his body, his kin suspect that he was murdered. The agitators could only be pacified after the officials of Govind Wildlife Sanctuary assured to conduct a police probe of the death and to compensate the aggrieved family. Komal Singh, deputy director of the Govind Wildlife Sanctuary, other officials from the local administration, and policemen held a discussion with the protesters and assured them that the death will be looked into.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/villagers-stage-protest-after-forest-employee-found-dead-in-mysterious-circumstance/articleshow/81076991.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Will go back to online hearings if rules flouted, says HC judge||Mumbai: Justice Gautam Patel of Bombay high court on Wednesday issued a notice warning that unless “minimal precautionary measures” are observed, his court will immediately suspend physical hearings and revert to online hearing in all matters. The notice displayed on the high court website states, “There is far too much overcrowding in Court Room 37 (where Justice Patel presides).” It added, “Advocates and parties are not observing safety norms and precautions. For this reason, with immediate effect, only those who have matters in court will be permitted entry.” The notice says there may be random checks and those without matters will be told to leave. “Advocates and parties should come to court only in accordance with their case time-slots specified on the board daily. The time-slots are for a reason, which should be obvious,” said the notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/will-go-back-to-online-hearings-if-rules-flouted-says-hc-judge/articleshow/81078255.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Meerut||Jaw-dropping moment caught on camera in Muzaffarnagar: Car ploughs into revelers, man behind the bride seen flying in air||MUZAFFARNAGAR: One person was killed and at least 12 others were injured when a speeding car ploughed through revelers dancing around the car of the bride -- who was heading to the wedding venue from a beauty parlour-- on Delhi-Dehradun highway in Muzaffarnagar district. A video and scores of images of the moment were shared widely on social media platforms since Tuesday night when it all happened. In the video clip, the bride in red dress and Aviators can be seen standing through the sunroof of a car and dancing. Then, all of a sudden, there was a loud thud and a man in the background was seen flying in the air due to the impact of the car. #WATCH| Car ploughs into revelers, man behind bride seen flying in the air#Muzaffarnagar #UttarPradesh https://t.co/5Iaw5Pft0C— TOI Lucknow News (@TOILucknow) 1613624496000Everything, the celebrations and the loud music, just stopped. And people were seen lying along the roadside. The groom’s cousin, Pramod Kumar 42, was killed in the accident. Police rushed to the spot and the injured were taken to a hospital. Some of them were later referred to another hospital in Meerut. Ankul Kumar, the groom, said, “We were standing near the parking. The car of the bride was about to enter the banquet hall when a car hit the people in which my cousin died and several sustained severe injuries.” Station house officer (SHO) of New Mandi police station, Anil Kaparwan, said, “A case has been registered against the driver and the car has been seized. We are trying to trace and arrest the driver.” Watch On cam: Car ploughs into revelers in UP, man behind the bride seen flying in air||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/jaw-dropping-moment-caught-on-camera-car-ploughs-into-revelers-man-behind-the-bride-seen-flying-in-air/articleshow/81076986.cms||Mohd Dilshad
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||CM delaying filling up govt posts: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress on Wednesday charged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao of deliberately delaying filling up vacancies in the government sector. TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said KCR announced to fill up 50,000 vacancies in various departments only with an eye on votes. However, state planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar denied the allegations, stating that the exact number of vacancies will be known only after the process of promotions is complete. The 11-member Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC), which conducts exams for recruitment to state services, has just two members now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-delaying-filling-up-govt-posts-cong/articleshow/81078282.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||‘Solve issues of cane farmers on priority’||Poinguinim: The Uss Sangarsh Samiti, Sanguem urged the chairperson of the Sanjivani sugar factory facilitation committee, advocate Narendra Sawaikar to solve the problems of sugarcane farmers in Goa on priority. The samiti had recently submitted a memorandum to Sawaikar detailing their problems while also calling for resumption of the factory operations for this year’s crushing season. The cultivators demanded that the general body meeting of shareholders and members of the factory be organised immediately and that the highest average of sugarcane supplied by cane cultivators to Sanjivani in the last eight years be calculated. Farmers have also asked for the payment of 75% of their compensation by end of March for the standing crop and immediate replacement of the factory’s machinery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/solve-issues-of-cane-farmers-on-priority/articleshow/81011267.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Puducherry||Puducherry: Feedback may have forced Centre’s hand on Kiran Bedi||CHENNAI: An aggressive Puducherry Congress has been exerting pressure on the Centre to relieve Kiran Bedi from gubernatorial duties. But the final trigger may have come from stakeholders that include the general public in the Union territory ahead of a crucial assembly election. Sources say the former Puducherry lieutenant governor’s “firm stance” on public issues may well have worked against her. In a sudden move, Bedi was relieved as Puducherry lieutenant governor on Tuesday. Telangana governor Tamilisai Sounderarajan now holds additional charge of the Union territory that would go to polls along with Tamil Nadu. The BJP, which has been sharpening its Puducherry strategy to make inroads into the Congress bastion, conducted an “informal survey” among industry representatives, politicians, members of the public and social activists among others, about a week ago. “The response was almost unanimous. People from various cross sections appeared to agree with chief minister V Narayanasamy on Bedi,” said sources in the BJP’s Puducherry unit. Though Bedi took the tough stand “in the larger public interest to ensure transparency in governance and an administration free of corruption”, the delay in rolling out public welfare schemes may have drawn public ire, say BJP leaders. There were apprehensions that this may impact the prospects of the BJP and its potential allies that may include N Rangasamy’s NR Congress and the AIADMK. The allies too may have demanded Bedi’s ouster as a pre-condition for an alliance. As confrontation between the Congress government and the lieutenant governor peaked over the years, Bedi was blamed for delaying development work and welfare schemes that directly benefitted people. With just two months to go for assembly election, the Centre too felt that the Congress campaign that Bedi was “preventing welfare schemes from reaching beneficiaries” may strike a chord with the people, said sources. On February 2, the BJP appointed Union minister of state for parliamentary affairs, heavy industries and public enterprises Arjun Ram Meghwal as Puducherry in-charge for the assembly polls and Karnataka MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar as co-in charge. Shortly after that, the leaders arrived in Puducherry to undertake a meticulous exercise of getting feedback from the various cross sections on the prevailing situation in Puducherry, the government’s performance and the frequent and open clashes between the CM and LG. The response was unanimous. “It was not favourable towards Bedi,” said a senior BJP leader, seeking anonymity. About a week later, a report was submitted to the Centre and action followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/feedback-may-have-forced-centres-hand-on-bedi/articleshow/81078280.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Hsg society residents oppose HT power line||Hyderabad: Residents of Serene County a housing society located in Gachibowli rued that Transmission Corporation of Telangana (TSTransco) officials have started digging the land inside their housing society to overlay 440 KV high voltage lines along the two towers in their society, without furnishing court orders. Previously, the residents had approached the Telangana High Court opposing the decision of the TSTransco to overlay high voltage lines adjacent to their houses, citing health hazards. In October 2020, they also staged a protest demanding that officials opt for underground cabling pointing out how their proposed move would endanger the lives of around 5,000 people. While their writ petition was subsequently dismissed, residents protested the works on Wednesday. “Online status shows that the petition was dismissed but orders have not been issued ‘on paper’ yet. Worse, we are not being allowed to enter the site where the works are underway. Cops have also been deployed,” said Hema Pratapa a resident of the housing society. On Wednesday, dozens of cops were pressed into service fearing protest by residents.  Officials said they were following protocol. “The writ petition has been dismissed; we are following electricity act,” said Raghava Reddy, TSTransco executive engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hsg-society-residents-oppose-ht-power-line/articleshow/81078283.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Pink ballot for grad MLC polls||Hyderabad: Pink ballot paper will be used for the two graduate MLC elections to be held on March 14. For the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls, white ballot papers were used. “Instructions have been given to the government printing press to keep pink colour paper bundles. Usually ballot papers are printed by private printers but for the MLC elections the election commission has decided to print them in the government press,” said an official of the GHMC election wing. The process of printing begins only after the withdrawal of the nominations. “The order for printing of ballots will be given only after the finalisation of the candidates. After receiving the names, a thorough spell check of the candidates’ names, their symbols etc will be done before giving the print order. After printing, the ballot papers will be kept under tight security at the Lal Bahadur Stadium,” the official said. As the system of proportional representation by means of a single transferable vote is used in the MLC election, the ballot paper will be a little different. “The voter has to express his preferences using numericals like 1, 2, 3 etc in the column adjacent the names of the candidates,” another official said. According to GHMC sources, indelible ink will be marked on the left forefinger of the voter. There will be 799 polling stations and 5.6 lakh people have registered themselves as voters. The polling time will be between 8 am and 4 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pink-ballot-for-grad-mlc-polls/articleshow/81078251.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Poll code may further delay appointment of university VCs in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Appointment of vice-chancellors (VCs) to universities in Telangana is likely to be delayed by almost a month due to the model code of conduct in force in view of the council elections. As per Election Commission (EC) schedule, election for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda graduates’ constituencies would take place on March 14, with the election procedures slated to conclude only by March 22. In view of this, VC appointments may be deferred. Official sources confirmed to TOI that the state government has not written any letter to the EC seeking exemption to appoint VCs for the state universities. However, Osmania University (OU) research scholars have submitted a letter to the EC on Wednesday seeking exemption and going ahead with appointment of VCs. Scholars argue that the process of VC appointment began much before the election notification was issued. “University students have been facing problems such as academics, hostels, recruitments, which are not addressed by any of the OU authorities… Only with the appointment of VCs, most problems can be addressed. Request you to kindly consider and exempt Telangana government from election code of conduct to appoint VCs to universities in Telangana,” the research scholars said in a representation to chief electoral officer, Telangana, Shashank Goel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poll-code-may-further-delay-appointment-of-univ-vcs-in-t/articleshow/81078253.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' protest: Farm groups gear up for ‘rail roko’ today||CHANDIGARH: On a call given by Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, the farm organisations are all set to disrupt trains as part of 4-hour ‘rail roko’ on Thursday. The rail traffic will be disrupted across Punjab and Haryana from 12noon to 4pm. The farm organisations have made preparations to make the event a success to exert pressure on the Central government to repeal the farm laws. The activists of farm organisations from Punjab and from other states are mobilising the activists and farmers to participate in rail roko. BKU (Ekta Dakonda) state press secretary Balwant Singh said the activists of 30 farm organisations would disrupt the rail traffic at various places across Punjab for 4 hours to lodge protest against the Centre. Earlier, the farmers had disrupted the road traffic across the country for three hours on February 6. In Haryana, farmer unions would hold ‘rail roko’ at several places. On Wednesday, farmer leaders held a meeting to make the ‘rail roko’ protest a success at Karnal’s Gharaunda railway station. BKU (Charuni) Karnal president Ajay Rana said, “Our protest will be peaceful.” The Karnal administration has also made elaborate arrangements to maintain law and order. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said, “Two police companies will be deployed at Gharaunda railway station.” Farmers have also planned to stop trains at multiple points in Jind district. Narwana town, Julana, Safidon and Barsola village, which connect Punjab-Delhi and other rail routes, will be the centre of protest. Villagers from every section of society in Barsola village will ensure supply of edible items, snacks and tea for the protesters. Farmers will stop trains at one point in Kaithal district Railway officials said that they will halt the trains at junctions during the protest time. Police arrangements Haryana Police as well as civil authorities claimed to have made comprehensive arrangements in the wake of 4-hour ‘rail roko’ call by farmer outfits for Thursday. Besides deployment of duty magistrates from the districts and senior bureaucrats at division level, the home department has also assigned special duties to the officers of the level of additional director general of police (ADGP) and inspector general-level officers (IGs) across the state to monitor the situation. “We have made arrangements to ensure that the situation remains under control. We are in touch with the officials from India Railways. Depending on the sensitivity of the stations or districts, we have made the deployment of police forces. Our SPs and other senior officials are already having dialogue with leaders to ensure that it passes off peacefully,” said Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava. Box: Nadda meets MPs, MLAs BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday evening had interaction with MPs and MLAs from Haryana and UP to discuss the current situation arising out of the ongoing farmers’ stir. Union ministers Piyush Goel and Narendra Singh Tomar too have attended the meeting held at BJP headquarters in New Delhi, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-all-set-for-4-hour-rail-roko-today/articleshow/81080063.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mayor finds quarantine violation by four international flyers||MUMBAI: In a surprise inspection conducted by Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar and deputy mayor Suhas Wadkar on Wednesday amidst the rising Covid-19 cases, it was found that four international travellers who were to quarantine themselves in a hotel at Santacruz had fled instead. Currently passengers coming from the UK, Europe, Middle East and South Africa have to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine. Taking serious cognizance of the fleeing of passengers the mayor then directed that action be immediately initiated against the hotel authorities and the four travellers as well. The mayor said that the Covid-19 case scenario in several countries is worrisome and if travellers are acting in such a manner and not cooperating with the BMC then she would have to discuss the same with the municipal commissioner. She said that once the passengers are brought to the hotel it is the responsibility of the hotel owner as well to ensure they stay quarantined. “The hotel owner should have informed the concerned police station and the municipal corporation about the incident, but they did not inform anyone,” she said. The mayor said that stern action needs to be taken against those involved in the incident as such an incident can bother others as well. Pednekar on Wednesday travelled by the local train and requested citizens to follow strict measures to curb the spread of Covid-19. Pednekar told TOI that she boarded the local train from Byculla and during the travel spoke to passengers asking them to stay alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mayor-finds-quarantine-violation-by-4-intl-flyers/articleshow/81078330.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two drug peddlers arrested from Nampally hotel||HYDERABAD: Task Force along with Nampally cops raided hotel Royal Residency at Nampally and arrested inter-state drug peddlers. Accused are Ifthekhar Ahmed Waqar Ahmed, a watch mechanic from Mumbai and N Krishna Kishore Reddy, a marketing executive from Film Nagar. Police seized 30 grams of heroin and 30 grams of mephedrone, all worth Rs 3.5 lakh, along with Rs 7,000 cash and two cell phones. Waqar came in contact with city-based drug peddler Mohammed Salman of Banjara Hills and started supplying him drugs. He roped in Krishna to peddle drugs, DCP, Task Force, P Radha Kishan Rao said. Waqar came to city with drugs as per Salman’s request and when Kishore met him to procure drugs, cops nabbed them. Salman is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-drug-peddlers-arrested-from-nampally-hotel/articleshow/81078288.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Man tries to save sheep, attacked by leopard in Telangana's Kamareddy district||HYDERABAD: A 37-year-old man was attacked by a leopard in Kamareddy district on Wednesday. Nayaka Mallesh of Somarpet in Yellareddy mandal, who was injured in the attack, was hospitalised. The movements of the leopard in the recent past were observed by the villagers as it had killed sheep for prey. According to sources, Mallesh was with his sheep and noticed the leopard, following which it attacked him. The victim was admitted to the government civil hospital in Yellareddy. Forest officials visited the hospital to get more details from the victim. Following the leopard attack, the villagers of Somarpet are in living in fear. “The leopard has to be caged and left in the forest. We will put pressure on forest department officials to act fast,” said Patlola Janardhan, a leader of Yellareddy mandal. The victim said he had heard a sound at 2.30 am on Wednesday and came out of his house to see what happened. He saw a leopard trying to prey on the sheep. Keeping a tyre in front of him for safety, Mallesh tried to scare the animal away. “The leopard had already preyed on a sheep which had been kept in front of the house. It was when it had attacked another sheep that Mallesh came out and noticed the leopard,” Janardhan said. Locals said that in the past too, a leopard had preyed on a cow in the village. With the latest instance of an attack on a person, the villagers want the leopard caught at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-tries-to-save-sheep-attacked-by-leopard-in-kamareddy-dist/articleshow/81078293.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 18, 2021||Meerut||Meerut zone GST unit nabs cement trader from Delhi for Rs 274cr ITC fraud||Meerut: Sleuths of Meerut zonal unit of Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) have arrested a cement trader and mastermind of Rs 274 crore GST fraud from his "secret office" in Mayur Vihar (Delhi). Jain was produced before a special court of Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) in Meerut and sent to jail. Accused Sanjay Jain is allegedly involved in availing and passing on of fake Input Tax Credit (ITC) to various traders and end-users through his six fake parent companies and seven intermediary firms.  Scrutiny of GST returns revealed that fake ITC to the tune of Rs 77 crore were availed by 12 Delhi NCR-based entities out of numerous end-users in the chain. Multiple searches were conducted at different locations in Delhi NCR in December last year, but he managed to escape. Other investigating agencies, including the income tax department, were also chasing Jain, said sources.  According to additional director general, DGGI, Pradyumn Tripathi, "Officers of the Meerut zonal unit kept a close surveillance on his aides, residences, farm houses and other possible hideouts, but he kept shifting his location frequently. It was learnt that he was mostly staying in Jain temples in NCR region. Several attempts and visits were made during the past two months to nab Jain, and finally on Saturday his close associate was apprehended." "Based on the leads shared by the associate, a secret office (which was created after the raid by the income tax department) of Jain was traced. A search was conducted at the secret office and incriminating documents, evidences and rubber stamps related to 56 fake firms were recovered. After a well coordinated search operation, Jain was finally apprehended from Mayur Vihar, Delhi, where he had come to visit his friend," added Tripathi.  According to intelligence officer Aishwarya Attrey, "In his statement, Sanjay Jain has categorically admitted that he created eight fake companies in the names of his family members, employees, etc, wherein he issued fake GST invoices having value of more than Rs 1,000 crore involving fraudulent ITC to the tune of Rs 285 crore."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-zone-gst-unit-nabs-cement-trader-from-delhi-for-rs-274cr-itc-fraud/articleshow/81077053.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC officials issued memos over defunct public toilets in city||Hyderabad: Ahead of the Swachh Survekshan-2021 survey, the municipal administration & urban development (MAUD) department issued memos to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) deputy commissioners who failed to ensure that public washrooms are operational. Though hundreds of public washrooms were installed in the city in mid-2020, a majority of them are not operational. The memo was issued by the municipal administration & urban development (MAUD) department. As per GHMC records, there are 4,271 new public toilets built within its limits. Majority of the new washrooms installed are either locked or have no sewage connection. The stretch connecting Film Nagar and Khajaguda, NTR Marg, Road No. 72 Jubilee Hills and Nanakramguda road are some of the places where washrooms are not functioning. The washrooms were built under various business models, including build-operate-transfer (BOT) and public-private-partnership model (PPP). In most cases, the onus of maintaining the washrooms lies with the private agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-officials-issued-memos-over-defunct-public-toilets-in-city/articleshow/81078332.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Meerut||Youth rapes cousin, 8; village panchayat orders 4 slaps & Rs 1lakh fine against him||Bijnor: A village panchayat in UP’s Bijnor district announced four slaps and Rs 1lakh fine as punishment to a youth, 16, for allegedly raping his eight-year-old cousin. The matter has been deemed as “settled” by local police as the family members of the victim have not filed a complaint. The boy meanwhile has been recuperating in a private hospital since Sunday evening when the alleged assault took place in Bijnor’s Nehtor region.According to villagers, the youth lured the boy, a neighbour, to a field on the outskirts of his village and allegedly sexually assaulted him. The boy was rescued after some passersby heard his cry and brought him to the village. From there, the child was taken to a private hospital in Bijnor’s Noorpur town.Back home, on Tuesday, scores of villagers gathered and called a panchayat. With the accused in attendance, the panchayat announced a quick punishment-- four tight slaps and Rs 1lakh as compensation to the victim’s family.When contacted, station house officer (SHO) of Nahtaur, Jai Kumar, said, “The matter pertains to the same family. We had gone to the village but the victim’s family refused to file complaint. We don’t know about panchayat and its decision. It’s not legal.” When contacted, a senior police officer assured action in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-rapes-cousin-8-village-panchayat-orders-4-slaps-rs-1lakh-fine-against-him/articleshow/81077052.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||I’ve lost loved ones to accident: Jr NTR||Hyderabad: Tollywood actor Junior NTR has emphasised the need for responsible driving while recounting the road accident deaths of two of his family members. Participating in the first Cyberabad traffic police annual conference at Gachibowli on Wednesday, Jr NTR recounted the road accident deaths of his father Nandamuri Hari Krishna and his brother Janaki Ram. “Always remember that your family is waiting for you. We have to feel responsible and follow good road safety procedures to safeguard ourselves,” Jr NTR added. At the event, the actor flagged off two highway patrol vehicles which would be deployed on the Hyderabad-Bijapur highway. Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said they were placing special focus on hit-and-run cases and Cyberabad police were also very strict in cancellation of driving licences of the traffic rule violators. At the event, a new initiative ‘Save Accident Victims on the Road’ (SAVIOR) was launched to spread importance of the golden hour treatment. Malcolm Wolfe of Streetwise Driving School said, “Instead of testing 24 skills to grant a licence, we are currently checking only three skills to grant driver’s licence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ive-lost-loved-ones-to-accident-jr-ntr/articleshow/81078327.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||MSRDC says it will do what is best for people at Carter Rd||Mumbai: Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has agreed to explore construction of an underpass/overpass or a signal system for smooth access to pedestrians on Bandra’s Carter Road, at the landing point of Versova-Bandra sea link (VBSL). MSRDC, however, said VBSL’s connectors will be to Carter Road at grade level (existing road level, used by pedestrians). MSRDC said a ‘best-suited system’ will be finalised to ensure seamless connectivity for pedestrians on the iconic sea-facing promenade. MSRDC also agreed to a site visit with BMC officials and citizen groups to share VBSL plan and take suggestions. TOI had first reported about objections by residents on February 3. Residents led by Congress corporator Asif Zakaria had recently objected as VBSL’s landing arms outside Otter’s Club as it will eat into the promenade and hamper pedestrian movement. When Zakaria wrote to MSRDC minister Eknath Shinde, chief engineer C B Patil replied that the connector will be on Carter Road at grade level. “Work at present is to connect it to the road at grade level. Junction improvement and local traffic movement will be dealt with separately, as per BMC and traffic police suggestions and land availability. For smooth access of pedestrian movement, all proposals will be explored, and the best one will be finalised,” Patil said. “Options like underpass/overpass must be finalised now,” Zakaria said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msrdc-says-it-will-do-what-is-best-for-people-at-carter-rd/articleshow/81080680.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 18, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Additional regularizations deferred, Kerala govt creates 3,051 new posts||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With pressure mounting on the government over regularization of contract employees in various departments, the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday decided to “defer” the process. Instead, it took the call to create 3,051 new posts. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, while explaining the decision, said opposition parties are trying to mislead people on the regularization issue. “Hence, it was decided the government should not provide an opportunity for them to propagate such false propaganda. The government has regularized only those who have completed ten or more years of service in various temporary posts. There is nothing wrong in that and all guidelines were followed,” he said. The CM, however, turned down the demand for a discussion with agitating PSC rank holders. He even made it clear that if the LDF comes back to power, it will further protect those in temporary positions. Vijayan also emphasized that there will be no rethink on regularizations made till date. “The government has regularized employees in departments not covered by PSC rank lists. It was done on humanitarian grounds and involved those who have completed 15-20 years in temporary posts. The government is committed to protecting their interests and we assure them that we will do it within three or four months,” the chief minister said, hinting at LDF being voted back to power in the upcoming assembly election. The lion’s share of new posts created is in the health department: 2,027. Of these, 1,200 are in the health-services department, 527 in medical education and 300 in the Ayush department. In addition, 33 posts were sanctioned for the Malabar Cancer Centre. Another 17 were created for the Punalur taluk hospital. It has been decided to create 772 new posts for Kannur Medical College also. An assistant professor will be named for setting up a paediatric gastroenterology department at SAT Hospital. Non teaching staff (four posts) for this wing will have to be sourced from existing staff at the hospital or can be appointed on contract basis. The cabinet also decided to create 151 new posts in 35 aided higher secondary schools. In addition, 24 HSST junior positions are to be upgraded. In three central jails, one post each of a clinical psychologist will be created. A counsellor will be appointed in jails with at least 250 inmates. For the newly set up Tavanur central jail 161 new posts will be created. Moreover, 22 posts in centre for continuing education, 54 in Arabic aided colleges, 14 junior lecturer posts in government music colleges, nine in the state bio control lab, 30 non-teaching staff positions in Kerala university of fisheries and ocean studies, seven in Kozhikode government physical education college and 100 non-teaching posts in 28 arts & science colleges were also announced. It was also decided to set up five new fire and rescue service stations in the state for which 65 posts were created. The cabinet also decided to invite applications for the 249 posts reserved for sportspersons. In Kozhikode corporation, 20 posts of junior health inspectors will be created. Fifty Malayalam translators will be named to munsiff magistrate courts. Additionally, 32 Adivasi literacy instructors will be posted in the forest and local self government departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/addl-regularizations-deferred-govt-creates-3051-new-posts/articleshow/81078318.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Bareilly||Taken for thief, 31-year-old beaten to death in Bareilly||BAREILLY: Taken for “cattle thieves”, two people belonging to a minority community were allegedly thrashed by a group of locals in Bareilly’s Izzatnagar locality late Sunday night. One of the accused, however, succumbed to his injuries during the treatment at a city hospital on Wednesday. The post-mortem report of the victim — Rehaan (31) — ascertained that he died due to antemortem head injuries (head injury caused by a blunt object when alive), said police. Saba, the victim’s wife, meanwhile, alleged that her husband — a taxi driver — and his friend Shahrukh were caught urinating on the wall of a house by the owner and they were thrashed. “Police informed me that my husband was admitted at a hospital after being beaten on the suspicion of theft. Rehaan was lying unconscious and given his serious condition, he was shifted to a higher medical facility in Bareilly. However, doctors in Bareilly referred him to a Delhi hospital, but Rehaan died in the ambulance midway.” “My husband and his friend were thrashed by house owner Nandan Singh and his aides, who leveled a false charge of theft on the duo," alleged Saba. “My husband was murdered. I want strict action against all the people involved in the crime.” Based on her complaint, an FIR was registered against Nandan Singh, a retired Army subedar, and others under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) at Izzatnagar police station, while section 302 (punishment for murder) was added to the FIR after police received the autopsy report. Two people, including the main accused, have been arrested. Bareilly SSP Sankalp Sharma said, “Rehaan and Shahrukh were caught by Nandan Singh and his family on the suspicion of robbery. They were being thrashed when police rescued them. Rehaan had suffered serious head injuries. We had registered an FIR under IPC sections 307 and 323 on the complaint of Rehaan’s wife. Now, section 302 (murder) was added to the FIR. We have arrested main accused Nandan Singh and he was sent to jail.” “We are trying to identify other people involved in the crime with the help of Shahrukh, the prime witness. Besides, a video of the crime has also surfaced. We are further investigating the matter with the help of Shahrukh and the video clip and won’t spare any accused,” added the SSP. It was third such incident over two years when suspected robbers were beaten to death. On September 5, 2020, a suspected robber was allegedly tied to a tree and lynched by locals in Aonla town. Similarly, locals in Izzatnagar locality in Bareilly city had allegedly beaten to death a “mentally challenged” person suspecting him to be a cattle thief on August 11, 2019. In all these cases, the victims were from a minority community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/taken-for-thief-31-year-old-man-beaten-to-death/articleshow/81078334.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Lawyer couple hacked on busy road in Telangana, lens on local TRS leader||HYDERABAD: A lawyer couple, known for filing public interest ligations (PILs) in the Telangana high court on human rights issues, was on Wednesday afternoon hacked to death with sickles in the middle of a busy road in Paddapalli district. Local TRS leader and Manthani mandal president, Kunta Srinu, is believed to be one of the assailants and is the main accused in the double murder. A video made by a passerby shows two men repeatedly attacking the victim even as buses and vehicles drive past. No one tries to stop the attack or sound an alarm. The couple, Gattu Vamana Rao and his wife Nagamani, were fighting a number of cases in court. They had even approached the high court saying they were being harassed by the police after they had filed a PIL in the custodial death of a youth in Karimnagar last year. The court had on February 8 extended the stay on the various cases filed against them. The couple had also upset Srinu after they opposed a temple allegedly coming up on government land in a village in Peddapalli. After the attack, one of the passersby recorded a video of Vamana Rao lying in a pool of blood in the middle of the road and stating that Kunta Srinu was behind the assault. He died while he was being shifted to a hospital. Nagamani is believed to have died on the spot. BJP and Congress accused the state government and police of not giving protection to the couple when there was a threat to their life. Police officials, however, said they had not received any application for protection. The couple was returning to Peddapalli from Manthani, about 200 km from Hyderabad, when they were attacked at around 2.30 pm. The SUV in which they were travelling was intercepted with another car by the accused. The assailants attacked Vamana Rao with sickles even before he could step out of his car. When Nagamami tried to intervene, she too was attacked. Vamana Rao managed to step out of the car, but he was pushed to the ground and hacked. The victims’ driver escaped unhurt. He told the police later that Srinu was among the assailants. Vamana Rao’s father, G Kishan Rao, also gave a complaint to the police saying he suspected Srinu and and another local, Vasanth Rao, to be behind the killings. Inspector general of police, Y Nagi Reddy, told TOI that they were in the process of verifying if the TRS leader was among the assailants. “Vamana Rao had gone to meet his brother and get his signature against the construction of a temple in their village,” Reddy said. “Srinu was in favour of the temple being built, but the couple saw it as encroachment on government land. We will get more details soon.” Manthani Congress MLA D Sridhar Babu, who reached the murder spot, said, “Who is protecting these criminals? Ramagundam police commissioner V Satyanarayana should take responsibility for the murders. In fact, we had warned cops that there was tension in the village but nothing was done.” Watch Shocking: Advocate couple brutally murdered in Telangana||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lawyer-couple-hacked-on-busy-road-lens-on-local-trs-leader/articleshow/81080648.cms||Srinath Vudali
February 18, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||This does not address our woes, say agitators||Thiruvananthapuram: The government’s decision to suspend regularization of contract employees is a welcome move, but that does not address our problems and the protest in front of the Secretariat will continue, agitating PSC rankholders said on Wednesday. They demanded that the government appoint those figuring in the rank lists to posts to which temporary employees are now being regularized. One of the protesters, Liju, who last week had threatened to self-immolate, said the government is free to appoint contract staff on a temporary basis. Such posts, however, should be later regularized and filled from the PSC rank lists. The chief minister has said that only one-fifth of those in rank lists can be given appointment. The government can at least ensure this, he said. Protesters said they have not demanded anything that is impractical and that they have not been able to hold discussions with any minister. Another protester, Laya Rajesh, who is a rankholder in the last grade employee list, said the chief minister has not fully understood the problem. “We are ready for talks with the government anywhere, anytime,” she said. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran visited the agitators and demanded that the government reveal the number of ‘backdoor appointments’ it has made. He said the government has made thousands of appointments and the sudden decision to put on hold regularizations is because the high court has asked it to explain if such actions are in accordance with rules. The government is trying to fool protesters by not cancelling any of the illegal appointments and the decision not to hold talks with protesters is condemnable, he said. BJP leader Sobha Surendran on Wednesday launched a 48-hour hunger strike in support of the rankholders. She chided the government’s reticence in talking to agitators and warned that it would have to pay a heavy price if it turns a blind eye to the protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/this-does-not-address-our-woes-say-agitators/articleshow/81078339.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Doctor, health worker test positive after receiving first shot||MUMBAI: A community health worker and a doctor from BYL Nair Hospital tested positive for coronavirus, days after receiving first doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. The cases serve as a reminder that vaccines don’t work instantly, and recipients must follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, experts said. Both patients suffered from moderate infection and had to be hospitalised. The 46-year-old Nair doctor tested positive nine days after vaccination and the health volunteer, in her 50s, four days after. Both had received Covishield. The doctor took the shot on January 30 and did not suffer from major side-effects. He developed bodyache, fever and runny nose on February 9, following which he got an antigen test done. When the rapid antigen test came positive, he did a confirmatory RT-PCR test, which too came positive. Thereafter, he got admitted to SevenHills Hospital in Marol, where he is under treatment. “I am recovering now and glad that I didn’t need any oxygen support,” said the doctor, adding that he believes the vaccination was no way related to his infection. It takes a few days to weeks for the vaccine to work. Dr Mukesh Desai, immunologist from Wadia Hospital, said such cases cannot be termed as “vaccine failure”. “It takes anywhere from 10-15 days for the initial immune response to develop. We can call it a vaccine failure if after 15 days of getting two doses, one develops an infection,” he said. Another doctor from Sion Hospital said the vaccine is not 100% efficacious. “Hence, the protocols of masking and social distancing have to be followed,” he said. The ANM (Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery) worker, who is involved in community health programmes, tested positive in mid-January. She, along with a colleague, took the vaccine a few days after the drive kicked off on January 16. “About four days later, she came down with fever. She had to be hospitalised and was even started on Remdesivir,” said an official from the ward where the ANM is posted in a dispensary. She’s recovered now and resumed work. Similar cases were reported from Amravati where over a dozen health workers tested positive within days of taking the first shot. Covishield's effcicacy has been linked to time interval between two doses. WHO has said it is the most effective when the interval is 8-12 weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doc-health-worker-test-positive-after-receiving-first-shot/articleshow/81078345.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 18, 2021||Pune||Sena urges Thackeray to dissolve PMC||Pune: The Shiv Sena’s city unit has accused the BJP-led standing committee in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) of misusing Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act provisions to propose widening of 335 six-metre roads to nine metres and requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to dissolve the civic body. In a letter to Thackeray on Tuesday, the Sena leaders accused the PMC civic body of proposing widening of the roads to favour some “select developers and builders” and “inconveniencing thousands of small bungalow owners in the city”. The BJP has refuted the allegations and said the Shiv Sena was politicizing the road widening proposal initiated at the behest of the Thackeray-led MVA government. “Instead of accusing us, the Sena leaders should ask Thackeray to withdraw the guidelines given to the PMC,” PMC standing committee chief and BJP leader Hemant Rasane told TOI. All four senior Sena leaders from Pune, city chief Sanjay More, PMC unit chief Pruthviraj Sutar and two joint coordinators Sham Deshpande and Prashant Badhe, have signed the joint letter issued to Thackeray, who is also the party chief. Deshpande said, “No discussion took place and the state’s approval was bypassed while approving the road widening proposal. We object to the way the proposal was pushed through.” Rasane said the road widening proposal was tabled by the civic administration in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government and hence the state’s nod was not needed. Even the Unified Development Control Regulations (UDCR), released by the MVA government, made it mandatory for all corporations across the state to widen the six-metre roads to nine metre, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sena-urges-thackeray-to-dissolve-pmc/articleshow/81078336.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 18, 2021||Patna||Want caste-based census for better development, says Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: One-and-a-half months before the beginning of Census India-2021, CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday advocated for a caste-based census across the country. “A caste-based census will give a correct figure about the population of each caste. It will help governments take a better decision for the development and welfare of people,” Nitish told the media at JD(U) office. Nitish also said the Centre should implement the Karpoori Thakur’s formula of reservation to the extremely backward classes (EBCs) in the central government jobs. The Census India-2021 will be conducted from April 1 to September 30 through a mobile phone application, moving away from the traditional pen and paper. Enumerators would seek the mobile phone number of the family head besides other informations about toilets, TV, internet, vehicles owned, source of drinking water and other matters during the house-listing phase of the exercise, a census official told TOI. Nitish said caste-based census must be done in the country at least once. “Earlier, such census used to take place in the country, but the practice was stopped after the independence,” he said. Recalling a unanimous resolution passed by both houses of the state legislature last year demanding caste-based census, Nitish said, “It is not only me but all members of Bihar Vidhan Sabha and Bihar Vidhan Parishad passed a unanimous resolution in this regard and sent its copy to the Centre last year.” When asked whether the 12 vacant MLC seats of nomination quota would be filled up before the beginning of Budget session on February 19, Nitish, “You all know we want to do every work.” Regarding his meeting with some elected representatives of other political parties recently, Nitish said, “Elected representatives of any political parties can meet me as the CM. When an MP, MLA or MLC wants to meet me, I give him appointment.” Nitish admitted that LJP MP from Nawada Chandan Kumar and former JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar had met him recently. Both Chandan and an MLA of Kanhaiya’s party CPI met him with some issues of their constituencies. “But, there was no political discussion with them,” he clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/want-caste-based-census-for-better-devpt-says-nitish/articleshow/81078342.cms||Madan Kumar
February 18, 2021||Meerut||Scribes held for extorting Rs 1.6L from betting mafia||Meerut: Bulandshahr police arrested two local journalists who extorted Rs 1.6 lakh from a betting mafia with a promise to ‘manage’ circle officer (city and SP city). The two scribes, Kuldeep Saxena and Ansh Kaushik, run a weekly tabloid and run a portal.According to SSP Santosh Singh, “After taking Rs 1.6 lakh, the duo demanded yet another Rs 1 lakh from Ashok Kumar, a former betting mafia, threatening to publish the news in their tabloid if he failed to deliver. Soon after, Ashok contacted police. Two more accomplices of the duo are at large. So far, Rs 90,000 has been recovered from their possession.” Police has booked all four under IPC section 420 (cheating), 384 (extortion) and relevant sections of the anti-corruption Act. Currently, police are on the lookout for other two men, Manoj Thakur and Ravindra Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/scribes-held-for-extorting-rs-1-6l-from-betting-mafia/articleshow/81077059.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 18, 2021||Chennai||Cops rescue 435 kids in Chennai in 15 days||CHENNAI: Police in the state have rescued 1,883 children including 435 in Chennai, most of them either forced into begging or stranded on roads for various reasons, as part of ‘Operation Smile’ conducted across the country from February 1 to 15.  Under the same programme, the government railway police (GRP) rescued about 1,080 children from railway stations across the state during the period. In Chennai, a special team formed to track and rescue the 435 children — 361 boys and 74 girls in the 8-17 age group — used the help of volunteers of various NGOs in the field and activists. Talking about the GRP programme at a function held on February 15 at Dr MGR Chennai Central station, C Sylendra Babu, DGP, said three-member all-women teams headed by a sub-inspector posted at all 47 GRP railway stations in the state under the programme would continue their efforts. Inspector general V Vanitha, deputy inspector general M V Jaya Gowri, P Rajan, SP (railways) and Southern Railway chief security commissioner Birendrakumar were among those who participated in the event. Appreciating the efforts of officials of the child welfare committee and the Tamil Nadu Protection of Child Rights, Sylendra Babu said that 764 boys and 102 girls were rescued during the 15-day drive. Of the 11,244 children rescued from railways stations in TN from 2016 to 2021, 2,600 children were handed over to their parents and 8,644 sent to child care institutions, he said. Anyone seeking to pass on information about all types of crime or lodge security-related complaints can reach the GRP personnel 24x7 on helpline number 1512 or on mobile number 9962500500, he said. Rail passengers are also advised to inform the railway police about any missing children they notice, he added. On February 2, a day after the launch of the special drive, the GRP personnel had conducted a special meeting with autorickshaw drivers and call taxi drivers at Chennai Central station to create awareness about the need to inform the authorities about children found abandoned or stranded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-rescue-435-kids-in-city-in-15-days/articleshow/81078338.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||Home isolation ignored; Akola, Amravati, Yavatmal see community spread||NAGPUR: Amravati division deputy director of health services (DDHS) Dr Rajkumar Chauhan on Wednesday said the five districts of Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Washim and Buldhana was witnessing a second community spread mainly because of rampant breach of home isolation by asymptomatic positive patients. “There is no index patient in some pockets of Amravati,” said Chauhan, who is based in Akola, told TOI. The observation came on a day when Amravati reported the most number of Covid deaths (6) in Vidarbha for the first time while Akola crossed 200 mark after over two months and Buldhana reported 199. The Amravati division totally reported 1,053 cases as compared to 727 in the six districts of Nagpur division. Denying that it was a second wave, Dr Chauhan said, “It is more of second community spread. Entire families are testing positive now. Akola, Amravati and Yavatmal are reporting this trend.” The rising cases led to local administration in Yavatmal, Wardha, Washim, Buldhana and Amravati issued guidelines to check superspreader events (marriages) and social gatherings. Schools were ordered to shut in Buldhana till February 28 while Washim and Wardha limited all gatherings to not more than 50. On Tuesday, the Nagpur city administration had issued similar norms. Dr Chauhan said asymptomatic patients are staying at home only for three to four days and then venturing out. “The patient remains infectious for more than 8 days and is spreading Covid in the whole town. We can’t even stamp their hands for home quarantine now. Earlier, patients could be easily identified and alert citizens would ensure they stay at home,” he said. Dr Chauhan, who toured the affected districts on Tuesday and Wednesday, said the administration had wanted to admit all patients to Covid care centres. “But there was stiff opposition from the asymptomatic patients,” he said. Medical, doctors, nurses and other health staff too are testing positive in large numbers at Akola GMCH, and the district hospital and Panjabrao Deshmukh Medical College, both at Amravati. The situation at Nagpur GMCH too is worrisome as 40 medical students have so far tested positive. Dr Chauhan said positivity has increased substantially while infectivity of the virus is under study. Amravati civil surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam said every “other patient with fever and loose motions are being found positive”. Dr Chauhan said diarrhoea is an associated symptom “but is not necessarily seen in all”. Nikam said five random samples from Amravati have been send to NIV Pune for genome sequencing. “We have increased testing. Only one sample of a UK-returned woman was sent to Pune from Amravati. Her genome sequencing sample for UK strain tested negative,” he said. Dr Chauhan said, “If containment zones are declared in Dastur Nagar, Rajapeth, Rukumini Nagar in Amravati district, the community spread may come in control. People have forgotten Covid. We did well till December-January. People are under impression that vaccine has come and there is not need to follow safety protocol.” He added that this is the result of giving up mask, distancing and sanitisers. More number of admissions of Covid patients are also taking place in the division. Dr Chauhan also said that they have withdrawn permission of private labs to conduct antigen test (RAT). “RAT will be only at public labs as there is no one to monitor the private labs,” he said. They have started five RTPCR testing centres in Amravati. “Testing camps would be held in schools too as they are closed till Feb 28. Our teams would spread out and survey people. Anyone having for cough, cold or fever would be asked to get tested. In Akola, we have tied up with IMA halls for testing people who may not wish to visit government hospitals,” he said. Chauhan said he inspected Amravati hospitals and visited hotspots. “I visited a couple of pockets in Achalpur, some hospitals and conducted death audit. We have seen 60+ and comorbids are succumbing to Covid more. Also, late referral, later recovery is seen among others,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-isolation-ignored-akola-amt-ytl-see-community-spread/articleshow/81078350.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Capt stops on the way to meet protesters||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday made an “impromptu stop” to interact with those sitting at Chandigarh’s Matka Chowk in solidarity with the farmers’ agitation. Amarinder later tweeted a video with the caption, “People of all age groups are protesting across India against these anti-farmer laws. This evening, I joined some citizens at Matka Chowk in Punjab’s capital Chandigarh. Again appeal to the Centre to not take this protest lightly and to repeal these laws.” An official spokesperson later said during the interaction, the chief minister expressed his government’s support for the farmers protesting against the farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-stops-on-the-way-to-meet-protesters/articleshow/81080073.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Coimbatore||Chit fund owner held for cheating in Tirupur||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur city police on Tuesday arrested a chit fund company owner for cheating 30 people of Rs 59.68 lakh. According to the Tirupur police, a resident of Valayankadu in Tirupur, who had deposited Rs 3.20 lakh in Veerachinnamal Chit Fund owned by Muniyandi, had registered the complaint. “When the investor tried to approach Muniyandi at the time of maturity in 2020, he went into hiding. Police filed a case against him under sections of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978, 76 (1) of the Chit Fund Act 1982 and Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. A special team tracked Muniyandi’s cellphone location and bank transactions, and arrested him from Omalaur in Salem district on Tuesday. He was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/chit-fund-owner-held-for-cheating-in-tirupur/articleshow/81078348.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Vadodara||Annual inspection by WR GM||Vadodara: Alok Kansal, general manager (GM) of Western Railway (WR) on Wednesday conducted annual inspection of Geratpur-Vadodara and Dabhoi-Pratapnagar sections of Vadodara railway division. During the inspection, Kansal inspected passenger facilities of Nadiad, Anand and Vadodara railway station sof this section. Kansal inspected various other works related to staff facilities, security, infrastructure and development. He inspected bridges, level crossing gates, railway colony,curves, gangs and tracks in this section while speed trial was carried out on Dabhoi-Pratapnagar section. E-launching of prepaid metering, gang tools and rest rooms at Nadiad, Vadodara yard and staff quarters and e-inauguration of staff facilities like upgradation of medical stores of Etola and Pratapnagar railway hospital was done during his visit. Kansal appreciated exhibitions put up by various branches of the division at station. Amit Gupta, divisional railway manager of Vadodara division and senior railway officials were present during the tour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/annual-inspection-by-wr-gm/articleshow/81076846.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Patient’s kin thrash doc, 2 held||Jaisalmer: Two youths beat up a government doctor at Pokhran government hospital over consulting a patient. the doctor fractured his hand in the incident. On getting the information, doctors and nursing personnel working in the hospital gathered outside the doctor’s residence and the atmosphere became tense. Pokhran SHO Manak Ram Vishnoi arrived at the spot and arrested the youths. Vishnoi said that the victim, Dr Tulsaram was at home when suddenly, the family members of a child came over and asked the doctor to examine the child, on which the doctor said that he has already examined the child and has given a good treatment. But the family members insisted and forcibly tried to take him to the hospital. The doctor refused on which the family members got agitated and started allegedly thrashing the doctor. He said that doctor has suffered a fracture in his hand. The doctor and nursing staff demanded action against the culprits. He said Mohammad Rafeeq and Asif, residents of Fusasar were arrested and police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patients-kin-thrash-doc-2-held/articleshow/81078373.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Rajkot||Guard held for sodomizing boy||Rajkot: A seven-year-old boy was sodomized allegedly by a security guard on Tuesday night at the accused’s home in Parevala village of Rajkot district. Police said the boy was playing a game on a mobile phone outside his house with his 10-year-old brother when the accused identified as Dilip Nepali picked him up and took him away. To ensure that he would not make noise, Nepali stuffed the boy’s mouth with a cloth. He took the boy to his home behind the factory where he worked as the security guard, and allegedly sodomized him. Meanwhile, since the boy’s elder brother had seen Nepali taking him away, he informed his about it. As Nepali and the boys’ father worked in neighbouring factories in the same locality, they knew Nepali. The boy’s mother searched for him and sometime later found her son crying on the road near their house. The boy told his mother about what had transpired and also said that he was bleeding from his private parts. The boy’s father who was working in the night shift returned home knowing about the crime and took the boy to Rajkot Civil Hospital for treatment.Later an FIR was registered against Nepali for unnatural sex and abduction. He was detained on Wednesday and will be formally arrested after his Covid-19 report will arrive. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect hir privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/guard-held-for-sodomizing-boy/articleshow/81073975.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||7 killed, 28 hurt in 3 mishaps in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Seven persons were killed and 28 injured in three accidents in Sri Ganganagar, Dausa and Kota on Wednesday. The first mishap was reported from Sri Ganganagar in which a jeep collided with a car killing two women and a three-year-old girl and injuring 10. Two of the critically injured were taken to the civil hospital. Police said the deceased were from the same family and were on their way to attend a condolence meeting. They were identified as Komal Preet (24), Rajjo Kaur (50) and Harlen Kaur (3). “The injured are currently being treated in the civic hospital while the bodies of the deceased were haned over to their family after post mortem,” police said. In the evening, a private bus heading from Lucknow to Udaipur flipped killing two persons and injuring 12. Following the mishap, traffic on the road came to a standstill for some time. “Cranes were called to remove the bus from the road. The injured were rushed to Jaipur for treatment,” said Dausa SP Anil Kumar. Police said the mishap took place due to the sudden application of brakes by the bus driver. In Kota, two lives were lost after a pickup van hit a car coming from the opposite direction on Borawas road. The deceased were from Kota and were heading to Borawas. “The deceased were identified and their families were informed about the incident,” said Ramesh Sharma, CI R K Puram police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-killed-28-hurt-in-3-mishaps-in-state/articleshow/81078357.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Both vaccines may be tested against Brazil, SA variants||Pune: The efficacy of the two Indian vaccines currently in use, Covishield and Covaxin, will likely be tested against the Brazil and South Africa variants soon, scientists have said. The Indian Council of Medical Research had announced on Tuesday that the National Institute of Virology here was in the process of isolating and culturing the South African variant in its lab. The NIV has already readied a culture of the Brazilian variant for testing. “Serum samples drawn from those who’ve received the vaccines in India will be used in the lab to test if they can neutralise the two variants which recently entered India,” said Dr Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR’s epidemiology and communicable diseases division. The South African variant is also known as 501.V2. The Brazilian one has been tagged P.1. So far, India has recorded four Covid-positive persons with the South African variant and one person with the Brazilian mutant. Dr Panda said: “It is not necessary a variant that is more transmissible will turn out to be more virulent. Another question to ask is whether are they associated with rapidly spreading outbreaks or not. Isolation and culturing of variants in a lab will help us answer these questions and test efficacy of vaccines, which are the last line of defence against Covid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/both-vaccines-may-be-tested-against-brazil-sa-variants/articleshow/81078408.cms||Neha Madaan
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Stakeholders not happy with 1-month Kumbh, say they were left out of decision||HARIDWAR: Several akhada seers, local priests and traders in Haridwar said they are not happy with the government’s intention to hold Kumbh Mela just for a month, alleging they were not part of the proposed decision. Speaking to TOI, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) president Mahant Narendra Giri said, “A meeting will be held in Haridwar on February 25 and we will arrive at a decision then. That said, the state government did take a one-sided decision.” Ujjawal Pandit, a local priest, said that according to the religious calendar, the Maha Kumbh had already started on January 14. “The government’s decision to curtail the event’s duration is not in accordance with our faith,” Pandit said. Local businessmen have announced a protest against the government’s decision. Sanjeev Nayyar, a local trader, said that the government had turned a deaf ear to pleas of businessmen who are struggling to recover from losses incurred during the Covid-19 lockdown. “We will organise a protest soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stakeholders-not-happy-with-1-month-kumbh-say-they-were-left-out-of-decision/articleshow/81077082.cms||MS Nawaz
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana fuel revenue dips as Covid hits sales||HYDERABAD: At a time when fuel sales in India rose for the first time in September 2020 and started rallying since the lockdown in March last, Telangana continues to be behind other southern states in sales of petroleum products. The state also suffered a 30% drop in the sales in the financial year 2020-21, resulting in Rs 1,000 crore dip in income. In January 2020, Telangana’s average daily petrol sales hovered at 4,000 kilolitres (40 lakh litres), which fell to 3,000 kl this January. The drop was seen more in diesel sales. During January 2020, the daily sale of diesel was around 13,000 kl, which came down to 9,000 kl. “This dent in sales is mainly due to Covid-19 induced economic slowdown. All the business activities have not resumed fully,” Rajiv Amaram, joint secretary (south), Consortium of Indian Petroleum Dealers, said. Sources in the government said Telangana earned Rs 7,500 crore from the sales of petroleum products in 2019-20. Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC), an arm of the oil ministry, said Telangana shared the lowest sales along with Kerala at 6.5 crore metric tonnes in 2019-20. Among the southern states, Tamil Nadu has the highest annual sales at 14.1 crore metric tonnes. Experts said the pandemic impact could be felt for some more time, while the monthly consumption could reach pre-Covid levels by the end of the year. Petroleum dealers, however, are hopeful that the industry will bounce back thanks to easing of Covid-19 guidelines and vehicles returning to the roads. Before the lockdown, the petroleum industry was supplying 1.3 crore litres of fuel in 650 tankers daily in Telangana. “Now, the daily fuel consumption hovers at 80 lakh litres supplied by 400 tankers,” a spokesman of Telangana Petroleum Dealers Association said. Meanwhile, fuel prices continue to see an upward trend in the state. The price of petrol per litre stood at Rs 93.10 on Wednesday. It was Rs 92.84 on Tuesday, up from Rs 92.55 on Monday. Similarly, diesel prices increased from Rs 86.23 a litre on Monday to Rs 86.55 on Tuesday to Rs 87.20 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-fuel-revenue-dips-as-covid-hits-sales/articleshow/81080661.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 18, 2021||Patna||Sasaram: Sher Shah tomb turns into dumping ground||SASARAM: Incredible though it may sound, the Sasaram Municipal Council has earmarked a portion of the historical Sher Shah Tomb premises as the garbage dumping ground. Sources said the garbage and trash collected from about 2 lakh households under the civic body’s jurisdiction is being dumped at the site on the southern side of the tomb premises. The local conservation officer of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Amalesh Jha, said he has already lodged his protest with DM Rohtas against the dumping of garbage there. When contacted, Rohtas DM Dharmendra Kumar told this newspaper on Wednesday that he was not aware of it and asked to talk to the executive officer of the municipal council. Executive officer Abhishek Anand, on the other hand, said the process for acquiring land for garbage landfill site was on. As it is, the tomb, popularly known as the ‘Taj Mahal of Bihar’ for its historicity and serene surroundings, right in the heart of Sasaram town, has been lying in neglect for long. Heaps of garbage have further dented its lost glory and the stink emanating from the waste has worsened the situation. Earlier, the Patna high court, while disposing of a PIL in 2012, had passed an order for proper conservation and upkeep of the tomb premises. According to sources, a social worker had moved Sasaram sub-divisional public grievances redressal cell in January against the decision to mark the southern side of the tomb premises for garbage dumping. The public grievances officer, in his order on Monday, asked the executive officer to ensure cleanliness of the premises after the new site is finalized as the historical monument attracts domestic as well as foreign tourists. In 2017, the state government sanctioned Rs5 crore for construction of a new inlet canal for supply of clean water to the pond, but sources said the work is yet to be completed and sewerage water is still flowing into the water body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sher-shah-tomb-turns-into-dumping-ground/articleshow/81078395.cms||Alok Chamaria
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||Gujarat woman sends condoms to Justice Pushpa Ganediwala to protest ‘skin-to-skin’ verdict||NAGPUR: A self-proclaimed political analyst from Ahmedabad sent a packet of contraceptives to Justice Pushpa Ganediwala to protest her controversial judgments that had sent “wrong signals to the criminals in the society”. Devshri Trivedi also uploaded on YouTube videos showing her packing about 150 condoms in 12 packets on February 13 that she mailed to various address at Nagpur including the HC registry here and judge’s official residence. She also sent some packets to HC’s principal bench at Mumbai. Her videos have invited praise as well as censure. Trivedi claimed she had valid receipts of the registered parcels through which she dispatched the packets. HC registry here refused to comment. She claimed she had receipts of her parcels being received by a person named Haridas at HC registry in Nagpur at 5.11pm on Monday. “We’re not supposed to comment on such issues, as it is out of our jurisdiction,” registrar (Administration) Sanjay Bharuka told TOI, adding that he would neither confirm nor deny any queries in this regard. Even the senior administrative judge Nitin Jamdar refused to meet the media team when they went to his chamber after the court hours. A group of lawyers practising at the Nagpur bench expressed outrage over the Gujarat woman’s move and called on the HC administration to lodge an FIR against her and even file a contempt case. “No one can defame and lower the dignity of a judge in such a manner. If the registry fails to take any action, we will lodge an FIR against her. We severely condemn the Gujarat woman’s move,” lawyer Shreerang Bhandarkar told reporters. Defending her act, Trivedi told TOI she was disgusted over the way the judge pronounced a series of judgments acquitting the accused who had sexually assaulted minor girls. “Condoms are a mark of symbol on the judge’s skin-to-skin verdict where she let off a man accused of groping the breasts of a 12-year-old girl without removing her clothes. She ruled that as there’s no skin contact, his act doesn't come under the purview of sexual assault. I found it bizarre and can understand the pain of the girl and her family,” she said. Trivedi declared she would be starting a campaign against Ganediwala for her controversial judgments under the POCSO Act. “I waited for all these days to see whether any of our political leaders raise their voice. Surprisingly, no one came to support victims of the perpetrators that were let off by the judge. Therefore, I’ve decided to take her on. I challenge her to answer my questions. I don’t have fear of contempt, as I too know the law and have every right to protest.” Lauding the Supreme Court for taking cognizance and immediately staying Ganediwala’s skin-to-skin verdict, Trivedi said due to her controversial rulings, the minor survivor failed to get justice. “The judge has no right to stay in chair after delivering such judgments that would encourage crimes against women. I would continue to send her condoms packet until she comes face to face and answers my queries,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/guj-woman-sends-condoms-to-justice-ganediwala-to-protest-skin-to-skin-verdict/articleshow/81078353.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 18, 2021||Pune||Citizens wonder why the hush-hush & rush by civic body to widen roads||Pune: Prominent citizens have warned the civic body to move court if the former refuses to grant them a hearing against the nine-metre road widening proposal on the ground that January 28 was the deadline to raise objections.Most of the citizens have argued that copies of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) notice, dated December 29, 2020, seeking citizens’ views within a month about widening as many as 335 six-metre roads to nine metres, were affixed at some obscure places and never served to the affected housing society.The PMC’s clarification to the property owners that the actual widening work would start only after hearing their objections failed to reassure the residents. Members of several bungalow societies have been expressing opposition to the move, which they fear will eat into their small bungalow plots.“The widening proposal pertains to 335 roads. A major policy decision like this should have been given wide publicity. The PMC’s publicity was inadequate and it is now refusing to entertain our objections on the ground that we filed the applications after the deadline. This is not acceptable,” said S Padmanabhan, independent director of the Pune Smart City Development Corporation and a former IAS officer. “Besides, the PMC has not given us any explanation on what basis the access roads meant only for our bungalow colony were shortlisted for widening. No traffic survey report has been made available to us,” said Padmanabhan, who is a resident of the Vishrambag Cooperative Housing Society off Senapati Bapat Road.Ashwin Panemangalore, former vice-president of Larsen & Toubro Limited, said, “In Vishrambag, the PMC only pasted the map and that too only recently. How am I supposed to know that it pertains to the road widening proposal?”After the issue was highlighted by the TOI, Panemangalore searched the PMC website and wrote to it saying: “There are many unclear maps with no details of areas pertaining to Shivajinagar. It has taken me several days of research on the PMC website to understand if I am an affected party.”Vishrambag Cooperative Housing Society chairman Lt Col Sureshkumar Rege (retd) told TOI, “Our society’s general body meeting has decided to move court if the PMC fails to give us a hearing.” He said the Vishrambag Cooperative Housing Society has communicated to the PMC that none of the 41 property owners “is interested in getting the Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) and the additional Floor Space Index (FSI) to be offered after widening of the three lanes within the society”. In his objection letter to the PMC, Rege said, “Our general body and managing committee meetings have unanimously resolved that we prefer a quiet and tranquil environment, and not the TDR.”Padmanabhan said, “Our society bylaws categorically state that no high-rises should be constructed. The PMC should read the Gujarat high court judgment of 2019. The order categorically states that if the housing society bylaws impose such a cap, it must be honoured.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-wonder-why-the-hush-hush-rush-by-civic-body-to-widen-roads/articleshow/81078384.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 18, 2021||Pune||11 hostels for over 2,500 pupils stay out of bounds||Pune: Hostels of the social welfare department taken over to set up Covid care centres have not been handed back to the department causing inconvenience to students. Colleges across the city reopened on Monday and a large number of students belonging to disadvantaged communities coming from across the state use these hostels as their accommodation. But, without the availability of these rooms, they will not have a place to stay in the city where private accommodation is costly. A warden of one such hostel in Vishrantwadi said, “We have three hostels on the same premises with a capacity of 500 students. We get over 3,000 applications every year. We have been getting calls from students who were living here as their colleges have started but we cannot set a date till it is officially handed over and sanitised.” Assistant commissioner Sangeeta Davkhar said letters have been sent to the district collector’s office and soon the hostels will be handed over to the department. “We have already started hostels in the rural areas and soon we will start the hostels in the city, once we get possession of the hostels from the district office,” she said. A first-year engineering student from Ahmednagar who has filled the form for a room in a social welfare department hostel along with two friends, said, “ All our lectures are online and we are not in need of the hostel. But when the practicals start, we would need a place to stay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/11-hostels-for-over-2500-pupils-stay-out-of-bounds/articleshow/81078418.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Heroin seizure: SOG detains another accused||Jaisalmer: The Special Operations Group (SOG) on Wednesday detained one more accused in connection with the seizure of heroin worth Rs 11 crore procured from Pakistan in Barmer. The SOG sleuths, acting on a lead by the main accused Bachaya Khan, traced his co-accomplice Mere Khan. Both the accused were in touch with the international drug racketeers in Tarantaran in Punjab, said an officer. The case was cracked by the ATS and the local police, after 15 days of following the leads. It was, however, handed over to the SOG for further investigation. Kamal Singh Tanwar, additional SP, SOG is investigating the case. The investigating agency has focussed its probe on tracing the links of arrested accused with the smugglers in Punjab and across the border. “During the insurgency period in Punjab, the smugglers supplied weapons from Pakistan via Jaisalmer and Barmer to Punjab. Since the lead says that the high-value drug was meant for Punjab, it becomes evident to examine all old links,” said a senior officer requesting anonymity. During the investigation, Khan revealed that it was his first offence and drug packets were thrown from across the fenced border. “Khan was paid Rs 15,000 in his account from Tarantaran and reportedly he had fixed a deal with the smugglers on February 12 at Fatehgarh. He, however, was caught before the delivery,” said the officer. ATS additional SP OP Ujjwal said that Khan’s cousin brother Badal Khan lives in Amarkot, Pakistan. “Badal Khan, with the help of international Pak smuggler Fotiya Khan, had thrown heroin packets over the fencing from Pakistan side to India’s side. Indian smuggler Meera Khan had taken those packets and given them to Haliya Khan. Haliya Khan had given the packets to Bachaya Khan for making delivery in Tarantaran district, Punjab,” said Ujjwal. The incident has left the local police and BSF carrying out search operations in several places along the border. The investigating agency is expecting to recover more packets of drugs from the border areas. “Several hamlets which are at the distance of 200-500 metre along the international border were searched and suspicious persons were questioned by us,” said Narayan Singh Rawlot, Dy SP Chotan, Barmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heroin-seizure-sog-detains-another-accused/articleshow/81078391.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Coimbatore||Shock, surprise over board exam schedule||Coimbatore: The state government’s announcement to conduct the Class XII board exams from May 3 has sent the students into a real tizzy. Most of the students said they could prepare better for the examination only if they get more time. T Praveena, a student, said, “I did not expect the announcement to come so soon, as it has been just a month since we started attending offline classes. Besides, reduced portions were announced only recently. Teachers are still brushing up the revised portion and yet to start the revision. Most of us thought the examination would be conducted only in June.” The student said she was not 100% confident to appear for the examination in May. “There are certain portions that I didn’t understand in online classes and I am yet to clarify the same with the teachers. I am so scared that I don’t understand how to prioritize the subjects for revision. While I know I will have to work hard to score good marks, I am yet to recover from the initial shock of hearing about the exam.” Pointing out that they did not have much writing practice unlike previous year, Praveena said she would have to practice separately to write fast to complete the examination in the given time. Another student, P Kalyani, said she was yet to start preparing for the examination seriously and nervous about completing the syllabus in just two months. “This year, a topic or two from each lesson has been removed and it will reduce our preparation time per lesson by an hour. Otherwise, it is not much helpful and I don’t actually feel like the syllabus has been reduced.” She said the exam announcement came just when she was getting adapted to the school environment after attending online classes from home for months together. “It will really be helpful if model examinations are conducted, as it will pave way for a healthy competition.” Some students like S Swathi are, however, confident of revising the syllabus and taking up the examination in May. She said she had been studying ever since the online classes started and just had to speed up her revision now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shock-surprise-over-board-exam-schedule/articleshow/81078428.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 18, 2021||Puducherry||14 opposition MLAs move LG office, ask Puducherry Congress government to prove majority||CHENNAI: A day after Puducherry Congress government led by V Narayanaswamy lost its majority in the 33-member assembly, leader of opposition N Rangasamy on Wednesday asked the CM to prove his majority on the floor of the house and submitted a memorandum to the Lt Governor’s office seeking immediate convening of the Puducherry legislative assembly for a trust vote. N Rangasamy, president of All India N R Congress, met G Theva Neethi Dhas, OSD to the Lt Governor, at Raj Nivas with a delegation of 14 MLAs belonging to opposition parties and submitted a letter. “The government has lost its majority and the CM should submit his resignation. We have urged the governor’s office to convene the assembly to test the strength of the ruling combine,” Rangasamy told reporters on Wednesday. He was accompanied by AIADMK and BJP MLAs. Political heat has been building up in Puducherry over the past fortnight after resignations by two ministers and two MLAs of the Congress brought the ruling combine’s strength to 14 and placed it on a par with that of the opposition. While minister A Namasivayam and Congress MLA E Theeppainthan resigned last month, another minister Malladi Krishna Rao and Congress MLA A John Kumar resigned on Tuesday. In the 33-member house, including three nominated MLAs from the BJP, there are five vacancies. With one MLA being disqualified in July last year, the Congress curently has 10 members. Three DMK MLAs and one independent member support the Congress government. On the opposition side, NRC has seven MLAs, AIADMK has four members and the BJP has three nominated MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/14-oppn-mlas-move-lg-office-ask-pondy-cong-govt-to-prove-majority/articleshow/81078422.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||ED questions Pune builder for six hours||Mumbai: Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioned Pune builder Avinash Bhosale for over six hours on Wednesday in a money-laundering case. ED will call him for questioning again, after examining details officials have collected. Earlier, ED had questioned his son Amit and searched the Avinash Bhosale Infrastructure Ltd office. Bhosale petitioned the high court to quash summons and an interim order to restrain ED from taking coercive steps. The court will hear the matter on February 24. ED officials registered a money-laundering case on the basis of a cheating case filed by Pune police against Bhosale, his son and others few years back. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-questions-pune-builder-for-six-hours/articleshow/81080116.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Villagers in border areas enthused over Ram temple donation drive||Jaisalmer: Villagers in far-flung areas of Indo-Pak border have shown great enthusiasm in the ongoing Ram temple donation drive.“Not many people in the far-flung border areas of Jaisalmer and Barmer districts are wealthy, but they’ve shown unprecedented enthusiasm towards the cause and are coming forward to contribute to the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya,” said Lalu Singh Sodha, regional convener of Bajrang Dal. He said their teams are going from village to village in chariots.“As soon as the chariot of Ram enters an area, the villagers rush to welcome us with motorcycles. They guide us by driving their vehicles in front of the chariot and voluntarily take us from one home to another for the collection of donations. Women sing mangal songs,” said Sodha.“Religious meetings were organised in 110 villages across Jaisalmer. We toured on two chariots. An amount of over Rs 7 crore has been collected in Jaisalmer district alone,” said Sodha, who was active in student politics too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/villagers-in-border-areas-enthused-over-ram-temple-donation-drive/articleshow/81078387.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||2 wanted for dacoity in Haryana caught in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: In a joint operation, district police along with cops from Haryana, caught two dacoits who were involved in many incidents of loot, from a hotel in Jaisalmer.The gang, in connivance with some policemen, used to give shape to dacoity, loot and cheating in many areas across Haryana.In an incident on November 26, a case of Rs 55 lakh dacoity was lodged with Panchkula police station. An SHO was suspended for being hand in glove with the gang.Both culprits caught in Jaisalmer were handed over to Haryana police. Jaisalmer SP Ajay Singh said they received a tip-off that the culprits involved in the Rs 55 lakh dacoity were hiding in Jaisalmer.He said a team was formed under additional SP Vipin Sharma, along with a special team of Haryana police led by SHO Karamveer Singh, which caught the culprits from a restaurant in Jaisalmer city.The arrested were identified as Vikram, a resident of Panchkula and Deepak, a resident of Thansar, Kurukshetra.SHO Karamveer said five culprits in the case were arrested in Haryana while two were arrested with the help of Jaisalmer police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-wanted-for-dacoity-in-haryana-caught-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/81078402.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand's Simli-Bageshwar-Jauljibi route to Nepal border now National Highway, says Centre||DEHRADUN: The strategic state highway of Simli-Gwaldam-Bageshwar-Munsyari-Jauljibi - leading to the Nepal border - has been made a National Highway (NH) by the Centre. The 230-km important highway route connecting Garhwal with Kumaon and going up to Nepal border has been named 'NH 109 K'. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that it was a long pending demand of the state and he lauded the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari for the decision. The CM added that the decision will save the cost of road repair of the route for the state. He further said that it was an important route connecting the border areas of the Himalayan state. Under the 'Bharat Mala' project, the double laning of the route will help in movement of vehicles. After the declaration, the Centre would bear the expenses for the repair of the route's road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/simli-bageshwar-jauljibi-route-to-nepal-border-now-nh-says-centre/articleshow/81077214.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 18, 2021||Amritsar||GNDU students rally for farmers, activists||caption-GNDU students came out in support of farmers and activists Amritsar: Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) students came out in support of farmers agitating for the abrogation of three farm laws. They also held a protest against the arrest of farmers and activists. Carrying placards with slogans like ‘Political prisoners aren’t criminals’, ‘In Modi’s India, a tweet favoring protesting farmers is a crime’, the students of various departments of the university took out a march and demanded release of activists, including Disha Ravi and Nodeep Kaur, and 122 farmers detained in Tihar jail. Addressing a gathering of students, Sikh Youth of Punjab president Paramjit Singh Mand, a former student of GNDU, said, “For the past few months, a large number of peasants are sleeping on different borders of Delhi in chilling cold and have taken up the battle against the policies that would put them in the bondage of contractors and big corporates. They are demanding the rollback of agriculture laws, scrapping of Electricity Amendment Bill 2020, and legislating the demand of MSP. Hence, it is necessary that the student community should stand shoulder to shoulder with the farmers.” Jatinder Singh, a PhD scholar of the university, said the Union government had an obligation to protect and uphold protesters’ human rights and not to demonise them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/gndu-students-rally-for-farmers-activists/articleshow/81080113.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||‘Apasanskriti’ debate after ‘Tumpa sona’ on CU campus||Kolkata: Students singing and dancing to ‘Tumpa sona’ on Calcutta University’s College Street campus on Tuesday has sparked off the apasanskriti (decadent culture) debate. While the university’s vice chancellor, Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee, “unequivocally” condemned the incident, the song writer, Arob Dey Chowdhuri, said it was time to do away with elitism and embrace popular culture. In her statement, the CU VC said, “The authorities of the University of Calcutta had/ have not permitted any programme/festivity in the University campus today (Tuesday)... The incident goes against the heritage and culture of the University. We want to know who has been behind this.” But, Raja Mehedi, head of the TMCP unit in CU, College Street campus, said the permission was given by the state government. “The higher education department issued a circular, allowing Saraswati Puja at colleges and universities. The university authorities refused to give us funds, but never said in writing the puja could not be held. The students pooled in the money. All behaved themselves and followed Covid safety guidelines,” he said. Several students said some were dancing. “We were taken aback as such songs are usually not played on the campus and certainly not on this occasion,” said Mrityunjay Ghosh, a PG student. Arob, who received his diploma in media studies from CU in 2013, shot the video for ‘Tumpa’ in the “tune and ethos of a Bhojpuri song” without its double-meaning lyrics. “‘Tumpa’ captures the lingo of the common man without being obscene. The Bhojpuri flavour of the tune perhaps makes the elite class uncomfortable. They discard it without even hearing the entire version. My father-in-law had said ‘good’ without even listening to the entire song,” said Arob, adding there was nothing wrong in students dancing to ‘Tumpa’ during Saraswati Puja at CU. “I am an alumnus of the campus. Had it been a sombre event, I would have reacted differently. But if CU students are simply letting their hair down, there is no cultural degradation in ‘Tumpa’. Even Kabir Suman, my icon, has congratulated the makers of ‘Tumpa’ on social media and said he had not ever heard such a relevant, important, strong and perfect socio-political satire in Bengali. In his FB post on February 13, he asked for more,” he said.  A video of ‘Tumpa’ dance at TV star Trina Saha’s wedding with actor Neel Bhattacharya had also gone viral. “This song doesn’t represent decadent culture. If it was played during anjali, it might have been an irritant. But I find no problem if students danced to enjoy themselves,” she said. Professor emeritus, sociology, at Presidency Prasanta Ray said, “While I have nothing against popular culture or songs, we should be careful to ensure the sanctity and tradition of an institution, like CU, is not tarnished.” Popular culture, he said, was “derived from folk culture, the culture of the masses”. “It has been marginalized by the elite culture... But it’s better to stick to the tradition of an institute rather than indulging in something for which there are other platforms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/apasanskriti-debate-after-tumpa-sona-on-cu-campus/articleshow/81078458.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Stolen ATM found in Kishangarh jungle||Ajmer: The ATM which was stolen in a vehicle from Adarsh Nagar area was found in the forest of Samariya Harda near Kishangarh on Wednesday morning. Following information from the forest department, Adarsh Nagar police reached and seized the ATMAccording to police, bank manager of Adarsh Nagar area lodged a complaint that someone had taken away the machine. In CCTV cameras, it was seen that three masked youths went into the ATM kiosk, took out the machine, loaded it in a vehicle and fled. Police said the machine contained Rs 33,900.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stolen-atm-found-in-kishangarh-jungle/articleshow/81078433.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||18 states issued warnings on UK variant of SARS-CoV-2||The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Pune has told 18 states to keep an eye out for cases with the UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 after nearly 187 Covid-positive samples from these regions revealed the presence of the mutated version. The states include Maharashtra and Kerala both hold nearly 72% active cases in the country. Dr Sujeet Singh, director of NCDC, said the states have been told to monitor international arrivals and ensure strict isolation of positive cases, as per protocol. The UK variant, scientists have said, could be more contagious. Dr Singh said almost all large states (Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan) have detected the UK variant. “The governments have been told to keep a close watch on districts,” he said. He added that over 6,000 samples from the country have been sent for genome sequencing to look for the mutated variant. While 187 positive samples were found with the UK strain, four had the South African variant, and one the mutated version from Brazil. “Unusual spreads have to be monitored carefully. All international travellers have to be tested, and if found positive, samples must be sent in for genome sequencing. They have to be quarantined for 14 days, and will need a negative test before release,” Dr Singh said. Maharashtra has recorded 12 Covid-19 cases with the UK variant. All patients were asymptomatic and have been discharged. The state’s epidemiology cell has decided to sequence at least 5% daily samples (tested positive via RT-PCR) to look for mutations in the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/18-states-issued-warnings-on-uk-variant-of-sars-cov-2/articleshow/81078468.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 18, 2021||Meerut||UP: 16-year old gets 4 slaps, Rs 1 Lakh fine for raping minor cousin||BIJNOR: A village panchayat in UP’s Bijnor district announced four slaps and Rs 1 lakh fine as punishment to a youth, 16, for allegedly raping his eight-year-old cousin. The matter has been deemed as “settled” by local police as the family members of the victim have not filed a complaint. The boy meanwhile has been recuperating in a private hospital since Sunday evening when the alleged assault took place in Bijnor’s Nehtaur region. According to villagers, the youth lured the boy, a neighbour, to a field on the outskirts of his village and allegedly sexually assaulted him. The boy was rescued after some passersby heard his cry and brought him to the village. From there, the child was taken to a private hospital in Bijnor’s Noorpur town. Back home, on Tuesday, scores of villagers gathered and called a panchayat. With the accused in attendance, the panchayat announced a quick punishment-- four tight slaps and Rs 1 lakh as compensation to the victim’s family. When contacted, station house officer (SHO) of Nehtaur, Jai Kumar, said, “The matter pertains to the same family. We had gone to the village but the victim’s family refused to file complaint. We don’t know about panchayat and its decision. It’s not legal.” When contacted, a senior police officer assured action in the case. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-rapes-cousin-8-village-panchayat-orders-4-slaps-rs-1lakh-fine-against-him/articleshow/81077193.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 18, 2021||Pune||Samant at SPPU today for darbar||Pune: Higher and technical education minister, Uday Samant, will preside over a grievance redressal forum meet on Thursday at Savitribai Phule Pune University from 11am. A link was given for online submission of the grievances and suggestions. Those unable to submit it can also reach the spot and submit their letters. The darbar on Thursday will be open to people from Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts to solve problems related to the departments of higher and technical education, Maharashtra State Common Entrance Test Cell, directorate of technical education, directorate of higher education, directorate of arts and library.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/samant-at-sppu-today-for-darbar/articleshow/81078437.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Gehlot offers chadar at Ajmer dargah||Ajmer: The chadar of chief minister Ashok Gehlot was presented in the dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty on the occasion of 809th yearly Urs on Wednesday. On this occasion, a message of Gehlot was read loudly for the devotees of Khwaja Garib Nawaz.Gehlot’s congratulated the devotees on this occasion and said the dargah is the centre where people from all over the world come with their wishes. “At a time when some are trying to make society weak on the name of religion, the teaching of Khwaja Garib Nawaz of brotherhood and harmony becomes more important. Khwaja Garib Nawaz had worked for serving poor and weak people and brought harmony and love,” he added in the message.President of Rajasthan Waqf board Khanu Khan Budhwali brought the chadar of chief minister.The chadar of former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fandandis was also offered in the dargah. Maharashtra BJP leader Mohammad Farooq brought the chadar and offered it in the dargah.Chadar of Congress acting president Sonia Gandhi and of Rahul Gandhi will be offer on Thursday. Chief Minister Ashok Gahlot will bring the chadar to the dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty. Gahlot will also read the message of Sonia Gandhi in the dargah to devotees on this occasion. Sonia Gandhi has handed over the chadar in New Delhi to the president of congress minority cell Nadeem Javed which is handed to chief minister Ashok Gahlot on Wednesday in Jaipur. Gahlot will bring the chadar to Ajmer. Meanwhile there was bee line of devotees for offering chadars in the dargah and thousands of devotees are coming to attend the yearly UrsPhoto Shaukat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-offers-chadar-at-ajmer-dargah/articleshow/81078424.cms||---
February 18, 2021||India||Toolkit row: HC gives 3-week transit bail to Nikita, cites NBW||MUMBAI: The Bombay HC on Wednesday granted transit anticipatory bail to Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob in connection with the farmers’ protest “toolkit” case in which environmental activist Disha Ravi was arrested from Bengaluru last week. The relief was granted for three weeks for a Rs 25,000 bond. The HC noted that its Aurangabad bench had on Tuesday granted similar relief for 10 days to Shantanu Muluk, against whom a Delhi court had issued a non-bailable warrant, like it had against Jacob. Such a warrant would result in their arrest. “It is apparent that Jacob had made herself available,” said Justice P D Naik, noting that Jacob’s apprehension of arrest was fortified by the fact that NBW was issued. Justice P D Naik said, “It is not disputed that she is a resident of Mumbai, and it is also mentioned that Delhi Police had recorded her statement, seized her laptop and documents (on February 11).” Her lawyers had said the warrant was issued on the “wrong pretext” that she was absconding. Hiten Venegaonkar, special counsel for Delhi Police’s cyber cell, had said, “In spite of searching and waiting for her for an entire day, she did not show up. That’s why NBW was issued.” Venegaonkar had on Tuesday raised preliminary objections to granting Jacob any relief, citing the FIR which said over 500 police personnel were injured in the aftermath of violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day. Delhi Police has lodged an FIR for offences of sedition, communal disharmony and criminal conspiracy. The FIR alleged “there were calls for economic warfare against India and certain Indian companies.” In her application, Jacob had said she feared arrest “due to political vendetta and media trial”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/toolkit-row-hc-gives-3-week-transit-bail-to-nikita-cites-nbw/articleshow/81081103.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 18, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Asaram rushed to hospital over chest pain, reports normal||JODHPUR: Self-proclaimed godman Asaram, convicted for sexual assault on a teenage girl, was rushed to a hospital late on Tuesday night after he complained of multiple physical problems, including chest pain and trouble in breathing. Jail authorities first took him to the MG Hospital for check-up, where ECG and X-Ray were conducted. Though the reports were found to be normal, but following his persistent complaints about restlessness and chest pain, he was shifted to MDM Hospital in the night itself amid tight security. Superintendent of MDM Hospital, M K Aseri said a team of cardiology department of the hospital conducted ECG, X-Ray and blood tests to ascertain the complications as complained by him. “But all the reports were normal. He has been kept in CCU under the observation of cardiologists. Repeat tests will be conducted on Thursday, after which the team of doctors would decide further course of action,” Aseri said. According to senior cardiologist Sanjeev Sanghvi, Asaram has been constantly complaining about chest pain, so he has been kept under observation at the CCU due to comorbidities. “He said that he had an angiography long back at AIIMS. If there was a need for angiography again, we would proceed subject to his consent,” he said. On the other hand, devotees of Asaram rushed to the hospital after the news of his hospitalisation broke. They first started assembling at MG Hospital in the night itself and police had to disperse them. But they again started assembling at MDM Hospital on Wednesday morning after learning about his hospitalisation. Though police applied force to prevent them from entering the hospital, some of them succeeded in sneaking into the hospital in the hope of getting a glimpse of Asaram. It may be noted that Asaram has been serving jail term till death since his conviction in April 2018. He never came out of jail since then, though, two other accused got bails and suspension of their sentences. Asaram, like two other co-accused, had challenged his sentence in high court in July 2018, hearing on which has been progressing and the next date of hearing is March 9. He, however, has not moved any plea seeking suspension of his sentence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/asaram-rushed-to-hosp-over-chest-pain-reports-normal/articleshow/81082769.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan sees 11.51% vehicles without FASTag at toll plazas||JAIPUR: Of the 6.8 lakh vehicles that passed through toll plazas in Rajasthan on February 16, the day FASTag was made mandatory in all lanes, over 6 lakh vehicles had FASTag coverage, making it 88.02 per cent of the total number of vehicles. Only 11.51 per cent vehicles (78,980) were without FASTag and were charged double the actual fare. Of the total toll collection of Rs 10.58 crore on Tuesday (February 16), 87.24 per cent collection (Rs 9.2 crore) was through FASTag and 12.58 per cent (Rs 1.3crore) was through cash (double the amount for vehicles without FASTag). In over 20 toll plazas across the state, the FASTag coverage had crossed 90 per cent. Of all the toll plazas in Rajasthan, Jasnath Nagar, Motisar/Khanori and Morani/Pokhran toll plazas in Jodhpur witnessed 100 per cent FASTag coverage in vehicles passing through them on Tuesday. Lilimba toll plaza in Ajmer district saw 98.07 per cent vehicles covered under FASTag. Meanwhile, the lowest FASTag coverage in vehicles was at Tankla toll plaza in Jodhpur district, at 49.97 per cent. The coverage was poor at Bor Charan toll plaza in Barmer as well, at 58.35 per cent. An official at Tatiyawas toll plaza said, it crossed 90 per cent FASTag coverage on Tuesday. “Of the total number of vehicles, about 6 per cent vehicles were exempted from FASTag (police and other government vehicles). In Tatiyawas, penalty was slapped on around 2,500 vehicles. Over 26,000 vehicles passed through this toll on Tuesday,” said Zaheer Khan, in-charge of the toll plaza. The Union ministry of road transport and highways had made FASTag mandatory from January 1 this year in old vehicles (four wheelers) sold before December 1, 2017 through amendments in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989. The state transport departments are sending text messages to vehicle owners pointing to the violation and also mentioning that they could be levied a penalty in case they are caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-sees-11-51-vehicles-without-fastag-at-toll-plazas/articleshow/81082477.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan sees 11.51% vehicles without FASTag at toll plazas||JAIPUR: Of the 6.8 lakh vehicles that passed through toll plazas in Rajasthan on February 16, the day FASTag was made mandatory in all lanes, over 6 lakh vehicles had FASTag coverage, making it 88.02 per cent of the total number of vehicles. Only 11.51 per cent vehicles (78,980) were without FASTag and were charged double the actual fare. Of the total toll collection of Rs 10.58 crore on Tuesday (February 16), 87.24 per cent collection (Rs 9.2 crore) was through FASTag and 12.58 per cent (Rs 1.3crore) was through cash (double the amount for vehicles without FASTag). In over 20 toll plazas across the state, the FASTag coverage had crossed 90 per cent. Of all the toll plazas in Rajasthan, Jasnath Nagar, Motisar/Khanori and Morani/Pokhran toll plazas in Jodhpur witnessed 100 per cent FASTag coverage in vehicles passing through them on Tuesday. Lilimba toll plaza in Ajmer district saw 98.07 per cent vehicles covered under FASTag. Meanwhile, the lowest FASTag coverage in vehicles was at Tankla toll plaza in Jodhpur district, at 49.97 per cent. The coverage was poor at Bor Charan toll plaza in Barmer as well, at 58.35 per cent. An official at Tatiyawas toll plaza said, it crossed 90 per cent FASTag coverage on Tuesday. “Of the total number of vehicles, about 6 per cent vehicles were exempted from FASTag (police and other government vehicles). In Tatiyawas, penalty was slapped on around 2,500 vehicles. Over 26,000 vehicles passed through this toll on Tuesday,” said Zaheer Khan, in-charge of the toll plaza. The Union ministry of road transport and highways had made FASTag mandatory from January 1 this year in old vehicles (four wheelers) sold before December 1, 2017 through amendments in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989. The state transport departments are sending text messages to vehicle owners pointing to the violation and also mentioning that they could be levied a penalty in case they are caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-sees-11-51-vehicles-without-fastag-at-toll-plazas/articleshow/81082478.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan sees 11.51% vehicles without FASTag at toll plazas||JAIPUR: Of the 6.8 lakh vehicles that passed through toll plazas in Rajasthan on February 16, the day FASTag was made mandatory in all lanes, over 6 lakh vehicles had FASTag coverage, making it 88.02 per cent of the total number of vehicles. Only 11.51 per cent vehicles (78,980) were without FASTag and were charged double the actual fare. Of the total toll collection of Rs 10.58 crore on Tuesday (February 16), 87.24 per cent collection (Rs 9.2 crore) was through FASTag and 12.58 per cent (Rs 1.3crore) was through cash (double the amount for vehicles without FASTag). In over 20 toll plazas across the state, the FASTag coverage had crossed 90 per cent. Of all the toll plazas in Rajasthan, Jasnath Nagar, Motisar/Khanori and Morani/Pokhran toll plazas in Jodhpur witnessed 100 per cent FASTag coverage in vehicles passing through them on Tuesday. Lilimba toll plaza in Ajmer district saw 98.07 per cent vehicles covered under FASTag. Meanwhile, the lowest FASTag coverage in vehicles was at Tankla toll plaza in Jodhpur district, at 49.97 per cent. The coverage was poor at Bor Charan toll plaza in Barmer as well, at 58.35 per cent. An official at Tatiyawas toll plaza said, it crossed 90 per cent FASTag coverage on Tuesday. “Of the total number of vehicles, about 6 per cent vehicles were exempted from FASTag (police and other government vehicles). In Tatiyawas, penalty was slapped on around 2,500 vehicles. Over 26,000 vehicles passed through this toll on Tuesday,” said Zaheer Khan, in-charge of the toll plaza. The Union ministry of road transport and highways had made FASTag mandatory from January 1 this year in old vehicles (four wheelers) sold before December 1, 2017 through amendments in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989. The state transport departments are sending text messages to vehicle owners pointing to the violation and also mentioning that they could be levied a penalty in case they are caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-sees-11-51-vehicles-without-fastag-at-toll-plazas/articleshow/81078454.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Rail roko: Northern Rly expects smooth day, no change in train schedule||New Delhi: A day ahead of the ‘rail roko’ planned by farmers, Northern Railway on Wednesday said it was monitoring all possible locations where there might be some disruptions. However, it was hopeful no trains would be impacted. No trains have been cancelled, diverted or rescheduled yet, with the hope that the agitation would largely be peaceful, said officials. Farmers have called for ‘rail roko’ between 12 pm and 4 pm on Thursday. Deepak Kumar, CPRO, Northern Railway told TOI they had identified some locations where there possibly could be problems, however, they were not anticipating trouble. “No train has been cancelled or rescheduled or diverted yet. Passengers should board trains as usual and we will see how it goes. If there are disruptions or any inconvenience to passengers, we will issue further instructions on Thursday,” said Kumar. While additional security has been deployed in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, no such deployment has been done for Delhi as of now, officials said. “We appeal to everyone to maintain peace. We will be liaisoning with district administrations and a control room will also be in place,” director general of Railway Protection Force Arun Kumar said. While Northern Railway issued a list of trains on Wednesday that were being cancelled, short-terminated and diverted, it clarified these were on account of the continued farmers’ agitation in Punjab and not due to the rail roko. These included the 05211 Darbhanga-Amritsar special train, which has been cancelled, along with its subsequent 05212 return journey from Amritsar to Darbhanga. Nanded-Amritsar Express (02715) will be short-terminated at Chandigarh and eight trains will be diverted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rail-roko-northern-rly-expects-smooth-day-no-change-in-train-schedule/articleshow/81078862.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Questioning of actor put off to next week now||Mumbai: Actor Armaan Jain appeared before Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials on Wednesday, but was told to return next week, as the investigating officer was unwell. ED had summoned Armaan, grandson of late actor-director Raj Kapoor, in a money-laundering case connected with Tops Grup, a private security firm, and Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik. ED had recently searched the house where Armaan who lives with his mother, Reema Jain (daughter of Raj Kapoor) at Pedder Road and collected case-related evidence. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/questioning-of-actor-put-off-to-next-week-now/articleshow/81080123.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Amritsar||Preparations on at protest sites to deal with rising temp in summer||BATHINDA: With temperature steadily rising, signalling the waning of the winter, the preparations have started to deal with the approaching summer at the farmer protest sites on the Delhi borders. The farmers have started taking fans or coolers to the protest sites and the preparations too have started for arrangements of cold water and putting up sheds to save protests from scorching sun. Some even have started making arrangements in the trolleys putting up at the protest sites to deal with rise in temperature. A shed is being erected in front of the stage of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), which have its pandal close to the pandal of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha on Singhu border. The stubble sheds are being put up at some places on the borders and the fans are being put up. Even the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Managing Committee (DSGMC) has put up a tent for the comfort of the protesters waiting langar. It is 83 days into the agitation at Delhi borders after protesters had reached on November 26. The stir has continued through the hrash winter.  “We have prepared shed of stubble which will remain cool during summer. These sheds will save farmers from scorching sun in coming days if the protest lingers on as seems possible. Efforts are also being made to make some cooling arrangements in the trolleys as during summer time these trolleys are expected to turn hot,” said activists Surinder Singh and Karnail Singh from Tikri border. KMSC activist Surinder Singh said, “Shed is being erected in front of the stage to save farmers from sun during day time when leaders address from the stage and protesters sit in front of the stage to listen to them.” “We have decided to take along desert cooler and fans when we will leave for Delhi border after the rail roko action on February 18. Though still the weather is pleasant, but we will be needing cooling arrangements in days to come,” said farmer Gurmukh Singh of Chhiniwal village in Barnala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/protest-site-prepare-to-deal-with-rising-temp/articleshow/81080119.cms||Neel Kamal
February 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Sarvkhap to follow SKM, socially boycott Hry agr min||Rohtak: The Sarvkhap panchayat on Wednesday passed a resolution to socially boycott Haryana agriculture minister J P Dalal for his ‘offensive’ remark on agitating farmers on Haryana-Delhi border against three agriculture bills. Talking to the media, Sombir Sangwan, independent MLA from Dadri and head of Sangwan khap said 60 people from different khap attended the meeting on Wednesady and it was decided that the agriculture minister Dalal be boycotted. “Dalal khap had already announced minister Dalal social boycott and sarkhap extended the boycott in the entire bhaichara.” Speaking on the recent controversy over khaps desire to become interlocutors between agitating farmers and the central government, Sangwan said they want to be seen only by the side of farmers. “The sarv khap decided to strengthen the ongoing ‘kisan andolan’ by giving more participation from Haryana and by supplying food grains, water, milk and cooked meals,” he added. The khap leaders also suggested expanding their base to give impetus to farmers agitation by including members from all communities in their fold. “We should make efforts to have representation from all communities in khap so that maximum participation can be attracted in the farmers protest,” said one of the khap leaders. Some of the khap leaders cautioned the heads of sarv khap to not let their names down by letting the agitation be sabotaged by government agencies. “The government agencies are trying to enter ‘kisan andolan’ riding on the back of khap leaders. We need to remain wary and not stab the community for vested interests, but set an example to be a torch bearer for the sake of agrarian community,” said Minaxi Nandal from Nandal khap. The khap leaders also rejected the suggestion floated to form a committee to lead the agitation from Haryana. “No committee would be formed separately from Haryana. We all would abide by the orders of 40 farm leaders of Sanyunkth Kisan Morcha,” announced the khap leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sarvkhap-to-follow-skm-socially-boycott-hry-agr-min/articleshow/81080121.cms||Sat Singh
February 18, 2021||Coimbatore||More time needed to help students score better: Teachers||Coimbatore: While schoolteachers are confident of preparing the Class XII students for the board exams in two months, they have placed a set of requests before the state government to help the students score better marks.T Arulanantham, state auditor, Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary Graduate Teachers’ Association, said since the government had recently deleted portions in the syllabus it would be difficult for the students to answer questions from the portions. “While the list of deleted portions has been conveyed to the students, some of them seem to have difficulty in identifying them correctly. Hence, it would be easy for the students if the question papers have at least 80% questions from the evaluation sections of the books.” Generally, only 40% of questions is asked from the evaluation sections. Pointing out that the students and parents were very much dependent on the question bank by the parent-teachers association for exam preparation, he said the state government hadn’t yet released the same. “The government should take immediate steps to prepare the question bank based on the revised syllabus and release the same by at least March.”R Vishalakshi, president, Tamil Nadu Private Schools’ Association, said they would have to teach the students, make them study and conduct revision tests simultaneously in the next two months. “It will be better if the government provides the students one more month for preparation, as it is difficult to make them score good marks within the limited time. Even the bright students are not confident while answering questions that are asked from the lessons taught online.” She also demanded the government to provide clarity on practical examinations. “It will be better if the practical examinations are conducted after theory papers, as students will get additional time to complete record works and concentrate on practical examinations.” A government schoolteacher, who didn’t want to be named, said while they could help the students clear the examination within the available time, it was impossible to help them score good marks if the students didn’t show interest and work hard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/more-time-needed-to-help-students-score-better-teachers/articleshow/81078470.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||‘Only Rajasthan Municipal Service officers can become civic body commissioners’||Jodhpur: Officers from Rajasthan Municipal Service only will be eligible for the post of commissioners in local bodies now. In a notice to the state government, the high court has restrained it from posting or passing any further order of giving charge of commissioner municipality to any person who is not a commissioner as per Rajasthan Municipal Service (Administrative & Technical) Rules, 1963.While hearing petitions of Shrawanram and 4 others, a single bench of justice Dinesh Mehta has observed “handing over charge of a municipality to a person unqualified to hold such post is not only contrary to rights/interest of petitioners, but also against the better administration of municipalities”.Petitioners had moved the high court objecting to the government’s decision of ignoring them for the post of commissioner in local bodies inspite of having been promoted to the post of commissioner after completing the exercise as required under the provisions of Rajasthan Municipal Services (Administrative & Technical) Rules, 1963.Arguing in the court, petitioners’ counsel Kuldeep Mathur stated that despite having eligibility for the post, the petitioners were not elevated to the post of commissioner whereas many persons, who are not from Rajasthan Municipalities Administrative Services, have been given charge of commissioners in a number of municipalities.In support of his assertion, Mathur referred to various orders relating to municipalities of Bhiwadi, Bhilwara, Nagaur, Banswara, Pratapgarh, Sirohi, Rani, Jalore, Sanchore, Barmer etc., where the persons holding the posts of commissioner were given the charge despite their ineligibility for the post as they were not from Rajasthan Municipal Service.Allowing the petitions, justice Mehta issued notices to the state government (secretary and director of department of local self bodies) and ordered to ensure that the petitioners are provided posting as commissioner, municipalities, before the next date of hearing on April 5.Meanwhile, the court has also given an arrangement where in case of emergent situation, if handing over charge to a person other than commissioner is inevitable, the same shall be done, however, with a stipulation that it would not continue beyond a period of 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-rajasthan-municipal-service-officers-can-become-civic-body-commissioners/articleshow/81078465.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Asaram rushed to hospital over chest pain, reports normal||JODHPUR: Self-proclaimed godman Asaram, convicted for sexual assault on a teenage girl, was rushed to a hospital late on Tuesday night after he complained of multiple physical problems, including chest pain and trouble in breathing. Jail authorities first took him to the MG Hospital for check-up, where ECG and X-Ray were conducted. Though the reports were found to be normal, but following his persistent complaints about restlessness and chest pain, he was shifted to MDM Hospital in the night itself amid tight security. Superintendent of MDM Hospital, M K Aseri said a team of cardiology department of the hospital conducted ECG, X-Ray and blood tests to ascertain the complications as complained by him. “But all the reports were normal. He has been kept in CCU under the observation of cardiologists. Repeat tests will be conducted on Thursday, after which the team of doctors would decide further course of action,” Aseri said. According to senior cardiologist Sanjeev Sanghvi, Asaram has been constantly complaining about chest pain, so he has been kept under observation at the CCU due to comorbidities. “He said that he had an angiography long back at AIIMS. If there was a need for angiography again, we would proceed subject to his consent,” he said. On the other hand, devotees of Asaram rushed to the hospital after the news of his hospitalisation broke. They first started assembling at MG Hospital in the night itself and police had to disperse them. But they again started assembling at MDM Hospital on Wednesday morning after learning about his hospitalisation. Though police applied force to prevent them from entering the hospital, some of them succeeded in sneaking into the hospital in the hope of getting a glimpse of Asaram. It may be noted that Asaram has been serving jail term till death since his conviction in April 2018. He never came out of jail since then, though, two other accused got bails and suspension of their sentences. Asaram, like two other co-accused, had challenged his sentence in high court in July 2018, hearing on which has been progressing and the next date of hearing is March 9. He, however, has not moved any plea seeking suspension of his sentence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/asaram-rushed-to-hosp-over-chest-pain-reports-normal/articleshow/81078459.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan sees 11.51% vehicles without FASTag at toll plazas||JAIPUR: Of the 6.8 lakh vehicles that passed through toll plazas in Rajasthan on February 16, the day FASTag was made mandatory in all lanes, over 6 lakh vehicles had FASTag coverage, making it 88.02 per cent of the total number of vehicles. Only 11.51 per cent vehicles (78,980) were without FASTag and were charged double the actual fare. Of the total toll collection of Rs 10.58 crore on Tuesday (February 16), 87.24 per cent collection (Rs 9.2 crore) was through FASTag and 12.58 per cent (Rs 1.3crore) was through cash (double the amount for vehicles without FASTag). In over 20 toll plazas across the state, the FASTag coverage had crossed 90 per cent. Of all the toll plazas in Rajasthan, Jasnath Nagar, Motisar/Khanori and Morani/Pokhran toll plazas in Jodhpur witnessed 100 per cent FASTag coverage in vehicles passing through them on Tuesday. Lilimba toll plaza in Ajmer district saw 98.07 per cent vehicles covered under FASTag. Meanwhile, the lowest FASTag coverage in vehicles was at Tankla toll plaza in Jodhpur district, at 49.97 per cent. The coverage was poor at Bor Charan toll plaza in Barmer as well, at 58.35 per cent. An official at Tatiyawas toll plaza said, it crossed 90 per cent FASTag coverage on Tuesday. “Of the total number of vehicles, about 6 per cent vehicles were exempted from FASTag (police and other government vehicles). In Tatiyawas, penalty was slapped on around 2,500 vehicles. Over 26,000 vehicles passed through this toll on Tuesday,” said Zaheer Khan, in-charge of the toll plaza. The Union ministry of road transport and highways had made FASTag mandatory from January 1 this year in old vehicles (four wheelers) sold before December 1, 2017 through amendments in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989. The state transport departments are sending text messages to vehicle owners pointing to the violation and also mentioning that they could be levied a penalty in case they are caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-sees-11-51-vehicles-without-fastag-at-toll-plazas/articleshow/81082474.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Jaipur||Government likely to give industry benefits to tourism sector in Rajasthan budget||JAIPUR: The state government is likely to consider giving benefits of industry to the tourism sector which will reduce cost of power and land conversion charges for the hospitality industry. The relief may come in the state Budget to be presented on February 24. While tourism and hospitality sector was recognised as industry in 1989, the sector still pays higher commercial rates for power. Even during the lockdown period when they remained closed, they had to pay a fixed charge. Recently, Maharashtra government offered benefits of industry to the hospitality sector. Couple of other states like Odisha and Gujarat are also in the process to offer benefits. “Normally, the electricity expenses constitute 3-6% of the total operating cost of a hotel. But in Rajasthan, it has gone up to between 15-20% which is not sustainable,” said Sunil Mehta, promoter of a chain of resorts in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Mehta said such high electricity rates scare away investors and the state misses out on the multiple benefits a new investment brings. “We should think differently. By keeping the rates high, the state loses investments, which would have created new jobs, brought in more tourists, and created several avenues to garner tax. If a new tourist comes, he or she does not remain locked up in the property. They spend on food, shopping, engages taxis and on many other things. With lower taxes, the government may lose some revenue but the gains far outweigh the losses,” said Mehta. The industry has been vociferously demanding that the government should offer industrial electricity charges to hotels. In the pre-budget meetings with the chief minister, they raised the high power tariff issues. “We have been meeting government officials concerned to convince them of offering benefits of industry to tourism sector. The pandemic has shaken up the industry. This is the right time to handhold the industry,”said Kuldeep Singh Chandela, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Rajasthan. He said that tourism impacts the prospects of diverse sectors and the hospitality industry is at the centre of it. “Many states have adopted aggressive strategies to promote tourism as the fight is now for the domestic tourists who are price sensitive. If we don’t lower our costs, other states will benefit,” added Chandela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-likely-to-give-industry-benefits-to-tourism-sector-in-state-budget/articleshow/81078471.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Coimbatore||PM visit: Police beef up security||Cleared/Anil Coimbatore: Ahead of prime minister Narendra Modi’s visit on February 25, police have beefed up security in the city. In a press statement, the city police said they had deployed a policeman armed with a rifle at all the check posts round the clock. Efforts are also on to set up temporary check posts at various points to prevent untoward incidents. “Mansions in the city limits will be brought under our surveillance and patrolling would be intensified to ensure that no suspicious activities are taking place in isolated houses. Bomb squad would check all the public places, including railway station and bus stands in the city,” it said. Police also have plans to book ganja peddlers to reduce drug-related incidents in the city and arrest people who are found to be involved in suspicious activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pm-visit-police-beef-up-security/articleshow/81078478.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: No new Covid-19 case in 8 districts, recovery rate now 96%||DEHRADUN: The novel coronavirus case tally reached 96,964 in Uttarakhand after 44 new infections were recorded from across the state on Wednesday. The total active Covid-19 cases in the state stood at 548. Also one more coronavirus-related fatality took the toll of the virus to 1,683 in the state. “No new Covid-19 cases were reported from eight hill districts. Also, the total recoveries in Uttarakhand reached 93,309 after 53 more people recovered from Covid-19 infection. The recovery rate was recorded at 96.2%,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. According to the data provided by the state health department, as many as 20,165 Covid-19 samples tested negative in Uttarakhand on Wednesday. Among the new cases recorded, the maximum of 17 were found in Dehradun, followed by 14 in Nainital, 11 in Haridwar, and one each in Udham Singh Nagar and Tehri Garhwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-new-covid-19-case-in-8-districts-recovery-rate-now-96/articleshow/81077229.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Delhi nursery admission: Entry kicks off today, criteria uploaded||NEW DELHI: The registration process for nursery admission in private schools will finally begin on Thursday. On Wednesday, the schools released details of the process and the admission criteria. Like every year, living in the vicinity of the school will fetch you high points for your child’s admission. Due to Covid-19 this year, all schools have their admission process completely online. According to the schedule released by the Directorate of Education (DoE), the application process will end on March 4. This is for admissions to entry-level classes—nursery, KG, and I. For the admissions, most schools have allotted maximum points to the neighbourhood criterion— highest for those living within 0-3km. The other common criteria used by schools are “alumni” and “sibling”. The alumni criterion would benefit a child if his/her parents would have studied in the same school. Some schools have also allotted points for first child, single parent, and even girl child. At Ahlcon School, a parent who is divorced or has lost his/her spouse gets an additional 10 points. A child of the school’s staff will also get an additional 10 points. The Indian School and The Mother’s International School, among others, will have a staff quota. “If this category seats remain unutilised, they will be filled through open category,” said The Mother’s International School authorities. The admissions now being conducted are for the 75% seats. The rest 25% seats are reserved for the Economically Weaker Section/Disadvantaged (EWS/DG) category students. The schedule for admissions under this category is yet to be declared. The 75% seats also include the management quota seats. Most of the schools told TOI they were conducting only online admissions. “This year, we have made the process completely online so that there is no crowding at the school,” said Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School. Even the registration form can be sent online, along with the original birth certificate and proof of residence. For the proof of residence, Delhi Public School, Dwarka has said, “the school also reserves the right to visit home.” Tagore International School, East of Kailash wants parents to submit two photographs of the child and the parent. This is being done “to ensure transparency and fairness and also to stop submission of misleading and false information, which may be furnished by applicants,” the school stated. Meanwhile, schools said the fees part was yet to finalised. The first list will be released on March 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nursery-entry-kicks-off-today-criteria-uploaded/articleshow/81083975.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 18, 2021||Chennai||DMK MP’s ‘pyaar ka nagma’ to Congress and BJP leaders||CHENNAI: Amid farmer protests and a heated Parliament session, there was time for bonhomie too for political rivals in New Delhi. A dinner hosted last Saturday (February 13) by four-time Rajya Sabha MP from DMK, Tiruchi Siva, in honour of veteran Congress leader from Jammu & Kashmir Ghulam Nabi Azad, whose long stint in Parliament ended last week for the present, turned out to be an evening to remember for leaders across party lines. The guests included ministers Piyush Goyal, Ravishankar Prasad and Pralhad Joshi, besides Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh, NCP’s Supriya Sule and Praful Patel and SP’s nominated member Jaya Bachchan among others. Congress party’s Anand Sharma was present along with the Azad and his family to celebrate the occasion. But soon, the host had his way, when he started singing along with the band. Enthused by Siva’s voice, the leaders egged him on for a solo performance. He offered them a Tamil evergreen farewell number from the Sivaji Ganesan starrer ‘Rattha Thilagam’, “Pasumai Niraindha Ninaivugale, Paadi Thirindha Paraivaigale”. After a couple of more Tamil songs, the guests wanted more and urged him to sing Hindi songs. He obliged by singing “kabhie kabhie mere dil mein”. Soon Shameem Azad joined him and they sang “Ek pyaar ka nagma hai” together. “I like to sing a few lines of some Hindi songs, with the help of English lyrics, many of which I don’t know the meaning. BJP leader Sushma Swaraj used to ask me to sing as she liked my voice, when we we used to travel for parliamentary committee meetings,” Siva told TOI on Wednesday night. As the video of Siva’s singing was shared widely on social media, the bonhomie seems to have taken a backseat. A section started attacking him for singing Hindi songs. “We are never against Hindi as a language. We only oppose when it is imposed on our people,” said Siva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-mps-pyaar-ka-nagma-to-congress-and-bjp-leaders/articleshow/81078474.cms||D Govardan
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: ID Hospital principal falls ill after second jab, doctors probe vax link||KOLKATA: The principal of ID & BG Hospital at Beliaghata, Anima Haldar, has been hospitalized after she fell unwell hours after taking the second shot of Covishield on Monday. Hospital sources said the 65-year-old was doing fine but would remain under monitoring for the next few days. While the health department said there was no need to speculate, an investigation was on to determine if this adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was vaccine-linked. Haldar, who took the second shot of Covishiled around 11.30am on Monday at ID hospital, did not have any complaint during the 30-minute observation period. She went back to work but three hours later, she started complaining of muscle and back pain. Late at night, she had a bout of vomiting and was admitted to the CCU the next morning. Haldar now has pain in lower limbs and is still vomiting occasionally. On Wednesday, a neurology team from NRS hospital found no problem. AEFI committees of the hospital and that of the state are keeping a watch. “Initial investigations showed electrolyte imbalance. She had not taken proper food before the shot. She also delayed her lunch. This could have caused gastritis. Though we do not suspect her condition was caused by the vaccine, we have to consider every possibility as it was after the shot. She is being monitored in CCU,” said Asis Manna, medical superintendent and vice-principal at ID&BG. Director of health services Ajay Chakraborty said, “The ID principal was hospitalized with gastritis and vomiting. She is doing well but kept admitted for an investigation to understand causal relationship with vaccine, if any.” Clinical pharmacology expert Santanu Tripathi said any condition developing post vaccination was treated as an AEFI. “Whether it has anything to do with vaccine or not can be found only after a probe, which is being done for causal analysis. Unless established no one should speculate that her health condition is due to the vaccine,” said Tripathi, advisor to the state’s AEFI committee. So far, a odd-dozen recipients had been kept under hospital observation for AEFI. Health department sources said none of the cases was found to be related to the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/id-hosp-principal-falls-ill-after-2nd-jab-docs-probe-vax-link/articleshow/81078481.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 18, 2021||Thane||112 new cases in Thane city again||Thane city saw a spike in Covid cases with numbers rising to triple digits on Wednesday, nearly two months after numbers consistently stayed below 99; 112 new cases were reported, while two deaths were reported. The recovery rate in Thane was 97%, with 58,220 recovered and 862 under treatment. Worried about a spike, the civic administration is mulling reimposing norms for curtailing crowds at public gatherings, ceremonies and funerals. Officials said the city was prepared to tackle any outbreak. Manoj Badgeri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/112-new-cases-in-thane-city-again/articleshow/81078521.cms||Manoj Badgeri
February 18, 2021||Erode||No confusion over exam dates: Min||School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Wednesday said there was no confusion regarding the Class XII board exam dates and everything has been going smoothly. “The education department announced the exam schedule after it came to know about the CBSE exam dates,” the minister said after inaugurating an indoor stadium at Gobichettipalayam in Erode district that was set up at a cost of Rs3 crore. Earlier, the minister had told the media that the exam dates would be announced only after finalizing the state assembly election date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/no-confusion-over-exam-dates-min/articleshow/81078519.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||ED to question senior MMRDA official next wk||Mumbai: B G Pawar , joint commissioner of the state government agency MMRDA, appeared before Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday to record his statement in a money-laundering case connected to Tops Grup, a private security firm, and Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik. But he was told to come next week. ED had recorded the statement of MMDRA chief R A Rajeev on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-to-question-senior-mmrda-official-next-wk/articleshow/81080140.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Coimbatore||Indians can live in unity, says Mohan Bhagwat||Coimbatore: There is an overwhelming response to the efforts to build the temple at Ram Janmabhoomi, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said here on Wednesday. Addressing the gathering after releasing ‘Intha Mannil Vilaintha Magatthana Sinthanai’ written by former Meghalaya governor V Shanmuganathan, Bhagwat said that even those who were opposing the temple due to political reasons are keen on helping to build it now. “That’s because Lord Ram is in the heart of everyone,” he said. The RSS leader called upon the people to show the world that in spite of the differences, Indians can live in unity. “Bharat has so many states, different literature in every language and teachings of various sects and different views from various provinces. We could be conflictingly different also. However diverse we may appear to be, we are one. That unity has to be realised and strengthened because we have a duty to give this knowledge to the world, which is stumbling in the dark.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/indians-can-live-in-unity-says-mohan-bhagwat/articleshow/81078551.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Leopard dies after getting trapped in a snare at Rudraprayag||DEHRADUN: An adult leopard died after struggling for hours to get itself out of a snare in Rampur village under Rudraprayag forest division. The big cat was first spotted by three women from the village around 8.30 am on Wednesday. Seeing the leopard struggling to get out of the snare, the women rushed to their houses in a state of panic and dialed the forest officials who immediately reached the spot. However, the leopard couldn’t be saved and succumbed to the injuries inflicted on it by the thick snare wire. “Our teams reached the spot and darted the animal but we could see that it was already taking its final breaths. The big cat was exhausted as it might have struggled the whole night to get rid of the snare wire. Unfortunately, it was getting all the more tightened. It was one of the thickest snare wire I have seen so far. It was not meant for catching a deer or any other small animal. It was clearly meant for the leopard,” said Vaibhav Singh, DFO, Rudraprayag forest division.The forest officials have registered a case against two villagers. “We have already registered a case against two people under section 9 (hunting of animals) of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1973,” added Singh. The forest staff suspect that the possible causes behind putting a snare wire could be — revenge killing, poaching, or protection of the agricultural produce from wild boars. “The factors behind trapping may vary but the only thing we are sure of is that the culprits knew that the area was being frequented by that leopard. Only a probe can ascertain the exact cause,” said Singh. Earlier on February 5, a two-year-old leopard had also got caught in a snare trap in Narkota. However, the forest officials had succeeded to save the leopard. It was later released in the wild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-dies-after-getting-trapped-in-a-snare-at-rudraprayag/articleshow/81077234.cms||Shivani Azad
February 18, 2021||Nashik||Driver dies of burns as pick-up catches fire||Nashik: The 38-year-old pick-up driver died of the burns he suffered when his vehicle caught fire near Vasali under the Satpur police station limits on Tuesday night.The deceased has been identified as Kailas Nivrutti Shinde, a resident of Chunchale in Saptur.ASI Vijay Rathod, of the Satpur police station, said Shinde was driving his pick-up to his relative’s place at Shivaji Nagar in Satpur.While he crossing the Fashicha Dongar, a hillock along the Vasali Road, at 9.30 pm, the vehicle caught fire for unknown reasons.From the incident spot, it appeared that Shinde took his vehicle off the road and then jumped out of it. However, by the time he exited the vehicle, he was in flames. The burned grass at the incident spot also indicated that he might have rolled himself on the ground to douse the fire.Some passersby on the road saw the vehicle up in flames and immediately called the Satpur police station, which in turn reported the matter to the fire brigade department.By the time the fire tender rushed to the incident spot, Shinde was lying on the ground while the fire had damaged the entire front cabin of the pick-up.Meanwhile, the Satpur police also reached the incident spot and took Shinde to the Nashik civil hospital. Shinde succumbed to the burns during the course of treatment.The Satpur police have registered a case of accidental death. ASI Rathod said Shinde had suffered 100% burn injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/driver-dies-of-burns-as-pick-up-catches-fire/articleshow/81074179.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||Odissi dancer Dona Ganguly files complaint over fake Facebook account||KOLKATA: Odissi dancer Dona Ganguly, wife of BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly, lodged a police complaint on Wednesday about a fake Facebook page in her name. The fake page, accessed by TOI just before it was taken down, had over 76,000 likes and posts that had little to do with either Dona or the Ganguly family. This is the second time since 2017 that the cricket icon’s family had to move police against fake social media accounts; the first one was linked to Dona’s daughter Sana Ganguly. Dona told TOI, “It was brought to my notice by a student. I have a verified Facebook page, where I usually post my dance performances. This fake Facebook page had our family photograph as a profile picture. Initially, we learnt they shared some photographs of my family. We usually ignore these. There are multiple accounts, which keep sharing or re-posting whatever Sourav writes or posts on his social media handles. But in this case, some comments were made that were not right. For example, there was a comment made about a child. People who know us would always understand that I personally, and my family, will never make such comments. But people at large, who may not be aware that it is a fake account, may feel we are endorsing such comments. That is why I chose to report it. Sourav’s office has alerted Lalbazar. They were kind enough to let me know due action is being taken.” “We have received an email, where it has been alleged that some people have created a fake profile of Mrs Dona Ganguly. We are taking legal action,” said joint commissioner of police (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. Several photos of Sourav, Dona and Sana were shared on the fake page, the cyber cell confirmed on Wednesday. Police said the IP (internet protocol) address used to create the profile had been identified. The matter has been reported to statutory agencies and legal experts are being consulted. “A student of mine has written on Facebook about this fake account,” Dona said. “This fake Facebook page had garnered more likes than the original page. Like others, we could not ignore this because of the comments and statements.” In 2017, eight fake FB profiles of Sana were created. Sourav and Dona had told police their daughter, who was 16 then, did not even have a Facebook account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dona-files-complaint-over-fake-fb-account/articleshow/81078524.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||Five Nagpur doctors test Covid-positive within days of taking 1st vaccine dose||NAGPUR: Five city doctors from government and private hospitals have tested positive for novel coronavirus even after taking first dose of the vaccine. Three of them tested positive after 13-17 days of taking the jab while two others tested positive within a week. All five had done RT-PCR tests also. The development has drawn sharp reaction among experts who feel these cases are a reminder that even after vaccination people can get the infection and that the vaccines doesn’t start working instantly. Two doctors from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), one from the pharmacology department and other from the paediatrics department tested positive on February 5. A 49-year-old associate professor from the pharmacology department had taken the first dose of Covaxin on January 19 which was fourth day after launch of the vaccination drive. His wife runs a pathology laboratory and had symptoms. She tested positive so he and his daughter (14) also got the test done and came positive. Both are asymptomatic. “I came positive after 17 days of taking vaccine. I am not having any symptoms despite tested positive 12 days ago. It is still a part of research whether vaccine prevented symptoms or not,” the doctor said. A 42-year-old assistant professor from the paediatrics department had symptoms so got the test done and came positive on February 5. He took the jab of Covaxin on January 20 which means he came positive after 16 days of taking the vaccine. A 76-year-old senior orthopaedic surgeon from a private hospital took first dose of Covishield on January 28. He had symptoms so got tested and his results were positive on February 10 which is after 13 days of taking the jab. Two women general physicians from a private hospital of which one 28-year-old and other 40-year-old had symptoms and were tested positive. The 40-year-old doctor took Covishield’s first dose on February 3 and came positive on February 9. The 28-year-old doctor was administered first dose of Covishield on February 9 and came positive on February 14. Meanwhile, AIIMS New Delhi director Dr Randeep Guleria, in reply to a city lawyer Ankita Shah’s query, did not rule out chances of contracting disease even after sufficient amount of antibodies developed after taking the vaccine. “The vaccine will protect everyone. Some may not have infection or few may have mild disease. But that disease will not be severe and you may not land up in hospital or ICU. Therefore, everyone should take the vaccine which will help in breaking chain of transmission and control death rate,” he said. The ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) also said in Shah’s reply that protective levels of antibodies generally develop after two weeks of receiving second dose. In another query, the ministry had said overall efficacy of Covishield vaccine was 70.42% while that of Covaxin would be available in due course of time. “Available data has shown that Covaxin produces good amount of protective antibodies,” the MoHFW said. Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “It is throughout Vidarbha and also the state. I got queries from many such healthcare workers across the state. It is very clear that good amount of antibodies develop after taking second dose in those who were not infected with the disease earlier,” he said. He further said there are no chances of side effects if test positive after taking the vaccine. “I think natural infection as well as the vaccine will help in developing antibodies. Therefore, this should not come in anyone’s mind that there are no advantages of the vaccine. Several advantages of the vaccine have been proved on record,” he said.  Deputy director of health services, Nagpur division, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said directives have been given to all districts to report such cases. “Sufficient antibodies develop after 45 days of taking the vaccine. Therefore, all should continue following guidelines after taking the jab,” he said. General surgeon Dr Deepak Deshmukh said, “There are all chances that one may contract disease even after developed full antibodies. Two vaccines rolled out in India were given emergency use authorization so still many questions are unanswered. It is also not clear whether these vaccines protect from mutated variants. Therefore, all should continue to take care even after taking the vaccine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/five-city-doctors-test-ve-within-days-of-taking-1st-vaccine-dose/articleshow/81078605.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Rush job on grouping BCs will be futile: Ex-HC judge||Hyderabad: Former AP high court judge Justice V Eswaraiah has warned against hurried grouping of BCs saying that the exercise will be unscientific and futile. Eswaraiah, who is also former chairman of the National Commission for Backward Classes, said this after coming to know about the attempts being made by the present OBC panel headed by Justice Rohini. He said states, Centre and the national OBC panel should not go ahead in grouping backward classes into four broad groups without conducting an all-India survey and without studying the 2011 Census material that has BC population statistics. “I heard that the panel would be relying on the data collected from government departments and the employees working with them. When the principal grievance of BCs, particularly the most backward communities (MBCs), is that they were not represented in any of these government departments, relying solely on the data collected from such government departments would be detrimental to the interests of voiceless among BCs,” he observed. He said if the purpose of the panel is to help the voiceless sections among BCs to avail themselves the fruits of the Constitution, the right recourse is to conduct a study all over the country and get a first-hand information on the true backwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rush-job-on-grouping-bcs-will-be-futile-ex-hc-judge/articleshow/81078581.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Green birthday for K Chandrasekhar Rao; cadre pray & plant as CM turns 67||HYDERABAD: While the social media was flooded with wishes for TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on his 67th birthday, party leaders celebrated his birthday by taking up various programmes and events on Wednesday. The celebrations included taking up mass plantation, releasing irrigated water, offering prayers at various places of worship, organising blood donation camps and distributing clothes and fruits in the districts. KCR was at his farmhouse to avoid congregation of leaders and supporters at Pragathi Bhavan in view of the pandemic. The CM planted a sapling in his Erravelli farmhouse on the request of party MP J Santosh Kumar. TRS working president KT Rama Rao planted a sapling at Pragathi Bhavan and gave a call to people to take up mass plantation programme. Interestingly, the party asked the cadres not to erect flexis and banners and deface the city. Finance minister T Harish Rao released Kaleshwaram water from Ranganayaka Sagar in China Kodur village in Siddipet constituency for rabi crop season to mark the birthday of KCR. He also organised a KCR cricket tourney in Siddipet. Former Indian cricket skipper and ex-MP Mohammed Azharuddin participated in the final match on Wednesday and handed over prizes to the winners along with Harish Rao. Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav took part in prayers and also offered a golden saree at Balkampet Yellamma temple. Legislative council chairman Gutta Sukhender Reddy released a 3D documentary produced on the life of KCR, his political entry and Telangana movement at Jala Vihar. Special pujas and rituals were performed at various places of worships in the city on the occasion. Rice millers led by Telangana Civil Supplies Corporation chairman Mareddy Srinivas Reddy performed special pujas in 15 major temples such as Kaleshwaram, Basar, Vemulawada, Jogulamba, Warangal Bhadrakali and Yadadri and other temples praying for a long life of KCR. TRS leaders organised a blood donation camp at the party headquarters Telangana Bhavan. MLC, CM’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha planted saplings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/green-bday-for-kcr-cadre-pray-plant-as-cm-turns-67/articleshow/81078635.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Panipat refinery fined for pollution||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has imposed an environmental compensation of Rs 74.10 lakh on the Panipat refinery of Indian Oil Corporation for ecological damage over the past few years. The damage was detailed in the five-page inspection-and-status report of a joint committee appointed by National Green Tribunal, which had investigated a case that the Singhpura and Sithana panchayats had filed against the refinery. Case was filed in 2018 and the NGT is monitoring it since with a joint committee of the pollution control boards of Haryana and Chandigarh, besides CSIR-NEERI. The committee gave its report to the NGT bench on Wednesday and the next hearing is on March 19. The report reads: “The Panipat naptha cracker unit was fined for not reusing and recycling its treated effluent. Prosecution action was initiated against the IOC officials for violating the Water Act of 1974,” Acting on directions from the NGT and the committee’s report, IOC deposited Rs 7.18 crore for planting 2 lakh trees on 500 acres in the nearby villages and across Panipat district. The committee reported to the NGT that it was satisfied with the work progress for restoring the environment around the refinery. The unit had permission for extracting water from the Haryana irrigation department. IOC has sought details of the village spots of water contamination due to the percolating of hazardous chemicals into the earth. The Panipat deputy commissioner is expected to submit details so that refinery can make arrangements for potable water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panipat-refinery-fined-for-pollution/articleshow/81078560.cms||Manvir Saini
February 18, 2021||Nashik||Road safety campaign of Nashik RTO concludes||Nashik: The road safety campaign of the Regional Transport Office (RTO), Nashik, which was underway for the past one month, ended on Wednesday with a ceremony attended by senior officials, including from the transport department, district collectorate and the city and the rural police. Avinash Dhakane, the transport commissioner of Maharashtra, who was among the chief guests who attended the closing ceremony, said if the number of road fatalities are compared to the number of deaths due to Covid-19, the result would show that more people have died in road accidents than from Covid. He said like people took precautionary measures amid the Covid situation, they should also be serious about the precautionary measures while driving their vehicles. Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare said the rate of accidents in the rural parts was more than in the city. The booklet that the Nashik RTO released about road safety was very important and it should reach all the school and college students, said Mandhare. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey, superintendent of police Sachin Patil, divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game, regional transport office Bharat Kalaskar, Deputy RTO Vinay Ahire also expressed their views on the occasion. People, who supported Nashik RTO during the campaign in its various programmes like bike rallies, the winners of the essay competition on road safety, kin of organ donors and those who pitched in to save lives of injured people in road accidents were felicitated at the closing ceremony of the road safety campaign, which started from January 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/road-safety-campaign-of-nashik-rto-concludes/articleshow/81074216.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||It’s end of Raj for Raja Mehta ni Pol||Ahmedabad: For 53 years, Raja Mehta ni Pol gave Kalupur municipal ward a councillor in every municipal election. Now, for the first time, after Kalupur was dissolved into Khadia ward, Raja Mehta will lose its prized position over sending a councillor to either the Congress or the BJP panel. Names like Congress’s late Popatlal Dani, who was former president of the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) and noted cooperative movement leader; BJP’s Jaymin Parikh and Krushnavadan Brahmbhatt ‘Kokabhai’ -- all from Raja Mehta ni Pol -- resonate among locals. The ward was also the first in the walled city to make towards the BJP in the 1980s what locals describe as a ‘laboratory for councillors’. Dani from Congress served three terms between 1970 and 1985, followed by BJP’s Jaymin Parikh, 65, who served between 1985 and 1998, and then Brahmbhatt for five terms between 1998 and 2021. However, this will no more be the case. The new BJP criterion of fixing age limits of ticket aspirants at 65 years and a maximum of serving three terms were reasons for no candidate being proposed from the pol this time. The Congress on the other hand has not fielded a candidate from this pol for the past three decades. “Each councillor elected from this ward serves at least three terms,” says pol resident Pankaj Bhatt. But what made Kalupur locals elect councillors for three terms. “It was simple. Every day, we were seen making rounds between 8 am and 11 am. Popatbhai had already set a trend of ‘project work’ which was not restricted to civic line repairs, but we were also under pressure to think of a comprehensive development plan for 10 to 15 pols nearby,” says Parikh who is now a senior official at a co-operative bank. “So, a local library, the Kalupur consumer store and the borewell were project works that won us votes,” Parikh adds. Dani took this concept a step further to set up the state’s first Apna Bazaar near Lal Darwaza. He also remained the lifelong chairman of Ahmedabad Co-operative Departmental Stores which he founded in 1970. Former mayor Amit Shah also belongs to the pol. He was also nurtured by Popatbhai Dani. “The pol is considered a mini laboratory for councillors,” says Bhatt. He adds, “Another reason why councillors were repeated is the strong influence of traders’ associations from Relief Road, Ratan Pol, Tankshal, and the Electric Bazaar on Relief Road. “Today we don’t find councillors concentrating on project works. We have found that people make much stronger bonds if large project works are taken,” say Parikh. He cites the example of the construction of a large borewell that Dani had supervised in the 1980s. “This borewell supplies water to 8 smaller pols nearby,” says Bhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/its-end-of-raj-for-raja-mehta-ni-pol/articleshow/81080202.cms||Paul John
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Edu minister’s Janta Darbar moved to Nehru Science Centre||Mumbai: After receiving criticism from all stakeholders of Mumbai University and SNDT University, the venue of the Janta Darbar by the higher and technical education minister Uday Samant was changed on Wednesday. Instead of Jamboree Maidaan in Worli, the grievance redressal meeting will now be held at the Nehru Science Centre auditorium on February 22. However, what is not clear is whether the public universities are expected to shoulder the expenses of the event? A letter to the principal secretary by the minister’s personal assistant states that the event be conducted on the lines of the previously held meets at the other state universities. “None of the expenses that the university is expected to carry out have come up for approval in the senate or the management council. Why should the universities spend the money?” asked Vaibhav Narawde, MU management council member, in his letter to the governor. Samant is slated to meet and address the grievances of students, parents, teachers, the non-teaching staff on February 22. Members of the senate and the management council fail to understand the reasoning behind this gathering; most ask what authority does the minister have to solve problems faced by any of the stakeholders. Members are also against the state’s interference and its decision to ask universities to foot the bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/edu-ministers-janta-darbar-moved-to-nehru-science-centre/articleshow/81078657.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Nearly 2 crore saplings planted across state||Hyderabad: There was an overwhelming response to ‘gift a sapling’ (Koti Vriksharchana) to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on his 67th birthday on Wednesday. Green India Challenge movement founder and MP Joginapally Santosh Kumar had called for one crore plantation ‘Koti Vriksharchana’ and gift them to KCR on this birthday. On his request, KCR planted’Rudraksha’ sapling at his farm house in Erravelli in the Gajwel assembly constituency. The CM expressed happiness over the programme and congratulated MP Santosh Kumar. TRS working president and minister KT Rama Rao planted a sapling on the premises of Pragati Bhavan along with his family members on Wednesday. Similarly, thousands of TRS workers planted saplings across the state and organized various programmes. MP Santosh Kumar launched Koti Vrikhsarchana along with LB Nagar MLA Sudhir Reddy at Nagole in the city. He said that the CM planting `Rudraksha’ sapling on the occasion of his birthday was a memorable event. He said nearly two crore saplings have been planted across the state and nation by KCR fans and TRS supporters. Minister Satyavathi Rathod participated in the plantation programme at Rescue Home, Kukatpally, while her colleague G Jagadish Reddy took up the green drive on Musi catchment areas at Kasarabad. Roads and Buildings (R&B) minister V Prashanth Reddy took part in the plantation programme in Kamareddy district. GHMC mayor Gadwal Vijaya Laxmi and Khairtabad MLA Danam Nagender planted saplings at Huda Park at MLA Colony in Banjara Hills. Cyberabad police, including commissioner VC Sajjanar, took part in the Vana Mahotsav programme at CAR headquarters at Gachibowli. Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) chairman and managing director N Sridhar launched plantation programme at Singareni Bhavan. About 2.35 lakh saplings were planted at coal mine areas on Wednesday. Rajya Sabha MP Santosh Kumar thanked each and every individual who gifted CM KCR a plant on his birthday.Meanwhile, the tourism department has decided to open Buddha Vanam project for tourists soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nearly-2-crore-saplings-planted-across-state/articleshow/81078655.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sets target of scaling down road fatalities by 50%||CHANDIGARH: Punjab transport minister Razia Sultana issued directions for rectifying all black spots in the state and set a target of reducing road fatalities and injuries by 50%. The minister asked the officials to designate a dedicated lane for heavy vehicles. To avert road fatalities, tippers, trailers and other heavy vehicles should not be parked on the roadsides. She also directed traffic police to initiate a special drive for checking of driving licences of heavy vehicle drivers. The exercise of identifying the new black spots in Punjab will be completed in the next six months, said Punjab traffic adviser Navdeep Asija. He said Punjab has identified 391 accidental black spots in 12 districts, out of which 264 are on national highways, 64 on state highways, six on link roads, 54 on municipal roads and three on other roads. Presenting the status report on the road safety month, principal secretary transport K Siva Prasad said many road safety seminars, workshops and awareness camps were organised in the different parts of the state. He said a protocol has been set and in coordination with civil and police and other related departments to end the menace of stray cattle related accidents. All concerned parties are working to make such accidents minimum through public participation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-sets-target-of-scaling-down-road-fatalities-by-50/articleshow/81078636.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Coimbatore||Sans ramps, flyover won’t be of any use: Activists||Coimbatore: A day after the Madras high court stayed land acquisition for Avinashi Road flyover for two weeks, road safety and social activists said the affected residents could demand higher compensation for their land, but they were in no position to decide whether the flyover’s ramps were required or not. They said the flyover would be pointless without the ramps, as 95% of the vehicles would be forced to use the road below the flyover. While staying the land acquisition process, the high court had stated that land should be acquired in a democratic manner and not like in “banana republic”. Activists also expressed a similar view and said the land must be acquired legitimately. K Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said, “Considering the area, a premium price, which is well above the guideline value, should be offered for the land and payment should be made immediately.” R Raveendran, president, Residents’ Awareness Associations’ of Coimbatore, also said there was nothing wrong with landowners negotiating the deal and demanding a higher price for their property. What didn’t go down well with the activists is the residents’ act of “bringing in engineers” and submitting a redesigned flyover without the entry and exit ramps. “This means that commuters driving from Anna Statue to Chinniampalayam can’t use the flyover. The same would be the case of commuters from stadium to airport and from Nav India to Tirupur,” Kathirmathiyon said. He said in the absence of the four proposed ramps, only those who were driving straight from Tirupur to RS Puram or Uppilipalayam could use the flyover. “Such commuters will constitute only 5% of the total motorists on the stretch and the remaining 95% will be forced to use the underpass. It’s not up to the residents to decide whether ramps are required or not. And how could they decide what’s the requirement of 20 lakh to 30 lakh commuters?” The Avinashi Route Landowners’ Association, meanwhile, questioned why they alone should part with 10ft of their land in the prime location of the city for a flyover when the state could design Trichy Road, Gandhipuram and Mettupalayam Road flyovers without any land acquisitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sans-ramps-flyover-wont-be-of-any-use-activists/articleshow/81078642.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Nashik||Toll plaza queues there; Things better, claims NHAI||Nashik: Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Wednesday claimed that the situation is improving at the toll plazas as the number of vehicles with FASTags is increasing. However, toll plazas all over Nashik district continued to witness long queues of vehicles, indicating that many motorists have failed to install the FASTag, despite several reminders by the government. Dileep Patil, the project director of NHAI-Nashik, said some motorists are still resisting the new system and creating problems at times, but things are better compared to the last two days. Meanwhile, police of Ghoti, Chandwad and Pimpalgaon where the toll plazas of NHAI are situated have provided security. Problems are mainly arising over the double toll fee being collected from motorists who have failed to install FASTag on their vehicles. “Despite some chaos at the toll plazas, mainly in the cash lanes, a large number of motorists is fast purchasing the FASTag and getting them affixed on their vehicles,” said Patil. FASTag has become compulsory with effect from from February 15 and those without it have to take the cash lane and pay double the toll. The FASTag lanes are, however, witnessing a smooth and quick passage of vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/toll-plaza-queues-there-things-better-claims-nhai/articleshow/81074258.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Two judges recuse from hearing Paramraj Singh Umranangal’s bail petition||CHANDIGARH: Two judges of the Punjab and Haryana high court have recused themselves from hearing the anticipatory bail plea of suspended Punjab IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal in the Behbal Kalan firing case of October 2015. The judges recused themselves on Tuesday and Wednesday from hearing his pre-arrest bail plea. Umranangal had approached the high court for anticipatory bail after a local court in Faridkot dismissed his plea. Umranangal’s first plea for anticipatory bail came up for hearing before Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu of the HC on Tuesday. However, Justice Sidhu recused himself from hearing the bail plea and ordered that it be referred to some other bench after obtaining necessary orders from the Chief Justice of the HC. Thereafter, the registry branch of the HC listed the bail plea before Justice Deepak Sibal. However, when the matter came up for hearing on Wednesday, Justice Sibal, too, recused himself from hearing Umranangal ’s bail plea and ordered that the matter be referred to some other bench. The matter would now come up for hearing on Thursday before some other bench of the HC. Two persons, including Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjit Singh, died in police firing at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, while protesting against the act of sacrilege at Bargari. Apart from Umranangal, former Punjab police DGP Sumedh Singh Saini is also one of the accused in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-judges-recuse-from-hearing-umranangals-bail-petition/articleshow/81078633.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Candidate flood in minority-dominated areas||AHMEDABAD: The wards of Gomtipur, Maktampura, Behrampura and Danilimda — where there are sizeable numbers of Muslims — have the most candidates. Of the six wards where the number of candidates in the electoral fray are over 20, four are minority-dominated while Bapunagar also has a sizeable population of Muslims. The BJP says that the Congress has failed to do justice to these areas despite voting them to power for long and hence people are looking for alternatives in independent candidates. The Congress says this it is a poll tactic of the BJP, to prevent consolidation of anti-incumbent votes. The All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) candidate from Gomtipur, Mohammed Sufiyan Rajput, said more and more candidates have been emerging from areas with high Muslim populations, as the community has more burning issues for which it needs greater representation. AIMIM has made its maiden foray and has fielded 22 candidates all from minority-dominated areas. Rajput said he actively participated in protests against the NRC (National Register of Citizens) and CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act). Ghulamrasul Ghulamnabi Baghban, a vegetable vendor, has entered the fray as an independent candidate from Khadia, while his son Shahnawaz Baghban is standing from Jamalpur. Ghulamrasul was also a candidate in 2017 assembly elections, from Jamalpur-Khadia, when he got 3,000 votes. “I had stood as an independent candidate in the General Election too, but had later withdrawn. I want to improve the condition of the Jamalpur area, which has been neglected by the major parties. There are more independents in minority-dominated areas because these people want representation in the corporation to get work done in their areas,” Ghulamrasul said. A member of a major political party said, “People are not satisfied with the Congress or BJP. If you look at the development work, the ruling party has always neglected minority-dominated areas and even the Congress does not pay it attention as they know that these areas have no alternative but to vote for them.” Jagdish Panchal, the BJP Ahmedabad city president, said, “In minority-dominated areas there is more political awareness and to get participation in the decision-making process, people are standing as independents. Moreover, the Congress, wins in these areas, has failed to live up to the people’s expectations. While in the western parts of the city, people are satisfied with their representatives and hence they do not stand as independents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/candidate-flood-in-minority-dominated-areas/articleshow/81080198.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Standing panel nod to MoU with NGO to run 6 English medium schools||NAGPUR: Children from economically backward classes, who could not afford studying in English medium schools, can now hope to do so, as Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) standing committee on Wednesday gave its consent to sign an MoU with an NGO to run six schools. NMC’s education department had submitted a proposal to sign memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Akanksha Foundation (AF) to run six English medium schools from the next academic session in six assembly constituencies for 20 years. The foundation will bear 30% expenditure on salaries for teaching and non-teaching staff and also provide teaching staff to schools. NMC will provide other basic amenities and incur Rs2.66 crore cost per annum, the proposal said, and added that each school would have capacity to enrol only 60 students and impart free education from KG I to Std X. TOI has recently reported that NMC, which has shut down 100 schools in the last 15 years, will use the buildings of 35 schools to run English medium schools. Now, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari said he will ensure all closed schools of NMC will reopen and provide quality education to poor children of the city. Tiwari on Wednesday visited Zingabai Takli Municipal Primary and Upper Primary School and met the Save Government School Joint Action Committee. He assured them that all closed schools will start functioning soon. “First of all, the school uniforms of the corporation will be changed, a conducive environment will be created for education. Already NMC has computer labs and art galleries in many schools. As a result, for the last four years, the students of NMC schools have been passing with 90% marks. The quality of education in the corporation schools has improved and now the children are getting quality education,” he pointed out. The standing panel also gave its nod to extend contract of IT Craft for two more years and gave green signal to the health engineering department to entrust a firm to strengthen south sewerage zone comprising Laxmi Nagar, Hanuman Nagar, Dhantoli and Nehru Nagar zones. The firm will work 27% above the price of the project. Against Rs13.79 crore, NMC will pay the firm over Rs19.62 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/standing-panel-nod-to-mou-with-ngo-to-run-6-english-medium-schools/articleshow/81078671.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 18, 2021||Pune||Will hear all objections, drop roads with dead ends if law allows: Rasane||PMC standing committee chief and BJP leader Hemant Rasane told TOI that the panel would hear all objections against the road widening proposal, including those reaching the civic body late. “We are not rushing through the proposal. The deadline for filing objection was set by the administration as per the mandate in the MMC Act,” he said. Asked why the internal colony roads and cul- de-sac, which are not mandated by the state government have been included in the list of roads to be widened, Rasane said, “The list was finalized by the administration. If the law allows us to drop roads with a dead end and if majority of the local people have objected, I assure you that we will drop that lane from the final list.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/will-hear-all-objections-drop-roads-with-dead-ends-if-law-allows-rasane/articleshow/81078661.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Congress plans statewide agitation against fuel prices||Mumbai: State Congress president Nana Patole on Wednesday said the party will soon launch a statewide agitation against spiralling fuel prices. Patole did not announce a date. “Ever since Narendra Modi took over six years ago, life of the common man has become miserable. Prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders have increased beyond the reach of common man. Petrol prices in Maharashtra have cross the Rs 96-mark, while diesel touched Rs 86 a litre,’’ Patole said. Patole said while lakhs have lost jobs after lockdown, following coronavirus; massive hikes in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG have added to people’s woes. “We are setting a deadline. If Modi government does not roll back prices of petroleum products, we will launch a statewide agitation,’’ he said. “More shocking is that during UPA rule, when the price of petrol touched Rs 70 a litre, film stars led by Akshay Kumar had launched a twitter campaign against the government. Now, all film stars have maintained a discreet silence,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/congress-plans-statewide-agitation-against-fuel-prices/articleshow/81080164.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||SEC to HC: EVMs give good results||Ahmedabad: The State Election Commission (SEC) filed an affidavit in the Gujarat high court stating that Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) are authentic and have given good results in elections.The commission filed its affidavit opposing a PIL seeking directions to the SEC to conduct civic elections through paper ballots and not with EVMs, in the absence of the voter-verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines. An advocate and candidate of the All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, Imtiyazkhan Pathan, filed the PIL after he learned that the SEC does not have VVPAT machines. He questioned the authenticity of EVMs without VVPAT.In response, the SEC contended that the petitioner has not shown any reason why polling should take place through paper ballots and not EVMs. He has not placed any evidence with regard to questions on the authenticity of EVM results, sources said.The election commission further submitted that EVMs have been used since 2001 and there is no issue and EVMs have produced authentic results. The state government has not formulated rules for use of VVPAT for elections to be conducted in the state. In the past, there was a litigation questioning the authenticity of EVMs, but the high court dismissed it and imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the litigant for frivolous litigation. The affidavit cited a report by the EVM manufacturer showing how the machines’ results are authentic. It has also been contended that the election process is underway and is to be completed in a time-bound manner. Any decision on replacing EVMs would affect the process. The HC is to hear the issue on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sec-to-hc-evms-give-good-results/articleshow/81080182.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Coimbatore||Fuel price hike won’t affect poll prospects: BJP state president||Coimbatore: The Centre has asked states to lower tax on petrol and diesel so as to reduce the burden of price hike, BJP state president L Murugan said on Wednesday. Fuel price hike will not have any impact on the prospects of the saffron party in the assembly polls, he told reporters here after the bhoomi puja for erecting stage for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s public meeting scheduled for February 25 at Codissia grounds. “The price rise is temporary. The centre has asked state governments to lower the taxes to reduce the market price of fuel,’’ he said. “BJP candidates will win a considerable number of seats.”Union ministers V K Singh and Kishan Reddy, BJP national women’s wing president Vanathi Srnivasan, state treasurer S R Sekar, deputy president K Annamalai and a host of BJP leaders also participated in the event. Hailing the Centre’s move to club seven castes and calling them Devendra Kula Vellalar historic, Murugan said that their demand for removing them from scheduled caste list is under consideration.Senior BJP leaders are slated to visit TN for campaigning, starting with home minister Rajnath Singh on February 21, he said. Kishan Reddy and Singh, along with Murugan and state vice president Kanagasabapathi, held an intellectuals meet with select people from the city later in the day. The meeting was presided by president of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach) Ramachandran and historian Rajesh Govindarajulu, who explained about the needs of Coimbatore to the ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fuel-price-hike-wont-affect-poll-prospects-bjp-state-president/articleshow/81078666.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Did minister’s presence influence poll officer?’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday questioned the State Election Commission and Botad’s election officer whether the officer was influenced by the presence of a minister in his office, making him reject 14 Congress candidates’ nominations. The officer had earlier assured the candidates that the nominations would be accepted.The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora issued a notice to the State Election Commission and the election officer in response to the plea of the14 candidates from Botad and Gadhada municipalities. Their nominations were rejected by the election officer on February 15. The candidates alleged that the decision was taken by the election officer even after they were assured for two days that the nominations would be accepted following due corrections in Form-K.However, state energy minister and MLA from Botad, Saurabh Patel, was present in the election officer’s office for two hours on February 15. After Patel left the office, the election officer communicated to the candidates at 3pm that the nominations stood rejected. They alleged that the election officer had taken the decision under the minister’s influence.The bench took notice of the allegation and said: “…we would like to know from the respondent No 2, Returning Officer, Botad, as regards the presence of the minister in his office, as alleged and whether he was influenced in any manner by the minister as alleged.”The high court said that it was inclined to reject the petition because Article 243-O of the Constitution restrains courts from interfering in election matters. An election petition can be filed only after the outcome is declared. But the specific allegation with regard to the minister’s presence led the high court to raise the question.The court has sought a reply from the election authorities by February 20, when further hearing has been posted in this matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/did-ministers-presence-influence-poll-officer/articleshow/81080167.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Nashik||3 Nashik cops, health officer from Ahmednagar in ACB net||Nashik: Three policemen from Nashik and a class-1 health officer from Ahmednagar were caught red-handed while taking bribe by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) over the past two days. The three police naiks of the Satpur police station of Nashik city were arrested while accepting Rs 13,000 in bribe from a complainant at the Bolkar police chowkey of Satpur on Tuesday, said the ACB in a statement. The complainant had been booked for rash and dangerous driving under the Motor Vehicle Act (MVA) and Indian Penal Code (IPC). The policemen had demanded Rs 25,000 from the complainant to avoid arrest. Subsequently, the complainant approached the ACB, Nashik, and lodged a complaint. A trap was laid and they were arrested while accepting Rs 13,000 as the first instalment of the deal in front of the Panch and witnesses. The class 1 health officer attached to the Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation in the solid waste management department was arrested while accepting a bribe of Rs 2.50 lakh from a contractor on Wednesday. The complainant has been appointed as a contractor by the municipal corporation for disposing of animal carcasses. The health officer told him that the National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) had pointed out certain anomalies in the process of disposing of the carcasses by the complainant. The officer then demanded Rs 5 lakh for clearing the pending bills. A team led by deputy superintendent of police Harish Khedkar of the Ahmednagar branch of the ACB and police inspector Kiran Raskar laid a trap and arrested the health officer while accepting Rs 2.50 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-nashik-cops-health-officer-from-ahmednagar-in-acb-net/articleshow/81074309.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 18, 2021||Coimbatore||Industrial players cheer new policy||Coimbatore: Industrial associations here welcomed the Tamil Nadu government’s new industrial policy and cheered the decision to triple the subsidy cap on capital investment from Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1.5 crore. The Coimbatore Tirupur Districts Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association (Cotma) and Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ICCI) called the policy ‘growth oriented’. “We appreciate the decision to increase the cap on capital subsidy, which was 25% or Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1.5 crore. Today, even small industries have a capital outlay of more than Rs 4 crore because of inflation. Rs 50 lakh was a limit set more than a decade ago,” ICCI president Balasubramaniam said. “This will remove a solid portion of the burden from manufacturers.” Cotma welcomed the decision to infuse Rs 1,000 crore capital to the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (Tiic). “We hope this will lead to more loans being disbursed at low rates, which will benefit small and micro industries,” a statement said. “The allotment of Rs 500 crore for development of new industrial estates will also help.” The associations also welcomed the incentives for companies relocating from other countries, developers of private industrial parks and sunrise sectors like aerospace and defence, which they believe will pay off in the next decade, changing the industrial climate of the district. The Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia) and the Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) also lauded attention for infrastructural facilities, innovation centres, MSME ecosystem, promoting ease of doing business by introducing single window facility, investor facilitation desk, industrial ecosystem fund, research and technology fund and venture capital fund. “With the new policy, Tamil Nadu will reach the target of Rs 2 lakh crore new investments, two million new employments and 25% export contribution from the state,” AEPC chairman A Sakthivel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industrial-players-cheer-new-policy/articleshow/81078659.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Union home secretary chairs meet to review status of lake on Rishi Ganga||DEHRADUN: Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Wednesday chaired a virtual meeting to review the status of the artificial lake formed in Murenda in the upper ridges of Chamoli after the February 7 disaster and the situation arising as a result of its formation. The meeting was attended by officials from National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), ITBP, Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority (USDMA) and other agencies concerned. The scientists present in the meeting said that the current situation of the lake was not a threat and that, based on ground situation analysis, a decision on steps to be taken would be decided after 2-3 days.  As an immediate measure, the experts suggested that small and deep outlets be made in the natural dam for the smooth drainage of the lake water. Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash informed the Union home secretary that a multi-disciplinary team led by ITBP DIG would visit the lake on February 18 and submit a report, on the basis of which further action would be decided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/union-home-secretary-chairs-meet-to-review-status-of-lake-on-rishi-ganga/articleshow/81077294.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Thieves put off streetlight near shop, rob Rs 3cr ornaments||Mumbai: Unidentified thieves broke open the shutter of a jewellers shop at Kalachowkie early on Monday and decamped with gold and silver ornaments worth around Rs 2.82 crore. The thieves are suspected to have first disconnected the streetlight pole’s connection outside the shop to avoid being seen in CCTV cameras and also took away the digital video recorder from the shop. Senior police inspector Gokulsingh Patil said, “An acquaintance of Vimal Jain, owner of Mangal Jewellers, who was out for a walk saw the shop’s shutter partially open on Monday morning and called Jain. Jain reached there to find the locks broken and 5.7 kg gold and 9 kg silver stolen,” said Patil. The suspects had tried to open the cupboard, but failed, said the police. The crime branch is conducting a parallel probe into the case. —Mateen Hafeez||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/thieves-put-off-streetlight-near-shop-rob-rs-3cr-ornaments/articleshow/81078806.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Salem||‘CM betrayed farmers by supporting agri laws’||Dharmapuri: Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi, who continued ‘Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural’ (Stalin’s voice towards a new dawn) campaign in the district, interacted with farmers at Pennagaram on Wednesday. Fuel price hike has affected agricultural activities in the region, Kanimozhi said. “Farmers are unable to use tractors due to rising fuel prices. They are forced to use bullock carts to transport their produce,” she said. DMK will take step to solve the problem once it comes to power, Kanimozhi said. “The state government supported the farm bills brought by the central government. Chief minister Palaniswami betrayed the farming community by supporting the bills.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/cm-betrayed-farmers-by-supporting-agri-laws/articleshow/81078697.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Modi leads several leaders, film stars in greeting CM||Hyderabad: Birthday greetings poured in from leaders and parties across the country as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao turned 67 on Wednesday. While many leaders greeted him on Twitter, some leaders called him and greeted him personally. Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers Amit Shah and G Kishan Reddy, DMK chief MK Stalin, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel, Sikkim CM Prem Singh Tamang, Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya called up the CM and conveyed their greetings and wished him a happy and healthy long life. PM Modi sent a letter with birthday greetings written in Telugu wishing for a long and healthy life. Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, AP CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa, Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren, former AP CM N Chandrababu Naidu, Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay and TDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh, Union ministers DV Sadananda Gowda, Nitin Gadkwari, Ramesh Pokhriyal, Arjun Munda and Shripad Y Naik wished him a healthy and long life. UK Deputy High Commissioner for Telangana and AP Andrew Fleming, US Consul General in Hyderabad Joel Reifman, actors Chiranjeevi, Pawan Kalyan, Mahesh Babu, Vijaya Devarkonda and Nitin, director Vamsi Paidipally and host of other prominent personalities also greeted the CM. KCR thanked the political leaders and prominent citizens for greeting him on his birthday. “I thank everyone who wished me on my birthday. I sincerely wish and want your love and affection to continue forever,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/modi-leads-several-leaders-film-stars-in-greeting-cm/articleshow/81078676.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||SVP stadium revamp spurs new pitch for IIM-A icons||AHMEDABAD: As a debate rages over the fate of iconic structures at the IIM-A, the ongoing conservation work at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel (SVP) Stadium seems to offer some insights that can resolve the B-school’s heritage dilemmas. The stadium was built in the 1960s by the renowned architect Charles Correa and the famed engineer Mahendra Raj. It has been entered into the World Monuments Watch list, a flagship programme of the New York headquartered World Monuments Fund (WMF). The programme aims to identify imperiled cultural heritage sites and direct financial and technical support for their preservation. The SVP Stadium was nominated for the 2020 watch list and received a $230,000 (roughly Rs 1.60 crore) grant from the Getty Conservation Institute through its ‘Keeping it Modern Initiative’. The initiative has helped authorities implement a Conservation Management Plan for the stadium. The WMF is now in the process of finding funds for the conservation of the stadium, said Ashish Trambadia, director of the Ahmedabad World Heritage City Trust, a part of the AMC. Plans are also afoot to restore, upgrade, and draw more people to the stadium, originally built to host international cricket matches. The SVP Stadium became a regular venue for India’s domestic cricket after a nearby stadium was constructed in 1982. “As suggested by various stakeholders, the IIM-A should have a conservation plan not just for student dormitories but for the entire campus,” said Trambadia, a conservation architect. “It will be good if the IIM-A campus gets nominated to the WMF Watch list. Other expert organizations can also be brought on board.” While a tentative list of heritage structures outside the Walled City areas of Ahmedabad mentions IIM-A’s old campus, the work to bring out a final list is currently under way, he added. The country’s premier B-School was hit by a controversy in December 2020 when it outlined a proposal to demolish most of the student dormitories designed by Louis Kahn. After an intense backlash, the institute said it will revisit its decision. Kahn icons: Brand amplificationRepresentations were made to IIM-A authorities recently by a group of alumni and conservation experts to nominate the old campus to the World Monuments Watch list 2022. The deadline for nomination has been extended from March 1 to May 1, according to a conservation expert who spoke on the condition of anonymity. “In the current cycle, World Monuments Fund is looking for nominations with clear potential to respond to the global challenges of climate change, imbalanced tourism, and the need to amplify underrepresented voices and cultural narratives,” one of the representations said. “The IIM-A falls into the category of Underrepresented Heritage.” The objective of the nomination is to present an opportunity to stakeholders, experts, and funders to come together to prepare a Comprehensive Conservation Management Plan. The plan will address the development needs of the IIM-A while conserving the campus which has outstanding global significance, the representation said. The formal classification of the campus as a twentieth century heritage building will have a multiplier effect and put the campus firmly on the world map, the representation said. It added that the classification will further enhance global brand value by the recognition of architectural artifacts and the legacy they carry. “This is seen in several global educational institutions where legacy artifacts are a vehicle to enhance brand,” the representation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/svp-stadium-revamp-spurs-new-pitch-for-iim-a-icons/articleshow/81080172.cms||Maulik Pathak
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Hopes dashed but families waiting in Chamoli say they will stay as long as the rescue operation is on||NAINITAL: Ten days after the flash floods in Chamoli, family members of the people still missing say that they will stay at the spot for as long as the local administration does not tell them that they have given all hope of finding any more bodies. They, however, add that they are coming to terms with the realization that the rescue operations will probably not find anyone alive and that they just hope to perform the last rites of their kin. Speaking to TOI, Sachin Saini who reached Chamoli from Saharanpur a day after the deluge to look for his 37-year-old uncle Pramod Saini, said that even after spending almost all his savings, he is awaiting any news regarding his uncle from the officials. “For ten days, we have been waiting here but no one is telling us anything. We don’t know how long it will take for the administration to retrieve all the bodies. This whole process has just been a long wait,” he said. Pramod Saini had come to the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) plant in Tapovan on February 7 to fit a machine at the tunnel. “He is father to two children. We know that there is little hope that he is alive but the entire family just wants to perform his last rites. We cannot leave as long as the rescue operation is on,” said Sachin, who works as a daily wage labourer in Saharanpur. Another Saharanpur-resident Praveen Saini is dealing with a similar situation. He is looking for his 40-year-old brother, Ajay Kumar. Saini complains about the slow pace of the operations and the lack of any communication from the administration. “It’s been more than 10 days since the disaster and yet the officials have not even been able to clear a tunnel. Many are still missing in rubble and debris but no one is telling us anything about the operations. We have been left in the lurch,” he said. Sati Bisht, whose brother Parminder is also missing, said that the number of officials on the spot and media presence have receded in the last two days. “Even the officials are giving up but we can’t give up on our family members. I will leave only after his body is found. I am not going anywhere without a definite answer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hopes-dashed-but-families-waiting-in-chamoli-say-they-will-stay-as-long-as-the-rescue-operation-is-on/articleshow/81077326.cms||Prashant Jha
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||Fee unpaid, over 500 lawyers can’t vote in HCBA election||Nagpur: Over 500 lawyers, who failed to deposit one year mandatory subscription fee for renewing their membership with High Court Bar Association (HCBA), won’t be eligible to cast their vote in the association polls on March 12, said poll panel members. According to HCBA members, out of the 2,450 lawyers enrolled with it, 1,847 had deposited the subscription amount with the association office till the deadline on Tuesday. The election panel had extended earlier deadline of December 11, 2020, till February 16 after a group of lawyers made an appeal for it. The remaining 100-125 lawyers are new ones and therefore, they too can’t vote. The polls have been were delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic by about a year. According to HCBA members, in a majority of cases, the contestants themselves deposited an amount towards members’ subscription to secure their votes. As per the poll schedule declared by the panel, the issuance of nomination forms started from Wednesday and the deadline for submission is February 25 till 4.30pm. On the same day, the list of validly nominated candidates will be published later in the evening. The contestants can withdraw till March 3 till 4.30pm and their final list would be published on the same day at 4.45pm. About 37 lawyers had filed their nomination forms for various posts before the polls were postponed last year. All of them are either from various groups or contesting as an independent. An interesting battle is on cards even as no big names are involved, unlike the 2017 polls. According to the members, all contestants have resorted to hectic campaigning and increasingly using the social media to reach the voters. The poll panel had issued a series of directives to contestants to strictly abide by the standard operating procedure for a safe and smooth election. It has barred candidates from visiting the voters’ home during campaigning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fee-unpaid-over-500-lawyers-cant-vote-in-hcba-election/articleshow/81078732.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 18, 2021||Pune||Writ petition on UDCR awaits HC admission||BJP leaders Ujjwal Keskar and Suhas Kulkarni have filed a writ petition in the Bombay HC challenging the Unified Development Control Regulations (UDCR) that asks civic bodies to widen the six-metre roads in cities to nine metre. The petition will be heard for admission in HC on Thursday. Keskar and Kulkarni also wrote a letter to UD minister Eknath Shinde seeking a stay on the road widening proposal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/writ-petition-on-udcr-awaits-hc-admission/articleshow/81078736.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Many Tihar inmates pursuing PG courses||NEW DELHI: A prison may not jump to mind when you think of the pursuit of education. But Tihar jail has many inmates who are undertaking courses from Indira Gandhi National Open University, including master’s degree in public administration, postgraduate diploma in business operations, bachelor’s degree in social work and certificate in food and nutrition. An RTI filed by law student Aniket Gaurav elicited these details of courses being pursued by Tihar inmates for the past five years. Most students are enrolled in certificate and diploma courses. A large number, of course, are undertaking Class X and XII courses. There are many incarcerated students enrolled in bachelor’s degree courses. Gaurav filed the RTI after learning that exams for the inmates hadn’t been held last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “While everyone outside was talking about conducting exams, no one was concerned about the jail inmates. The overall data shows the proportion of students undertaking courses among the prison inmates is very low,” said Gaurav. Sandeep Goel, DG, Tihar Jail, responded, “The exams are under way now. While NIOS conducted exams two weeks ago, Ignou is holding them now.” With the caveat that some of the jails did not provide details for the RTI response, the most popular course in most jails is the bachelor’s preparatory programme offered by Ignou. In Jail No 13 in 2017, 69 students were enrolled, the highest for any course in the central prison. In 2020, around five inmates there were undertaking the course. As for diploma courses, at Jail No 13 in Mandoli, in 2020, 48 inmates are enrolled in the certificate course in food and nutrition. In 2017, 39 students had taken up the course. At Jail No 6, around seven students had passed the same course. The postgraduate diploma in business operations attracts students too. In Tihar’s Jail No 3, three completed the course in the 2018-19 academic session. Since 2015-16, two or three students have regularly undertaken this course, and a total of 32 students completed the graduation programme and 19, the postgraduate programme between 2014-15 and 2018-19. However, in Jail No 16 and 15, no one has passed any course in the last five years. There are also students enrolled in classes X and XII. In Class X, NIOS has 318 aspirants and 48 in Class XII. Ignou has overall 370 enrolled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/many-tihar-inmates-pursuing-pg-courses/articleshow/81078814.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Polling booths enter Covid map for jabs||NEW DELHI: The polling booths in Delhi will now play a role in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. The booths will be mapped to create vaccination centres for inoculation of 42 lakh Delhiites aged above 50 years and those below 50 but with comorbidities. The electoral rolls will be used to identify those who are over 50 years old. Delhi has 13,750 polling booths, and according to the density of the age group at these, vaccination centres will be created to ensure that the people do not have to travel far from home to get the Covid shots. After a special summary revision, the electoral roll was published on January 15. Delhi has 1,48,98,069 voters, of which 42,43,942 are above 50 years. There are 21,18,605 electors in the 50-59 age group, 12,18,919 in the 60– 69 age group, 6,72,918 in the 70-79 age group and 2,33,500 who are 80 years or older. A Delhi government official said that the vaccination will start as per the schedule created by the central government, which has announced that the inoculation of this group will start in March. The vaccination of healthcare workers started on January 16 and those of frontline workers on February 13. Only around 2.3 lakh healthcare workers and frontline workers of the cumulative 8.5 lakh have so far been inoculated. “The districts have been asked to prepare the list of people aged above 50,” said a health department official. “Only after these lists are prepared, the decision about increasing the number of vaccination centres and registration of the beneficiaries will begin. The number of people turning out to get the shots is increasing.” The vaccination exercise in the capital started at 89 vaccination centres and their number has been gradually increased to the current nearly 300 centres. Around 50 more centres are likely to be added to the list of the centres this week. Before the vaccination is opened for the above-50 age group, the number of vaccination centres will be increased majorly. A district magistrate said that the final arrangements are yet to be given a final shape, but the comfort of the beneficiaries will be kept in focus. “The vaccination centres may be established at the hyperlocal level such as mohalla clinics and local dispensaries or community centres to make them more accessible to the people. More accessibility will result in the desired turnout,” the magistrate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/polling-booths-enter-covid-map-for-jabs/articleshow/81078745.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 18, 2021||Delhi||No corona death in Delhi for 3rd time in February||NEW DELHI: The capital on Wednesday recorded zero deaths due to Covid-19 for the third time this month. Earlier, on February 9 and February 13, no deaths were recorded due to the viral infection. The number of fresh cases of Covid-19 recorded in the past 24 hours stood at 134. A total of 59,886 tests, including 39,852 RT-PCR and 20,034 via rapid antigen testing took place in the past 24 hours. The positivity rate, meanwhile, was recorded at 0.22%, slightly more than Tuesday’s 0.17%. On Tuesday, Delhi had recorded 94 fresh Covid cases — the lowest in over nine months — from 56,944 tests. The Covid-19 case tally in the capital has climbed to 6,37,315, authorities said, adding that the death toll is 10,894. The number of active cases is 1,078, of which 440 are recuperating at home and only 468 are under treatment at hospitals. Most of the beds reserved for Covid-19 patients at hospitals lie vacant, data shows. At Lok Nayak Hospital, for example, 270 of 300 Covid beds were vacant. The hospital is quarantining persons coming to Delhi from countries like the United Kingdom, where Covid cases linked to mutated strains of the virus have been reported. “There are seven such returnees with travel history admitted at present. Of them, one is positive for the mutated strain from UK. We do not have any positive case who has the South African or any other strain,” Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak, said. A senior health department official said that nearly 98% of persons diagnosed with Covid-19 in the capital since the beginning of the pandemic have either recovered or have been discharged after treatment. All Covid Health Centres are vacant and even in hospitals, the occupancy rate has dropped to less than 10%. Of the 5,765 beds reserved for treating persons suffering from the viral infection across the city, data available on the Delhi Corona app showed that only 468 remained occupied. With the decline in fresh cases, demand for beds has gone down. AIIMS, Safdarjung and GTB have increased the intake of non-Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-corona-death-in-city-for-3rd-time-in-feb/articleshow/81078781.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Nashik||Towing vans to start operating within a month||Nashik: The city police will soon give a contract to operate towing vans in the city in order to do control the menace of illegal parking.Deputy commissioner of police Pournima Chaugule said they have already invited bids from agents interested to operate towing vans in the city. The process of opening financial bids is underway. In a month, the entire process of appointing a contractor will be over and the contractor concerned will start operating the towing vehicles.With the absence of towing vans in the city, action against illegal parking reduced in the city last year. The previous contract of the towing van was cancelled in October 2019. Meanwhile, lack of action by the police against such motorists resulted in a large number of vehicles being parked on the important roads in the city. This problem is seen on almost all roads despite the presence of parking spaces, that have been created by the NMC in various parts of the city. The previous towing vans contracts have been terminated only due to the rude behaviour of the workers on the towing vans towards the motorists, whose vehicles were picked up from the city streets. Motorists, in general, are relieved that there are no towing cranes in the city as they used to think twice before parking their vehicle on the road. If their vehicles were towed, motorists had to rush all the way to the traffic branch office to pay the fine, which also included the towing charges of the towing cranes, which was frustrating for the motorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/towing-vans-to-start-operating-within-a-month/articleshow/81074703.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Delhi||DSLSA against plea for parole extension||New Delhi: Delhi State Legal Services Authority on Wednesday opposed in Delhi High Court a plea seeking extension of emergency parole of prisoners, who are above the age of 65 and prone to Covid, due to some ailments and medical conditions.DSLSA submitted before a bench of Chief Justice Dhirubhai Naranbhai Patel and justice Jyoti Singh that it is the Supreme Court that put on hold the surrender of prisoners but not those out on parole. The high court, however, said it would hear the matter on February 22.The court was hearing a plea by advocate Amit Sahni, who urged HC to direct that in the interest of inmates and jail administration, aged prisoners be directed to surrender after all other prisoners.The plea also stated that social distancing is not feasible and possible in jails as they are already overcrowded.Sahni sought direction to the authorities that prisoners, who are Covid-19 infected, should quarantine themselves at their place before surrendering. His plea claimed that city jails have a capacity to retain 10,026 prisoners and presently around 14,000 inmates are already lodged there, excluding around 4,000 who have been released on interim bail or emergency parole.Sahni also referred to the Supreme Court’s January 21 order extending the stay on October 20 last year order of Delhi High Court by which interim bail granted to undertrials in view of the pandemic ended and they were directed to surrender on various dates.The petition also said that the Director General (Prisons) of Tihar Jail, despite being a party to the proceedings in the Supreme Court and being aware that the matter is pending before the apex court, had issued a circular directing prisoners to surrender on their due dates with effect from February 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dslsa-against-plea-for-parole-extension/articleshow/81078854.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Over 10k frontline workers get C-vax||New Delhi: Over 15,300 people turned out for Covid shots on Wednesday, which is more than the total individuals who turned out to get the shot a day before. The turnout percentage was 51.1%, slightly higher than what was reported the day before. The total number of vaccinated persons has crossed 2.25 lakh.Two more vaccination centres were added to the existing network of vaccination centres and now, Delhi has 300 centres. The number of adverse events was only four, two less than what it was on Tuesday.The number of frontline workers like Delhi Police personnel and paramilitary personnel is consistently growing. A total of 10,632 frontline workers turned out to get the shot, which was higher than what it was a day before. Since vaccination for the frontline workers started on February 13, the percentage of turnout has been growing. Many senior officials from police and administration have taken the shot.The number of healthcare workers taking the second dose of Covid vaccine decreased on Wednesday by more than 50%. A total of 1,072 healthcare workers got the shot as compared to 2,532 healthcare workers who got inoculated the day before. The highest number of first dose was given in northeast district (1,655 individuals) followed by central and northwest districts, which reported 1,585 and 1,558 individuals getting the shot, respectively. The highest turnout for the second dose was reported in northwest district, which saw 224 individuals getting the shot, followed by 190 in southeast. The northeast district saw only 22 healthcare workers turn out to get the second dose, lowest among 11 districts.Eight districts did not report any adverse events among the inoculated individuals while south and central districts reported one adverse event each. Shahdara district reported two adverse events. All of them reported minor adverse events, which are usually common with all types of vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-10k-frontline-workers-get-c-vax/articleshow/81078832.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Following Chamoli disaster, social organisations in Uttarakhand urge Supreme Court to hear all pending cases related to HEPs||DEHRADUN: Concerned over the environmental and social impact of the hydroelectric-power projects in the fragile landscape of Uttarakhand hills, environmentalists and social organizations demand the Supreme Court (SC) to look into all pending cases relating to such projects on priority. The demand comes in the wake of flash floods in Chamoli that has so far claimed 58 lives. As many as 146 people who got caught in the floods remain missing. “We want the SC to immediately hear all the pending cases relating to hydro-electric projects so that there is no confusion regarding these projects, especially in the Himalayan states. The recent disaster that destroyed Rishiganga and Vishnugad power projects have once again highlighted the catastrophic impact that these HEPs can have on the vulnerable yet biodiversity-rich eco-system and the landscape of the Himalayas,” said Vimal Bhai, an activist and Ganga saviour. Meanwhile, the members of Vimal Bhai-founded Uttarakhand-based Matu Jan Sangathan, who recently visited the disaster-struck Reni village and its nearby areas to take feedback of the locals, have put forth multiple demands before the government. These include — a case of unintentional murder and criminal negligence against the NTPC; an investigation by technical experts headed by a retired high court or Supreme Court judge; kin of the victims be given Rs 50 lakh tax-free; and a permanent job for one member of the aggrieved family. Incidentally, Haridwar-based Matri Sadan has also announced that its founder, Shivanand Saraswati will fast unto death from February 23 against hydropower plants in Uttarakhand on river Ganga and all its tributaries – Alaknanada, Bhagirathi and Mandakini — in the state. He also asks to stop quarrying and use of stone crushers, and demands the formation of Ganga Council for protecting the Ganga from unabated exploitation for procuring money at the cost of aquatic biodiversity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/following-chamoli-disaster-social-organisations-in-uttarakhand-urge-supreme-court-to-hear-all-pending-cases-related-to-heps/articleshow/81077381.cms||Shivani Azad
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Jamia students want resumption of offline classes||NEW DELHI: Claiming that Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University have reopened their campuses and allowed libraries to function, students of Jamia Millia Islamia assembled outside the varsity gate demanding resumption of physical classes. The varsity administration, however, said the decision to reopen the campus would be taken by the Executive Council, “if the situation is conducive.” Assembling at the varsity gates on Wednesday, the students demanded immediate reopening of the campus. AISA member Shoaib addressed the gathering and said that if the government had reopened gyms, malls, cinema halls, etc, “why are universities still under lockdown?” A delegation of students from different organisations submitted a memorandum of demands to the vice-chancellor’s office. “Online education is exclusionary and relies heavily on an unreal degree of digitalisation. Classrooms should also be rearranged to allow for social distancing and better ventilation,” the memorandum stated. Jamia PRO Ahmed Azeem said there are many parents and students who are concerned for their safety with physical reopening of the campuses. “Many are unsure of the Covid situation and want to continue with online classes. Any decision for reopening of Jamia would be taken by the EC, taking all things into consideration,” Azeem added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamia-students-want-resumption-of-offline-classes/articleshow/81078807.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||BMC brings back stringent norms as Covid cases rise||Mumbai: In a bid to control the rise in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, the BMC on Thursday decided to reimpose certain rules from the early days of the pandemic and tighten others by acting against violators. It will go back to sealing of buildings and floors, stamping of asymptomatic patients, tracking over a dozen high-risk contacts of those found positive and impose stringent fines on those who don’t wear masks. Importantly, additional civic commissioner Suresh Kakani said marriage halls and religious places will not be allowed to have a gathering of more than 50 persons. “Restaurants have fixed seating capacity and hence can decide their operations,” he added. Buildings with more than five cases will be sealed, and those with fewer cases will have their floors sealed. Ward officials have been directed to start inspecting restaurants, marriage halls, offices and auditoriums for crowd levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-brings-back-stringent-norms-as-covid-cases-rise/articleshow/81100232.cms||Richa Pinto
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Nakshatra Vanam to mark CM’s b’day||Hyderabad: To mark the 67th birthday of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao the Yadigirigutta Temple Development Authority (YTDA) has proposed to build a ‘Nakshatra Vanam’ on the one-acre land next to the hilltop of the spiritual shrine. YTDA vice-chairman G Kishan Rao, temple executive officer N Geetha Reddy and priests have planted saplings at the vanam. “The vanam will be developed as per the geometrical combinations corresponding to the Sree Chakra of the Vedic astrology,” Kishan Rao told TOI. Meanwhile, the temple priests led by pradhana archaka Lakshmi Narasimhacharyulu performed ‘Sudharshana Homam’ and ‘Pushpa Archana’ at Balalayam on the occasion of KCR’s birthday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nakshatra-vanam-to-mark-cms-bday/articleshow/81078847.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 18, 2021||Madurai||HC seeks response on DPC for Kodai hill garlic||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought to establish a direct procurement centre and warehouse for hill garlic at Kodaikanal. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by S Manoj Immanuel, an advocate, and a resident of Dindigul district. The petitioner stated that farmers around Kodaikanal who are cultivating hill garlic are forced to spend more money for transporting their produce from Kodaikanal to the Vadugapatti wholesale market in Theni. Immanuel stated that if a DPC is established at Kodaikanal, it would be of great benefit for the farmers to directly sell their produce. He also sought to establish a warehouse to store the harvested hill garlic during the rainy season.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-response-on-dpc-for-kodai-hill-garlic/articleshow/81078840.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||Pachmarhi Shivratri fair gets nod, sparks fear of Covid spread||Nagpur: Even as Covid infections are again on the rise in the region, Madhya Pradesh is gearing up for a major congregation at Pachmarhi next door at the 10-day Mahashivratri fair from March 2 to 12. The event is expected to attract a lakh pilgrims, with a majority of them coming from Nagpur and other nearby areas. The event had been called off last year as the pandemic had begun by that time. Even as concerns are being raised over spread of infections in Vidarbha, officials in Madhya Pradesh hope that Pachmarhi will remain safe from Covid as it has been so far. The likelihood of infections is not being ruled out, but the officials says it will be prevented by following strict guidelines. The hill station already has a high number of tourists coming in, they said. The fair is an annual event held before the Mahashivratri festival at Pachmarhi, some 250km from Nagpur. The hill station is not only a favourite tourist spot for those in Nagpur, but also a well frequented pilgrim site during such events. Despite corona concerns, the locals are looking forward to the fair. The local economy depends on the tourist influx. Pachmarhi has been much safer from corona as compared to other pockets. So far, not more than 150-200 positive cases have been found in the town, said an official in the district administration. Pachmarhi comes under Hoshangabad district of Madhya Pradesh. Officials say the event was part of the general reopening measures, which also allow religious congregations to happen with enough precautions. “We expect an influx of around a lakh persons over the 10 days. The decision to hold the fair was taken in a meeting held by the district’s crisis management committee,” said an official at Pipariya, the tehsil which has jurisdiction over Pachmarhi. There has been a huge influx of tourists, specially from Maharashtra, since September but this has not led to any spurt in infections. Even during the fair enough precaution will be taken, said the officer. “The pilgrims will be scanned at the entry. Visitors will also have to wear masks and carry their own sanitizers. All the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs will be followed,” said an official at Hoshangabad. “The locals want such events to be held so that it brings business to hotels and others engaged in the hospitality business,” said Gopal Kabra, an elected member of the cantonment board. The hill station is already full of tourists, he also reiterated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pachmarhi-shivratri-fair-gets-nod-sparks-fear-of-covid-spread/articleshow/81078819.cms||Shishir Arya
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Dehradun University study indicates high level of industrial pollutants in Ganga water ahead of Kumbh||DEHRADUN: A study conducted by researchers from Doon University has indicated a “very high presence of pollutants” in the urban stretches of river Ganga at Rishikesh and Haridwar. The study indicates that millions of pilgrims visiting the two cities, especially Haridwar, for the Kumbh festival will be “exposed to high concentration of water pollutants.” The researchers detected during their study conducted over three seasons the occurrence of 15 different pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCP) in the river stretch which flows along Rishikesh and Haridwar. These pollutants include anti-inflammatory, caffeine, common antibiotics and anti-bacterial, among others. The stretch of Ganga in Rishikesh and Haridwar is 16km and 40km, respectively. The overall concentration of PPCPs in the above stretch was up to 1,104.84 nanograms per litre. Concentrations of anti-inflammatory drugs and antibiotics were higher in the winter season possibly because of decreased biodegradation associated with lower temperature and inadequate sunlight, the study said. According to the researchers, mass bathing, urban waste and effluent from sewage treatment could be a source of PPCPs in the two cities. “PPCPs are released into the environment as modified products mainly through various points in a well-organised sewerage system mainly to handle the load. The effluent produced from domestic sewage, discharge from hotels and ashrams eventually leads to the Ganga, causing additional contamination. We analysed water at its point of entry in the cities and also, at spots before it entered into a sewage treatment plant. This can pose a threat to the pilgrims as well as the water species. As per our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive study on reporting PPCPs in the riverside cities along the uppermost part of the Ganga,” said Surindra Suthar, associate professor in Doon University. The research was carried out by Suthar and PhD scholar Vineet Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-univ-study-indicates-high-level-of-industrial-pollutants-in-ganga-water-ahead-of-kumbh/articleshow/81074819.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Red Fort violence: Man with swords arrested||NEW DELHI: One of the most wanted persons involved in the Red Fort violence that occurred on Republic Day has been arrested by Special Cell of Delhi Police. The accused, Maninder Singh alias Moni (30), is a resident of Swaroop Nagar in northwest Delhi and works as a car AC mechanic. Singh was arrested around 7.45pm on Wednesday from Pitampura by a special team led by inspector Shiv Kumar. Two swords with a length of 4.3 feet each, which he had been seen swinging at Red Fort, have been seized. “The arrested man was seen in a video swinging the swords at Red Fort to motivate and energise the mob indulging in brutal assault on police personnel on duty with swords, iron rods, axes, barsa, danda, etc and damaging the historical monument on Republic Day,” read a Delhi Police statement. The video was found on Singh’s phone too, apart from photos of his presence at Singhu border. Police claimed that Singh disclosed that he was “radicalised” by seeing provoking Facebook posts. He used to frequently visit Singhu border and got motivated by speeches made there. “He disclosed that he motivated six people in his neighbourhood in Swaroop Nagar. All six rode on bikes to accompany a tractor rally of farmers from Singhu border towards Mukarba Chowk. Singh kept the two swords with him before joining the rally,” said an officer. The accused, his five associates and other unknown armed miscreants entered Red Fort where Singh swung his sword and danced around. This motivated the protesters to cause mayhem and indulge in violence against public servants on duty there. They also damaged Red Fort,” added the officer. Earlier, Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu, Iqbal Singh and others were arrested for their alleged involvement in the violence at Red Fort where the Sikh religious flag was also unfurled. Sidhu remains in police custody. Cops are ascertaining the sequence of events that led to the violence and others who were involved in the mayhem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/red-fort-violence-man-with-swords-arrested/articleshow/81078921.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Chandigarh||70 cases of adverse event among vaccine recipients in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has reported 70 cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI ) among health and frontline workers who have been jabbed in the ongoing Covid-19 inoculation drive. Of the 70 cases, 56 recipients experienced minor adverse events such as pain, fever, irritability, malaise and swelling at the injection site while in 10 cases the beneficiaries complained of severe reactions such as high fever, reveals data of the state health department. So far, only four cases of serious adverse events requiring hospitalisation have been reported in the state. No death following immunisation has been reported. The individuals who experienced severe adverse reactions were admitted to the AEFI management centre/health facility nearest to the site where they were vaccinated and were discharged after their condition recovering. Of total cases, 45 recipients who suffered adverse events were females. Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Rajesh Bhaskar shared that all the beneficiaries are counselled about adverse events that may occur after the Covid vaccine. He said that all the vaccinators have been imparted training to suspect signs and symptoms of adverse events and take appropriate action. “A strong AEFI surveillance system has been put in place across the state for prompt detection, reporting and response to adverse events,” said Dr Bhaskar. All the beneficiaries are kept under observation in an observation room for 30 minutes after administering the shots for any adverse event. All the sites have been provided with AEFI management kit containing adrenaline injection, hydrocortisone injection, normal saline, drip set, scalp vein sets, disposable syringes and adhesive tape. Punjab has been struggling with the low response and is among 11 states/UT with coverage of less than 50% against the All-India average of 60%. Punjab has so far managed to cover only 37% of the total registered health workers. Since the launch of the drive on January 16, the state government has managed to vaccinate 112,100 eligible beneficiaries – health workers and frontline workers-- till February 17. Contrary to the performance of Punjab, states like Bihar have covered over 80% of its total health workers while Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Odisha have recorded coverage of over 74%. 341 fresh cases, 10 patients succumbCovid-19 claimed 10 more lives, while 341 fresh cases were reported in Punjab on Wednesday. The virus has infected 1,77,101 people so far and claimed 5,722 lives. Two people each died in Nawanshahr and Tarn Taran, and one each in Amritsar, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and Sangrur. Nawanshahr reported 92 cases, highest in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/70-cases-of-adverse-event-among-vax-recipients-in-punjab/articleshow/81078868.cms||Vinod Kumar
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Plea against setting up shops in fruit market’s parking area||Madurai: Madras high court on Wednesday directed Madurai corporation officials to proceed with the tender process for construction of additional shops inside the smart fruit market in Madurai district but not to confirm the same. A division bench of Justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi also sought response from Madurai corporation in a petition against construction of additional shops at the place earmarked for vehicle parking inside the fruit market. Petitioner G Kanthaiah, secretary of Madurai Pazha Commission Vanigargal Sangam, said the wholesale fruit markets functioning at Simmakkal and Yaanaikal were shifted to the newly constructed market at Mattuthavani in 2018. The market has 240 shops and several vehicles loading and unload fruits there. These vehicle parking area inside the market was insufficient. He stated that it was in this backdrop that the corporation issued a notification calling for tenders for construction of 10 additional shops at the parking area. Hence, the petitioner moved HC Madurai bench challenging the notification and sought to forbear the corporation officials from putting up any construction in the parking area.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-setting-up-shops-in-fruit-markets-parking-area/articleshow/81078860.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Hyderabad||Businessman stabs wife, flees||Hyderabad: A 36-year-old businessman, S Nagendar of Gudimalkapur, stabbed his wife, S Keerthi, 33, a housewife, at her house in Yellareddyguda due to personal problems. For past five months, Keerthi, along with her daughter, has been staying separately from her husband due to personal problems. During early hours of Wednesday, Nagendar tried to smother Keerthi with a pillow and stabbed her on the neck with a knife. The accused fled from the spot and police registered an attempt to murder case against him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/businessman-stabs-wife-flees/articleshow/81078863.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Shimla||Vaccine wastage in HP 3.46%, well below 10% permissible limit||Shimla: State steering committee meeting for the implementation of Covid-19 vaccination drive was held in Shimla on Wednesday with chief secretary Anil Khachi. He directed the health department to ensure 100% vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers with second dose. Secretary of health Amitabh Awasthi gave details about the vaccination drive. Mission director, National Health Mission, Nipun Jindal said 3,67,500 doses of vaccine has been received in the state in three lots. According to him, till Tuesday, 63,282 healthcare workers (HCW) and 20,963 frontline workers (FLW) have been vaccinated, resulting in an achievement of 7% and 41%, respectively, against the target. The deadlines for first dose for HCWs and FLWs is February 20 and March 1. The committee was further apprised that 2,907 HCWs have been administered the second dose as well. The vaccine wastage in the state has been 3.46%, well below the permissible limit of 10%, the committtee was told. The AEFI percentage occurrence as reported on application is 0.6%. The state is undertaking regular IEC campaigns to counter misinformation and vaccine hesitancy and the cooperation from all departments is being received for the smooth implementation of vaccination drive. The committee also discussed about how professions like media and teaching require people to put themselves at risk and are therefore considered more vulnerable to catch and spread Covid-19 infection. They should be protected too. The committee directed to take up the matter with the government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/vaccine-wastage-in-hp-3-46-well-below-10-permissible-limit/articleshow/81078867.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Farmer leaders to campaign across country to garner support against Centre’s agriculture laws||RUDRAPUR: The farmers agitating at the Ghazipur border against the three contentious farm laws are now mulling to intensify their stir and launch a nation-wide campaign to gather the support of more number of farmers. In this context, Bharatiya Kisan Union’s leader Rakesh Tikait will be addressing a rally in Rudrapur on February 28 to rally local farmers against the laws. Talking to TOI over phone, Jagtar Singh Bajwa, spokesperson of the Kisan Andolan Committee, Ghazipur, said that over the last few months, talks with the government have not bore the desired outcome. “We have refused to accept the government's offer of an 18-month freeze on the three laws. As this is going to be a long battle, we intend on spreading the stir to different parts of the nation by making farmers aware of the new laws. Our leader Rakesh Tikait has planned rallies across the country. He will be holding one such rally in Rudrapur on February 28,” said Bajwa. Bajwa further said that decentralization of the agitation is an important step. The farmers will go to their homes and come back to the protest site on a rotational basis. He added that farmers will always be available to arrive at the borders within a short notice. “We can gather one lakh people at the Ghazipur border within a day,” he claimed. Meanwhile, Tejender Singh Virk, president of the Terai Kisan Mahasabha, said, “The focus is now on holding massive rallies across the states to garner support for the agitation. We will expand the protests pan-India. Terai is an agriculture-based region and thousands of farmers will perish if these draconian laws are implemented. Keeping in mind the stubbornness of the government, we are changing our strategy so that the protest can reach every house in each village,” added Virk. The leader is currently visiting different towns of the Terai region these days to gather more support for the farm agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmer-leaders-to-campaign-across-country-to-garner-support-against-centres-agri-laws/articleshow/81077403.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur civic body set to provide 18 mini buses for Metro feeder service||NAGPUR: The cash-strapped Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has agreed to spare and run 18 mini buses to provide feeder service to Metro Rail in the city. “The NMC will provide 18 buses having 21-seat capacity on a daily rent basis,” confirmed a senior official from NMC’s transport department. Additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma has given the civic administration’s nod and now the proposal will be submitted before the transport committee headed by senior BJP corporator Narendra Borkar next week, said the official. The NMC will provide the buses to MahaMetro on an assured kilometre basis for which the latter will pay Rs3,500 per bus every day to the civic body, the official added. Currently, the NMC is earning around Rs1,000 each from 45 mini buses across the city and on various routes outside corporation limits. The move will definitely curtail the civic body’s loss on operation of the Aapli Bus service. Besides this, the NMC has already provided one electric bus to MahaMetro to run a shuttle service from the airport to its nearby Metro Rail station on Wardha road. For this service, the NMC is getting Rs4,500 per day from MahaMetro, said the official. At present, the NMC’s monthly expenditure on Aapli Bus service is around Rs15 crore, while its revenue from ticketing is around Rs6 crore, said the official. The routes for these 18 mini buses are not yet finalized. Metro will provide the list of routes and the NMC, through three Red bus operators, will ply the buses accordingly, the official added. Earlier, the civic body had rejected MahaMetro’s proposal to provide feeder services to Metro station as the former demanded stopping the operation of Aapli Bus service on Metro routes. The official explained that in the past, MahaMetro was urging the civic body to sign an agreement for providing feeder services to Metro stations. “MahaMetro wanted NMC to not to operate Aapli Bus on routes covered by Metro — Sitabuldi to Butibori and Sitabuldi to Hingna — as city buses continue to run on Hingna and Wardha roads causing loss of ridership to the Metro,” the official added. The NMC had also rejected MahaMetro’s plan for Common Mobility Card (CMC). The official pointed out that the nationalized bank roped in for the service was insisting on a 4% charge for transferring the money collected through the card. Another reason for rejecting the CMC proposal was that the ticketing money would be transferred to the civic body’s account only after three days of swiping the card. The official said the NMC has no problem introducing the CMC if the civic body gets the ticketing revenue the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-set-to-provide-18-mini-buses-for-metro-feeder-service/articleshow/81078864.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 18, 2021||Delhi||PWD can’t dump malba in green belt: Forest dept||New Delhi: After recently stopping Delhi Jal Board (DJB) from laying a pipeline in a 5.34km stretch on Outer Ring Road, which is classified as a deemed forest, the forest and wildlife department has now issued a restraining order to the public works department asking it to stop work being carried out on Ring Road and dumping malba and construction waste in a green belt in Delhi Cantonment.The restraining order issued on February 11, a copy of which is with TOI, states that PWD was found dumping construction waste in a green belt at Brar Square, near the railway crossing on Ring Road in Delhi Cantonment.“Inner Ring Road is identified as a forest as per an affidavit filed by the conservator of forests before Supreme Court in case number WP(C) 202 of 1995 in the matter of TN Godavarman vs Union of India and others. Therefore, dumping construction waste in the said area is a violation of Section 2 of Forest Conservation Act, 1980,” stated the order issued by deputy conservator of forests (west).Officials from the Moti Bagh range of the west forest division had inspected the location after receiving a complaint on November 1, 2020. Subsequent inspections found that work had continued deep into the forest area, even entering the land belonging to Northern Railway near the railway tracks running parallel to Ring Road.The restraining notice issued to Delhi Jal Board earlier this month was also on similar grounds, with violations found on the Outer Ring Road.In August 2020, DCF (west) had stopped DMRC from carrying out work on its Phase-IV project on the same road number 26 of Outer Ring Road. A notice had been sent in February 2020 too. DMRC was yet to receive fresh permission to carry out work in the area. “DMRC disobeyed the directions and refused to stop work on road number 26, thereby violating Forest Conservation Act, 1980,” the forest department had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pwd-cant-dump-malba-in-green-belt-forest-dept/articleshow/81078875.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 18, 2021||Nashik||NMC allots Rs 102.7cr for bus services||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is all set to take over the city bus service from the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) and has made an allocation of Rs 102 crore for the next financial year. This is for the first time that the NMC has made substantial allocation for the public transport sector. NMC had made financial provision of Rs 45 crore for the financial year 2020-21. The funds will be used to set up infrastructure like bus terminals, bus depots etc Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav said adequate financial provisions have been made to create infrastructure for the proposed city bus service in the budget. A company, Nashik Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (NMPML), has been set up to monitor the city bus service. The civic body has deployed two private agencies to operate the buses. These two operators have already procured 250 buses, including 200 CNG and 50 diesel buses. Apart from the procurement, the two agencies will have to maintain and manage the buses. The NMC will pay these operators on per km basis. Jadhav said the works related to the Intelligent Transport Management System (ITMS) are in progress. The infrastructural work like construction of new bus depots, bus terminals, bus stops is in progress. Earlier, the NMC had decided to bus service with 50 buses in the first phase from January 26, but it could not start due to lack of permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-allots-rs-102-7cr-for-bus-services/articleshow/81074770.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 18, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Field training pattern for tiger estimation may change||NAGPUR: As tiger reserves across Central India prepare for the All-India Tiger Estimation (AITE) 2022 exercise, officials have started assessing what impact Covid-19 safety protocols will have on its field training where only a limited number of people can gather. Chief wildlife wardens (CWWs) and field directors (FDs) of six states met on Wednesday at a city hotel to review management effectiveness evaluation (MEE) of sanctuaries as well as the upcoming AITE. Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief wildlife conservator of forests (PCCF-Wildlife), said Maharashtra officials will give a presentation on Thursday, the concluding day of a two-day meet. “Usually this conference happens at all-India level, but due to Covid-19 guidelines, the participants have been divided into groups, with Nagpur playing host to Central Indian states,” he said. Though the AITE is scheduled for 2022, the process begins now. Kakodkar said, “We have to start planning now and that’s why we need to review everything from equipment, manpower and training to implement the estimation exercise perfectly. Training of forest guards and others for this exercise will definitely be affected due to Covid restrictions. Now, we may need to train them range-wise, as opposed to entire division together, considering that there is a limit on how many people can gather at a place.” Giving further insight into the AITE preparation process, Kakodkar said the preview is important so that budgeting can be done properly. “We look at equipment like rangefinder, camera traps, compass etc and take stock of how much we have and what is needed. Apart from this, we have to work in tandem with the Wildlife Institute of India on ensuring that maps of all tiger reserves are updated. So, if any reorganization has happened then these changes need to be incorporated in the maps,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/field-training-pattern-for-tiger-estimation-may-change/articleshow/81078912.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 18, 2021||Nashik||Civic body plans to strengthen health, education & environment sectors||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has prepared an ambitious plan for the education, health and environment sectors in the draft budget presented on Wednesday for the next financial year 2021-22.  As part of improving education in schools, NMC has proposed establishing smart schools, that will be equipped with modern gadgets. “We are introducing smart school projects in municipal schools for 2021-22 and provision of Rs 15 crore has been made in the budget for the same. Our objective is to improve the quality of education and provide proper training to the municipal school teachers,” said Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav. “Allocation has been increased in the health sectors as NMC has planned to start postgraduate medical college at its new Bytco hospital. The hospital in Nashik Road area will be upgraded to improve health services for the city residents,” said Jadhav. He said the operation theatre in the new Bytco hospital will also be upgraded so that surgeries for critical diseases can be conducted. An RTPCR lab will also be set up at the hospital. NMC commissioner has also proposed several measures to deal with the problem of pollution in Godavari river for the next financial year. A financial provision of Rs 10 crore has been made to clean the Godavari river and reduce pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-plans-to-strengthen-health-education-environment-sectors/articleshow/81074829.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Doctors at Almora women hospital seek protection, stage protest||ALMORA: Unhappy with the incidents of attendants of the patients misbehaving with hospital staff, the doctors and other staff members at Almora women hospital — the only such facility in the district — staged a protest on Wednesday demanding police protection. The doctors didn't work in the OPD (outpatient department) on the day and said that they must be given the freedom to refer patients to other facilities as per their discretion. Talking to TOI, the agitating doctors said that there is an acute shortage of doctors in the hills and that they work under a lot of stress. However, things get worse when attendants of the patients lose temper on the doctors and other hospital staff and thus, they demand better protection. Dr Preeti Pant, in-charge, Almora women hospital, said, “The doctors boycotted OPD work on Wednesday to push their demands. They must be empowered at the earliest possible.” Notably, the OPD of the facility records a daily average turnout of 100 women patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/docs-at-almora-women-hosp-seek-protection-stage-protest/articleshow/81077411.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Mercury to stay on higher side in Delhi for the next five days||NEW DELHI: The maximum temperature recorded on Wednesday was 27.2 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. The minimum temperature, meanwhile, was 10.7 degrees Celsius. Met officials said no major variation in temperature is predicted for the next five days. According to the forecast by India Meteorological Department, the maximum and minimum temperature will remain around 28 and 11 degrees Celsius, respectively on Thursday. Moderate fog has also been predicted during the day. Met officials said the mercury might rise to 30 and 31 degrees Celsius on February 22 and 23, respectively. “Due to clear sky during the day-time, the mercury is being recorded above normal temperature. As only one western disturbance affected the plains this month, the sky has remained clear. Cloudy sky screens out the sunlight and makes the day temperature to dip,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD. Meanwhile, Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) on Wednesday was recorded at 324 in the “very poor” category. SAFAR said the AQI is likely to stay in the lower end of “very poor” for the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-to-stay-on-higher-side-in-delhi-for-the-next-five-days/articleshow/81078906.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana immunises 3.8k, reports 82 cases||Chandigarh: Haryana on Wednesday administered 3,818 first or second doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, while it reported 82 new cases and a death, besides 74 recoveries. The state’s tally is now 2,69,322 cases,3,041 deaths, and 2,65,455 recoveries. The 826 active cases include 21 patients on oxygen support. On the vaccination front, 577 healthcare workers and frontline warriors received the first dose, while 3,236 healthcare workers took the second. Five districts, including Gurugram, observed a regular immunisation day. The state has immunized 2,14,712 people, so far. Eight districts—Rohtak, Sirsa, Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Fatehabad, Jind, and Charkhi Dadri reported zero case, while only one death was reported from Hisar. The state’s Covid positivity rate was 4% or less than 10 cases. Haryana’s Copvid-19 recovery rate has improved from 91 to 98.56%, while the death rate remains stable at 1.13%. The case doubling rate has reached 135 days. Then maximum news cases, 17, are from Gurugram, where the tally is now 58,619 cases, 356 deaths, and 277 active cases. Faridabad reported second maximum cases, 12, followed by 11 of Karnal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-immunises-3-8k-reports-82-cases/articleshow/81078878.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Libraries mould character, state must augment resources for learning: HC||Madurai: The need of the hour is for the state to focus on augmenting its resources to open more centres of learning, which alone would pave the way for sustainable growth and development, the Madras high court has said. The court said this while dismissing a batch of petitions challenging the amendments made to the Tamil Nadu Public Libraries Act and Tamil Nadu Public Libraries Rules. It also sought a report from the state government as to whether a blueprint is available for establishment of new libraries across the state, more especially in the villages, in consonance with the library movement initiated by the government in the year 2009, while celebrating 2009-2010 as Library Rejuvenation Year for improving the stature of the present libraries. “One of the constitutional guarantees is providing education to all classes of people and in achieving this target, libraries play a great role, as it helps in the advancement of socially and educationally backward classes of citizens,” justice M Dhandapani said. Stressing on the importance of libraries, the judge said that while a library is provisioned only in 15% of the village areas, the education of the children and the improvement of literacy among the masses in villages squarely stands sub-served by the state in not providing them with the aid to improve their learning and hone their intellectual skills. The judge observed that libraries are essential in a process of giving citizens access to knowledge. “Libraries play an important role as it helps in developing and moulding the character and conduct of the members of the society. The proactive participation of the members in the utilisation of the library within their locality tends to improve the standard of living of the entire community and the harmony of the masses in the said community,” the judge said. The judge observed that tools for digitization and indexing of texts are the need of the hour. Digitalizing the texts by use of technological tools would very much contribute to reducing costs and increasing efficiency of the utilization of the libraries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/libraries-mould-character-state-must-augment-resources-for-learning-hc/articleshow/81078898.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 18, 2021||Madurai||NCB told to pay Rs 1L relief for infringement of right to speedy trial||Madurai: Taking a serious view over the infringement of right to speedy trial for an accused who was arrested for possession of ganja in 2018, the Madras high court has directed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to pay Rs 1lakh compensation to the wife of the accused, citing that the trial in the case is yet to take off.“The accused had not filed any discharge petition and the court had not stayed the proceedings. No quash petition was filed. There is no justification whatsoever for not commencing the trial in time. Full three years have elapsed since the date of the petitioner’s arrest,” justice G R Swaminathan observed while hearing the bail petition of M Ananthan.Ananthan was arrested by the Madurai NCB for possession and transportation of ganja in Trichy district. The petitioner has been in judicial custody since January 10, 2018.Justice G R Swaminathan said that based on secret information that ganja was being transported in the truck, the NCB had intercepted the vehicle near Valavanthankottai toll plaza at Thuvakudi in Trichy district and seized the contraband. It was the petitioner who was driving the vehicle, which belongs to his wife.The judge observed that since the petitioner is not having any bad antecedents, it is possible to hold that he may not repeat the offence while being out on bail. But that alone would not be sufficient.The judge observed that law mandates that both the parameters laid down in Section 37 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 are fulfilled before bail is granted. The judge observed that since he is unable to record a finding in favour of the petitioner that he is not likely to have committed the offence, he has to necessarily dismiss this bail petition.Observing that the matter cannot rest there, the judge said that the petitioner’s fundamental right to speedy trial has been violated. The judge said that the Supreme Court had held that the right to speedy trial in all criminal prosecutions is an inalienable right under Article 21 of the Constitution.The case was registered on January 9, 2019 and the petitioner was arrested the next day. Final report was filed in July 2018 and cognizance of offences was taken in August 2018. All the three accused are in custody. Charges were framed during December 2018 and the trial was to commence in January 2019. However, for the past two years, the trial did not even take off, said the judge, on perusal of the records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ncb-told-to-pay-rs-1l-relief-for-infringement-of-right-to-speedy-trial/articleshow/81078881.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 18, 2021||Vadodara||Wary of vaccine, safai workers stay away from work in Godhra||Vadodara: The attendance of sanitation workers in Godhra town has been erratic and thin for the last 10 days as majority of them are reluctant to take the Covid-19 vaccine. With few employees turning up for vaccination, the Godhra municipality was forced to start an awareness drive. Since February 7, a series of meetings have been heldbut the apprehensions of sanitation workers remain. While they are still reluctant to take vaccines, the attendance improved on Wednesday. The number of workers remaining absent included from around 10% of the staff to around 20% from February 9 to February 16. Out of 322 sanitary workers, the number of absentees ranged from 32 to 66 during the period. On Wednesday, however, the attendance improved with only 25 workers remaining absent. This was in line with the usual trend, but workers were yet to take vaccines. General secretary of the Safai Majur Sangh, a union of sanitary workers, Bharat Pranami, said that the workers were wary of the vaccine in wake of the death of a safai worker in Vadodara. “The family and the community are wary. There is lack of awareness and education that has led to the situation,” he said. Godhra municipality chief officer S P Patel, however, said that there was no problem with the vaccination drive. But sources suggested that not only sanitary workers, but other employees also were hesitant to take the vaccine. Around 60 of the 579 employees have taken the vaccine so far. “We are working with the sanitary workers to ensure that they take the vaccine. Ward inspectors are interacting with them,” said municipal sanitary inspector Mukesh Patel. Patel said that he had taken the lead in getting vaccinated and some sanitary workers had taken the vaccine with him. He, however, said that there was no reluctance in staffers about the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wary-of-vaccine-safai-workers-stay-away-from-work-in-godhra/articleshow/81076969.cms||Sachin Sharma
February 18, 2021||Ahmedabad||Red-letter day for Motera with pink-ball Test||Ahmedabad: With the India-England series tied 1-1, the focus has shifted to the newly built Sardar Patel Gujarat Stadium, which will host the pink-ball Day-Night Test from February 24. The fixture will be the second Day-Night Test in India. The first was played in Kolkata against Bangladesh in 2019. Motera will also host the fourth and final Test (March 4-8) and all the five T20 Internationals (March 12, 14, 16, 18, and 20). It is after a gap of over six years that Motera will be holding an international match. India last played an ODI against Sri Lanka in November 2014 at this venue. “Both the teams, along with the officials, are arriving on Thursday evening on a chartered flight from Chennai and will be staying at a city hotel for nearly a month,” said a GCA official. “The teams have been provided two time slots, from 10am to 12pm and from 2pm to 5pm for match practice on Friday,” added the official. “We will come to know about their training once we get the confirmation after their arrival.” The ICC match referee, Javagal Srinath, will check the standard of the pitches. Once he gives the nod, the curator will select one of the five pitches (three with red soil and two with black soil) which is match-ready. Incidentally, the Motera has 11 pitches, and a different pitch will be used for every match. India need to win the current Test series to make it to the final of the World Test Championship against New Zealand at Lord’s from June 18-22. However, England will have to win both the matches here to reach the final.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/red-letter-day-for-motera-with-pink-ball-test/articleshow/81080263.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC cites similar relief to Beed man in order on Nikita Jacob’s plea||MUMBAI: The Bombay HC on Wednesday granted transit anticipatory bail to Nikita Jacob. The HC noted that its Aurangabad bench had on Tuesday granted similar relief for 10 days to Shantanu Muluk, another activist from Beed against whom a Delhi court had issued a non-bailable warrant, like it had against Jacob. Such a warrant would result in their arrest. “It is apparent that Jacob had made herself available,” said Justice P D Naik while granting relief. He said, “It is not disputed that she is a resident of Mumbai, and it is also mentioned that Delhi police had recorded her statement, seized her laptop and documents (on February 11).” Her lawyers had said the warrant was issued on the “wrong pretext” that she was absconding. Hiten Venegaonkar, special counsel for Delhi cyber police, had said, “In spite of searching and waiting for her for an entire day, she did not show up. That’s why NBW was issued.” Venegaonkar had on Tuesday raised objections to granting Jacob relief, citing the FIR which said over 500 police personnel were injured in the aftermath of violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day and public property damaged. The Delhi cyber police have lodged an FIR for sedition, communal disharmony and criminal conspiracy. The FIR copy was given in court to Jacob’s lawyers on her plea. TOI has a copy of it. It said, “The accidentally leaked toolkit document lists a playbook of activities that were to take place during the tractor march held on Republic Day and other protests in Delhi and NCR.” The FIR alleged “there were calls for economic warfare against India and certain Indian companies. Their assets in India and outside are to be made targets for physical as well as coordinated actions.” It added that “it is evident from the contents of the said toolkit that the violence that took place on the streets of Delhi on January 26, 2021 near ITO at the Red Fort etc as a result of the farmers protest was pre-planned (and) meant to undermine India’s sovereignty and integrity, security of the state and public order.” The FIR further stated, “A perusal of the toolkit revealed that it was promoting campaign material by Poetic Justice Foundation, a Canada-based organization that openly and deliberately shares posts on social media… the toolkit document specifically mentions targeting certain regions of India to instigate enmity and divide.” Justice Naik also said “since ultimately she would be approaching the court of competent jurisdiction (Delhi’s Tees Hazari court), it would not be appropriate to make any comments on merit” of the case. Senior counsel Mihir Desai, appearing for Jacob, had said the toolkit only came to light after the January 26 protests when it was tweeted by Greta Thunberg, who deleted it later. “Nikita Jacob is not named in the FIR,” Desai had argued. The Delhi cyber police counsel had cited several judgements and orders of SC and HCs of Patna, Calcutta and Bombay to argue the HC doesn’t have power to grant or even entertain a transit pre-arrest bail plea unless the case is within its jurisdiction, and this one, he said, wasn’t. Desai said the HC was empowered to grant Jacob relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-cites-similar-relief-to-beed-man-in-order-on-nikitas-plea/articleshow/81078937.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 18, 2021||Faridabad||Haryana immunises 3.8k, reports 82 cases||Chandigarh: Haryana on Wednesday administered 3,818 first or second doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, while it reported 82 new cases and a death, besides 74 recoveries. The state’s tally is now 2,69,322 cases,3,041 deaths, and 2,65,455 recoveries. The 826 active cases include 21 patients on oxygen support. On the vaccination front, 577 healthcare workers and frontline warriors received the first dose, while 3,236 healthcare workers took the second. Five districts, including Gurugram, observed a regular immunisation day. The state has immunized 2,14,712 people, so far. Eight districts—Rohtak, Sirsa, Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Fatehabad, Jind, and Charkhi Dadri reported zero case, while only one death was reported from Hisar. The state’s Covid positivity rate was 4% or less than 10 cases. Haryana’s Copvid-19 recovery rate has improved from 91 to 98.56%, while the death rate remains stable at 1.13%. The case doubling rate has reached 135 days. Then maximum news cases, 17, are from Gurugram, where the tally is now 58,619 cases, 356 deaths, and 277 active cases. Faridabad reported second maximum cases, 12, followed by 11 of Karnal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-immunises-3-8k-reports-82-cases/articleshow/81086850.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||India||Amid partial shutdown, 24 envoys visit Valley||SRINAGAR/NEW DELHI: A tour of the Hazratbal shrine, the holiest in the Valley, along with another visit to Budgam to participate in a public outreach event locally known as ‘Block Diwas’, were the highlights of the first day of the two-day visit by 24 foreign envoys to J&K. The visit, however, took place amid a partial shutdown of business establishments in parts of Srinagar. Significantly, six envoys represent member states of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, which continues to target India at Pakistan’s behest for alleged human rights violations in the UT. At Hazratbal, the Delhibased heads of missions were received by the ‘imams’ of the shrine and briefed about its historical significance. At Magam in Budgam district, the envoys were briefed by local officials about development activities and ‘people-centric schemes’ currently being implemented by the government. “The visit also provided the envoys a chance to interact and hear directly from public and their local-level people’s representatives on the functioning and empowerment of grassroots democratic institutions, devolution of power, developmental activities, local issues and grievance redress mechanisms,” an official said. French and Italian ambassadors, Emmanuel Lenain and Vincenzo de Luca respectively, interacted with locals in Budgam. Juan José Cortez Rojas, charge d’affaires of the Bolivian embassy, told reporters in Srinagar that the situation in the UT was “impressive”. “What we are realising is that democracy took place here. People here are happy with the political decisions the central government took,” he said. This was the third such visit by foreign envoys to the Valley since India revoked the special status of J&K in 2019. The envoys were accompanied by MEA officials. The delegation included envoys of Chile, Brazil, Cuba, Bolivia, Estonia, Finland, France, Ireland, Netherlands, Portugal, EU, Belgium, Spain, Sweden, Italy, Bangladesh, Malawi, Eritrea, Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, Senegal, Malaysia, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan. Security agencies may brief the ambassadors on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-partial-shutdown-24-envoys-visit-valley/articleshow/81081127.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 18, 2021||Nashik||Fuel prices continue to soar in Nashik||Nashik: The fuel prices in Nashik city continued to rise as the prices for petrol increased by 24 paise (0.24 %) and diesel price rose by 26 paise (0.30%) on Wednesday when compared with the prices on Tuesday. Petrol was priced at Rs 96.12 per litre on Tuesday, and it rose to Rs 96.36 per litre on Wednesday. The price of diesel in Nashik city was Rs 85.75 per litre on Tuesday and it rose to Rs 86.01 per litre on Wednesday. “Even on Wednesday, the petrol price had risen when compared to the day earlier. It may be noted that the prices have jumped by 4.4% since January 19.Then the price was Rs 92.26 per litre. The difference is Rs 4.1 per litre. This is 4.44% in just 29 days,” said Kailas Jadhav, an autorickshaw driver. Keshav Meshram, an employee of a private company, said, “I have to use my two-wheeler to go to work in the absence of city bus service. The autorickshaws are costly. Using the motorcycle remains the best solution but this is proving to be costlier for me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fuel-prices-continue-to-soar-in-nashik/articleshow/81074909.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Rajkot||Candidate tries to end his life||Rajkot: A BJP candidate for Dhoraji taluka panchayat, who had withdrawn his nomination form on Tuesday, consumed poison on Wednesday. Dr Chirag Desai consumed poison at his clinic in the village. Police said the reason behind the extreme step will be known only after his health stabilizes. “As of now he is unconscious, so whether he was under any pressure by Congress party or his own party or some other reason can be known once he gains consciousness,” said inspector H A Jadeja of Dhoraji police station. After Desai withdrew his form, Congress party’s Harpalsinh Chudasama won uncontested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/candidate-tries-to-end-his-life/articleshow/81074955.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Two-wheeler thefts down 8% in Madurai||MADURAI: The number of two-wheeler theft incidents in Madurai city has come down marginally by 8% in 2020 compared to 2019, according to the data available with the city police. Police attribute the decline to increased surveillance. According to the data, there were 215 two-wheeler thefts in 2019, which has come down to 197 in 2020. However, recovery of stolen vehicles has come down slightly in 2020. Data shows that 55% of the stolen vehicles were recovered in 2019, whereas only 51% were recovered in 2020. As many as 112 two-wheeler thieves were arrested in 2019, while 63 were arrested in 2020. A police officer said that the number of bike thefts has been on the decline in the last few years due to the increase in the night rounds and the number of CCTV cameras. Every single theft case is being brought to book and best possible efforts are being taken to recover the stolen vehicles, he said. “Crime teams are working day and night for the arrest and recovery of stolen vehicles. Whenever a thief is arrested all the vehicles stolen by him are recovered, even if he had sold them to someone else,” the official added. Another official said that two-wheeler thefts can be brought down only with the cooperation from the vehicle owners. On their part, intensive vehicular checks are being conducted to prevent thefts. Residents should help the police to bring down the theft incidents by using secondary locks. “Most of the thefts have taken place at nights and vehicles mostly go missing from the residential areas. People should come forward to install more CCTV cameras to secure their respective localities. The footage helps in recovery of stolen properties, apart from detecting crimes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-wheeler-thefts-down-8-in-madurai/articleshow/81078913.cms||V Devanathan
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Protester snatches SHO’s car, caught after 9km chase in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A protester from Singhu border on Tuesday night snatched an inspector’s car by threatening him with a sword. The accused, a Nihang Sikh, was then chased by the cop along with other policemen for around 9km till Mukarba Chowk before they could nab him. During the high-voltage drama, the protester allegedly attacked the inspector with a sword in full public view. He then tried to snatch someone’s scooter to flee, but was overpowered by the cops and taken into custody. The accused was in an inebriated state and had to be admitted to a hospital to regain his senses. Around 8pm on Tuesday, Ashish Dubey, the station house officer of Samaypur Badli police station, was leaving in his personal car when the protester, later identified as Harpreet Singh, stopped him by threatening him with a sword. The cop realised that Singh was not in his senses and got out of the car. However, the protester got into the vehicle and sped away. The SHO and other policemen started chasing the man, who was driving rashly to evade them. The police control room was alerted and all PCR vehicles on the route started trailing the accused. Left with no option, Singh left the car at Mukarba Chowk and tried to snatch a scooter to flee. A team from Badli police station along with the PCR staffers intercepted him. Singh then took out his sword and attacked Dubey, who sustained injuries on his neck and hands. Two other policemen were injured in the scuffle. A senior police officer said Singh had no criminal records. “When we took him into custody, he was drunk. He was admitted to a hospital where he was treated. He was arrested after he regained consciousness. The SHO is on rest for now. Luckily, he didn’t suffer any serious injury. A case of attempt to murder and other sections of IPC has been registered against the accused,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/protester-snatches-shos-car-caught-after-9km-chase/articleshow/81078998.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Eyeing variety: Delhi's Tilpath valley park gets ready to welcome herbivores||NEW DELHI: Forest officials are attempting to repopulate the Tilpath Valley Biodiversity Park, which was inaugurated in February 2018, with animal species. The focus is on chital deer and chinkara gazelle in the first phase. The biodiversity grassland was developed as a food base for herbivores. For a similar purpose, water bodies were created there. Park officials said they are in touch with the forest department of Madhya Pradesh for translocation of animals. They said they were also hopeful that natural migration of herbivores would take place from the Aravali in Haryana and Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary because Tilpath Valley shares a border with both. The presence of many reptilian species like Indian cobra, Indian rock python and Pakistani ribbon snake and mammals, including nilgai, jackal, Indian hare and porcupine, have been recorded in the biodiversity park. However, the authorities said they plan to ecologically diversify the park by introducing herbivores there. “After bringing deer family species like chital and chinkara, we may later diversify and include other cervidae like hog deer, for which we need a specialised grassland,” said C R Babu, professor emeritus and head of the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem, Delhi University. According to park officials, a natural ecosystem has herbivores, primary carnivores such as civet cats and secondary carnivores such as leopard and hyenas. The park does have civet cats, and though villagers have spotted a leopard and hyenas in the past, it is believed that they strayed into the area briefly from the Aravalis. “When herbivores are present in the park, the carnivores will be attracted. For animals like leopards, we need effective protection, which will be created in the future,” said an official. The park authorities said they would not source animals from the zoo as captive animals are habituated to human feeding and would find it difficult to survive in the wild. “We are in touch with the forest department of Madhya Pradesh for bringing deer. It is tough to rewild animals, but attempts are being made. As we have developed the habitat for herbivores, we believe that natural migration of animals will also take place from the neighbouring forests,” said Babu, citing the example Yamuna Biodiversity Park where the wild boar population went up after natural migration. Spread across 69.6 hectares, Tilpath Valley Biodiversity Park is on the Southern Ridge contiguous with the Aravali range. The landscape was bare save for a few scattered trees, but the planting of 105 tree species has restored the greenery. The park conserves the relics of the Aravali vegetation and also has native plant species. “While restoring the area, we kept in mind the habitat of herbivores and the necessity of water bodies for animals,” said R Jayakumaran, scientist in charge, Tilpath Valley Biodiversity Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eyeing-variety-tilpath-valley-park-gets-ready-to-welcome-herbivores/articleshow/81078914.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 18, 2021||Nashik||Nashik civic chief presents draft budget of Rs 2,361.5cr||Nashik: Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav on Wednesday presented the draft budget of Rs 2,361.56 crore for the next financial year before the Nashik Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) standing committee. Unlike the previous year, the standing committee without discussing the draft budget, approved it immediately. Standing committee chairman Ganesh Gite said he approved the budget immediately so that it can be quickly presented to the general body (GB) for its final approval. The final nod of the GB’s is expected later this month. NMC has not proposed any hike in property, water and other taxes in the budget for 2021-22. The outlay of the budget for the next financial year is over Rs 200 crore more as compared to the draft budget that was presented last year for the current financial year. Jadhav told the media that the focus for the next fiscal will be to strengthen the health, education, environment sectors and development of roads and bridges. The commissioner has proposed Rs 480.46 crore for these four sectors in the budget, which is Rs 239 crore more than the previous year (2020-21). The NMC administration has increased the provision for the construction of roads and bridges to Rs 228 crore for 2021-22 as against Rs 114.5 crore for 2020-21. The financial provision for education has been increased by Rs 62.84 crore to Rs 122.8 crore while the allocation for environment sector has been increased by Rs 31.69 crore to Rs 36 crore. For the health sector, the allocation has been increased by Rs 30.98 crore to Rs 82.85 crore.  NMC has reduced allocations of three sectors- public health engineering, garden and miscellaneous. The allocation of public health engineering has been reduced to Rs 205.46 crore, the provision for the garden department has been reduced to Rs 23.14 crore. According to Jadhav, the revenue generation by the civic administration has suffered due to the Covid outbreak. “We had set the revenue generation target of Rs 1,842 crore for the 2020-2021, but the revenue of the NMC through various taxes has reduced to Rs 1,500 crore in the current financial year,” said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-civic-chief-presents-draft-budget-of-rs-2361-5cr/articleshow/81074874.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||ITBP, DRDO teams reach Murenda in Chamoli where natural lake was formed following disaster||DEHRADUN: A joint team of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Wednesday reached Murenda in Chamoli district where a natural lake was formed following the devastating flash floods on February 7. Senior members of USAC, Nehru Institute of Mountaineering and SDRF will also assist the survey. The 20-member team reached the lake after trekking for over 4.5 hours from Raini village, near where the Rishiganga hydropower project was located, that was completely washed away by the flash floods. After the inspection, the team would submit its report with the chief secretary office. To review the situation in disaster hit Raini and Tapovan areas, central home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla held a meeting with senior state, NDRF and ITBP officials and IIT-Roorkee experts through a video conference session on Wednesday. In the meeting, chief secretary Om Prakash directed for the regular monitoring of the lake. He asked the ITBP to name a senior member as the head of the team and asked others involved to work in coordination with the team leader. Vivek Pandey, spokesperson, ITBP, said, “The ITBP and DRDO team reached Murenda to assess the ground situation and the threat level of the artificial lake. It appears to be a 250-300-metre-wide lake although the exact depth will be ascertained by the DRDO team on Thursday.” Pandey added that the ITBP team, led by assistant commandant Sher Singh Butola, has established a base camp there. The team has also identified a location for a temporary helipad and are now in the process of developing it, he said. In videos shared by ITBP, personnel equipped with shovels can be seen clearing weeds to open up the area near the lake for smooth discharge of water. Meanwhile, no fresh bodies were found on Wednesday in the disaster-hit area in Raini village and the tunnel at Tapovan where the muck clearing work is still underway. Till date, 58 bodies have been recovered by the rescue teams. As many as 146 people are still reported to be missing, according to the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/itbp-drdo-teams-reach-murenda-in-chamoli-where-natural-lake-was-formed-following-disaster/articleshow/81074932.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 18, 2021||Kolhapur||Honorary degree for Madhavan, Kakre||Kolhapur: Actor R Madhavan was among several other luminaries who received honorary degrees at the ninth convocation of D Y Patil University held at Kolhapur on Wednesday. Former vice-chancellor of Mumbai University Vijay Khole chaired the function held at Hotel Sayaji. He conferred degrees and postgraduate degrees to 361 students. Two of the students were conferred with Excellence of Research and nine with gold medals. Madhavan and writer Kunthinath Karke received Doctor of Letters and Air Marshal Ajit Shankarrao Bhosale received Doctor of Science honorary degrees. Madhavan remembered his youthful days spent in Kolhapur. He is a Rajaram College alum and his wife is from Kolhapur. “I have a special connection to Kolhapur. The students must groom themselves at an early age to achieve big in life,” he said. Khole emphasised on research in the medical field. “The fields such as biomedicine can be explored. This field is deliberately chosen by students and therefore they have to be more cautious while performing their duties,” said Khole. Chancellor Sanjay D Patil and trustee Ruturaj Patil encouraged the students. Watch R Madhavan receives Doctor of Letters degree for his contribution to arts and cinema||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/honorary-degree-for-madhavan-kakre/articleshow/81074934.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Pune||Writ petition on UDCR awaits HC admission||BJP leaders Ujjwal Keskar and Suhas Kulkarni have filed a writ petition in Bombay HC challenging the Unified Develop- ment Control Regulations (UDCR) that asks civic bodies to widen six-metre roads to nine metre. “As per the 74th Constitutional amendment, PMC is a local planning body and authorized to take its policy decisions,” Keskar said. The petition will be heard for admission in HC on Thursday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/writ-petition-on-udcr-awaits-hc-admission/articleshow/81080276.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||In a day, 3 ‘fatka’ gang attacks on harbour line||Mumbai: Three back-to-back incidents of commuters being looted by ‘fatka’ thieves were reported on harbour line on Monday. GRP lodged three FIRs and are hunting for the culprits. ‘Fatka’ thieves perch themselves on railway poles and whack commuters standing on the footboard of locals, knocking down their valuables. Luckily, no commuter was hurt on Monday. Crimes on railways started picking up despite non-essential travellers boarding restrictively. Mankhurd resident Sanjay Maurya (26) was near the door of a local around 7.40pm, and after the train crossed Tilak Nagar station, someone on a pole whacked him on his arm. Maurya dropped his phone in pain. Five minutes later, another Mankhurd resident, Dinesh Aldar (19), was whacked on his hand too. Aldar dropped his phone and he too could not see the thief’s face. Someone on a pole snatched Laxman Surnar’s (36) phone around 9pm. All three approached Wadala GRP post the next day. “We are scanning CCTV footage,” an officer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-a-day-3-fatka-gang-attacks-on-harbour-line/articleshow/81080309.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Thane||Man attacks pregnant wife & railway cop with razor, nabbed||THANE: A 28-year-old man was arrested by the railway police for allegedly assaulting his six-month pregnant wife with a razor at Diva station late on Monday and also for attacking a constable who tried to intervene. The woman suffered minor injuries. The accused, Diva resident Parmanand Patil, who does odd jobs for a living, often fought with his wife, suspecting her of infidelity, said the police. “On Monday night, after a fight, she decided to leave for her maternal home. This irked him,” said a police official. Patil followed her to Diva station where he attacked her with the razor. ConstableAnil Awhad, who heard the commotion, tried to stop Patil who attacked him and left him bleeding Patil then tried to injure himself, but was overpowered by the police. —Manoj Badgeri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/man-attacks-pregnant-wife-rly-cop-with-razor-nabbed/articleshow/81079006.cms||Manoj Badgeri
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||HC raps Vasai-Virar civic body for ‘casual’ reply on illegal buildings||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Wednesday rapped the Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) for its casual reply while giving the court details of illegal constructions. “In a matter of this serious nature...it is taken so casually,” lamented a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed last year by Nalasopara resident Terrence Hendriques seeking direction for demolition of all illegal and unauthorised structures. The VVMC filed a three-page reply and annexed over 370 pages with details of illegal constructions in nine ward areas. “There are five on each page. What are your officers doing?” CJ Datta asked. Senior advocate Atul Damle, for VVMC, replied that action is being taken continuously. He said these areas were earlier under Cidco and the VVMC was formed in 2009. “You point out historical reasons. It’s a new corporation. But why so many illegal constructions?” asked Justice Kulkarni. The judges noted that seven-storey structures are constructed without VVMC’s permission. “You should have ensured in the new corporation that there are no unauthorised constructions,” said the CJ. The judges also lamented that no efforts were taken to present the details to the court properly. “The commissioner is not bothered. Nobody is bothered,” Justice Kulkarni said. The judges said there was no chartwise break-up of number of regularised and non-regularised structures, the action taken and whether or not there was a plan. “We wanted all these particulars,” said CJ Datta and asked whether it was left to the court to figure it out. Hendriques’s advocate Ajay Jaiswal said despite the time given earlier, the VVMC “has returned with such a reply”. While Damle said that the data was there, the judges responded that they were aware of how civic officers work. “It (data) can be made deceptive, but not before the court. Going ahead, it would amount to misleading the court. We don’t want to say anything at this stage,” said Justice Kulkarni. Damle assured that he would personally ensure a proper reply is filed. In their order, the judges recorded their ‘displeasure’ with the VVMC and adjourned the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-raps-vasai-virar-civic-body-for-casual-reply-on-illegal-bldgs/articleshow/81079026.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 18, 2021||Surat||Surat: Sexually assaulted minor has bite marks all over body||SURAT: In a grim reminder of the rape and murder of an 11-year-old girl in Pandesara in 2018, the seven-year-old minor, who was allegedly raped by the 20-year-old man in Lalgate area, was also severely brutalized on Tuesday. Medical examination revealed it was found that the minor has bite marks all over her body inflicted by the accused Jammu Pathan. “The minor has bite injuries on neck, hand and back as well. She was also forced into oral sex and her private parts were brutalized by the accused,” a senior police official, quoting doctors who examined her, told TOI.  Pathan was caught in the CCTV installed nearby, picking up the girl who was asleep beside her mother on the footpath outside a gargment showroom. He covered the girl’s mouth first and lifted her on his shoulder. Pathan took her inside a nearby lane and sexually assaulted her in the early hours of Tuesday. After a few minutes, the minor is seen running towards her mother who was in deep sleep till then. Pathan was nabbed from Lal Gate area hours after the crime. In 2018, a minor girl died after being subjected to brutal rape and there were 86 injuries on her body in Pandesara. A week later, he mother's decomposed body too was found. Investigation had revealed that the mother was first killed in presence of the girl. The prime accused Harsahay Gujjar was arrested from Rajasthan Police sources said Pathan was earlier arrested a few times for assault and other petty crimes. He used spend time on the footpath close to the spot where the minor lives with her mother. The girl’s mother is physically challenged while her father is under treatment for some ailment in Ankleshwar hospital. “Police have been rescuing minor children living and begging on the road for the past one month. We are also doing awareness campaigns and we will take more steps to prevent such crimes,” said DJ Chavda, assistant commissioner of police, D-division. District Child Protection Unit, another important department that is supposed to take steps to ensure safety of children, is also inactive. “We normally do awareness campaigns in schools, put up banners and give advertisements but there are no plans to work for safety of children living on road,” said Jayendra Thakore, district child protection officer. “Will strangle him to death” The seven-year-old girl gave a graphic description of her ordeal to the investigators and doctors. Squeezing neck of the teddy bear she was holding, she gave a demonstration how the man strangled her. “Bring him to me, I will twist his neck and kill him,” she told the counsellors and doctors. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sexually-assaulted-minor-has-bite-marks-all-over-body/articleshow/81074962.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 18, 2021||Agra||‘Hard work, consistency & hope’ Mathura topper’s success mantra||Agra: “Hard work, consistency and hope with a positive attitude is the mantra of my success,” said 26-year-old Mathura resident, Vishal Saraswat, who topped the PCS (2019) examination, the results of which were declared on Wednesday. Despite being unsuccessful in the last two attempts, Saraswat, son of a local priest, did not lose hope and continued to work hard to crack the exam. “I was expecting a positive result, but never expected my name on the toppers' list,” Saraswat told TOI over phone, adding that his parents and friends had always supported him. Giving a tip for other competitive exams’ aspirants, he said that consulting and discussing with friends is more helpful than preparing individually. Saraswat did his post-graduate in Economics and had earlier appeared in PCS (2017), but could not clear prelims. He then appeared in PCS (2018) and was unable to clear the finals. And this time he topped the exam. He also said he had always aimed to be in administrative services. His priority is education and health. Saraswat’s proud father Sunil Saraswat told TOI, “This result is all due to Vishal’s hard work and his grandfather’s blessings. I am proud to say today that my son is a PCS officer.” He said he expects his son to work with honesty and serve the people. The topper did his high school in Maharashtra in 2011 and completed his intermediate from Etah. Thereafter, he returned to his home town and finished his further studies. Saraswat is the youngest among three siblings. His elder brother Govind works in ISRO Bangalore and eldest sister Jyoti is married and lives in Lucknow. Other candidates who stood among the top 10 include Yugantar Tripathi of Naini, Prayagraj, who bagged the second place, while Poonam Gautam of Shivaji Puram, Indira Nagar, Lucknow, came third in the coveted exam. Kunal Gaurav of Muzaffarpur, Bihar, stood at number four and Priyanka Kumari of Kanshiram Nagar of the state was fifth on the overall merit list. Abhishek Kumar Singh of Ratanpur Mau was ranked sixth, Kunwar Sachin Singh of Jaunpur bagged seventh place, Neelima Yadav of South Delhi came eighth. At number nine was Siddhartha Pathak of Pandeypur locality of Varanasi and Vikalp of North East Delhi bagged the tenth spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hard-work-consistency-hope-mathura-toppers-success-mantra/articleshow/81074944.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 18, 2021||Madurai||26 injured in Chinnakattalai jallikattu||As many 26 people, including bull tamers and spectators, were injured in the Chinnakattalai Jallikattu held in Madurai district on Wednesday. Four of them suffered serious injuries and were referred to a tertiary care centre. The event was organised as a part of the Punugu Karuppasamy temple festival. Around 600 bulls from Madurai, Dindigul, Theni and Virudhunagar districts were part of the event in which 350 bull tamers took part. All the bull tamers underwent the Covid-19 tests. The event attracted thousands of spectators . A bull which was part of the event fell into a well located around one km away from the venue. It was rescued by fire and rescue personnel from T Kallupatti fire station.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/26-injured-in-chinnakattalai-jallikattu/articleshow/81079027.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt to table Rs 56,900 crore budget, ordinance to give land ownership to women||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government is going to table a budget of Rs 56,900 crore in the state assembly on March 4. Out of the total, the revenue receipts for the financial year 2021-22 are expected to be Rs 44,000 crore, while the capital revenue is estimated to be around Rs 13,000 crore. The Uttarakhand cabinet, which met on Wednesday, was informed that a total of Rs 92 lakh has already been disbursed as compensation to next of kin of 23 out of 204 people who were reportedly killed or are still missing in the Chamoli disaster on February 7. A total compensation of Rs 7 lakh is to be provided to the family of each deceased person — Rs 4 lakh from the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF), Rs 2 lakh from the Centre and Rs 1 lakh from the CM Relief Fund. Till date, Rs 4 lakh in compensation has been disbursed to 23 families from the SDRF, and the process to provide compensation to the rest is on. In a major decision, the Uttarakhand cabinet brought an ordinance to provide ownership rights to women of the state. A high number of men, who are landowners, have migrated from the hills. In their absence, the women are unable to avail benefits of various schemes and loans introduced by the state government. Taking serious note of the issue, the cabinet brought the ordinance to let women get equal ownership rights of lands. The move is being seen as a game-changer in bringing major economic changes for women living in hill areas. The cabinet has also brought a one-time settlement scheme for house and building owners, under which, the compound rate of buildings and complexes would be calculated on the basis of 2012 circle rates. For houses, an application charge of Rs 2,500 would be applicable in the hills and Rs 5,000 in the plains. For commercial complexes, the application charge would be Rs 5,000 in the hills and Rs 10,000 in the plains. However, the state cabinet has categorically fixed accountability of approving the map on officers. In case there is a deviation from the approved map and “illegal and unauthorised” construction is found, the officer who had approved the map would be held accountable. The Uttarakhand cabinet, which met on Wednesday evening, also waived the late fee surcharge on domestic, commercial, industrial electricity consumers for private tubewells up to 75 KW. The scheme is estimated to accrue a loss of Rs 230 crore for the state government. Late payment would be waived off for those consumers who clear all dues within three months after the notification is issued. It is estimated that an amount of Rs 1,000 crore is pending in the form of electricity dues in the state. The cabinet also cleared a PPP ropeway project in Haridwar from Har-ki-Pauri to Chandi Devi temple, worth Rs 149 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-to-table-rs-56900-crore-budget-ordinance-to-give-land-ownership-to-women/articleshow/81077478.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 18, 2021||Madurai||OPS: Govt order for bringing water to Andipatti soon||(Madurai: The government order (GO) for the Rs 380 crore project to bring water to Andipatti region in Theni district from the Mullaperiyar dam through a pipeline system would be passed in a week, said deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam.Speaking at a function organised to distribute welfare measures to the tune of Rs 9.16 crore to 2,725 beneficiaries in the district, he said the government had given special attention to those living below the poverty line. They had benefited from various government schemes including free housing pattas. In order to make the state free of slums, houses were being constructed for poor people living in cities and villages, and so far as many as 6.5 lakh had benefited. In Theni, as many as 2,600 people got these houses and 2,000 more would get them soon, he said.Panneerselvam said that the government was committed to the welfare of farmers, a reason why Tamil Nadu was leading in paddy production for the past five years. Now, heeding the request of farmers of Andipatti region, the GO to bring water directly from Mullaperiyar dam and fill 83 tanks and ponds in the region was to be implemented. The foundation stone for the Sidco industrial project to come up on 550 acres in Veerapandi is also to be laid by this month-end, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ops-govt-order-for-bringing-water-to-andipatti-soon/articleshow/81078991.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Kolhapur||Govt sanctions Rs 33.5 cr for devpt works||Kolhapur: The state government has sanctioned Rs 33.50 crore for various development works to make Mahabaleshwar an international tourist destination. At a meeting in Mumbai on Tuesday, deputy chief minister and state finance minister Ajit Pawar instructed that the funds be made available. Various works like the development of roads in Mahabaleshwar, restoration of historic structures, beautification and laying of underground electric cables will be undertaken with the fund. An official press release from Ajit Pawar’s office said the roads in the market will be widened due to the increasing number of tourists. The area will also have parking facility. Mahabaleshwar will also have special lighting at night while the special plan for beautification of roads will be worked out. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/govt-sanctions-rs-33-5-cr-for-devpt-works/articleshow/81074942.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Agra||RPF, GRP on high alert following ‘Rail Roko’ call by farmers||Agra: Following the call of Sanyukt Kisan Sangharsh Samiti for four-hour rail blockage from 12pm to 4pm on Thursday, the railway ministry put the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) on high alert. Senior officials conducted checking at railway stations and identified the vulnerable spots. On Wednesday, farmer leaders were warned of legal action for trying to stop the trains. In Agra region, the railway authorities demanded the local authorities for deployment of provincial armed constabulary (PAC) to stop farmer leaders from occupying the railway tracks. SP GRP Mohammad Mushtaq said, “Nobody without a confirmed ticket will be allowed to enter inside the railway stations. Only one entry and exit gates will be operational on Thursday. All the GRP stations have been put on alert. We have sought deployment of PAC around railway stations. Local police will also help in keeping the train operations unaffected.” Additional commandant RPF Dinesh Kumar said, “Special duties have been assigned to stop protestors from occupying railway tracks. Adequate arrangement has been made for deployment of force at all the railway stations. We will not let the movement of trains be affected. Legal action will be taken against those who try to create disturbance.” Agra district president of Bharatiya Kisan Union Rajveer Lawaniya said, “As per the scheduled programme, we will stop trains for four hours from 12pm to 4pm on Thursday. We will ensure that no harm is caused to railway property and passengers do not suffer any inconvenience. Drinking water and food packets will be provided to them. We are not afraid of legal action and we are prepared to go to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rpf-grp-on-high-alert-following-rail-roko-call-by-farmers/articleshow/81074986.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 18, 2021||Rajkot||Court orders FIR against five cops||Rajkot: A local court in Vanthli town of Junagadh district on Wednesday ordered an FIR against five policemen who had allegedly thrashed a 20-year-old youth in September last year allegedly for not wearing a mask in public. The video of the incident was widely shared on social media, in which the policemen were seen beating up victim Aadil Chauhan with a baton while making him stand behind a vehicle with his both hands tied. On Wednesday, additional chief judicial magistrate Bhadresh Gandhi noted that prima facie it appears that the way the youth was thrashed in public and that too, outside a police station, cannot be termed as an act of discharging duty by the accused cops. The manner in which the complainant was thrashed by the police by making him stand with his hands tied behind a jeep and outside the police station cannot be called reasonable by any yardstick, the court observed. The accused policemen had clearly abused their authority by doing so, and whatever they did with the complainant (Aadil) cannot be said to be a part of their legal obligation, said Aadil’s lawyer Z M Sankhla quoting the court order. The court under section 204 of CrPC (criminal procedure code) ordered registration of an FIR against police sub-inspector B K Chavda and four others — Bharat Sisodiya, Jagdish Virambhai, Somat Sisodiya and Janak Sisodiya. They were charged under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 506 (1) (criminal intimidation) and other section of Gujarat Police Act. The order was passed after the court took the video of the youth’s thrashing into consideration. A court complaint with regard to the incident was filed by Aadil’s uncle Mohammad Hanif Chauhan. The complainant had stated that he had approached Junagadh superintendent of police seeking action against the policemen but to no avail, following which he approached the court. Mohammad Hanif stated in his complaint that on September 25, 2020, Aadil was intercepted by police when he was taking his sick father on his motorcycle to the doctor. He was stopped for not wearing a face mask. When police asked him to pay Rs 1,000 penalty he said he did not have that much money. The accused cops asked his name and thereafter made him stand behind a police vehicle and beat him on his back and legs with a baton. Later, Aadil was taken to Vanthli police station and was thrashed again by the cops. A passerby recorded this incident on his mobile phone and uploaded the video on social media. Talking to TOI, Mohammad Hanif said, “When I went there (Vanthli police station) I saw my nephew in pain but the police did not take him to the hospital. When he was released he could not even stand on his feet. He had to be admitted to Junagadh civil hospital where he was under treatment for four days. But, now I am satisfied with the court order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/court-orders-fir-against-five-cops/articleshow/81077488.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Kumbh Mela in Haridwar likely to be only a one-month affair||DEHRADUN: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government now intends to restrict the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar to a span of one month - from April 1 to 30, according to officials. The Kumbh was earlier scheduled to be a two-month affair instead of the usual four months. It was subsequently reduced to a period of 48 days. Although no official orders have been issued yet, chief secretary Om Prakash on Tuesday dropped enough hints about the duration of the mega festival being shrunk to a month. In an interaction with reporters, Prakash said that the maximum turnout of devotees was expected from April 1 to April 30. The three main 'shahi snan' (key bathing days) are also scheduled for April although the Mahashivaratri shahi snan is on March 11. An official notification in this regard is expected to be issued by the state government in the last week of February or the first half of March. While the authorities are tight-lipped over the issue, sources pointed out that the decision has been made to prevent Haridwar from turning into a “Covid-19 hotspot.” Though the number of Covid-19 positive cases have considerably declined, with 44 new cases being reported in the Himalayan state on Wednesday, officials said they are unwilling to take any chances. The council of ministers of Uttarakhand have already authorised the chief minister to take a call on the issue after discussions with the akhada members and seers. The meeting of CM with the akhadas is likely to take place in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-mela-in-haridwar-likely-to-be-only-a-one-month-affair/articleshow/81074989.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Civic bodies go digital, decide not to print diaries||New Delhi: Complying with the Centre’s direction to go digital, municipal corporations in the city have decided not to print diaries and calendars. On Wednesday, East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) launched an online version of a dairy, which included contact details of committee members, councillors, senior officials and different departments. South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) had recently uploaded a similar document on its website. EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said that the digital diary would be accessible to all on the corporation’s website. “It has names and phone numbers of public representatives, departments, officials and mediapersons. Also, unlike the printed version where it was not possible to change details of an officer after he/she is shifted to another department or posted somewhere else, the digital version can be easily and regularly updated,” he added. Officials said that the step was taken to comply with the order of the Centre in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Digital diaries can also be downloaded on mobile, which will save paper. The north corporation claims to have started cutting down on use of paper for other purposes also, such as not printing repeated or postponed items in the agenda. “Last year, we spent Rs 86 lakh on printing documents as against an allotted budget of Rs 4 crore. Similarly, we have got only Rs 40 lakh approved for printing this year but the expenditure may be even less. We may do away with printing of agenda totally in a phased manner,” said a north corporation official. A similar attempt was made by SDMC in 2016 when a decision was taken to go fully paperless by using iPads at meetings. But after some members complained of facing problems in getting updates on agenda items, the exercise of distributing agenda resumed. “We are also making efforts, but doing away with the printing of agenda will lead to confusion because not everyone can recall details immediately. So we have to look for better alternatives,” said Narendra Chawla, the leader of the SDMC House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civic-bodies-go-digital-decide-not-to-print-diaries/articleshow/81079061.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 18, 2021||Surat||BJP confident of winning all 120 seats||Surat: City BJP unit released its manifesto on Wednesday promising to continue its ongoing development policies and complete Surat Metro project at the earliest. Releasing the manifesto, state BJP president C R Paatil said, “The city’s overall infrastructure was in a sorry state when BJP took over the SMC in 1995. And the party is responsible for complete facelift. We are competing with some of the best cities in the country.” City BJP also released a book on occasion of silver jubilee of BJP’s rule in Surat Municipal Corporation since 1995.The book elucidates how the city’s infrastructure was developed under the party’s rule in the SMC. Replying to a query, Patil exuded confidence in the party winning on all 120 seats in SMC and creating history. “There is no opposition in this election,” he asserted.City BJP president Niranjan Jhanjhmera said, “BJP is working to make the city world best and we will get people’s support.” Earlier in the day a massive road show in leadership of Paatil and BJP MLAs was organised in Varachha, which party officials claimed was more than six kilometre long. A huge crowd gathered for the road show, considered to be a show of strength after Patidar Anamat Andolan has subsided. BJP workers burst crackers at Mangadh Chowk in Mini Bazaar. Majority of the leaders were seen in masks but social distancing among leaders was not maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bjp-confident-of-winning-all-120-seats/articleshow/81075097.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||BEST panel seeks BMC grant, not loan||Mumbai: BEST committee members questioned a recent decision by BMC to give a loan of Rs 406 crore with interest when the civic body had decided few months back to cut financial aid of Rs 500 crore to the ailing transport undertaking. Senior committee member Sunil Ganacharya said, “If you wanted to help us (BEST), you could have passed on the grant of Rs 500 crore instead of loans — a liability to the cash-strapped undertaking, facing a deficit of Rs 1,888 crore in budget.” At a meeting on Tuesday, another panel member said, “We are offering bus services at a very low rate of Rs5 for 5km. BMC should provide viability gap funding for losses while running wet lease buses. It is a public service, so we should get grants, and not loans.” BMC had decided to give a grant of Rs 1,500 crore to the transport body, but decided in August last year to cut Rs 500 crore to “cover its shortfall in revenue due to Covid-19 lockdown”. To help BEST pay dues, BMC had in its annual budget said it would provide a Rs 406-crore loan at a nominal rate of interest. A senior civic official said BMC preferred a loan as it too was facing a strain over falling revenue. “BMC has taken a loan of around Rs 4,000 crore and dipped into reserves. A loan has to be repaid, unlike grants,” said a senior civic official, adding that a loan was earlier given to BEST at 10% interest, but this time the interest will be nominal. “We are giving a grant of Rs 750 crore and another Rs 50 crore for BEST staff who died due to Covid-19; kin of staff will get Rs 50 lakh. The loan is to pay gratuity,” the official said. Somit Sen & Chaitanya Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-panel-seeks-bmc-grant-not-loan/articleshow/81079083.cms||Somit Sen
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Delist 7 communities from SC list: PTK||Tirunelveli/Tuticorin: Puthiya Tamilagam Katchi founder K Krishnasamy and Tamilaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam party founder John Pandian have expressed contrasting views over the name change of the seven scheduled castes as ‘devendrakula velalar’. Talking to reporters in Tirunelveli on Wednesday, Krishnasamy expressed displeasure over the mere grouping and categorising of seven scheduled caste (SC) communities as devendrakula velalar as they will continue to remain on the SC list. He said that they had been pressing for delisting them from the SC list since the last 25 years. “We will organise signature campaigns at villages and email the PM and also write to all the MPs of Tamil Nadu,” he said. Meanwhile, interacting with reporters at Kovilpatti, Pandian said they will remain in the AIADMK alliance as a token of gratitude for the devendrakula velalar announcement. He said the seven castes have been fighting for 40 years for that status. People from the community have rejoiced over the announcement by the Prime Minister. He added that this happiness will reflect in the coming elections .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/delist-7-communities-from-sc-list-ptk/articleshow/81079051.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Tikait dares NHAI to evict protesters||Ghaziabad: Two letters written by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) resonated around the UP Gate agitation site on Wednesday as farmer leader Rakesh Tikait dared the central agency to make a move to evict the protesters, saying: “Sarkar to khali nahin kara saki to NHAI kis khet ki muli hai (When the state couldn’t evict us, who is NHAI?)” In the letters Tikait referred to, the NHAI had urged the Ghaziabad administration to clear the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, citing damage to the road and power thefts. “I have said from an open platform that the administration and power department should provide us with power connections at the protest site and we are ready to pay for it at commercial rates,” Tikait said. The BKU leader had in the last week of January defied an eviction notice served by the UP government in an emotional call to farmers to join him, which led to a massive remobilisation of protesters to Delhi’s borders after the agitation appeared to have lost steam following the January 26 tractor rally bedlam in Delhi. Neither of the letters is very recent – one was sent in the last week of December and the other on January 27. NHAI project director Mudit Garg said, “We have written two letters to the district magistrate of Ghaziabad to clear the DME of protesters as it was damaged by burning firewood and digging to erect poles. In the letters, we had also said the protesters are indulging in power theft from streetlights and using it to run washing machines and other electrical appliances.” Garg added that on February 13, the NHAI had received a complaint on the grievance redress portal about the blockade causing a lot of inconvenience to residents, who have been forced since the time the agitation began in the last week of November to take time-consuming detours. “We apprised this to the district magistrate and reminded him of the two letters written to him in the past,” said Garg. The agitation will also have an impact on the commissioning of the second and fourth phases of the DME, which was scheduled for February-end. In an interaction with reporters, meanwhile, Tikait referred to the Punjab civic poll results, where Congress won convincingly, to tell the Centre to read the mood of people. “The government should understand which way the wind is blowing and should look at finding a solution to the farmers’ protest,” he said, adding farmers from UP Gate would on Thursday participate in the ‘rail roko’ agitation between noon and 4pm. “Protesting farmers will visit the nearest railway stations and offer tea, milk and fruits to passengers to create awareness about our protest,” said Tikait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tikait-dares-nhai-to-evict-protesters/articleshow/81079126.cms||Abhijay Jha
February 18, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat court orders FIR against five cops||RAJKOT: A local court in Vanthli town of Junagadh district on Wednesday ordered an FIR against five policemen who had allegedly thrashed a 20-year-old youth in September last year allegedly for not wearing a mask in public. The video of the incident was widely shared on social media, in which the policemen were seen beating up victim Aadil Chauhan with a baton while making him stand behind a vehicle with his both hands tied. On Wednesday, additional chief judicial magistrate Bhadresh Gandhi noted that prima facie it appears that the way the youth was thrashed in public and that too, outside a police station, cannot be termed as an act of discharging duty by the accused cops. The manner in which the complainant was thrashed by the police by making him stand with his hands tied behind a jeep and outside the police station cannot be called reasonable by any yardstick, the court observed. The accused policemen had clearly abused their authority by doing so, and whatever they did with the complainant (Aadil) cannot be said to be a part of their legal obligation, said Aadil’s lawyer Z M Sankhla quoting the court order. The court under section 204 of CrPC (criminal procedure code) ordered registration of an FIR against police sub-inspector B K Chavda and four others — Bharat Sisodiya, Jagdish Virambhai, Somat Sisodiya and Janak Sisodiya. They were charged under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 506 (1) (criminal intimidation) and other section of Gujarat Police Act. The order was passed after the court took the video of the youth’s thrashing into consideration. A court complaint with regard to the incident was filed by Aadil’s uncle Mohammad Hanif Chauhan. The complainant had stated that he had approached Junagadh superintendent of police seeking action against the policemen but to no avail, following which he approached the court. Mohammad Hanif stated in his complaint that on September 25, 2020, Aadil was intercepted by police when he was taking his sick father on his motorcycle to the doctor. He was stopped for not wearing a face mask. When police asked him to pay Rs 1,000 penalty he said he did not have that much money. The accused cops asked his name and thereafter made him stand behind a police vehicle and beat him on his back and legs with a baton. Later, Aadil was taken to Vanthli police station and was thrashed again by the cops. A passerby recorded this incident on his mobile phone and uploaded the video on social media. Talking to TOI, Mohammad Hanif said, “When I went there (Vanthli police station) I saw my nephew in pain but the police did not take him to the hospital. When he was released he could not even stand on his feet. He had to be admitted to Junagadh civil hospital where he was under treatment for four days. But, now I am satisfied with the court order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/court-orders-fir-against-five-cops/articleshow/81077529.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Governor asks govt to hold assembly speaker election||Mumbai: Amid a tussle between Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), on Tuesday the governor asked the state government to hold an election for the speaker's post during the state legislature budget session scheduled from March 1 in Mumbai. The governor wrote to Narhari Zirwal, deputy speaker of the state legislative assembly, about holding an election for the speaker’s post. The speaker’s post has been vacant since February 4, after Nana Patole resigned. Patole has now been appointed as the state Congress president. According to the procedure, the state cabinet takes a decision about the election of a new speaker. Accordingly, the date is being finalised in consultation with Raj Bhavan. Cabinet ministers from the Shiv Sena and Congress said that they are grateful to the governor for his concern for the election of the speaker and expect that he will show the same concern for the 12 nominees of the legislative council members. The state has already recommended 12 nominees to the governor for member of legislative council (MLC) posts, which is pending with him, leading to a political tussle between the MVA and the governor. The MVA government in November first week submitted a list of 12 members to Koshyari to be nominated to the legislative council from the governor’s quota. The list was submitted by a delegation of MVA ministers consisting of Nawab Malik (NCP), Anil Parab (Shiv Sena) and Amit Deshmukh (Congress).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/governor-asks-govt-to-hold-assembly-speaker-election/articleshow/81079106.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Trichy||Surprise, shock at Class XII board exam announcement||Trichy: The decision by the state government to conduct board examination for class XII in May has come as a surprise for teachers and students who were expecting the exams to be held only in June. The school education department on Wednesday announced the examination schedule for Class XII, which will be held from May 3 to 21. While students of private schools are relatively in a better position to write the examinations as they have been attending online classes from June last year, the academic activity for government school students began only from January 19 after schools reopened. “Even the process of preparing the nominal role of students who will appear for the board examination this year is ending only on Thursday. The work on question paper preparation is yet to begin,” said an official from the Trichy district chief education office. “We have decided to ask schools to reduce the number of tests to be conducted as part of the revision for the students. Only one revision test each in March and April will be conducted,” he said. A headmaster of a government school said that the announcement has come as a shock. “Ideally, we conduct classes till December on normal years. But classes only started only on January 19. While one month is over, preparing students in another 45 days appears challenging,” he said. “Usually, the practical exams happen in February, but there is no clarity this year. Further, the assembly elections are expected to take place in May,” said another headmaster. The state government didn’t take teachers into confidence before taking the decision, said A Venkatesan, Trichy district president, Tamil Nadu Higher Secondary Post Graduate Teachers Association (TNHSPGTA). “It will not be easy for all students, especially slow learners, since, two months of offline classes is still just a short time and even with the reduced syllabus, there is still a lot to cover. Students and teachers will be working through the months of April and May, which are usually summer holidays. However, the schedule is in line to ensure there is no delay in starting the next academic year,” said M Senthilnathan, president, Private Schools Correspondents’ Confederation. “Despite learning from home, students are still finding it difficult to get into exam preparation mode. There is ample preparation time now for students to be ready for the exam. However, scoring high marks would be difficult,” said S Shanthi, a Class XII Physics teacher. (With inputs from R Sukshma in Madurai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/surprise-shock-at-class-xii-board-exam-announcement/articleshow/81079081.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 18, 2021||Agra||Rakesh Tikait to address mahapanchayat in Agra on Feb 24||Agra: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait will lead a mahapanchayat in Kirawali block of Agra district on February 24. Following a meeting with senior farmer leaders, BKU state vice president Buddha Singh Pradhan finalized the programme.Rattled by legal notices sent by police and local administration to farmers participating in protest at Delhi borders, BKU Agra district unit had sent a proposal inviting Rakesh Tikait to hold mahapanchayat in Agra last week. BKU leaders are expecting a turnout of over 1 lakh farmers from different parts of western UP and Rajasthan.BKU Agra division president, Gajendra Singh Chahar, said, “On demand of farmers, a programme for a kisan mahapanchayat led by Rakesh Tikait has been finalized. Farmers from different parts of UP and Rajasthan will participate. BKU workers will be going to villages to formally invite farmers for the important meeting.”BKU Agra district president, Rajveer Lawaniya said, “Despite legal notices being issued by police and administration on instructions of the state government, farmers from Agra district continue to participate in farmers' protests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rakesh-tikait-to-address-mahapanchayat-in-agra-on-feb-24/articleshow/81075026.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 18, 2021||Dehradun||Link between Char Dham highway project & Chamoli disaster, says environmentalist Ravi Chopra in letter to SC||Dehradun: Environmentalist Ravi Chopra who has headed Supreme Court-appointed panels on impact of hydroelectric projects on the 2013 Kedarnath deluge as well as the environmental damage caused by the Centre’s ambitious Char Dham highway, has written to the apex court saying that slope cutting and road-widening activities happening as part of the all-weather road had a bearing on the Chamoli disaster. Attorney General KK Venugopal, who appeared for the defence ministry in the apex court on Wednesday, termed the letter ‘unwarranted’ and sought time to respond to it. In the letter, a copy of which is with TOI, Chopra wrote, “The recent disaster in the Rishiganga valley took place in the region north of the Main Central Thrust (MCT), which is highly prone to landslides, flash floods and earthquakes. A section of the defence road to the India-China border and a bridge across the Rishiganga river on that road have been swept away, lending credence to our argument for disaster resilience in the region.” He added that “vulnerability and disaster-proneness of this region is bound to increase with extensive disturbances like deforestation, slope cutting, blasting, tunnelling, damming of rivers, excessive tourism etc.” Chopra further said that in a recent report submitted by him and two other members of the HPC to the apex court, they had pointed out that “disaster resilience is more critical than simply wide highways.” "Several chronic landslide-prone locations and stretches, where the slope stability is precarious, exist on the three Char Dham highways identified by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) as defence feeder roads. Ministry of road transport & highways (MoRTH) data submitted to the HPC has identified 161 sensitive locations in 574 km, which is about one location every 3.5 km,” he said in the letter. Referring to 24 projects in the state which were stayed by the Supreme Court in 2014 after the recommendations made by the committee headed by him post the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy, Chopra wrote, “I am told that after the recent tragedy (in Rishiganga), the local residents are grateful for the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s order of 2014 staying the 24 proposed projects. Had that stay not been given, three more under-construction projects just upstream and downstream of the Rishiganga hydroelectric project would have manifold magnified the deadly flood impact.” He further said that “no decision, however, has yet been taken on under-construction or commissioned projects.” “In view of the precious ecology and fragility of the region, the concerned authorities could have and should have taken a view on these projects. Unfortunately, all the under-construction projects continued their construction unhindered. Now last Sunday’s tragic disaster has confirmed our fears and warnings. Hundreds of crores spent in the last seven years for constructing these dangerous dams have ended up with the loss of over 200 persons, domestic animals and destruction of national property.” Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, Chopra said that he felt compelled to write to the apex court since he was “concerned about the state of the Himalayas, which are becoming increasingly vulnerable due to threat from unsustainable works.” “The kind of threats we are highlighting are genuine threats. They need to be taken very seriously,” the veteran environmentalist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/link-between-char-dham-highway-project-chamoli-disaster-says-environmentalist-ravi-chopra-in-letter-to-sc/articleshow/81075073.cms||Shivani Azad
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Fear of poll loss behind poor allocation for AIIMS: Stalin||Madurai: Hundreds of crores have been released by the central government for the new AIIMS facilities, but only Rs 12 crore has been set apart for the Madurai facility, which has not taken off even seven years since the announcement was made, said DMK president M K Stalin.Addressing the Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin campaign at Othakadai on Wednesday, he said that as much as Rs 782 crore has been allotted for the Andhra Pradesh AIIMS, Rs 932 crore for the one in Maharashtra and Rs 882 crore for the one in West Bengal. “They seem to think that allocating funds for AIIMs in Tamil Nadu is a waste as they would lose the elections,” he said. On the government’s claim that the Japanese agency is yet to release funds, he asked, ``Is Madurai in Japan or in India?’’Stalin said he had covered 110 assembly constituencies in the last three phases of the programme. Listening to the grievances of people, including the issue of Kappalur toll gate in Madurai, Stalin said the issue of toll gates causing inconvenience to people in the city and municipality limits would be resolved when the DMK comes to power. A short film of grievances of the people of Madurai pertaining to non-functioning of the Alanganallur sugar mill, pending dues to farmers among other things was played on the screen at the venue. He said officials and local ministers Sellur K Raju and R B Udhayakumar were misappropriating smart city funds. The Madurai Central fruit market which was constructed much before the smart city programme was being showcased under the programme. He alleged that the Smart City programme, for which Rs 1000 crore had been allotted for Madurai, was not being reviewed through regular meetings in all the ten cities in where it was being implemented. Infrastructure was not being developed by the AIADMK government in places where it was required, like congested city areas, where land acquisition had to be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fear-of-poll-loss-behind-poor-allocation-for-aiims-stalin/articleshow/81079071.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Karunanidhi statue unveiled in Madurai||Madurai: DMK president M K Stalin on Wednesday unveiled a life-size bronze statue of late Tamil Nadu chief minister M Karunanidhi at the busy Simmakkal junction in Madurai city. Speaking at the event, Stalin said that they had to overcome many legal hurdles to install the statue here. The DMK president said that though they had installed statues for the late leader at many places in Tamil Nadu, including the Anna Arivalayam, Murasoli office, Erode and Kancheepuram, this one was special as unlike the others that were established on private land, this was on public property. There are five statements on the 12ft-tall pedestal of the 8.5ft high statue. They are “Annavaliyil Ayarathu Ulaipom” (will work relentlessly on the path of Anna), “Aathikam attra samuthayam Ammaipom,” (establish a society without dominance), “Hindi thinnipai ethirpom” (oppose imposing of Hindi), “Vanmurai thavirthu Varumaiyai velvom,” (avoid violence and overcome poverty), and “Mathiyil Kootatchi, Maanilathil Suya artchi,” (coalition governance and the centre and self-governance in the state). Stalin honoured those responsible for the installation of the statue, including its sculptor Dheenadayalan and thanked the district secretary K Thalapathy, Madurai Central MLA P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan and E V Velu, who were instrumental in installing the statue through a government order in a public place. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/karunanidhi-statue-unveiled-in-madurai/articleshow/81079085.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Business||Regular petrol tops Rs 100/litre for 1st time, in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar||NEW DELHI: The price of regular petrol consumed by the masses shot up to Rs 100.13 a litre in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar on Wednesday, the first time an automotive fuel has crossed the Rs 100-mark anywhere in the country. In other states, the prices mostly ruled above Rs 90 a litre mark as high central and state taxes bumped up the impact of rising crude prices. Diesel prices too made a record at Rs 92.1 a litre in Sri Ganganagar, while generally raging well above Rs 80 per litre in other states. Unmoved by these record prices, the Centre has ruled out any tax cut and is blaming oil exporters for jacking up crude prices. Read AlsoPetrol at Rs 100: PM Modi blames previous governments for not cutting import dependenceOn a day when petrol crossed the Rs 100 mark, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the middle-class would not have been burdened if the previous governments had focussed on reducing India's energy import dependence.This is unlike in October 2018, when, after petrol price rose to Rs 84 a litre and diesel Rs 75.45 in Delhi, the Centre had reduced excise duty by Rs 2 per litre on October 4 and by Rs 1.5 the next day. Some 18 states also reduced VAT at Centre’s behest. Consumers in Rajasthan pay more than others because the state has the highest tax on petrol and diesel. Times ViewHigh taxes imposed by the Centre and states are a major reason behind the soaring prices of fuel, which in turn pushes upwards the price of food, vegetables and other essential commodities. In times when the economy is down in the dumps, the government must reduce taxes on petroleum products to reduce the problems of ordinary citizen.After reducing VAT by 2% last month, it charges 36% VAT and road cess of Rs 1,500 per kilolitre on petrol. Diesel attracts 26% VAT and road cess of Rs 1,750 per kilolitre. Read AlsoWhy petrol @ 100 isn’t about crude oilHere's why prices of petrol and diesel are not moving in line with global prices of crudeRajasthan is an outlier among states. It is the high level of excise duty and multiple cess levied by the Centre that is pushing petrol and diesel prices to record highs in other states. On a litre of petrol, the Centre charges Rs 1.4 as basic excise duty, Rs 18 as road and infrastructure cess, Rs 11 as special additional excise and Rs 2.5 as agriculture cess. On diesel, it levies Rs 1.8 as basic excise, Rs 18 as road and infrastructure cess, Rs 8 as special additional excise, and Rs 4 as agriculture cess. So a consumer in Delhi, which is the reference market, pays Rs 32.9 on a litre of petrol and Rs 31.8 on a litre of diesel as central taxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/regular-petrol-tops-rs-100/litre-for-1st-time-in-sri-ganganagar/articleshow/81081146.cms||Sanjay Dutta
February 18, 2021||Surat||Lost four-year-old boy rescued within nine hours||Surat: Police rescued a four-year-old boy after almost nine hours after he went missing from his home in Sachin GIDC area. While playing outside his hut in the industrial area of Sachin GIDC, Dipak Sahoo ambled away at around 9 am but was soon lost. He was later found around five kilometre away from his home. Police said the boy’s father Vinod was sleeping after returning from night shift while his mother was busy with household work while the boy played outside. After some time when Dipak was not found, the family started searching for him and could not locate him till about 3 pm and approached the Sachin GIDC police station. Registering a complaint police started searching for him. “Police examined CCTV footage to ascertain if he wandered on his own or was kidnapped. A teenager told the police that he spotted a boy going on the road after which police got the exact direction,” said J K Pandya, assistant commissioner of police, F division. Police said that Dipak kept walking towards Sachin GIDC’s industrial area till 1 pm and then sat near a hut for rest. Some locals offered him food there and the little boy slept there after eating. Meanwhile, inquiring locals police reached the hut before Dipak was awake. “It was a timely rescue by the police. Our teams made a lot of efforts to trace and rescue the child,” said city police commissioner, Ajay Tomar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lost-four-year-old-boy-rescued-within-nine-hours/articleshow/81075163.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||Jr students complete a full session at home||Kolkata: An entire session of online teaching has drawn to a close with students and teachers up to class VIII ending the academic year on a virtual note. This is the first time when a school year has passed without teachers and students having met each other beyond the screen. In many cases, the teachers will never get a chance to teach these kids again as they step on to higher classes. The farewell sessions are emotional with both teachers and students promising to translate the virtual bond to a physical one in the next academic session, when they hope schools will reopen for younger children. While schools have been gradually bringing back students of classes IX and XII in this re-opening phase and teachers are still getting a chance to see whom they taught over the stamp-sized boxes on screen, this is not so for children up to class VIII, who have ended their last virtual class and are ready to write their final exams online. “Class V kids will now go to the middle school. It is such a crucial transformation phase, when they have to get used to writing for longer time and also in exams. I just couldn’t do what I could in a physical classroom,” said Jayshree Easwar, who teaches English in Class V at DPS Ruby Park. Class delivery in the online mode can be intense but it is impossible to gauge the amount a child is able to grasp, even if content can be posted for them. “You cannot catch their eyeballs to understand whether they are with you, because you are trying your best to make your own delivery as lucid as possible to the screen. It is only in a physical classroom can seamless interaction happen,” said Parveen Reza Rashid, who teaches history in classes VII and VIII at Loreto Convent, Entally. In last one year, teachers have not corrected exercise copies that they feel is an extension of the children and they rue that handwriting of the kids must have been affected. “Only a teacher and the child studying under her know the value of the corrected exercise books because each looks forward to seeing the mistakes rectified. I teach biology, so for me diagrams are important. There is so much that I could have done with these children,” said Anjali Gupta of Heritage School. Children in the farewell sessions made ‘Thank you’ cards, sung for their teachers and promised to keep in touch over WhatsApp. “There is so much that you can share with the teacher in the physical space, because you can be with her alone. But in the online classroom, with so many people staring at you, you cannot share everything,” said Subhadrita Ganguly, a student of Class VIII at Calcutta Girls’ School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jr-students-complete-a-full-session-at-home/articleshow/81077567.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 18, 2021||Noida||Two teens held for murder of 10-year-old boy in Noida||NOIDA: Nearly four months after a 10-year-old boy was found murdered at an under-construction site, two boys, aged 13 and 14, have been apprehended. Police said the child had been sexually abused by the teenagers and when he threatened to tell his parents about it, they panicked and strangled him with a rope. The boy had gone missing around 5pm on October 11 last year and a week later, his decomposed body was found at a spot about half a kilometre from his rented accommodation in Sarfabad village. His family had alleged delay on part of police in lodging an FIR. After several persons were detained and questioned, an input from two children staying in the locality helped crack the case, Sector 49 police told TOI. “Two days after the incident, a samosa-seller, named Aghori Gautam, had gone to his hometown in Banda for some construction work. When he was questioned later on his return, he said his children knew the boy but they had nothing to do with the crime. The children were then questioned and they told police they had seen the two juveniles play with the child,” a police officer said, adding that they mentioned “inappropriate behaviour” on part of the duo. DCP (Noida) Rajesh S said police traced the teenagers, who are students of class 6 and 7 at a private school in the area, and detained them on Tuesday. “They had taken the child to the under-construction site where he was sexually abused. When the child objected and threatened to complain to his parents, the teenagers strangled him using a rope and hid his body under mud and bricks,” he said. The teenagers were booked under IPC sections 302 (murder), 201 (disappearance of evidence), 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) and section 377 (unnatural offences) and later produced before the Juvenile Justice Board. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/2-teens-held-for-murder-of-10-yr-old-boy/articleshow/81080708.cms||Shikha Salaria
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Signage, clamps to stop Sector V illegal parking||KOLKATA: Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) has initiated the process to engage agencies to put up parking and no-parking sign boards across Sector V and to supply wheel clamps to the electronic complex police station to lock cars found parked illegally. The authorities has a target to complete putting up the sign boards by next month before starting to collect parking fees in Sector V. The authorities have already identified 14 streets divided in four zones across Sector V as fee car-parking areas and are in the process of engaging agencies for operating the lots for a year. The contract may be renewed for five years as per the authority’s discretion. The four fee-parking zones are near Swasthya Bhavan, near Technopolis, the Webel area and near Manikanchan. The parking zones will operate from 7am to midnight. Display boards, which will have parking fee rate charts, NDITA website address, details of the parking agencies and the 24-hour helpline, will be put up at convenient locations across Sector V. According to officials, parking agents will have to ensure that vehicles are parked strictly on the allotted space — parallel to the kerb line of the pavement — and no vehicle will be allowed to be parked on the pavement under any circumstances. TOI had earlier reported that unauthorised parking agents were illegally fleecing motorists in Sector V. NDITA and Bidhannagar police held a meeting in which it was decided that fresh fee-parking zones will be identified and agencies will be engaged to operate the parking zones in a systematic manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/signage-clamps-to-stop-sector-v-illegal-parking/articleshow/81077606.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 18, 2021||Madurai||PM lays stone for refinery in Nagai, launches gas pipeline||Trichy/Tuticorin: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday laid the foundation stone for the Cauvery basin refinery in Nagapattinam district and also dedicated Indian Oil Corporation’s 143-km-long natural gas pipeline from Ramanathapuram to Tuticorin to the nation through videoconferencing. The Rs 31,580 crore refinery project being set up by Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL), on the premises of an existing refinery in Panangudi village, will have an annual refining capacity of 9 million tonnes. Completed at a cost of Rs 700 crore, the pipeline project will transport natural gas from ONGC gas fields in Ramanathapuram as feedstock to petrochemical and fertilizer industries in Tuticorin. Officials said the pipeline with a capacity of 8 million metric standard cubic metre a day has a compressor station at Valantharavai village in Ramanathapuram district. The pipeline is part of the mega natural gas pipeline project being implemented in the states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Puducherry. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami who was present at Tuticorin said the project will offer a new lifeline for industrial development in the region. “The project will open new opportunity for many new industries in the region. They will have a multiplier effect in Tamil Nadu where the new industrial policy and MSME policy were released yesterday,” he said. The 1,445-km-long Ennore - Thiruvallur - Bengaluru - Puducherry - Nagapattinam - Madurai - Tuticorin natural gas pipeline is being established to evacuate gas from the Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) import terminal at Kamarajar port in Thiruvallur district that has a capacity of 5 million metric tonnes per annum. The Ramanathapuram - Tuticorin pipeline will be connected to Ennore LNG terminal to meet the increased demand and to feed potential anchor customers to spur industrial growth in the southern part of the country. It will also supply environment friendly piped natural gas to households in the form of CNG. While farmers of villages like Pottalkadu in Tuticorin district strongly protested the laying of pipelines through their fields, officials said the pipelines are farmer-friendly as cultivation can continue without any restriction and the ownership of the land remains with them. Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan, Governor Banwarilal Purohit and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam were also present at the event. The proposed refinery at Nagapattinam will produce petrol, diesel, and polypropylene and will general about 50 lakh man-days during its execution phase. it would directly employ 600 people and 1,000 indirectly, official sources said. The area required for the Cauvery basin refinery is about 1,350 acres, of which the company has about 650 acres. The remaining land is under acquisition, official sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pm-lays-stone-for-refinery-in-nagai-launches-gas-pipeline/articleshow/81079146.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Solar panel to make Sector V cycle stand smarter||KOLKATA: The Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) is planning to install a 1kWp grid-connected solar photovoltaic power plant on the roof of the proposed smart cycle stand on Ring Road in Sector V. NDITA has initiated the process of engaging agencies to set up bicycle stands in three important places in Sector V — in front of Webel Bhavan, near Godrej Waterside and opposite Wipro gate. The cycle stand near Godrej Waterside has been chosen for the installation of the solar plant as the other two locations are not suitable for having panels. “We are exploring other places and building structures across Sector V for installing rooftop solar plants for use of renewable energy in the IT hub,” said a NDITA official. Two streets in Sector V will be developed as smart streets and another street — connecting RDB Boulevard with Infinity Benchmark — will be developed into a pedestrian plaza where solar panels are likely to be installed. In New Town, New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has been installing more and more rooftop solar panels and solar-powered streetlights to optimize the use of renewable energy in the township. Benches with solar panels on its sheds have been set up on the smart street in front of New Town mela ground. It was in 2013 that NKDA had made it mandatory for all residential and commercial highrises in New Town to install solar rooftop panels that would meet at least 2% of the building’s power requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/solar-panel-to-make-sec-v-cycle-stand-smarter/articleshow/81077600.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 18, 2021||Vadodara||‘I keep cops, collector in my pocket’||Vadodara: BJP MLA Madhu Shrivastava has raked up another controversy while inaugurating the party’s election office at Sayajipura. Addressing the gathering of party workers on Wednesday, Shrivastava said that police and district collector are in his pockets. A short video clip of Shrivastava making such glaring statement was widely shared on social media platforms. Only 10 days ago, the motormouth BJP MLA had threatened a local journalist when he was asked about his son Deepak’s candidature in the civic polls. When asked about Shrivastava’s utterances, deputy CM Nitin Patel said that no post holder or citizen should ignore the law and Shrivastava’s statement was not justified. “I do not know in what reference he spoke this, but such words cannot be used for not only a collector, but even a small official, neighbour or citizen,” said Patel, who was in Vadodara for campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/i-keep-cops-collector-in-my-pocket/articleshow/81077611.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Meenakshi temple allows entry to people of all age groups||Madurai: After nearly eleven months, people of all age groups including children were allowed to enter Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple after all the four entrances of the temple were thrown open to the public.The temple was reopened after lockdown relaxations were announced in September last year, but children and people above the age of 60 were prevented from entering the temple as a precautionary measure.Joint commissioner C Kumaradurai issued a statement on Tuesday that people of all age groups can enter the temple. “I have been waiting for six months to take my newborn infant to the temple, as it is a custom in our family,” said S Kaviya of Umatchikulam, who came to the temple on Wednesday.The temple has thrown open all the entrances to the public and they are allowed to bring flowers and other offerings. However, the cellphone ban will continue inside the temple. The joint commissioner has said that people will not be allowed to sit on the ground inside the temple. Pilgrims should wear masks and will be screened at the entrance.Hand sanitization is also specified, though social distancing was no longer a norm being stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/meenakshi-temple-allows-entry-to-people-of-all-age-groups/articleshow/81079128.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Cabinet expresses its concern over lack of experts in council||Mumbai: The state cabinet presided over by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday expressed its concern over the prolonged delay by governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari in the appointment of experts in the state legislative council. “We had submitted a list of 12 experts to Raj Bhavan on November 6, 2020. We were expecting that Koshyari will nominate them within a reasonable time. Unfortunately, so far Raj Bhavan has not taken any decision. Under the Constitution, no time-frame has been fixed. It is the discretion of the governor,” a cabinet member said. The minister said that the cabinet had asked the law secretary to examine the relevant legal aspects as well as the precedents.  “We have asked the law secretary to find out as to how the nominations were made in the past. Earlier too, there were governments of different political parties at the Centre and state,” he said. - Prafulla Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cabinet-expresses-its-concern-over-lack-of-experts-in-council/articleshow/81079173.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Trichy||Destitute patients get a spl ward at MGMGH||Trichy: Ensuring an exclusive care for the abandoned patients, Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) attached to KAP Viswanatham government medical college (KAPVGMC) in Trichy set up a special ward for the destitute patients, on Wednesday. Keeping in line with the order from the state government to create an exclusive ward for the purpose, the hospital has allotted a 20-bedded ward at the paediatrics block in the hospital premises. Trichy collector S Sivarasu and commissioner of police, Trichy city J Loganathan inaugurated the ward in the presence of dean of the hospital Dr K Vanitha. “The objective of the ward is to ensure that the destitute patients get special attention at a single place. The special arrangement will also help our team track their family members,” dean Vanitha told TOI. So far, such patients with various ailments were being treated in the common wards depending upon their health issues. “We have three patients admitted to the exclusive ward on Wednesday,” said the dean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/destitute-patients-get-a-spl-ward-at-mgmgh/articleshow/81079164.cms||Gokul Rajendran
February 18, 2021||Trichy||Two killed in Pudukottai manjuvirattu||Trichy: Two people were gored to death while 50 others suffered injuries at a manjuvirattu event held in Kallur village in Pudukottai district on Wednesday. About 750 bulls and 250 bull tamers took part in the event held at the Semmuniswarar temple thidal on a 2 acre area. The deceased are identified as Ansari, 27, and Rasu, 65, both spectators. Unlike the conventional jallikattu event where the bull running area is confined, bulls run in a haphazard manner among the crowd in manjuvirattu. Thirumayam deputy superintendent of police V Senkkamalakannan said that Rasu was suffering from renal issues and was in an inebriated state. He suffered injuries on his face on being knocked down by a bull and subsequently died. Ansari stood in front of the bull running area and was gored by one. Denying any lapses on the part of the health department, Pudukottai district collector P Uma Maheswari said adequate arrangements for first aid were made at the site and an ambulance was also kept ready to take the critically injured to hospital. “We will look into the cause of the deaths,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-killed-in-pudukottai-manjuvirattu/articleshow/81079130.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Surat||Cong promises air purifier on roads if voted to power in Surat||Surat: Congress party that is facing a tough task after losing the support of the Patidar community in Surat, made some unusual promises in their manifesto declared on Wednesday ahead of civic body polls. Congress claimed that they will install air purifiers on city roads to provide clean air to its citizens if they come to power. Congress also claimed that they will start ‘Pavanputra’ helicopter emergency services to attend accident or fire calls. It also offered free education and free wi-fi services to citizens. City Congress president Babu Rayka did not comment on the exact number of seats that the party is likely to win in the election but claimed that they will achieve the majority. He further claimed, “There is some misunderstanding with local leaders of PAAS and they are still with us. Though some of them have withdrawn their forms, they will continue supporting the Congress.” “Hardik Patel is Congress leader and PAAS is supporting us. There are some issues that we are trying to sort out,” said Kadir Pirzada, a senior Congress leader, who too was present during the release of the manifesto. Congress leader Naishadh Desai said, “Congress party is the main opposition against BJP in civic polls and we will defeat them.” The city Congress leaders refused to comment over the uncontested victory of BJP in some districts and taluka panchayat seats in the state. Rayka said, “We will not let go any seat to BJP without contest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cong-promises-air-purifier-on-roads-if-voted-to-power-in-surat/articleshow/81075271.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 18, 2021||Bareilly||Two JEs ‘beaten up’ in presence of BJP MLA for cutting power connections for non-payment of dues||Bareilly: Two junior engineers deputed at Nawabganj power substation under Madyanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (MVVNL) were allegedly thrashed by a few BJP councillors in the presence of BJP Nawabganj MLA Kesar Singh Gangwar, block pramukh Vinod Diwaker and others on Tuesday. According to the complainant, Sant Kumar Sagar, Rajesh Kumar Saini, MLA Gangwar, Diwakar and a few corporators entered the power department office at Nawabganj substation and got involved in a heated argument. The JEs alleged that the BJP men even abused and assaulted them over an enforcement drive launched by the department earlier in the area, where power connections were cut owing to non-clearance of outstanding bill payments. Nawabganj police, meanwhile, denied the allegations of assault levelled by the power department employees, saying that there was a heated argument between the officials and the councillors who had visited the power department office with a complaint. Nawabganj circle officer Prabhat Kumar Verma told TOI, “No scuffle took place. There was only an argument between the employees and BJP workers. We have received complaints from both parties. As of now, a case has not been registered, as the matter is currently under investigation. Based on the findings, further legal action will be taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-jes-beaten-up-in-presence-of-bjp-mla-for-cutting-power-connections-for-non-payment-of-dues/articleshow/81075279.cms||Maria Khan
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Resumption of AC bus service sought by body||Madurai: A consumer body has made a representation to chief minister Edappadi K Palanisawmi to resume operations of airconditioned government bus service in the state. The request was made by A Shankar, executive director of Empower Centre for Consumer and Environmental Education, Research and Advocacy. The consumer rights activist said that the nearly 250 airconditioned buses in the state stopped operations 11 months ago due to the lockdown as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. In his representation to the CM, he stated that these buses collected Rs 75 lakh to Rs 1.25 crore a day as revenue. “Each bus operated by the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) had collected Rs 30,000 to Rs 50,000 a day,” he said. He recalled that as part of the un-lockdown the state government has allowed private bus operators to run airconditioned buses, while government AC buses are yet to resume their operations.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/resumption-of-ac-bus-service-sought-by-body/articleshow/81079191.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Man gets life term for 14-yr-old niece’s rape||Navi Mumbai: The Alibaug district special sessions court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act cases on Wednesday convicted and sentenced a 36-year-old man, who hails from Nepal, to life term imprisonment and imposed a penalty of Rs 1 lakh for sexually assaulting his niece when she was 14 years old. The court also ordered that if the accused fails to pay the penalty, he will have to face an additional year in jail. The accused, who was arrested in December 2019, had brought his minor niece from Nepal to Mumbai under the pretext of showing her the city, but sexually assaulted her for three days at a hotel in Murud taluka. Special public prosecutor Ashwini Bandivdekar-Patil said, “A rape case with relevant sections of the Pocso Act was registered against the accused at Revdanda police station in December 2019. Thereafter, the police filed a chargesheet against him in the Alibaug district sessions court.” The trial concluded on Wednesday. “Judge SS Shaikh considered the testimony of eight witnesses, including the complainant, the minor girl and her brother. The technical evidence provided by the police also proved vital in the accused’s conviction. The court order also stated that out of the Rs 1 lakh penalty to be paid by the accused, Rs 50,000 should be given as compensation to the minor girl,” said Bandivdekar-Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-gets-life-term-for-14-yr-old-nieces-rape/articleshow/81080363.cms||George Mendonca
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Survey: 95% of slum dwellers in east Delhi have toilets||NEW DELHI: Around 95% of people in slum areas in east Delhi are using toilets at their own homes and only 5% are opting for public toilets, reveals a survey conducted by East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). “Since we had applied for ODF+ certificate under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, we did a final survey last month to understand if open defecation is still happening anywhere. With the help of an NGO, Centre for Urban and Regional Excellence, we conducted the survey at various sites where incidents of open defecation were reported in the past. Their recent findings reveal that only 5% of people in slum areas are using public toilets and rest have toilets at their homes,” said a senior EDMC official. Areas covered included Khichdipur, Trilokpuri (Block 1,2,3), Sonia Camp, Rajiv Camp 1 at Jhilmil Industrial Area, Rajiv Camp 2 near Krishna Market, Dilshad Colony (Jain Mandir), Vinod Nagar (G-block), Kishan Kunj, Ramesh Park, Rani Garden (Geeta Colony) and Seemapuri (Aradhak Nagar). The NGO claimed to have visited each household, asking residents basic questions like if public toilets are accessible and if they have toilets at home. “At places, we found people had constructed septic tanks also. We later verified the collected data with the area sanitary inspector,” said a representative of the NGO. In EDMC, there are 58 community toilets, 26 public toilets and 240 standalone urinals. In the beginning of February, teams of Quality Council of India (QCI) randomly visited 22 toilets and standalone urinals in east Delhi as a third party under the Swachh Surveskshan and judged them on five parameters. Of them, not even one was found unusable or dirty, five others were found clean, 12 very clean and five aspirational. “We were finally granted ODF+ certificate. Altogether six toilets and 21 standalone urinals were found in best condition in the QCI survey,” said the EDMC official. Earlier in October, EDMC had conducted a detailed survey with the help of the same NGO to understand the challenges or issues residents face in accessing community toilets. Missing facilities, maintenance, presence of attendant and separate facility for children were also examined. “On the basis of the feedback we received, we beefed up maintenance level, deputed tankers for regular water supply at places where supply line is not available, connected toilets to sewer lines and deputed staff at each place. Further, we added essential and desirable facilities at 40 complexes, including sanitary vending machines, soap dispensers, dustbins, etc,” said the official. The October survey report, which covered 85 sites, highlighted presence of caretakers at 52 places, water supply at 83 places (29 borewells, 53 DJB pipelines, one tanker), clean urinals at 76 complexes and toilet complex with overall good condition at 74 places. There was no water supply at two complexes. Out of 1,226 toilet seats, 85 were found non-operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/survey-95-of-slum-dwellers-in-east-have-toilets/articleshow/81079196.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||New-age tech help in cardiac care||Kolkata: New and improved surgical intervention techniques are helping save lives and hastening recovery among cardiac patients many of whom may not have survived the pandemic without these, according to a group of city cardiologists who attended a meet titled ‘New Therapy in Cardiac Technology and Care’ on Wednesday. Technological advancements have made cardiac care far more effective and accessible to a lot more than it was even a decade ago, they said. The meet was organized to mark the 31st year of BM Birla Heart Research Centre (BMBHRC) and was attended by patients who were treated during the lockdown. “We attended to several emergency cases and conducted surgeries during the pandemic that helped to save lives. It may not have been possible without the use of technology that has made a big difference to the way cardiac treatment and is now done,” said Anjan Siotia, director of cardiology at BMBHRC. He added that while the number of patients was less at the beginning of the pandemic, it picked up in the later months. “Most were critical cases and needed emergency procedures. These were done using the latest technology. For instance, we did a heart valve replacement without an open-heart surgery. Procedures like intravascular lithotripsy (IVL), shock boom therapy for removing arterial blockages and devices like leadless pacemakers and gallart device which is implanted on a patient and can be monitored via Bluetooth through a smartphone have revolutionized cardiac therapy,” said Siotia. IVL has improved the chances of recovery for patients with intense blockages, said interventional cardiologist at BMHRC Anil Mishra. Interventional cardiologist Dhiman Kahali pointed out that remote monitoring through a gallart device has made treatment accessible to a vast section of the population. “As we enter our 31st year, we would focus on a robust digital transformation to improve cardiac care,” said Simmardeep Gill, COO, CK Birla Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-age-tech-help-in-cardiac-care/articleshow/81077614.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 18, 2021||Trichy||Vellamandi Natarajan keen to retain Trichy east||Trichy: State tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan on Wednesday hinted at seeking a ticket from the AIADMK to contest again from the Trichy east constituency. “Anyone can apply for any constituency. The high command will announce who will contest where. Coordinator, joint coordinator, deputy coordinators, presidium chairman and other leaders will decide. I will apply for all the constituencies in Trichy district,” he told reporters after laying the foundation stone for building a new taluk office for Trichy east at Kottapattu. Vellamandi said that as the incumbent MLA, he will highlight the welfare measures undertaken by him in the constituency in the past five years. He also exuded confidence of AIADMK winning all the 234 constituencies in the upcoming assembly election. On AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran’s comment about the presence of ‘sleeper cells’ in the AIADMK, Natarajan said that no one can shake the party and the government as they had no differences of opinion and stayed united.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vellamandi-natarajan-keen-to-retain-trichy-east/articleshow/81079189.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Virudhunagar-K’kumari NH to be overlaid by Oct||Madurai: The overlaying of the nearly 180-km poorly maintained Virudhunagar-Kanyakumari stretch of the four-lane national highway will be completed by October 19. It has been stated by project director of NHAI – PIU, Madurai, and public information officer V Saravanan as replies to RTI queries by activist-cum-engineer A Pandiaraja. Saravanan said that bituminous overlay will be done for the stretch and that the overlay will be done for the main carriageway and service roads. On the periodicity of the maintenance, the project director stated maintenance of the road will be done as per Schedule F of the concession agreement and that overlay will be carried out based on the condition of the road with respect to roughness, rutting and riding quality. The official said that at present there is no plan to close the four toll plazas between Kappalur and Nanguneri in the near future. “It will be decided by the competent authority based on the actual expenditure and revenue for the particular toll plaza,” he added. Tthe capital cost of these four four-lane projects is Rs 2,114 crore . Of the four toll plazas, the highest collection till August 2020 is Rs 276.75 crore at the Nanguneri toll plaza, closely followed by Rs 274.58 crore at the Salaipudhur, Rs 271.05 crore at the Etturvattamtoll plaza and Rs 243.54 crore at the Kappalur toll plaza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/virudhunagar-kkumari-nh-to-be-overlaid-by-oct/articleshow/81079167.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||HC protection to Khadse till Feb 24 now||Mumbai: The Bombay high court on Wednesday extended till February 24 the interim protection from coercive action granted to Maharashtra NCP leader Eknath Khadse in a land deal case.The former BJP minister approached the high court in January urging it to quash the summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) registered by the agency in October 2020. Last month, the ED had opposed Khadse’s plea, saying it was “not maintainable”. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who appeared for the ED, had told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale that an ECIR was not like an FIR but an internal document. Therefore, there was no question of quashing of the ECIR, Singh had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-protection-to-khadse-till-feb-24-now/articleshow/81079202.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Trichy||Post offices to resume work related to Aadhaar||Trichy: The postal department is set to conduct a week-long Aadhaar card enrolment and updation drive at all the 373 designated post offices in the central region from February 22. The Aadhaar-related operations were suspended for the past several months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. To facilitate Aadhaar enrolments and updations, special camps have been scheduled at all the designated post offices. A Govindarajan, postmaster general of central region, Tamil Nadu, said in a statement that the camps will be operational between 8 am to 8 pm and tokens may be obtained from the concerned post office to avail the service. While services like enrolment, mandatory biometric updation can be availed free of charge, demographic updation of details such name, address, mobile number, email, date of birth will cost Rs 50 and biometric updation will cost Rs 100. For enrolment of children, the documents required is an original proof of address of either parent-bank passbook, voter ID, ration card or ration card. The child and the parent should also be present at the camp. While no documents are needed for mobile number and email id updations, other demographic updations require relevant original documents as proof. A dedicated customer line with the phone number 0431-2419707 has been set up at regional office in Trichy for Aadhaar-related queries.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/post-offices-to-resume-work-related-to-aadhaar/articleshow/81079197.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Rlys still not sure about running passenger trains||Tiruneveli: Southern Railway (SR) general manager John Thomas has expressed reservation over operation of passenger trains due to Covid-19 concerns. Interacting with reporters at Tirunelveli junction after inspecting the track, stations, infrastructure and passenger amenities from the Tenkasi to Tirunelveli section on Wednesday, he added that the railway ministry will take a decision on it. Thomas was responding to a question pertaining to resumption of passenger train services on the Tirunelveli - Tiruchendur, Tirunelveli - Sengottai and Tirunelveli - Tuticorin sections that are regularly used by college and school students. Resuming these train services will benefit the students especially as they would be able to use the railway passes for a pocket-friendly and comfortable journey. “Covid-19 is still not gone. Cases are on the rise in Kerala,” he said. Stating that they are slowly opening and will continue to slowly open rail services, he said that suburban train service has opened in Chennai and there is an increase in the number of express train services too. “In the next stage passenger trains will start (operations),” he said. Asked if the railways would consider operating passenger trains at least during school and college timing, he said: “We will have to discuss with them (railway ministry) and take a decision.”  On the demand to resume link trains from Tuticorin to benefit passengers taking the Guruvayur Express and Coimbatore Express trains – that were operated before Covid-19 – the GM said that it will be examined. Madurai divisional railway manager V R Lenin and officials from SR and Madurai division were present during the inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rlys-still-not-sure-about-running-passenger-trains/articleshow/81079194.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Trichy||Waste collection dips in Trichy, instead, it is burned on roads||Trichy: While Trichy Corporation claims that the city’s waste collection has come down to 320 MT from 450 MT per day, indiscriminate burning of the waste mounds round-the-clock on roads is on the rise. Apart from bringing down the air quality, burning of garbage in residential areas has caused fire accidents resulting in loss of properties. Tamil Nadu fire and rescue services had urged the civic body and residents to be more responsible. Although the corporation claims that door-to-door waste collection is continuing seamlessly, residents in parts of the city complain that collection vehicles visit them once in three days. Similarly, garden waste and non-recyclable discards were not collected from the residents. With no other way to eliminate the trash, residents have been clandestinely dumping waste on roads, preferably near electricity transformers and vacant space or abandoned buildings. Over a few days, it becomes a huge mound, and unidentified people set fire to the pile, which includes plastic, leading to toxic smoke engulfing the vicinity. “Sanitation workers are burning the waste. They should be sensitised and lapses should be streamlined,” C Balasubramanian, a resident of Selva Nagar, said. But, the corporation still claims that the quantity of waste has reduced. The burning waste often puts fire service personnel on toes. “Last year, a stationary truck was destroyed in fire caused by a burning waste mound near Oyamari Road,” Melchio Raja, station officer of Cantonment fire station, said. Karumandapam, Warners Road, Reynolds Road and Benwells Road are witnessing the menace frequently. “Our sanitary workers were warned against burning waste. We will monitor the vulnerable spots and penalise the offenders,” an official with the health department of Trichy corporation said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/waste-collection-dips-in-trichy-instead-it-is-burned-on-roads/articleshow/81079192.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 18, 2021||Kolkata||Security step-up plan near West Bengal CM's home||KOLKATA: A day after five para teachers waded across Tolly’s Nullah towards chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Kalighat home, Kolkata Police and KMC got together to ensure the safety and beautification along Tolly’s Nullah. Several new outposts have also been proposed near Alipore correctional home. A team of KMC officials — including those from Borough 9, the headquarters and the special Tolly’s Nullah department — along with senior Kolkata Police officers visited the area on Tuesday night. They took stock of the ongoing projects in the area and discussed a couple of fresh proposals. Some of the new ideas include the beautification of both banks of Tolly’s Nullah that can act as a buffer against intrusion and the creation of a 6-foot-high fence. “Some new ideas always emerge. There is no need to speculate beyond this at this moment,” said a police officer. But around seven police pickets are likely to be be set up around the correctional home, said a police source. KMC officers said that putting up a fence was on the cards and the ongoing dredging work, too, will be accorded importance. “That will ensure that there is more water in Tolly’s Nullah, which will stop people from easily wading across it. This is not limited to the Alipore area alone,” said an official. Two Kolkata Police Disaster Management boats with nine personnel have been deployed to patrol the canal. “Only locals will be allowed to walk through roads around the CM’s residence. Vehicles will be permitted to ply along the road beside the Alipore jail only after thorough scrutiny,” said a police source. Sources said security in the area has been enhanced and a mapping of the access control points completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/security-step-up-plan-near-cm-home/articleshow/81077623.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 18, 2021||Surat||Disabled couple dies mysteriously in Surat||SURAT: A speech and hearing impaired couple, who had recently got engaged, were found dead under mysterious circumstances inside the bathroom of the man’s house in Nanpura area. Postmortem examination revealed that the couple Arpit Patel (24) and Dhruti Tailor (21) died due to suffocation following a gas leakage from the geyser in the bathroom. At around 4pm on Tuesday, Patel’s sister returned home from work and found them lying inside the bathroom. She alerted her parents who had gone out for some work since morning.  “Preliminary postmortem examination revealed that both died due to suffocation. There is no ventilation in the bathroom and a gas geyser is installed. It could be a gas leak or reduced level of oxygen. The exact cause will be ascertained only after detailed investigation,” said a police officer in Athwa police station.  So far, investigation revealed that from 9am to 4pm, the couple was alone at home. Police are yet to ascertain the exact time of death. The boy has minor injury on the back of his hand which he could have suffered while collapsing on the floor.  Patel, who works in a mall, lived with his parents in Nanpura while Tailor stayed with parents in Kamrej adjoining Surat city. However, she had been staying with Patel’s family for the past few days. They both studied in a school for special children in Navsari. The school helps parents find suitable matches and authorities had got parents of both Patel and Tailor in touch after which their marriage was arranged. They got engaged on January 31. Patel brought Tailor to his home for marriage related shopping on February 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/disabled-couple-dies-mysteriously/articleshow/81075377.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Indore||Madhya Pradesh among 9 states to cover over 75% of vaccine targets||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday joined the elite club of nine states which have covered more than 75% of targeted vaccinations. More than 5.93 lakh vaccine doses against Covid-19 have been administered to healthcare and frontline workers in the state. The second dose to health workers will start from February 19. In the ongoing, mop-up round for frontline workers, 20,927 were administered the vaccine on Wednesday, according to health department reports. By the end of the day, 24,811 got the jab. The average vaccination target achieved was about 22%. 541 sessions were held across the state on Wednesday. Ratlam, Sagar, Raisen, Hoshangabad, Betul, Ujjain and Dhar reported achieving the highest percentage of the target. 73% coverage was reported from Ratlam. In terms of vaccination doses, most were reported from Indore (2,073), Jabalpur (1,510), Bhopal (1,348), Gwalior (1,152) and Sagar (1,118).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/mp-among-9-states-to-cover-over-75-of-vaccine-targets/articleshow/81087082.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt orders separate toilets for transgenders in its offices||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has directed all its departments, district authorities, municipal corporations and autonomous bodies to set up separate toilet facilities for transgender people at their respective offices in the national capital. In an order, the government said in case such toilets cannot be constructed immediately, the existing facility available for persons with disabilities (PwD) should be designated for the use of transgender people for the time being. “In compliance with the provisions of Section 22 of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 for ensuring adequate welfare measures for transgender people, all public buildings under all the departments, autonomous bodies, PSUs, corporations and local bodies of Government of NCT Delhi are hereby directed to create separate identified public toilet facilities for transgender people,” the order said. In the annual budget for 2021-22, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has decided to provide public toilets exclusively for the third gender in the national capital. The deadline set for building these toilets is two years. “Such toilets will display symbols for both PwDs and T for transgender people. Trans people should continue to be allowed to use gender-based toilets as per their self-identified gender,” the social welfare department said in its order issued last week. Apart from NDMC chairman and Delhi Police commissioner, the order has been sent to secretaries of the departments, CEO of Delhi Cantonment Board and all district magistrates, among others, for compliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-orders-separate-toilets-for-transgenders-in-its-offices/articleshow/81079228.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Cases dip to 48 in south TN||Madurai/Trichy: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases fell to 48 on Wednesday in the ten southern districts and to 35 in the central districts. With one death, the Covid-19 tally in south Tamil Nadu stands at 1,37,003 cases, including 447 active ones, In the eight central districts, the total Covid-19 cases so far stood at 76,775, including 390 active ones. Madurai reported 11 cases. Ramanathapuram and Theni reported only one each. Kanyakumari had nine cases, Dindigul (8), Sivaganga (6), Tirunelveli (5), Virudhunagar (3), Tenkasi (2) and Tuticorin (2).  The casualty is a 77-year-old man from Virudhunagar who died on Tuesday at a private hospital in Madurai. In the central districts, Thanjavur recorded 11 cases and Trichy nine. Perambalur registered two cases making its tally 2,281, the lowest in the region. Ariyalur and Pudukottai recorded one case each while Nagappattinam and Tiruvarur reported four each. The number of active cases slipped below 400, to 390 with Thanjavur having the highest of 109 followed by Trichy, 81. Perambalur district had just eight active cases. The death toll of the region stood at 951 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-dip-to-48-in-south-tn/articleshow/81079227.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Madurai||Sattur cracker unit blast: 2 more held||Police have arrested two more people in connection with the Sattur cracker unit fire accident and have launched a search for four more. The Elayirampannai police had registered a case under various sections of the IPC and Indian Explosives Act against six people - M Santhanamari, proprietor of the unit, leasees Sakthivel, Raja, Sivakumar, his son Ponnupandi and Velraj. While Ponnupandi was the first one to be arrested, five teams were formed to arrest the rest, who had gone underground. Police have now arrested Sakthivel and his wife Jayaramu, whose name was added in the case later. Police sources said that they were picked up from their relative’s place. They were produced before a judicial magistrate and lodged in prison. Police said that the kin of the accused are being monitored and regular inquiries are conducted with them to know of their whereabouts.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sattur-cracker-unit-blast-2-more-held/articleshow/81079204.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh among 9 states to cover over 75% of vaccine targets||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday joined the elite club of nine states which have covered more than 75% of targeted vaccinations. More than 5.93 lakh vaccine doses against Covid-19 have been administered to healthcare and frontline workers in the state. The second dose to health workers will start from February 19. In the ongoing, mop-up round for frontline workers, 20,927 were administered the vaccine on Wednesday, according to health department reports. By the end of the day, 24,811 got the jab. The average vaccination target achieved was about 22%. 541 sessions were held across the state on Wednesday. Ratlam, Sagar, Raisen, Hoshangabad, Betul, Ujjain and Dhar reported achieving the highest percentage of the target. 73% coverage was reported from Ratlam. In terms of vaccination doses, most were reported from Indore (2,073), Jabalpur (1,510), Bhopal (1,348), Gwalior (1,152) and Sagar (1,118).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-among-9-states-to-cover-over-75-of-vaccine-targets/articleshow/81077653.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||How long will people pay Mumbai-Pune expressway toll, asks Bombay HC||MUMBAI: How long are people supposed to pay toll on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway, the Bombay high court asked the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) on Wednesday. “Our concern is how many years will you collect toll. Have you not recovered the construction cost?” asked a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni, that heard a public interest litigation (PIL) filed in 2020 by four activists to declare toll collection on the Expressway from August 2019 illegal. The PIL stated that the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, 1958 allows the government to recover capital outlay plus toll collection expenses. Toll collection rights for a 15-year period-—from August 2004 to August 10, 2019-—was awarded for an upfront payment of Rs 918 crore to Mhaiskar Infrastructure Pvt Ltd with an expected revenue of Rs 4,330 crore. However, the actual revenue by July 31, 2019 was Rs 6,773 crore and excess revenue of Rs 2,443 was retained by Mhaiskar. Hence, the PIL claimed that the toll collected on the Expressway since August 10, 2019, is illegal. MSRDC’s advocate Prashant Chavan argued that under the Act, it has the right to levy toll to recover capital outlay, which includes construction cost plus expenditure towards expansion, maintenance and outstanding. He then said that the state corporation will continue to collect toll on the Expressway till 2030. Advocate Pravin Wategaonkar, who is also one of the petitioners, pointed out that “capital outlay is recovered”. After hearing both sides, the judges observed that there is a “larger issue” about people paying toll. “If you are travelling from Mumbai to Kolhapur you are paying a toll. How much money people are spending only on toll! Is it justified? It’s the duty of the government to provide good roads,” said Justice Kulkarni. To the judges’ query on how much toll amount is collected by the government, the MSRDC’s advocate said that the money paid upfront by the contractor is spent on other road works. The judges wondered how long will people continue to pay the toll. “How long? That is the question,” said Justice Kulkarni. “Whatever is being collected, is it commensurate with what is collected by way of taxes?” The judges granted the MSRDC time to file a detailed reply and posted the next hearing on March 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-how-long-will-people-pay-mum-pune-expressway-toll/articleshow/81079249.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Desealing plea for Sanjay Nagar properties irks panel||New Delhi: The Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee has objected to the request by Delhi Development Authority (DDA) for desealing hundreds of properties in Sanjay Nagar that were shut for illegally running commercial activities and having unauthorised construction despite being allotted under the 20-point programme. Out of the 312 properties in question, 240 commercial establishments were sealed in 2007 over misuse and another 72 were shut in December 2018 for running commercial activities on the ground floor. At that time, locals had started protesting and the sealing teams had to return on many occasions. DDA had requested the chairman of the monitoring committee for desealing the properties citing that several representations had been received from residents. In its letter, the agency claimed that the land was allotted to the residents of Sanjay Nagar under the 20-point programme by the director and panchayat secretary in 1974. The monitoring committee stated that there was encroachment on government land and unauthorised construction, so no relief under the special provisions Act could be given. “It is an established fact that the appellants encroached on government land and constructed unauthorised structures, which is liable to be removed,” it added. The committee members also argued that Sanjay Nagar didn’t figure in the list of unauthorised colonies and was not covered under Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Act, 2011, which provides them relief. The chairperson of the special task force (STF) was requested to take action based on the Supreme Court order passed in May 2018. Earlier, in a report to the apex court, the committee that was constituted in 2006 to check illegal construction and misuse in the city had raised an alarm over the desealing drives and a “free for all” atmosphere for violations. It had stated that all its work over the past 14 years was being undone. Under the 20-point programme, over 22,000 residential plots were distributed to poor people across Delhi. While 12,500 plots were allotted between 1981 and 1985, another 9,576 plots were given from 1985 to 1989. The committee had highlighted how these plots had changed hands, amalgamated and illegal floors till four storeys had been constructed. “The laudable scheme of the government for provision of small plots for residential purpose to the lower strata of society has been converted into commercial hubs, while the authorities have overlooked the scam for reasons best known to them,” the committee’s report stated. In a 2018 report on Sanjay Nagar, the committee had found that seals put on 208 premises in 2007 had been broken and multi-storeyed buildings had come up. It noted that this amounted to perjury and contempt of court. A senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation official said the market was in DDA’s possession and the civic body could only assist if a decision regarding relief of encroachment removal was taken. On the other hand, the STF has received various representations from Sanjay Nagar RWA along with affidavits to abide by the rules and pay conversion charges. The matter has been referred back by the monitoring committee to the STF for examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/desealing-plea-for-sanjay-nagar-properties-irks-panel/articleshow/81079271.cms||Paras Singh
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Cabinet nod for setting up state skill univ||Mumbai: The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday approved the setting up of a state skill university to boost employability. The state has made a budgetary allocation of Rs 50 crore every year for the proposed university as administration and building expenses. Minister for skill development Nawab Malik said the university will start functioning in two years. The Bill in this regard will be tabled in the state legislature budget session in March. The cabinet also cleared setting up of Centers of Excellence at six divisions to function as the divisional centres of the proposed varsity. For this, existing industrial training institutes(ITIs) can be converted into these centres. All ITIs and skill training institutes can be affiliated with the proposed university. —Sujit Mahamulkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cabinet-nod-for-setting-up-state-skill-univ/articleshow/81080390.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 18, 2021||Amritsar||BJP, AAP draw blank in Bathinda, Abohar MCs||Bathinda: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) could not muster a single win in the municipal coporation election in Bathnda and Abohar town, and municipal council elections in Samana and Nabha on Wednesday. The Congress secured massive wins in Bathinda and Abohar, and emerged as the single largest party in Moga municipal coporation. The BJP, which has drawn widespread criticism in Punjab over the Centre passing three contentious farm laws, could muster a win in just one ward of Moga. Due to pressure over farm laws, many BJP candidates had contested as independents. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had been the incumbent party in Bathinda and Moga, but it could win in just seven of the total 50 wards in Batinda and 15 of 50 wards in Moga . In Abohar, where the local body was recently upgraded to a municipal corporation, the Congress won 49 of 50 wards and the SAD won the last remaining ward. The loss in Abohar would be a setback for BJP, as Abohar is represented by the party’s Arun Narang in the state assembly. He won the assembly election from Abohar in 2017 by defeating Sunil Jakhar, who is now state president of Congress. The victory is being seen as a blessing in disguise for Jakhar. In Bathinda, the Congress won 43 of 50 wards. Here too, AAP drew a blank, like the BJP. The election in Bathinda was being seen as a litmus test for Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal, who took a lot of pains in campaigning for Congress candidates. The result is also being seen as a precursor to the 2022 assembly elections. In the 2019 parliamentary elections, Shiromani Akali Dal candidate Harsimrat Kaur Badal had got a lead from Bathinda, after losing twice in a row from Bathinda Urban assembly segment in 2009 and 2014. The Moga municipal corporation witnessed a fractured verdict with no party being able to secure a majority. Congress turned out as the single largest party by winning 20 of the 50 seats up for grabs. Here, SAD did well by winning 15 seats, independents won 10 wards, Aam Aadmi Party won four seats, and BJP won one seat. In Patiala, of the total 92 wards which fall under four Samana, Nabha, Patran and Rajura municipal councils, Congress won 66 seats, SAD and independent candidates bagged 11 seats each, and BJP and AAP won two seats each. In Patran MC, which has 17 wards, Congress won seven, SAD three, independents six, and AAP one. In Rajpura MC, which has 31 wards, Congress won 27 seats, BJP two, and AAP and SAD one each. In the 23 wards of Nabha MC, Congress won 14 seats, SAD six, and independents three. In Ward 4 of Nabha, where a video of clash had gone viral over social media, the independent candidate won. In Samana MC, of the total 21 wards, Congress won 18, SAD won one, and independents two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/bjp-aap-draw-blank-in-bathinda-abohar-mcs/articleshow/81079278.cms||Neel Kamal
February 18, 2021||Kochi||It’s unlock time for Kochi’s cultural space||KOCHI: After a long lull, the cultural space in Kochi is witnessing the much-needed awakening. It is not only the IFFK, which is going to make the city life vibrant, but the district administration and tourism department also are all set to give a cultural fiesta for Kochiites by organizing Utsav, a festival for folk and traditional art forms, at Durbar Hall Ground and Vasco Square in Fort Kochi from February 20 to 26. The film festival will keep the city live for the next 4-5 days as more than 2,500 film buffs have flocked to Kochi. More than 80 films, which belongs to various genres, classes and languages, will be showcased at the festival. “It is after around 20 years that the film festival is being held in Kochi. In the past several months, all the cultural space, including cinemas in the city (as well as world over), had been inactive. The film festival will instil the spirit and fervour of art among the people here,” Akhil, a student who arrived in the city for the film festival, said. Film screenings, open forum, discussions, exhibition and interactions with prominent personalities in tinsel world, etc. will enliven the cultural sphere of the city until Sunday. As part of Utsav 2021, two folk arts programmes will be staged from 6pm to 8.30pm every day. The programme aims at nourishing folk and traditional art forms which face the threat of alienation. The newly-launched Arts Space for Kochi (ASK) has already gained momentum. Kochi corporation and Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development (C-Hed) have identified eight spots in the city as the venue for cultural performances. Within eight days of launching ASK, three programmes were held in the city. On Wednesday, a Chakyar Koothu performance, an installation for creating awareness on traffic rules, etc, were held at Chathiyath walkway as the fourth programme as part of ASK. “More and more open spaces and bylanes in the city can be the venues of such performances. In the long run, we will transform ASK into a platform on par with biennale,” mayor M Anilkumar said. Theatre groups like Lokadharmi also plans to resume real-time performances after March 27, which is the World Theatre Day. “We have been organizing talks by world-renowned theatre personalities through virtual platform for the past 40 weeks. We have also plans to resume our workshop for actors from March 28,” said Lokadharmi director Chandradasan. The theatre group is based at Nayarambalam. “We have also plans to extend our programmes and performances to Kochi city,” Chandradasan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/its-unlock-time-for-kochis-cultural-space/articleshow/81077691.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
February 18, 2021||Indore||Spurt in Covid cases as Madhya Pradesh’s positivity rate climbs to 1.6%||BHOPAL: In the last one week, the number of new infections of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh has grown by an average of 0.1% every day. The miniscule change has brought about a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases as the infection positivity rate climbed to 1.6% on Wednesday. A week back, this positivity rate, which marks a trend in growth, was down to 0.9%. That said, active cases in the state are down by 27% since the beginning of the month. As many as 2.41 lakh people have been tested for the infection since the beginning of the month. Percentage increase has been the highest in Damoh and Jhabua. Since the beginning of February, both these districts have reported more than 2% increase in overall Covid-19 infections. When contacted, health department officials did not comment on the situation. Overall number increase in the two districts has been 35 new cases for Damoh and 25 new cases in Jhabua. Over the past week, Covid-19 cases in Indore have increased by 460. New infections in Bhopal have touched 360. However, active cases continue to decline in both these cities. In Jabalpur, 233 new infections have been diagnosed since the beginning of the month. Sagar district has reported 37 of its 92 new cases in the past week. “The small spurt in recent week has once again highlighted the fact that despite drop in cases and vaccination, we need to be vigilant and adhere to Covid-19 protocols. The important thing to understand is that at the beginning of February, Madhya Pradesh had 2,554 active cases of the infection. On Wednesday, almost three weeks later, the number of active cases has declined by 27%,” saida senior consultant at Gandhi Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/spurt-in-covid-cases-as-mps-positivity-rate-climbs-to-1-6/articleshow/81087089.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Amritsar||Civic body elections: AAP stock crashes in Punjab's Majha, investors flee||AMRITSAR: All the whirlwind tours and promises of the Aam Aadmi Party’s bigwigs failed to impress even their “own” cadre, leave alone the common voter of Punjab’s Majha region. Even the MLA-ticket hopefuls who had pumped big money into AAP’s civic election campaign now go in search of an alternative to stay alive in politics. In Amritsar and Pathankot, the AAP failed to even open its account but managed two Patti nagar council seats in Tarn Taran and three Batala municipal corporation seats in Gurdaspur district. Party spokesperson Gurbhej Singh explained on Wednesday: “Majha was a weak belt for us but still winning in Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur means we have attracted new voters.” In the campaign leg, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh, AAP’s Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha, and MLA Baljinder Kaur had come to Majha and offered party chief Arvind Kejriwal’s Delhi model to Punjab. If the results are any sign, the public didn’t buy it. Sources in AAP said even the supporters had not voted for many candidates and at least two “very ebullient” assembly ticket hopefuls who had invested in the party’s election campaign were now so disheartened with its show in Majha that one of them had left for Delhi on Tuesday evening to make a new alliance. Gurbhej Singh said: “The civic elections results are not the reflection of the assembly polls, which we will win and form the government.” Despite repeated attempts, Raghav Chadha didn’t pick up his mobile phone. His personal assistant promised to convey the message but till the filing of this report, TOI had not heard from him. Despite this poor show, AAP saw a “good sign” in whatever it scored on debut. Leader of opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema said in Chandigarh that the party’s urban base and vote share had increased and it will be stronger in the cities by 2022. "This is a positive sign for the assembly elections due next year," Cheema said, adding: "AAP can even get a landslide victory." He said any first campaign has shortcomings but "these will be rectified after self-assessment before the assembly elections”. The party plans to mobilise youth to bolster its urban units and speak up for Punjab's farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/aap-stock-crashes-in-majha-investors-flee/articleshow/81079261.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Delhi assembly’s peace committee proceedings void, Centre tells SC||New Delhi: The Union government on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that proceedings before Delhi assembly’s peace and harmony committee, which had summoned Facebook’s top official in India in connection with the Delhi riots, were void as the issues of “law and order”, “police” and “communication” were in Parliament’s exclusive legislative domain.This was submitted by solicitor general Tushar Mehta through a two-part note submitted before the SC, which is adjudicating a petition by Facebook MD Ajit Mohan challenging the summons issued to him to depose as a witness before the Raghav Chadha-headed peace and harmony committee of the assembly, which is examining the role of social media platforms during the communal riots in northeast Delhi in February last year.While Delhi assembly, through senior advocate A M Singhvi, had said that the summons were to make Mohan appear before it as a witness to allow the committee to recommend steps to prevent recurrence of such riots and circulation of hateful messages through social media, Mohan, through senior advocate Harish Salve, had questioned the assembly’s legislative competence to deal with subjects that were squarely covered under the entries “law and order” and “communication” in the Central List falling in the domain of Parliament.The SG told a bench of Justices Sanjay K Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, “Considering the fact that the Delhi assembly has no legislative competence on the subject area which the committee is covering, the entire exercise which results in impacting the rights of the petitioners is invalid and void ab initio.“Therefore, any step taken by the legislature, which affects the rights of citizens, over a subject it lacks legislative competence, would be as if it has never been in existence. In such a situation, no privilege can be claimed (by the state assembly) over the same and it confers no right and imposes no duties.”Assisted by counsel Kanu Agrawal, the SG said the internet and social media platforms provide access to users from anywhere in the world. “As a subject to be governed, the internet and social media have posed a unique challenge to nations across the world as it is extremely difficult to limit the scope to territorial notions of jurisdiction whilst regulating them. Considering the nature of the subject, the internet and social media have a transnational/international dimension and require a cohesive singular national policy to regulate,” he said.In pursuance to a August 20, 2020, notice by the parliamentary standing committee on information and technology, Mohan had appeared before it on September 2 to provide his views on the subject of “safeguarding citizens’ rights and preservation of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space”.The Delhi peace and harmony committee had issued summons on September 10 and 18 to Mohan, compelling his presence before it. Centre said these summons fell outside the scope of powers conferred upon the Delhi assembly as the Centre had exclusive powers over the subject matter sought to be dealt with by the state committee through these summons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-assemblys-peace-committee-proceedings-void-centre-tells-sc/articleshow/81079256.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 18, 2021||Bhopal||Spurt in Covid cases as Madhya Pradesh’s positivity rate climbs to 1.6%||BHOPAL: In the last one week, the number of new infections of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh has grown by an average of 0.1% every day. The miniscule change has brought about a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases as the infection positivity rate climbed to 1.6% on Wednesday. A week back, this positivity rate, which marks a trend in growth, was down to 0.9%. That said, active cases in the state are down by 27% since the beginning of the month. As many as 2.41 lakh people have been tested for the infection since the beginning of the month. Percentage increase has been the highest in Damoh and Jhabua. Since the beginning of February, both these districts have reported more than 2% increase in overall Covid-19 infections. When contacted, health department officials did not comment on the situation. Overall number increase in the two districts has been 35 new cases for Damoh and 25 new cases in Jhabua. Over the past week, Covid-19 cases in Indore have increased by 460. New infections in Bhopal have touched 360. However, active cases continue to decline in both these cities. In Jabalpur, 233 new infections have been diagnosed since the beginning of the month. Sagar district has reported 37 of its 92 new cases in the past week. “The small spurt in recent week has once again highlighted the fact that despite drop in cases and vaccination, we need to be vigilant and adhere to Covid-19 protocols. The important thing to understand is that at the beginning of February, Madhya Pradesh had 2,554 active cases of the infection. On Wednesday, almost three weeks later, the number of active cases has declined by 27%,” saida senior consultant at Gandhi Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/spurt-in-covid-cases-as-mps-positivity-rate-climbs-to-1-6/articleshow/81077688.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Art Heritage On The Move||New Delhi: Ten days ago, a team of conservationists at Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts got two paintings from Rashtrapati Bhavan that it has to restore and return in the next few days. The two art works, plus others including by English landscape artist Thomas Daniell, vie for the conservationists’ attention because the latter are caught between the urgency of the restoration work and the shift of workplace from Man Singh Road to Janpath Hotel.“The two Rashtrapati Bhavan paintings are of the first Republic Day by N M Kelkar and one called ‘Meeting of the Chamber’ by K K Hebbar,” disclosed Achal Pandya, head, department of conservation, IGNCA. “Over the years, they have become discoloured and despite previous restoration efforts, have problems, including repainted sections. Our task is to restore them and we want to finish this before we shift to our new building.”With a new Central Vista planned, many buildings are being moved from their present locations pending the construction of new office space. But the commotion over the move hasn’t brought work to a halt at IGNCA. “Yes, work has decreased due to the shift, but active restoration work is still going on,” said Anil Dwivedi, project associated. Some items being looked after include a print of Swami Dayanand Saraswati and a sketch of Lord Ganesh from a museum in Jhajjar and rare paintings of Jaunpur Mosque and Chalees Satoon at Allahabad Fort by Daniell.Amid this, the staff are also constructing boxes in which to relocate the precious art works, books, manuscripts and other cultural materials. “These non-acidic boxes are made of cotton and low lignin cardboard. Lignin is a material that affects paper and discolours them,” said Dwivedi. “These boxes are stacked in larger wooden boxes or steel trunks packed with thermocol to protect their contents. These boxes can keep materials archivally safe for over four months.”Pandya disclosed that over 50,000 artefacts have already been packed and the work on 15,000 more will be done in the next few days. Items already packed include paintings by Hungarian painter Elizabeth Brunner and over 200 hand-held and glove puppets from Egypt, Chile and Indonesia. Shilpi Roy, research officer and officer in charge of the culture archive, said, “We started the process in November last year, physically verifying the various items and packaging them under categories such as paintings, personal collections and materials like leather, canvas, metal, etc.”Roy added the packaging has been managed in such a way as to easily unpack the contents in the new environs. While IGNCA is still carrying out conservation work on a few paintings, there will be immediate work at Janpath Hotel. “We have paintings that need time to be restored. We have only done some retouching and will finish the process after we shift,” said Satyendra Kumar, research officer.Pandya isn’t unhappy with the shifting. “The new location has ample space for our operations and our member secretary has chalked out a good plan for us,” asserted the conservation head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/art-heritage-on-the-move/articleshow/81079302.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 18, 2021||Kochi||IFFK kicks off amidst Cong boycott||Kochi: The Kochi leg of the 25th International Film Festival of Kerala got off to a colourful start here on Wednesday with 24 award-winning film personalities lighting candles from a ceremonial lamp lit by veteran film director K G George. The 25 lamps were lit symbolizing the past two-and-a-half decades of the IFFK. The festival, which was boycotted by Congress leaders, was officially inaugurated by minister for culture A K Balan at a function at the Sarita theatre complex. The inauguration ceremony had MLAs T J Vinod and P T Thomas as invitees but they were conspicuous by their absence. Stating that there was no error on part of Chalachitra Academy nor the department of culture over the controversy generated over the allegations levelled by actor Salim Kumar, Balan said continuing with the controversies despite an apology being offered shows an attempt to view everything through a political lens.  Academy chairman Kamal said the only criteria behind the invitations extended to film personalities who lit the lamps at the inaugural ceremony was that they had won national, international or state awards during the past 10 years. “Controversies and boycotts would not weaken IFFK,” he said. Kochi mayor M Anilkumar presided over the function. M Swaraj, MLA, released the festival bulletin by handing it over to FEFKA president Sibi Malayil. The website on the history of IFFK was launched by K J Maxi, MLA, at the ceremony. John Fernandes, MLA, released the 25th IFFK memorabilia coffee mug by giving it to AMMA general secretary Edavela Babu. The Bosnian film Quo Vadis, Aida? directed by Jasmila Zbanic was screened as the opening film. The film, which depicts the aftermath of the Bosnian genocide, has been shortlisted for the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film. Measures taken to prevent Covid spread Kochi: Kerala State Chalachitra Academy, in association with the health department, has taken measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 at the festival venues. Free antigen tests are being conducted for the delegates, officials and volunteers. Of the 1,800 tests conducted so far, only five were positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/iffk-kicks-off-amidst-cong-boycott/articleshow/81077697.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Before bypolls, Cong councillor shifts to AAP||New Delhi: Impressed by the work of the Arvind Kejriwal government, Congress councillor Guddi Devi Jatav on Wednesday joined Aam Aadmi Party. MLA Dilip Pandey and AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak welcomed the new member into the party and said the whole of Delhi would unite and contest the municipal elections and defeat BJP. Byelections for five municipal wards are scheduled on February 28. “For the last few days, many people have been joining AAP and our party is expanding significantly. These people have witnessed the development work of the Kejriwal government. Guddi Devi Jatav, who is Congress president of Malkaganj ward of Timarpur assembly, has joined with her team,” said Dilip Pandey, adding that the new members will strengthen the party further. Pathak said that “Jatav is sitting Congress councillor and has been very active in the House of the corporation.” “We all will work together and remove BJP from the corporations. The citizens of Delhi have made up their mind to throw BJP out of the corporations and elect AAP,” he added. Jatav said that she was happy to join AAP. “I will work shoulder to shoulder with AAP volunteers,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/before-bypolls-cong-councillor-shifts-to-aap/articleshow/81079296.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ludhiana||BSP pips BJP in Doaba, ex-min Sud’s wife loses in Hoshiarpur||Jalandhar: The Congress swept the Punjab municipal elections but even the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) performed better than the BJP in Doaba region, and a former BJP minister’s wife also lost. The BSP won 17 wards in municipal committees, including where it fielded independents, while the BJP won only eight in four districts. The Shiromani Akali Dal’s 20 candidates won on the party symbol, while its independents also won at a few committees in Nakodar and Nurmahal. AAP won 11 wards in Doaba. The region’s two municipal corporations—Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala—went to the Congress, which won 41 and 45 wards of 50 at each place. Hoshiarpur was a corporation already, while Kapurthala was earlier an ‘A’ class municipal committee. The BJP won just four corporation wards in Hoshiarpur, where Rakesh Sud, wife of its former minister Tikshan Sud, wife lost from Ward 5. Sud had a maximum say picking candidates. Another big defeat in Hoshirapur was of BJP Mahlia Morcha state vice-president Niti Talwar from ward 4. In BJP stronghold Mukerian, where the party got its biggest lead of more than 37,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, it could win just four of 15 wards. At another BJP fort, Dasuya, AAP became the principal opposition party by winning four of 15 wards, while the Congress took the rest. In all three committees of Nawanshahr district, BJP won just one ward in Banga, where even AAP won five. In Banga, Congress won five of 15 wards, while SAD won three. A BJP rebel also won. In eight municipal bodies of Jalandhar, including two nagar panchayats, the BJP won just one ward in Nurmahal, while AAP couldn’t win any of 72 it contested. Even state leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema had campaigned there for AAP. In Nurmahal, the Congress and Akali Dal had fielded independents, and both parties got six wards each with the balancing vote remaining with the BJP. In Nawanshahr, the Congress won 11 of 19 wards but in the outgoing MC, it had 13 seats. Outgoing MC president Lalit Mohan Pathak, denied Congress ticket this time, led a joint front with the Akalis and won by the biggest margin of 86% votes. He defeated Congress candidate Rohit Chopra, whom local MLA Angad Singh had picked. BSP state president Jasbir Singh Garhi said: “We fielded 100-odd candidates on party symbol and equal count of independents, including the relatives of our members. Our 25 candidates, including independents, won across Punjab, and 17 won in Doaba alone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bsp-pips-bjp-in-doaba-ex-min-suds-wife-loses-in-hoshiarpur/articleshow/81079294.cms||IP Singh
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||HC gives Nikita 3-wk transit bail, cites NBW issued by Delhi court||Mumbai: The Bombay high court on Wednesday granted transit anticipatory bail to Mumbai-based advocate Nikita Jacob in connection with the farmers’ protest ‘toolkit’ case in which environmental activist Disha Ravi was arrested from Bengaluru last week. The relief was granted for three weeks for a ₹25,000 bond. The HC noted that its Aurangabad bench had on Tuesday granted similar relief for 10 days to Shantanu Muluk, another activist against whom a Delhi court had issued a non-bailable warrant, like it had against Jacob. Such a warrant would result in their arrest. “It is apparent that Jacob had made herself available,” said Justice P D Naik while granting relief. He said, “It is not disputed that she is a resident of Mumbai, and it is also mentioned that Delhi police had recorded her statement, seized her laptop and documents (on February 11).” The judge noted that Jacob’s apprehension of arrest was fortified by the fact that the non-bailable warrant was issued against her. Her lawyers had said the warrant was issued on the “wrong pretext” that she was absconding. Hiten Venegaonkar, special counsel for Delhi cyber police, had said, “In spite of searching and waiting for her for an entire day, she did not show up. That’s why NBW was issued.” Venegaonkar had on Tuesday raised preliminary objections to granting Jacob any relief, citing the FIR which said over 500 police personnel were injured in the aftermath of violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day and public property damaged. The Delhi cyber police have lodged an FIR for offences of sedition, communal disharmony and criminal conspiracy. The FIR copy was given in court to Jacob’s lawyers on her plea. TOI has a copy of it. It said, “The accidentally leaked toolkit document lists a playbook of activities that were to take place during the tractor march held on Republic Day and other protests in Delhi and NCR.” The FIR alleged “there were calls for economic warfare against India and certain Indian companies. Their assets in India and outside are to be made targets for physical as well as coordinated actions.” It added that “it is evident from the contents of the said toolkit that the violence that took place on the streets of Delhi on January 26, 2021 near ITO at the Red Fort etc as a result of the farmers protest was pre-planned (and) meant to undermine India’s sovereignty and integrity, security of the state and public order.” The FIR further stated, “A perusal of the toolkit revealed that it was promoting campaign material by Poetic Justice Foundation, a Canada-based organization that openly and deliberately shares posts on social media… the toolkit document specifically mentions targeting certain regions of India to instigate enmity and divide.” Justice Naik also said “since ultimately she would be approaching the court of competent jurisdiction (Delhi’s Tees Hazari court), it would not be appropriate to make any comments on merit” of the case. Senior counsel Mihir Desai, appearing for Jacob, had submitted on Tuesday that the alleged toolkit only came to light after the January 26 protests when it was tweeted by Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, who deleted it later. “Nikita Jacob is not named in the FIR,” Desai had argued. The Delhi cyber police counsel had cited several judgements and orders of the apex court and high courts of Patna, Calcutta and Bombay HC, to argue that the HC doesn’t have power to grant or even to entertain a transit pre-arrest bail plea unless the case is within its jurisdiction, and this one, he said, wasn’t. Desai submitted that the HC was empowered to grant Jacob relief. In a recent order, the Bombay HC had referred to a larger bench the issue of transit pre-arrest bail when the case is registered in another jurisdiction. The reference is still pending. But Desai pointed out that the HC had still granted the applicant interim transit protection. Justice Naik recorded these submissions. In her application, Jacob had also said she feared arrest “due to political vendetta and media trial.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-gives-nikita-3-wk-transit-bail-cites-nbw-issued-by-delhi-court/articleshow/81080404.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Sweeper held for Rs 20L theft at bizman’s home||Mumbai: A sweeper was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly stealing Rs 20 lakhkept in a bag at the flat of a businessman in Jogeshwari on February 9. The accused, Ajay Valmiki (20), had left for Haryana and was brought to Mumbai. Valmiki was collecting garbage in the building when he found the flat of businessman Vinay Tripathi (32) open and the bag on the table. Valmiki allegedly stole the bag on seeing the amount written on it with a red sketch pen. Tripathi had left the bag on the dining table on February 8 after he returned from office. He forgot to take it to office the next day, said the police. “Valmiki was seen leaving the building around noon that day though he usually stays back till 5 pm,” Tripathi said. The police said that after stealing the cash, Valmiki dumped it in a garbage bag. Around noon, he took a bus to Rajkot and travelled to his hometown at Sonepat in Haryana. “Our team that had reached Haryana recovered Rs 19.05 lakh from him,” said deputy commissioner of police Mahesh Reddy. —V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sweeper-held-for-rs-20l-theft-at-bizmans-home/articleshow/81079298.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Gas cylinders in residential area seized as mayor reacts to tweet||MUMBAI: Members of a citizen redressal forum were surprised when on Tuesday evening around 7pm they tweeted to Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar regarding gas cylinders being piled up in a residential locality in Kandivli, and within two hours she got civic officials along with deputy mayor Suhas Wadkar to reach the spot and seize around a dozen of them. @MNCDFbombay (Mumbai North Central District Forum) tweeted a complaint to Pednekar at 7.08pm, ‘Ma’am Mayor @KishoriPednekar bringing to ur urgent notice, trucks turned into Gas cylinder godowns. As per ur request we’re tagging @mybmc! BMC, Police & State Govt will be solely responsible in case of mishap. Location: Near Poinsur Gymkhana near Pushpanjali Build, Kandivali (W).” TimesViewWhile BMC gets several online/offline complaints daily, not every day do we see it acting with such promptness. But the civic body must act proactively, instead of waiting for citizens to complain. Apart from stockpiling of cylinders, cooking on streets with gas cylinders is seen in several places. If there is a mishap at any spot, it could imperil lives, so such activities must be checked immediately and action taken against violators.Trivan Karnani, a lawyer, said they tweeted after they read her statement last week to submit complaints regarding gas cylinders piled up in areas. Pednekar was speaking against the backdrop of a gas cylinder blast in a godown at Yari Road on February 10, which injured four persons. By 9.01pm the mayor replied that Wadkar had visited the spot and action has been taken. Karnani said the complaint came from a resident of Poinsur. “Generally, one does not see such speedy action however sensitive the issue maybe, but this time, it coming from the mayor herself was definitely welcome,” said Karnani. The mayor told TOI she does not think she did anything noteworthy and her priority was to resolve citizens’ issues. “Whichever issues I feel can be resolved immediately I step up and give directions to get it done,” she said. Wadkar said he was in Goregaon for the inauguration of a chowk when he got a call from Pednekar. “She told me to go myself and ensure action is taken. I called up local police and BMC officials, and headed to the site,” said Wadkar. Assistant municipal commissioner (R central ward) Sanjay Kurhade said around a dozen cylinders were seized. “The trucks with many gas cylinders park in residential areas and undertake distribution which can be harmful. Ideally, they should distribute them from the godown itself. Therefore, we seized some,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gas-cylinders-in-residential-area-seized-as-mayor-reacts-to-tweet/articleshow/81079327.cms||Richa Pinto
February 18, 2021||Kozhikode||PFI seeks SC-monitored CBI probe into arrest of cadres in Uttar Pradesh||KOZHIKODE: Popular Front of India (PFI) has demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the arrest of two of its cadres in Uttar Pradesh on February 11. Anshad Badruddin and Firoz Khan were arrested from near Gudamba area in Lucknow. According to the UP police, they had planned to carry out several bomb blasts at Basant Panchami celebrations of Hindu organizations and other strategic locations in UP. Addressing a news conference here on Wednesday, PFI national secretary Nasarudeen Elamaram said Badruddin from Pandalam and Khan from Vadakara were picked up by the special task force of the UP police while they were travelling in a train from Bihar to Maharashtra. “They were in contact with their families till February 11 evening. Their families approached local police stations on February 16 with a complaint that the duo was missing. It was then the UP police hurriedly convened a news conference and produced the cadres,” he said. “We believe that our cadres were kidnapped at some railway station in UP and tortured them while keeping them in illegal custody. UP has become a terror hub where Muslim youths are being harassed,” he said. Elamaram said Badruddin and Khan are part of the ‘expansion wing’ of the PFI and they were entrusted with the task of building the organization in different parts of the country. They were deputed for organizational work in West Bengal, Bihar and Maharashtra. They had no assignment in UP, the PFI leader said. According to PFI, the organization was actively involved in a legal fight to help the victims of cases registered in connection with the agitations against Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). The UP government had suffered some reverses legally in those cases and it is settling the scores by arresting PFI cadres, Nasarudeen alleged. “We will not be cowed down by the strong-arm tactics of the BJP government at the Centre and in some states. RSS is our avowed enemy and we will continue the fight against the organization, which is the greatest threat to India,” he said. Nasarudeen said that the legal team of PFI in UP and Delhi have started moves to provide legal assistance to the arrested. PFI state general secretary A Abdul Sathar was also present at the news conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/pfi-seeks-sc-monitored-cbi-probe-into-arrest-of-cadres/articleshow/81075648.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Delhi||Stray cattle owners will have to pay Rs 5k fine per day: NDMC||NEW DELHI: To control the problem of stray cattle in the capital, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has issued directions to all departments, including the veterinary, horticulture and sanitary inspectors to issue challans of Rs 5,000 per offence per day to owners of stray animals causing inconvenience or found roaming on roads. “Whenever complaints related to menace due to stray animals were received, we were dependent on the veterinary department for action. Due to their limited staff, it was difficult to reach everywhere on time. To deal with the issue we have given direction to various departments to take action as per the NGT norms. We implemented the guidelines on Thursday and within two days at least 68 people were targeted in six zones,” said leader of House Yogesh Verma. Officials said that the intensity of stray cattle is more in Keshavpuram zone. “However, we also received complaints from Rohini and Civil Lines. The decision to impose Rs 5000-challan has been taken in reference to 2018 direction of National Green Tribunal, which suggested penalty for polluters. In other words, keeping cattle in the city is illegal, but still we are removing them every day. So we need to implement norms strictly to deter the violators,” said an official. Veterinary department of the civic body said that in one decade, over one lakh stray cattle shifted from urban areas in Delhi and 14,000 are at gaushala. “Still we can find them on roads or being kept illegally,” said the official. The penalty of Rs 5,000 will be implemented for one day and will keep on getting added every day. “In majority of cases, these animals belong to someone and their owners, after milking the cattle, let them loose so that they can graze outside. But this not only leads to inconvenience but also often leads to accidents,” the official added. To handle the situation in the long term, the municipal body has already prepared a policy for stray animals, which included installing microchips on stray cattle and once their owners come to get them released, their information will be included in the systems. “This would help us to identify a defaulter next time and we will immediately issue them challan. The policy is also important because there have been incidents when our teams going into the field to catch stray cattle have been attacked and even our vehicles were damaged. The policy has already been approved in House meeting,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stray-cattle-owners-will-have-to-pay-rs-5k-fine-per-day-n-corpn/articleshow/81079337.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 18, 2021||Mumbai||Hubby booked for harassing wife||An FIR was registered against a 29-year-old man and five of his family members for allegedly harassing his wife. The accused had forced the woman to hand over their son to his sister. tnnMan booked for harassing wife:||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hubby-booked-for-harassing-wife/articleshow/81079432.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 18, 2021||Kochi||Court stays release of ‘Maradu357’||Kochi: A munsiff court in Ernakulam on Wednesday issued an order preventing the release of ‘Maradu357’, a movie based on the demolition of flat complexes in Maradu which were constructed in violation of Coastal Regulation Zone norms. As per the injunction order in the petition filed by Sandeep Mehta, Sany Francis and KV Jose (promoters of three of the four razed buildings) against the respondents Abaam movies, Abraham Mathew, Swarnalaya Cinemas, Sundarshanan and Kannan Thamarakulam (the producers and director of the movie), the court restrained the release of the film in any formats. As per the order, the court has restrained the respondents, their servants, agents, partners and representatives from releasing the film Maradu357, in full or in parts, or its trailers, or songs etc and thereafter releasing the contents which relates to the construction and demolition of the four residential buildings in Maradu municipality in Ernakulam, which is the subject matter in two crimes. The builders in their petition had said portraying the petitioners as villains will adversely affect the credibility of petitioners and will also cause prejudice in the mind of general public. “The contention of the petitioners is that no illegality has been committed by the petitioners who constructed the apartment based on the building permits issued by the Maradu panchayat,” their petition said. Meanwhile, director Thamarakulam said they would file an appeal against the stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-stays-release-of-maradu357/articleshow/81077703.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ranchi||2 killed in separate kerosene blasts in H’bag, probe ordered||Hazaribag: A team headed by state food and civil supplies department joint secretary Shantanu Agrahari visited Hazaribag on Wednesday to meet the affected families after reports of kerosene explosion surfaced from a few homes in the district. According to reports, at least two people have died and more than a dozen got injured in the last few days. Meanwhile, the Hazaribag district administration has stopped the sale of kerosene oil from public distribution shops (PDS). Kerosene blasts were reported from Sarauni, Khurd, Dumar, Chutiaro, Amnari and Silwar villagers under the Sadar block. A two-year-old girl was among the dead. Kedar Ram, the father of the girl, said: “On the evening of February 14, my wife lighted a dibri after pouring kerosene in it but it soon blew up. Both my wife and daughter sustained severe burn injuries. We got the kerosene from a PDS shop here last month.” Ram’s wife and daughter were first taken to the Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH), from where the child was referred to Rims. She later succumbed to her injuries. Another woman, Devanti Devi from Dumar village, died on February 15 at HMCH, a week after being admitted there for treatment of burn injuries sustained during a similar mishap. Officials said that the kerosene supplied through PDS shops could be adulterated. Deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand said, “Samples of the oil have been taken from affected areas and sent to a lab in Ranchi for further investigation.” Hazaribag SDO (Sadar) Vidya Bhushan Kumar said the victims would be provided compensation as per government provisions. The district administration released a communique later in the evening stating that it has seized a tanker which supplied the consignment to the affected villages. “We have seized the tanker and want to appeal to everyone to not use kerosene supplied through it,” the communique read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-killed-in-separate-kerosene-blasts-in-hbag-probe-ordered/articleshow/81077407.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Bengaluru||Indian president-elect of Oxford students’ union quits after racism controversy||LONDON/BENGALURU: Rashmi Samant, who became the first Indian woman to be elected president of the Oxford University Students’ Union, has stepped down following accusations of making “racist” and “insensitive” remarks online and on other forums in the past, including a reference to the Holocaust. Rashmi, from Manipal, apologised in an open letter as soon as the posts emerged but as the clamour for her resignation refused to die down, she announced on Facebook on Tuesday that she has decided to quit as president-elect. “Instagram was my campaign page so it got sent to everyone. You had to scroll down really far to see the posts. I don’t know who found them. I don’t want to judge others because I know how much it hurts to be judged,” she told TOI from Heathrow airport on Wednesday night before boarding a flight back home to India. “I have received lots of anonymous emails. Who would not be upset? I kind of expected this because you hear stories that when something good happens it can get taken away,” the 22-year-old rued. “I do not hate any community. Everyone thinks I am a terrible person and I am not.”  She has since deactivated her social media accounts. In one of the posts that has been flagged by her critics, Rashmi is seen posing at the Berlin Holocaust Memorial in 2017. The caption reads: “The memorial *CASTS* a *HOLLOW* dream of the past atrocities and deeds…” Rashmi said that was her first trip to Europe. “I was young and I didn’t know better. I did not mean to be insensitive. I was trying to make a pun on words and I am a non-native English speaker,” Rashmi explained. In another post of herself outside a Buddhist temple in Malaysia, she had written “Ching Chang”, upsetting Chinese students who perceived it as an offensive term mocking them. Rashmi said she had translated it as meaning “eating plants” and was not referring to Malaysians. “The picture was of me at a Buddhist temple doing ‘namaste’. I am a vegetarian so I found it funny as it was difficult to find vegetarian food there,” she said. In her open apology, published in ‘The Oxford Student’, Rashmi wrote, “I fully acknowledge my shortcomings over the years and the past few days in my capacity as president-elect. I come to you with an apology and a willingness to learn.” That wasn’t enough, though. “Despite writing an open apology, students did not think I was sincere enough. I could not see the point of starting the presidency when people do not trust me,” she said. Rashmi, who went to school in Manipal and Udupi and graduated from Manipal Institute of Technology, is a student of MSc in energy systems at Linacre College, Oxford University. Her election to the student union post, barely a week ago, was toasted by her friends, classmates, teachers and politicians back home. Rashmi said her parents — Vathsala and Dinesh Samant of Udupi — are very proud of what she has achieved in five months at Oxford. The student union expressed regret and said it has a no-tolerance policy towards discrimination. There will now be a by-election. “I hope someone wonderful wins,” Rashmi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/indian-prez-elect-of-oxford-students-union-quits-after-racism-controversy/articleshow/81080382.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 18, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi-Koderma railway track will be ready by Dec: Officials||Ramgarh/Sindri: The much awaited 189km Ranchi-Koderma railway track via Barkakana will be ready for operations by December, officials said on Wednesday. Once ready, the route will lessen distance between Barkakana and Ranchi by 60km. As part of the project, the route between Barkakana to Koderma via Hazaribag has been operational for rail movement and another 67km stretch between Barkakana junction to Ranchi is in final phases, the officials said during the launch of a retiring room and dormitory at Ramgarh Cantt railway station, part of South Eastern Railway, in presence of Hazaribag MP Jayant Sinha. Neeraj Ambashtha, divisional rail manager (DRM) of Ranchi rail division, said, “The Barkakana-Ranchi line will pass through hills and have four tunnels. The construction of two tunnels is over and the third is near completion. The entire project is expected to be complete by December.” He said passengers at Ramgarh Cantt will now be able to avail facilities of AC and non-AC retiring rooms, dormitory and separate pay-and-use toilets. The station has six AC rooms, four non-AC rooms and a 10-bed dormitory that can be booked on the IRCTC website. Talking to media In Dhanbad, general manager of East Central Railways (ECR) L C Trivedi said the Union government has made budgetary provisions for strengthening the infrastructural facilities to increase the train speed from existing 130kmph to 160kmph and fencing of nearly 400km of railway track between Dhanbad to Mugalsarai will be done soon. “For this, the existing rail coaches would be replaced by LHB coaches in phased manner and trains will be equipped with Train Collision Avoiding System keeping passenger’s safety in view. Besides this, 39 level crossings falling under Dhanbad rail division will be replaced by sub-ways and Rail over bridges (ROB) between Pradhan Khanta and Manpur stations under this division,” he added. Trivedi said they were in constant touch with the railway board for allowing running of more special trains and that they expect normalized services within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-koderma-railway-track-will-be-ready-by-dec-officials/articleshow/81077337.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Vadodara||Rickshaw driver killed for slapping woman||Vadodara: A rickshaw driver paid with his life for slapping a woman over harmless teasing as he has brutally murdered by her two sons and their accomplices in Jambuva area late on Tuesday night. Police said that the victim Manoj Parmar (34) had slapped Radha Parmar several times last week as she used to tease him about his marriage. Harbouring a bitter grudge, her sons - Ganesh and Sanjay - took help of their friend Rutvik Parmar and an unidentified person to kill Manoj. Around 8.30 pm on Tuesday when Manoj reached home from Makarpura railway station, the four accused attacked him. One of them slit his throat and then stabbed him in the chest when he collapsed. Manoj was taken to the SSG Hospital where he succumbed. “The two siblings and their accomplice have been arrested. We are trying to unearth more details about the fourth accused from them,” said inspector R A Patel of Makarpura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rickshaw-driver-killed-for-slapping-woman/articleshow/81076902.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Ranchi||Cong, JMM find strength as BJP is routed in Punjab municipal polls||Ranchi: Congress’s landslide sweep in municipal body elections in Punjab amid the farmers’ protest on Wednesday has emboldened the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) in Jharkhand, where panchayat polls, civic body election and one bypoll are also slated to in the coming months. Notably, Congress recorded a victory in Bathinda Municipal Corporation in Punjab for the first time in 53 years. Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) said the victory is a result of an outburst of pent up anger against BJP and NDA government’s three farm laws. “The verdict is the beginning of the downfall of NDA. Farmers and the people at large have shown the mirror to the Modi government. The trend will traverse to other parts of the country where various polls will take place,” Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said. Congress’s Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo added that BJP was routed because of its arrogance and attempts to defame and divide farmers by calling them anti-nationals and Khalistanis. “Despite sustained efforts by the Centre to sabotage the farmers’ protest, our country’s annadatas are fighting against the legislations to safeguard their future,” he said. JMM, the lead alliance partner in the mahagathbandhan government, said the Punjab verdict should be an eye-opener for BJP. “Not just the farm laws, the verdict is an indication of people’s anger against price hikes, joblessness, poor handling of the lockdown, agrarian and rural distress and failing economy. Civic bodies usually have an urban voter base, which BJP considers as its stronghold, and the results are a dent in its burrows,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, adding that this trend will be visible in Jharkhand in future polls. “BJP faced rejection in the recent bypolls in Bermo and Dumka. In the upcoming Madhupur bypoll, UPA (JMM-Congress-RJD) will defeat NDA. Unlike false promises of BJP, our alliance government is doing what it promised in the assembly polls,” he said, citing examples of Hemant Soren government’s decision to provide farm loan waiver, reduce fees for state civil service examination, approve a high court bench in Dumka, the state’s second capital. BJP, however, rejected the theory. “Punjab has been the epicentre of farmers protest, so that played a role in the results. Having said so, municipal polls are in no way any indications of the trend for general elections,” BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-jmm-find-strength-as-bjp-is-routed-in-punjab-municipal-polls/articleshow/81077401.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 18, 2021||Ranchi||Long-distance bus fares may go up by 30% in Steel City||Jamshedpur: After diesel prices touched Rs 84 a litre, long distance bus operators of Jamshedpur said they are likely to hike the ticket fares by around 30% in order to remain in business after being able to operate following months of lockdown. Convenor of Jamshedpur Bus Operators Association (JBOA) Upendra Kumar Sharma said, “To ensure a uniform hike in the fare across the state, a formal round of consultation is underway and the hike will be announced simultaneously.” Noting that they are hugely hit by the steep hike in fuel prices, bus operators said ever since lockdown they have been facing financial problems. “The cost of the diesel in January 2020 was Rs 62 per litre and a year later, it is above Rs 84. There is no sign of any relief in sight either,” said a functionary of JBOA, Uday Pratap Singh. “Since the state government had appealed to us, we did not increase the fare since September when interstate long distance bus services had resumed, but now there is no option,” said Kunal Kumar, a bus operator. Another bus operator, Abhishek Sharna, said running the service without increasing the fare will lead to a major loss. “The Centre should announce a mechanism to check fuel prices or the state government should announce a relief by reducing its share in the fuel tax structure,” he said. Notably, 450 long distance buses operate from Jay Prakash Bus Terminus in Bhuyadih and Sakchi area every day and an approximate 22,000 passengers avail the services daily to travel to different location of Bihar, Odisha, Bengal and Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. Petrol refilling station owner Harvinder Singh Bhatia said, “Customers who earlier placed orders for 60 litre are now buying only 40 litre.” “Ultimately, it is the passengers who have to bear the brunt of the hike in fuel prices,” said 56-year-old Bistupur resident Sundar Sharma, who often travels to his native town in Bihar’s Bhojpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/long-distance-bus-fares-may-go-up-by-30-in-steel-city/articleshow/81077275.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Ranchi||JPSC boss sells flat, gives Rs 40L for edu of poor kids||Ranchi: Chairman of Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) Amitabh Choudhary donated Rs 40 lakh to a Ranchi-based non-profit organisation to fund scholarships of students from economically weaker sections. Choudhary, a former secretary of the Board of Cricket Control in India (BCCI), handed over a cheque to the outfit’s office bearers in a private ceremony on Tuesday on the occasion of Saraswati Puja. Ajay Kumar, secretary of the outfit known as Pratigya, said the money donated by Choudhary will be fixed in their bank accounts. “The interest received will be used to fund the education of students. We aim to bring 15 children under the scholarship’s fold and we are currently working out the actuals,” Kumar said. Choudhary, an IPS who quit the service and became a cricket administrator, got in touch with Pratigya in June last year. Three months later, he sat with the outfit’s office bearers to work out the modalities. Choudhary donated the money on terms that it fuels a scholarship, to be named after his father Surendra and mother Asha Lata. Kumar said the scholarships will commence from April this year. Choudhary reportedly sold off his flat in Patna to raise the money for the donation. “He told us that the decision he took was agreed to by his siblings and relatives,” Kumar said. Pratigya is currently funding the education of 110 children from impoverished backgrounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jpsc-boss-sells-flat-gives-rs-40l-for-edu-of-poor-kids/articleshow/81077300.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Ranchi||Defunct CCTV leaves cops clueless about NIT student||JAMSHEDPUR: A defunct CCTV camera outside Hira Lodge in Golmuri here, from where resident of Bihar’s Saharsa and NIT student Raja Kumar (22) went missing on Sunday afternoon, has left Jamshedpur police clueless. Although footage from CCTV cameras in the vicinity has also been gathered, police are yet to spot Raja in any of them. Police are trying now to collect CCTV footage of Tatanagar station and Mango bus stand along with other prominent locations of the Steel City. Those involved in the investigation on Wednesday said they have seized Raja’s mobile, but that won’t help in tracing him as he had left his mobile in the room before he went missing. Raja had boarded a train from Patna along with his classmate Aniket Raj on February 13 to reach the Steel City to sit for Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering. After getting down at Tatanagar on Sunday, the duo booked a lodge in Golmuri as NIT’s hostel was locked since the outbreak of Covid-19. According to Aniket, Raja suddenly left the room on Sunday, leaving behind his mobile and wallet and did not sit for the examination. Police have cross-checked and found Raja did not appear for the exam. Later, Aniket lodged a missing complaint at Golmuri police station. Many of Raja's family members have come down to the city and are camping here to trace him. Meanwhile, some family members who had visited the college said some people had seen Raja come with his friends and stay for around two hours. Police are trying to find out the truth behind the claim and are also trying to identify who the friends were who were accompanying Raja. Officer in-charge of Golmuri police station Arvind Kumar expressed confidence to crack the case soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/defunct-cctv-leaves-cops-clueless-about-nit-student/articleshow/81077464.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
February 18, 2021||Goa||Illegal sand trade, drug links led to attack: Probe||MARGAO: The murderous assault on notorious criminal Anwar Shaikh at Fatorda on Tuesday was borne out of inter-gang rivalry over issues concerning illegal sand extraction as well as narcotics trade, police investigation has revealed. Police sources said that Shaikh had plans of venturing into the illegal sand business, a proposition that stood to harm the prospects of those already in the clandestine trade. Vale D’Costa, resident of Tilamol, Quepem, a notorious criminal, who has a number of cases booked against him for illegal drug trade under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act wanted to take revenge on Shaikh whom he suspected to have tipped off the crime branch leading to his (D’Costa’s) arrest in one such case nearly two months ago. Some of the accused in the case have interests in the illegal sand business activities as well, particularly in villages along the Zuari in South Goa, police sources said. A thorough interrogation of the accused is likely to reveal deeper links in the illegal sand trade in South Goa, police sources added. Shaikh, in his complaint recorded by the police, had mentioned the names of D’Costa and Hornekar, besides Imran Bepari of Santa Cruz and Vipul Pattari of Khareband, Margao, apart from six unknown persons. While Hornekar was arrested by the police soon after the assault on Shaikh on Tuesday, Pattari was nabbed on Wednesday. Hornekar has been remanded in five day-police custody. Fatorda police are on the lookout of the other accused. Shaikh alias Tiger Anwar was shot at and assaulted at near the Ambaji junction, Fatorda, Tuesday afternoon. Shaikh, who has sustained bullet injury in his thigh, and serious injuries on his knee, head and right arm, is now stated to be out of danger, police sources said. Shaikh was assaulted with iron rods, koita, danda, while one of the assailants shot at him. Fatorda police has booked a case against the accused under charges of attempt to murder as well as for forming unlawful assembly and rioting with deadly weapons under several sections of the IPC as well as under the Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/illegal-sand-trade-drug-links-led-to-attack-probe/articleshow/81079373.cms||---
February 18, 2021||India||Vaccination drive: More sites, vaccine supplies for next phase||NEW DELHI: The government plans to significantly ramp up delivery of vaccines, number of immunisation sites as well as private sector participation to roll out the next phase of vaccination drive against Covid-19 to inoculate people above 50 years of age and those with co-morbidities. The government is also set to launch the version 2.0 of the Co-WIN digital App for self registration of vaccine beneficiaries above 50 years of age. The details of the plan were presented to the principal secretary to PM at a high-level meeting on Wednesday. The cabinet secretary, health secretary, secretary (pharmaceuticals) and CEO (national health authority) were also present. For the next phase, the government plans to increase immunisation sessions four to five times of the current 10,000-11,000 sessions that are being conducted per day. Besides, many more private hospitals are expected to join the drive going forward. At present, about 2000 private hospitals are engaged in the vaccination drive. “First preference has been accorded to health personnel & front-line workers. Next in line will be the 50-plus population and those with co-morbidities for whom efforts are on to start the vaccination process in two or three weeks,” the health ministry said. India has administered over 91.86 lakh doses of Covid vaccines till Wednesday evening. This includes first dose of the vaccine to over 61.79 lakh health workers and 26.64 lakh front-line workers. Besides, 3.42 lakh healthcare workers have also received the second dose of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccination-drive-more-sites-vaccine-supplies-for-next-phase/articleshow/81081159.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||With LPG cylinder prices on the rise, dining out may cost more||Panaji: With prices of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders being hiked by more than Rs 170, consumers, particularly owners of eateries, are apprehensive about the inflation. The restaurant industry is only just recovering from effects of the pandemic. “The rise in prices eats into our profits and affects our margins. And we cannot keep changing our menu as we have already tied up with food delivery services. Most of the hotels will therefore have to endure this price hike,” president of All Goa Hotel and Restaurant Owners’ Association Gaurish Dhond said. However, considering that many restaurant businesses have only recently managed to get back on their feet post-lockdown, owners of smaller and stand-alone eateries may feel the brunt of this price rise even more severely. And it’s not just the price of cylinders, the prices of other essentials too such as oil, flour, fish and chicken have left stakeholders struggling to make a profit. “In this business, we must use gas cylinders very often, and if the cost goes up then we will be forced to increase the price of our menu as well. With the price of everything going up, our margins reduce considerably and accordingly we must revise our rates,” said Ravindra Gaitonde, the proprietor of Cafe Central in Panaji. Others felt that they had no choice but to endure the loss. “The system is so bad that we don’t know what may happen next. We will just have to accept it. We cannot even increase the prices on our menu because every 15 days there is a price rise of something and reduction of another,” owner of Arcangela bar and restaurant Nelson Cabral said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-lpg-cylinder-prices-on-the-rise-dining-out-may-cost-more/articleshow/81079416.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||45-yr-old with no comorbidity succumbs||Panaji: On Wednesday, Goa reported two Covid deaths, including that of a 45-year-old man from Navelim in South Goa. The man had no comorbidities, however came late for treatment. “He was hospitalised after his condition had turned critical. He died within three days of admission,” dean Goa Medical College, Dr S M Bandekar, said. “Again, we are seeing that many patients are reporting late for treatment,” he said. In the last 48 hours, five casualties have been reported pushing the toll to 787. Another death reported on Wednesday was that of an 89-year-old woman from Aldona, who had multiple comorbidities. The state’s tally of active cases reached 508 .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/45-yr-old-with-no-comorbidity-succumbs/articleshow/81079439.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||Dy collector told to keep tabs on noise pollution||Saligao: Residents of Anjuna, Calangute and Assagao at a meeting with deputy collector North Kapil Phadte raised grievances against noise pollution during the night and urged him to maintain a check on high decibel music. During the meeting, the affected residents from the coastal belt expressed their angst over the police department’s failure to address noise pollution and told the deputy collector that the high decibel levels should be kept in check. The locals pointed out that music is being played late hours every day. “We also suggested that sound level meters be fixed to check sound levels,” said resident Desmond Alvares. After the meeting, the deputy collector said, “We will try and resolve the problems of the people as several complaints were received by the locals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dy-collector-told-to-keep-tabs-on-noise-pollution/articleshow/81079488.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Goa||Bambolim-St Cruz road work creating bottleneck at GMC||PANAJI: With road widening work currently on near the Goa Medical College (GMC), motorists are able to access only one of the existing four lanes leading towards Panaji, thus creating a bottleneck between Bambolim and Santa Cruz. This inconvenient situation is expected to persist for a few more days. “This work could’ve been easily carried out at night by deploying extra machinery. The execution is very slow, there is lack of coordination and the police are unable to control the traffic jam near GMC,” one motorist said. There are four lanes, one each going towards Santa Cruz, Dona Paula and Panaji respectively, in addition to the new elevated road which also leads to Panaji. Now, with just one lane open, the density of vehicles on it has increased tremendously. It is during peak hours that the problem of slow-moving vehicles escalates to traffic congestion. MVR Contractors has undertaken the road widening work. “They have excavated the road owing to which there is only one lane for incoming traffic from Agasaim towards Panaji. Since the work at Bambolim is in its advanced stage, there is congestion on this road,” DySP, traffic, North Goa, Salim Shaikh said. To ease the bottleneck, traffic in front of GMC has been diverted. “Traffic police have been deployed there to handle the movement of vehicles, but it may take a few days. One police inspector regularly visits the scene to monitor the situation,” Shaikh said. Santa Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes said that the contractors must also help ease the situation. “It is the work of the national highway owing to which there was a diversion of traffic. Since it is their project, they have to take care of the situation with the help of their safety managers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bambolim-st-cruz-rd-work-creating-bottleneck-at-gmc/articleshow/81079635.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||AAP’s women’s wing hits out over upped LPG price||Margao: AAP’s women’s wing held a demonstration in front of the old collectorate building to protest the increase in LPG prices. Later, they submitted a memorandum to the civil supplies office (Margao) on increasing prices of essentials. Matilda D’Silva, AAP’s candidate from Navelim at the zilla panchayat elections, hit out at the government for increasing the prices very steeply, particularly in the times of pandemic. Patricia Fernandes pointed out that practically every second day they are forced to come out on the streets to protest against the anti-people policies of BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aaps-womens-wing-hits-out-over-upped-lpg-price/articleshow/81079631.cms||---
February 18, 2021||India||PM takes dig at previous govts for dependence on oil imports||NEW DELHI: PM Modi said on Wednesday the middle-class would not have been burdened if previous governments had focussed on reducing India’s energy import dependence. “Can we be so import-dependent? I don’t want to criticise anyone but I want to say had we focused on this earlier, our middle-class would not have been burdened,” Modi said at a function to inaugurate oil and gas projects in poll-bound Tamil Nadu. Coming on a day when petrol price hit the Rs 100-mark, the PM’s statement was a clear indictment of previous governments for not making efforts to reduce India’s growing dependence on imported oil. Without referring to the relentless increase in retail fuel prices in the last few months, he said India imported over 85% of its oil needs in the 2019-20 financial year and nearly 53% of its gas requirement. Easing laws for startups: ModiThe PM said the government is focused on removing unnecessary regulations governing the technology sector, and noted the recent relaxation of laws on acquisition and application of geospatial data and maps. “This step will empower our tech startup ecosystem and the mission of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he said in a video address at the Nasscom Technology & Leadership Forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-takes-dig-at-previous-govts-for-dependence-on-oil-imports/articleshow/81081173.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||Biz slows down as old vehicle owners give HSRP a miss||Panaji: There have been no new applications for the fitment of high security registration plates (HSRP) on old vehicles, recently. The contractor – Real Mazon India Ltd – hired for the installation has therefore written to the transport department to issue a notice afresh urging vehicle owners to bring their existing vehicles to the HSRP fitment centres. In the letter, assistant general manager, Real Mazon India Ltd, Biswajeet Mukherjee, has pointed out that “vehicle owners are not applying for HSRPs for old vehicles” owing to which their “resources are going underutilised.” As a result, they have requested the department to issue a public notice appealing vehicle owners to get their old vehicles affixed with the HSRPs and to “implement challaning or enforcement on vehicle owners for non-fitment of HSRPs” on their vehicles. Director of transport Rajan Satardekar, however, said that issuing a notice can create panic and that the vendor can instead send text messages to serve as reminders to vehicle owners. In December 2020, the vendor submitted a proposal for home delivery of number plates to the directorate of transport. If approved, vehicle owners could get their HSRP fitment done at home at an additional cost of Rs 200. However, the department is not open to this possibility. “The tender terms cannot be deviated from,” Satardekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/biz-slows-down-as-old-vehicle-owners-give-hsrp-a-miss/articleshow/81079660.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Goa||Cop comes to aid of accident victims||Vasco: A video clip of superintendent of traffic cell Dinraj Govekar assisting two accident victims at Zuarinagar on Wednesday went viral on social media. Sources say Govekar, who was headed towards Dabolim airport from the MES college junction, intervened after he saw people gathered on the main highway. Two men on a two-wheeler were injured after their vehicle skidded and they lost control of it. Govekar immediately sent the injured men in his official car to the sub-district hospital at Chicalim and then helped clear the traffic jam. Netizens appreciated Govekar for his timely help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cop-comes-to-aid-of-accident-victims/articleshow/81079708.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||‘Need to float sopo tenders to shore up SGPDA’s revenue’||Margao: Margao MLA Digambar Kamat and Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai have demanded that the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) immediately float tenders for sopo (market tax) collection of the authority’s markets in Margao with a view to shore up its revenue. The issue came to the fore at a SGPDA meeting held on Wednesday, at which Ponda MLA Ravi Naik was present. Kamat told reporters after the meeting that the SGPDA had unanimously decided to opt for the tendering process following approval by the PWD. “Appointment of a sopo contractor through the tendering process will ensure that no rules are flouted by the contractor. It will also net good revenue for the SGPDA,” Kamat reasoned. Sardesai alleged that the SGPDA was shielding irregularities committed by the current contractor owing to vested interests. SGPDA chairperson Wilfred D’Sa said legal advice would be sought in connection with the tender issue, considering that the matter was pending in court. The current contractor had moved the local court over a contention with the SGPDA, following which the court had directed the latter not to terminate his contract until his petition was disposed of. The issue of setting up a municipal solid waste management facility at the SGPDA market also came up for discussion, D’Sa said. At the meeting, it was decided to seek legal opinion over the letter received from the government to return the Rs 15 crore granted for land acquisition for a kabrastan at Shirvodem if the proposal hadn’t made any further progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-to-float-sopo-tenders-to-shore-up-sgpdas-revenue/articleshow/81079720.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||47 Konkan rly personnel honoured||Margao: The Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd (KRCL) on Wednesday presented awards and commendation certificates to 47 of its officers and staff for their commendable service towards the organisation, on the occasion of its 30th Foundation Day award distribution ceremony.  Due to the pandemic, the foundation day celebration was held through a virtual platform on October 15, 2020. In continuation of the event, the award distribution ceremony was held at the Konkan Railway Community Hall, Margao, on Wednesday. KRCLs chairman and managing director, Sanjay Gupta, director finance R M Bhadang, general manager (strategic planning and business development) Joseph E George, chief personnel officer K K Thakur, regional railway manager, Karwar, B B Nikam, regional railway manager, Ratnagiri, Upendra Shendye, were among those present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/47-konkan-rly-personnel-honoured/articleshow/81079805.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 18, 2021||Goa||Bovine falls into trench along highway, rescued||Panaji: A full-grown ox that fell into a narrow trench on the main road at Sao Pedro would have met an untimely death if it wasn’t for the firefighters who rescued it in a two-hour-long operation on Wednesday morning. The bovine was found lying on its back and unable to move in the 4-feet-deep trench that was dug to lay underground cables by the side of the Panaji-Old Goa highway near St Peter’s Church, Sao Pedro. Fire and emergency services personnel, who rushed to the site after been alerted at 7.45am, couldn’t use any machinery as it would be too dangerous for the animal. They had to manually broaden the trench that was less than a metre wide. “We used crowbars and a pickaxe. The ox was crying but couldn’t move. We tied a rope to its horns and stomach and rescued it from the trench,” said duty officer Amit V Rivonkar, who led the team in the rescue operation. The Old Goa duty crew who undertook the rescue comprised firefighters Mahesh Divkar, Paresh B Gawas, Gautam Pednekar, Hanuman Malik and driver operator Ramesh Viedikar. The fire personnel were elated to see the ox, which appeared lifeless in the trench, run away after being rescued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bovine-falls-into-trench-along-highway-rescued/articleshow/81079821.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Vadodara||GETCO accuses Nashik firm of stealing raw material worth Rs 25L||Vadodara: State-run Gujarat Energy Transmission Corporation Ltd (GETCO) has made theft allegations against a Nashik-based company and its employee whom it had given contract for two turnkey projects worth Rs 6.31 crore. In its complaint to Bodeli police, GETCO has alleged that Nashik-based Swati Enterprises was given the tender for the projects in Chhota Udepur district which was to be completed in October 2018. But as the project was not completed, an extension was given, yet the project was not completed. In March last year when GETCO’s executive engineer went to check the raw material it had supplied to the Nashik company, they were missing. Police said that when the transmission company inquired, it was found that the company it had given contract and its employee Darshan Bhatt had stolen the raw material worth Rs 25.8 lakh. GETCO had given the raw material for completing the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/getco-accuses-nashik-firm-of-stealing-raw-material-worth-rs-25l/articleshow/81076990.cms||---
February 18, 2021||Goa||Pay staff’s Rs 6.5L retiral dues: Rights body to bank||Panaji: The Goa Human Rights Commission has recommended that the Goa State Cooperative Bank pay outstanding retiral benefits to the tune of Rs 6,50,514 along with 8% interest per annum from 2005 within 30 days to its former employee. The commission recommended the registrar of cooperative societies to facilitate the bank in settling the outstanding dues of the man who retired in August 2005 and who hasn’t received his dues for the past 15 years. The commission passed the recommendations after observing that “courts have been directing to pay interest to pensioners at the rate of eight% per annum on the arrears of pension/retiral benefits calculated on and from the due date till actual date of payment”. The three-member commission comprising chairperson Justice U V Bakre and members Desmond D’Costa and Pramod V Kamat stated that the right to receive retiral benefits has evolved into one of the most important human rights where the commission plays the role of facilitator. “The National Human Rights Commission has been taking pioneering strides in the elucidation of retiral benefits as a human right, as non-payment and delayed payment is a violation of the human rights of the victim,” the commission stated. The commission found that the complainant was an employee of the bank and had been chargesheeted and the inquiry report dated September 15, 2006, held that nine out of ten charges were proved against him. He was chargesheeted before the court of Adhoc Civil Judge Senior Division and CJM, Panaji, which is pending. The bank admitted that the dues of leave encashment of Rs 1,55,241 and gratuity of Rs 4,95,273 weren’t released to him, but did not state reasons for not doing so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pay-staffs-rs-6-5l-retiral-dues-rights-body-to-bank/articleshow/81079869.cms||---
