February 19, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Conman sends job aspirant with fake offer letter to SP’s office, in custody||BENGALURU: Armed with an appointment letter, a 28-year-old man recently went to the Vijayapura superintendent of police’s office to join work as a sub-inspector, only to realise that he had been cheated by a city-based businessman. Ravi Prakash Bandawalakar from Vijayapura told police he had paid money to Brijesh who allegedly promised him a job and handed over the offer letter. Brijesh from Kerala is accused of cheating many job aspirants of more than Rs 25 lakh. Ravi, who completed bachelor of business administration in 2018, had applied for the SI’s post. Meanwhile, his father came in contact with Manjunath Sakre, a clerk with Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Limited. Ravi’s father told him that his son had cleared medical tests and sought his help in getting through the final rounds. Manjunath introduced them to Brijesh from Basaveshwaranagar, who pretended to be an influential person. In January 2019, he demanded Rs 5 lakh as initial payment. Later, he asked for Rs 10.4 lakh claiming the selection list will be released soon. But, Ravi’s name was not there. In December 2020, he approached Brijesh who gave him an appointment and reporting letter, and asked him to go to the SP’s office. When Ravi realised it was a fake letter, he filed a complaint with Upparpet police on Monday. Brijesh, who is in judicial custody now, ran a business in the city for some time, but suffered huge losses. “When we went to arrest him, he was bedridden as he’s suffering from several diseases, including pancreatic cancer. We had to shift him to a hospital,” an officer said. Police said Brijesh, accompanied by personal assistants, met job aspirants at lodges and hotels. He used the money collected from them to clear bank loans. He had started a granite business which also failed. Probe revealed Manjunath did not have role in the crime and he took Ravi to Brijesh, assuming the latter had connections with those in power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/conman-sends-job-aspirant-with-fake-offer-letter-to-sps-office-in-custody/articleshow/81097080.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Business||IIITH, TalentSprint launch PG Certificate in IoT & Smart Analytics||HYDERABAD: The International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIITH) and TalentSprint, an NSE Group company, on Thursday announced the launch of a PG certification programme in IoT & Smart Analytics and the first cohort of this programme will start in June 2021. The nine-month programme is designed both for IoT engineers, who want to master analytics, as well as other tech professionals and managers from industries disrupted by heavy IoT adoption. Announcing the programme, Prof PJ Narayanan, director, IIITH, said, “The PG Certificate in IoT & Smart Analytics, IIITH’s third program in partnership with TalentSprint, will offer an opportunity for working professionals to learn from our faculty and work on industry leading projects. While the first six months of the programme will teach foundations and include simple experiments, the last three months will be hands-on application-based learning. At the end of nine months, participants will gain confidence and expertise needed to lead AI-powered IoT deployments in their organisations.” Santanu Paul, CEO & managing director, TalentSprint pointed out the programme will meet the industry’s critical need for technical experts required to fulfill its ambitions of interconnectivity. “Through this programme, we aim to upskill over 1,000 professionals over the next three to five years,” he added. Narayanan said IIIT Hyderabad, with its deep focus on Smart City research, has set up several IoT verticals on air quality, building energy, water quantity and quality and street lighting, among others. Talking about one such project, IIITH faculty Sachin Chaudhari said in a bid to analyse pollution at the micro level and understand its impact on health, IIIT Hyderabad is planning to ramp up its IoT project where the IoT nodes are placed at different parts of the city to measure as well as analyse air pollution. “We started working on this project a year ago and have already set up 30 IoT nodes across the city to collect data and will be setting up another 20 nodes in one month’s time,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iiith-talentsprint-launch-pg-certificate-in-iot-smart-analytics/articleshow/81096982.cms||Swati Rathor
February 19, 2021||World||LTTE won’t lose terrorist status in UK for now||LONDON: An attempt to remove the terrorist label from the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in Britain via the courts has not been successful. Five unnamed members of the Transnational Government of Tamil Eelam (TGTE) brought the legal case seeking to get the LTTE removed from the list of organisations proscribed under the Terrorism Act 2000 in Britain. On December 10, 2018 the UK home office received the application to de-proscribe LTTE. The home secretary at the time decided that there was sufficient evidence to form a reasonable belief that LTTE continued to be concerned in terrorism and refused the de-proscription application. The TGTE members then lodged an appeal with the Proscribed Organisations Appeals Commission (POAC), which was successful. On October 21, 2020 the POAC ruled the decision to proscribe LTTE as a terrorist organisation in the first place was “flawed” as the material presented to the home secretary at the time had misstated and inaccurately summarised the views of expert advisory bodies. But in a judgment on relief on Thursday, the POAC declined to order home secretary Priti Patel to lay an order in Parliament to remove LTTE from the list of proscribed organisations. Lady Justice Elisabeth Laing, Richard Whittam QC and Philip Nelson CMG instead accepted an undertaking from the home secretary to reconsider the application to de-proscribe the LTTE within 90 days. A home office spokesperson said: “We accept the commission’s judgment on relief. The appellants are seeking permission to appeal the judgment, and we await the outcome of that application. The LTTE remains a proscribed organisation at this time.” The appellants had made submissions requesting the POAC to direct the home secretary to lay an order before Parliament the effect of which, if Parliament approved it, would have been to de-proscribe the LTTE. But the judges pointed out this did not allow the home secretary to reconsider a flawed decision and it was not the case that they had found “no evidence” to support the LTTE being proscribed. The TGTE is a government-in-exile for the Sri Lankan Tamil diaspora — which is proscribed in Sri Lanka but allowed in the UK — that wishes to create an independent state for the Sri Lankan Tamil minority. The now defunct LTTE remains proscribed as a terrorist organisation in 32 countries round the world, including in India. It was responsible for the assassination of former Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/ltte-wont-lose-terrorist-status-in-uk-for-now/articleshow/81097120.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 19, 2021||Mangaluru||Udupi-origin woman excels in Australian politics||UDUPI: What do Mala Adiga and Shilpa Hegde have in common? For starters, their roots are from Udupi district, and that they have made it big in politics on two different continents — the US and Australia. If Mala Adiga shot to fame on her appointment as policy director to Jill Biden, the first lady of United States, Shilpa is now part of the 19-member executive committee of the Liberal Party in Australia. Shilpa hails from Vaddarse near Kota, and eminent journalist Vaddarse Raghuram Shetty is her maternal grandfather. She and her family have a 20-year association with the now ruling Liberal Party. Shilpa sees her elevation as a major recognition for the migrant community, and their role in building Australia. In a telephonic chat from Melbourne, where she resides with her husband Dayanand Shetty and children Nihal, 18, and Sahil, 16, Shilpa said her role on the executive committee gives her a say in the affairs of the Liberal Party. “The committee takes decisions for the party on governance issues, in conducting business, vetting reports, and importantly, in pre-selecting candidates from within the party for state and national elections,” she said. Notwithstanding her federal electoral loss in 2013 from Wills in Melbourne, Shilpa has endeared herself to her constituents in the party, says Dayanand. “Shilpa has shown the way in how immigrants can integrate with locals and empower themselves,” he said. Nihal too is following in Shilpa’s shoes, and is a member of the youth wing of the party, the Young Liberals. An alumna of NMAMIT, Nitte, where she pursued her BE in electronics and communications, Shilpa touches base with her roots often . She said the Indian diaspora is happy at her elevation, and views it as their means of empowerment in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-origin-woman-excels-in-oz-politics/articleshow/81097082.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
February 19, 2021||World||Imran’s planned speech in Lankan parliament cancelled||ISLAMABAD: In a major embarassment for Pakistan, Prime Minister Imran Khan’s planned address to the Sri Lankan parliament has been cancelled amid media reports from Colombo claiming that authorities in the island country are apprehensive that any such move will deteriorate its ties with its powerful neighbour, India. Khan’s address to parliament reportedly had been included in his itinerary on Pakistan government’s request. Khan will leave for Colombo on a two-day trip on February 22. In addition to meetings with the Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and attending an investors’ conference, it was also initially planned that he will address the Sri Lankan parliament on February 24. While Sri Lanka’s daily Express quoted foreign secretary Jayanath Colombage as having said that Speaker Mahinda Yapa Abeywardena had requested for cancellation on the pretext of Covid-19, the same newspaper, however, also cited sources saying that officials in the Sri Lankan government feared that doing so could further harm ties with India. According to reports, it was feared that Khan will raise the Kashmir issue during his speech, a move that could have upset Delhi. Raking up the Kashmir issue in Colombo at a time when Khan has been facing immense pressure from opposition parties at home, observers believe, would have given him some leverage to confront his political opponents. Raising the Kashmir issue at such forums has become his forte to divert attention from the most pressing problem at home turf. “The Kashmir card has become his secret weapon. Whenever the opposition politicians and local media attempt to build a critical opinion on domestic issues related to inflation or unemployment, Khan and his aides turn their guns at India by flaring up the Kashmir rhetoric,” said Aurangzaeb Khan, an analyst. Moreover, the Express newspaper said that giving opportunity to the Pakistani prime minister could have been implied as giving him parity to his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi. Another speculation in the Sri Lankan media was Colombo’s concern that Khan could possibly speak about the rights of Muslims in Sri Lanka. The Sri Lankan government had made its compulsory cremation rule for those dying from Covid-19 applicable to Muslims in the country. The government, however, earlier this month exempted the Muslims from cremation and allowed them to bury their dead after a global outcry over the issue. The move was welcomed by the Pakistani prime minister. “We welcome Sri Lankan PM Mahinda Rajapaksa’s assurance given in Sri Lankan parliament today, allowing Muslims to bury those who died from Covid-19,” Khan had tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/imrans-planned-speech-in-lankan-parliament-cancelled/articleshow/81097260.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 19, 2021||World||Imran’s planned speech in Lankan parliament cancelled||ISLAMABAD: In a major embarassment for Pakistan, Prime Minister Imran Khan’s planned address to the Sri Lankan parliament has been cancelled amid media reports from Colombo claiming that authorities in the island country are apprehensive that any such move will deteriorate its ties with its powerful neighbour, India. Khan’s address to parliament reportedly had been included in his itinerary on Pakistan government’s request. Khan will leave for Colombo on a two-day trip on February 22. In addition to meetings with the Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and attending an investors’ conference, it was also initially planned that he will address the Sri Lankan parliament on February 24. While Sri Lanka’s daily Express quoted foreign secretary Jayanath Colombage as having said that Speaker Mahinda Yapa Abeywardena had requested for cancellation on the pretext of Covid-19, the same newspaper, however, also cited sources saying that officials in the Sri Lankan government feared that doing so could further harm ties with India. According to reports, it was feared that Khan will raise the Kashmir issue during his speech, a move that could have upset Delhi. Raking up the Kashmir issue in Colombo at a time when Khan has been facing immense pressure from opposition parties at home, observers believe, would have given him some leverage to confront his political opponents. Raising the Kashmir issue at such forums has become his forte to divert attention from the most pressing problem at home turf. “The Kashmir card has become his secret weapon. Whenever the opposition politicians and local media attempt to build a critical opinion on domestic issues related to inflation or unemployment, Khan and his aides turn their guns at India by flaring up the Kashmir rhetoric,” said Aurangzaeb Khan, an analyst. Moreover, the Express newspaper said that giving opportunity to the Pakistani prime minister could have been implied as giving him parity to his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi. Another speculation in the Sri Lankan media was Colombo’s concern that Khan could possibly speak about the rights of Muslims in Sri Lanka. The Sri Lankan government had made its compulsory cremation rule for those dying from Covid-19 applicable to Muslims in the country. The government, however, earlier this month exempted the Muslims from cremation and allowed them to bury their dead after a global outcry over the issue. The move was welcomed by the Pakistani prime minister. “We welcome Sri Lankan PM Mahinda Rajapaksa’s assurance given in Sri Lankan parliament today, allowing Muslims to bury those who died from Covid-19,” Khan had tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/imrans-planned-speech-in-lankan-parliament-cancelled/articleshow/81097243.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 19, 2021||Bengaluru||12 days on: BBMP, Bescom play blame game over potholed road||BENGALURU: Bescom’s work on Hennur-Lingarajapuram Main Road, where a scooter-borne medico was killed on February 6 when she was trying to avoid potholes, had been approved by BBMP, documents reveal. This comes in the backdrop of the civic agency and Bescom blaming each other for the poor condition of the road that claimed the life of Tasdeeq Bushra, 19, a student of Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute. BBMP has been saying that Bescom hadn’t taken permission to dig up the road, while the power utility has been denying it. Bushra’s father Syed Mushtaq Ahmed had on Tuesday expressed frustration over the authorities’ blame game and failure to mend ways. Hours later, BS Prahlad, chief engineer of BBMP, asserted that Bescom hadn’t sought any kind of permission to dig up the road. However, TOI accessed BBMP’s work request report dated November 2, 2020, which shows the civic body had approved the work on October 28 last year, saying the approval was subject to the condition that the cable be laid only on the footpath/shoulder area without disturbing the carriageway. The permission was valid till November 30 and Bescom says they had completed the work by then. Prahlad claimed Bescom had taken permission, but hadn’t been allowed to dig the specific stretch where the accident took place. BBMP administrator Gaurav Gupta said it was the chief engineer who would be having accurate information. Bescom was carrying out work to convert its high-tension overhead line into an underground one and dug up 29 pits of the size of one square meter on the road (in October and November) in Sagayapura and Kadugondanahalli wards. Bescom paid BBMP permission charges as well as Rs 3.7 lakh restoration charges. Work was carried out at 11 places for a length of 2,390 metres.  “... If the roads are newly asphalted, road cutting should be carried out only after three years from the final completion of the work (banned period). The executive engineer (BBMP) to be intimated before starting road cutting. All road cuttings should be done in straight line by using mechanised saw/cutters,” reads the copy of BBMP’s approval. The copy also says that to ensure no threat is posed to public safety, from the date of excavation of any stretch, backfilling will be done within 24 hours except at joints. Further, the joints have to be backfilled within two days. However, it now stands that backfilling work by BBMP wasn’t done properly for many months, said a Bescom official, who shared the copy of the Palike’s approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/12-days-on-bbmp-bescom-play-blame-game-over-potholed-road/articleshow/81097266.cms||Kiran Parashar
February 19, 2021||Bengaluru||Four prison pals from Rajasthan take to burglary to fund visits to dance bars||BENGALURU: Four habitual offenders from Rajasthan, who became friends during their prison days, ganged up and committed a chain of burglaries in Bengaluru and other districts to raise money for their visits to dance bars in Goa and Mumbai.  The arrested are Jitendra Kumar alias Jeetu, 24, Prakash, 38, Amararam alias Ram, 42 and Ramesh Kumar, 24, all from Jalore in Rajasthan. Jeetu alone faces at least a dozen cases of house burglaries registered at different police stations of Bengaluru, Hubballi and Mandya. Jeetu, who was arrested by city police in connection with nearly 10 burglary cases and sent to Central Prison, was among the undertrials to be released early in mid-2020, owing to Covid-19 concerns on the jail premises. After his release, Jeetu went to his village in Jalore and accompanied by Prakash, left for Surat. However, they were arrested in a burglary case and sent to judicial custody. In prison, they became friends with Amararam and Ramesh Kumar, police said. “While Jeetu and Prakash were experts in burglary, Amararam and Kumar were adept at breaking into roadside shops or godowns,” said police. Once out of prison, the four planned burglaries on a large scale, said deputy commissioner of police (west) M Sanjeev Patil. “Together, they burgled two houses in City Market, stole 12 cigarette boxes from a godown in Davanagere and eight cigarette boxes from another godown in Haveri. These offences were committed by the end of 2020. We have recovered different kinds of iron rods, especially those used to break open doors as well as shutters of shops,” he said, adding, “One of the cars was stolen from Wilson Garden in early February. We are checking the records of the other vehicle.” Meanwhile, City Market cops, who were probing the two burglary cases, discovered that it was Jeetu, who was on their radar. This time, three more were accompanying him. “The accused would stay at hotels in Cottonpet and other areas and roam around during the day to identify targets. After vacating rooms, they would scour the city and break into houses late at night. After collecting the booty, they would drive away. They used a Maruti Eeco, spacious enough for them to sleep in it,” said an investigating officer. “During probe, we discovered that the four would regularly visit dance bars in Goa and Mumbai and spend the stolen money. They came to the city a few days ago and we caught them red-handed with tools used in the burglary,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/4-prison-pals-take-to-burglary-to-fund-visits-to-dance-bars/articleshow/81097278.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Friend gets man to strip on video call, extorts Rs 20k||BENGALURU: A man, who bared himself during a video call with a woman, ended up paying Rs 20,000 to her earlier this month. The man from Hulimavu filed a cheating and extortion complaint against Shreya whom he met on a matrimonial site. Shreya expressed interest to marry him, claiming she is a software engineer in Electronics City. Soon, they started talking over the phone. “She asked me to make a video call on WhatsApp at 2pm on February 7. Initially, we had a chat about our professions and later, she removed her clothes and said I should do the same. When I did so, she recorded the call and later demanded Rs 1 lakh, threatening to make the clip public. I paid Rs 20,000 to her on February 7. Now, she is demanding more money,” he said in his complaint filed on February 15.  Hulimavu police said the complainant hadn’t met Shreya in person. They suspect he made the call from Howrah in West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/friend-gets-man-to-strip-on-video-call-extorts-20k/articleshow/81097280.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru lost 12k lives, $1.7 billion to polluted air in 2020: Study||BENGALURU: Of an estimated 1.2 lakh deaths attributed to air pollution across six big Indian cities in 2020, 12,000 were in Bengaluru. Pollution is also estimated to have cost Bengaluru approximately $1.7 billion in economic terms. These findings are according to a Greenpeace Southeast Asia analysis of IQAir (a Swiss air quality technology company) data from a live Cost Estimator. “To show the impact of air pollution related deaths on the economy, the approach used by Greenpeace is called “willingness-to-pay”, a lost life year or a year lived with disability is converted to money by the amount that people are willing to pay in order to avoid this negative outcome,” a statement issued here read. Despite a temporary reprieve in air quality owing to the lockdown, the latest figures from the report underscore the need to act immediately. The need of the hour, Greenpeace said, is to rapidly scale up renewable energy, bring an end to fossil fuel emissions and boost sustainable and accessible transport systems. Five other cities apart from Bengaluru — Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Chennai and Lucknow — together lost approximately 1.1 lakh lives and $16 billion (see graphic), according to the study. “Despite recording relatively better air quality this year due to strict lockdown, air pollution continues to be a serious public health issue, which also drastically impacts our economy. For the governments of the day, it is crucial that investments are made towards green and sustainable solutions,” Avinash Chanchal, climate campaigner, Greenpeace India, said. Chanchal added that when we choose fossil fuel over clean energy, our health is put at stake and that polluted air increases likelihood of deaths due to cancer and stroke, spike in asthma attacks and worsens severity of Covid-19 symptoms. Frank Hammes, CEO, IQAir, said: “Breathing should not be deadly. The fact that poor air quality claimed so many lives alone should give us pause, especially in a year when many cities were seeing lower air pollution levels due to less economic activity. Governments, corporations and individuals must do more to eliminate the sources of air pollution and make our cities better places to live.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-lost-12k-lives-1-7bn-to-polluted-air-in-2020-study/articleshow/81097287.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Bengaluru||Electrician falls to death in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 32-year-old electrician with a private firm died under mysterious circumstances after he fell from the terrace of a 10-floor apartment complex at Sivanchetti Gardens, Bharatinagar on Wednesday midnight. Kiran Babu of Domlur was deployed at Sobha Ivory apartment complex as an electrician. He was on night shift. Around midnight, Kiran fell from the terrace and died on the spot. Jurisdictional Bharatinagar police were informed about the incident. They shifted the body to the hospital and handed it over to his family after postmortem on Thursday. Police said Kiran had been upset due to personal reasons, including financial problems. They suspect it could be suicide and have taken up a case of unnatural death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/electrician-falls-to-death/articleshow/81097321.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Business||Dubai’s new QR code puts passengers, hospitals doing Covid test in a spot of bother||MANGALURU: With the Dubai Health Authority (DHA) issuing fresh guidelines for Dubai-bound passengers starting with immediate effect, the hospitals here are scrambling to generate a QR code linking it to the patients’ original RT-PCR test report. Till the hospitals figure a way to comply, it will be difficult for passengers to fly to Dubai. Indian carrier Air India Express (AIE) has already advised passengers that copies of COVID-19 RT-PCR test reports submitted by Dubai-bound passengers from India must have a QR code linking to their original test report. AIE also stated the time of sample collection (date and time of sample collection) and sample reporting (date and time of test result) must be mentioned accurately. ICMR approved hospitals here were all at sea regarding this new rule, when TOI contacted them. Hospital managements said they were in talks with their IT department for generating a QR code. "We are not sure what needs to be incorporated into the QR code- SRF ID; name of the passenger is a given. What other details need to be in the QR code and can it be incorporated into it, is an issue we are looking into it," said a spokesperson from KS Hegde Medical Academy. KMC Hospitals spokesperson here said it would require at least 24-48 hours incorporating QR code for the RT-PCR reports initially. "Once we figure out the modalities involved, then the report can be given simultaneously along with QR code. We are also new to this, hence will take time at the first instance," the spokesperson added. Covid test lab head at Government Wenlock Hospital said ICMR will have to generate the QR code and they will inform them through higher up. Meanwhile, two carriers – Indigo and Jet Airways – who also operate the Dubai flights said they had not got the QR code circular from their office. On Thursday, AIE had a flight to Sharjah and the QR code circular does not apply to that Emirate. Indigo and Spicejet had a flight each to Dubai on Thursday and the passengers were allowed to fly based on previous guidelines. The previous guidelines which came into effect from January 31, states that residents and tourists, barring UAE nationals, must present a valid negative COVID‑19 PCR test certificate for a test taken no more than 72 hours before departure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dubais-new-qr-code-puts-passengers-hospitals-doing-covid-test-in-a-spot-of-bother/articleshow/81097254.cms||Stanley Pinto
February 19, 2021||World||Missing mountaineers on K2 declared dead||ISLAMABAD: The three missing climbers who attempted to summit K2, the world’s second highest peak, in harsh winter conditions were officially declared dead on Thursday at a press conference in the northern town of Skardu in the disputed region of Gilgit-Baltistan. Muhammad Ali Sadpara (45) of Pakistan, John Snorri (47) of Iceland, and Juan Pablo Mohr (33) of Chile, were last seen on February 5 at K2’s Bottleneck — a steep narrow stretch less than 400 metres below the summit, which is considered the most difficult and dangerous part of the climb. The extreme weather thwarted multiple attempts to search for the missing climbers. The press conference, addressed by tourism minister of G-B Raja Nasir Ali Khan, was attended by the families of the three climbers. Paying tribute to the Pakistani climber, the minister said that the G-B government has recommended civil awards for Sadpara and his son, Sajid (20). Sajid, who was accompanying his father, had to abandon his climb after his oxygen mask leaked. The minister said that a financial package for the family would also be announced along with scholarships for his children. The recommendations included the renaming of Skardu Airport as Muhammad Ali Sadpara Airport. A mountaineering school in Shigar valley will also be named after Sadpara. K2, located in the Karakorum mountain range, is one of the most dangerous climbs in the world. Last month, a team of 10 Nepalese climbers scaled the mountain for the first time in winter. A winter climb is particularly dangerous because of the unpredictable and rapidly changing weather. Winter winds on K2 can blow at more than 200km/h and temperatures can drop to -60°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/missing-mountaineers-on-k2-declared-dead/articleshow/81097530.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 19, 2021||Business||Ford puts projects with Mahindra on hold as it reassesses India strategy: Report||NEW DELHI/DETROIT: Ford Motor has frozen all projects it was working on with Mahindra & Mahindra while it finalises a new India strategy, three people familiar with the US carmaker’s plans told Reuters, weeks after the two companies called off their planned joint venture. “The options could include working out a new relationship with Mahindra or ending the relationship and related vehicles completely,” one of the sources said. The two other sources said they expect Ford to make a decision in about a month on whether to proceed with Mahindra in a different form or not, adding Ford chief executive Jim Farley wants to see a path to greater profitability in India. Ford and Mahindra had proposed a joint venture to develop at least three sport-utility vehicles (SUVs) for India and emerging markets, as well as share suppliers, powertrains and technology. The $275 million deal, which would have ended most of Ford’s independent operations in India, was called off on December 31. Since Farley became CEO in October, Ford has pushed harder to remake itself globally as part of an $11 billion restructuring, including ending manufacturing in Brazil, and speeding up the rollout of electric vehicles. With so much on Farley’s plate and limited financial resources, India is a lower priority, the first source said. Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford entered India 25 years ago, but it has just 3% share in a market dominated by Suzuki Motor Corp’s and Hyundai Motor’s extensive line-up of mainly low-cost cars. The tie-up with Mahindra would have given Ford a better chance against rivals by allowing it to launch new vehicles faster, at reduced costs and with lower investment, company officials and analysts previously said. Ford said its independent Indian operations will continue. “We are reviewing our businesses strategy, making choices and allocating capital consistent with the plan to achieve an 8% company adjusted EBIT margin and generate consistently strong cash flow,” spokesman Kapil Sharma said. “We will have more details to share at a later date.” For Mahindra it would have been an opportunity to enter new global markets, but it walked away from the deal over concerns its return on investment would be too low. Mahindra said in a statement that the automakers are looking at ways to collaborate. “We have defined a timeline till the end of March for this work to be completed,” the company said. Strategic rethink Ford is weighing all programmes it had planned for the joint venture with Mahindra and will review which ones it plans to keep from a profit standpoint, the second source said. The most crucial was a mid-sized SUV to be built by Mahindra on its vehicle platform and using its powertrain. Ford planned to launch this in 2022 with a target to sell around 50,000 units annually in India, two sources said. Mahindra, too, has asked suppliers to freeze work on this, they said. Ford is also negotiating new terms, including costs, for an engine Mahindra was to supply for its EcoSport SUV later this year, one of the people said. For two other SUVs that Ford is building for launch in 2023 and 2024, the plan had been to use Mahindra engines. If it walks away from that deal, Ford will need to find another supplier or invest in upgrading its own engines, two sources said. It will come down to a cost versus profit analysis and that “hinges on discussions with Mahindra,” one of the sources said. At a town hall earlier this month, Dianne Craig, president of international operations, said Ford was exploring all options when asked about the company’s plans following the end of the Mahindra relationship. Ford’s average sales in India have languished at around 90,000 units a year prior to the economic slowdown in 2019 and the pandemic in 2020. But exports are nearly double what it sells in the domestic market and that helps it make money. While Ford India reported pre-tax profits over the last three years, its biggest hurdle in India is low plant utilisation of around 53% over a five-year average. Even as it thinks about bringing global products to India - its Territory SUV in China is an option - Ford will need to look at several factors including competition, new fuel efficiency rules and its ability to make money in a price-sensitive market to ensure success. India’s competitiveness as an export base for affordable cars will also play a role, two sources said. “If Ford decides to invest more in India it needs to know by when it can recover that investment,” one source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ford-puts-projects-with-mahindra-on-hold-as-it-reassesses-india-strategy-report/articleshow/81097571.cms||---
February 19, 2021||World||UK records another 12,057 coronavirus cases, 454 deaths||LONDON: Another 12,057 people in Britain have tested positive for Covid-19, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to 4,083,242, according to official figures released Thursday. The country also reported another 454 coronavirus-related deaths. The total number of coronavirus-related deaths in Britain now stands at 119,387. These figures only include the deaths of people who died within 28 days of their first positive test. The latest figures were revealed as more than 16.4 million people in Britain have been given the first jab of the coronavirus vaccine. Vaccine minister Nadhim Zahawi has said the government would "not rest" until the vaccine was offered to all over-50s by the end of April. Earlier Thursday, a study showed that the number of people infected with coronavirus in England has dropped by more than two thirds since January, but infections still remain high. Infections have fallen across the country and several areas experienced a substantial decline, including London and the South East, where five times fewer people are now testing positive compared to previous findings in January, according to data from the REACT (REal-time Assessment of Community Transmission) study of Imperial College London. But infections are still high with around one in 200 people testing positive, said the study based on swab tests by almost 85,000 people between Feb. 4 and Feb. 13. England is currently under the third national lockdown since outbreak of the pandemic in the country. Similar restriction measures are also in place in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to unveil his "roadmap" out of lockdown on Monday next week. To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the United States have been racing against time to roll out coronavirus vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-records-another-12057-coronavirus-cases-454-deaths/articleshow/81097627.cms||---
February 19, 2021||World||Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai denied bail again||HONG KONG: Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai Chee-Ying will remain in custody after being denied bail Thursday by the High Court of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR), Xinhua reported. Lai, charged with fraud and collusion with a foreign country or external elements to endanger national security, has been denied bail multiple times since standing trial in December. Yesterday, the jailed Lai was arrested again in connection in the case related to 12 Hong Kongers who tried to flee to Taiwan, South China Morning Post reported citing local newspaper he owns. Apple Daily on Wednesday said its founder was detained under the national security law the previous night for "conspiracy to assist an offender", and "conspiracy to collude with a foreign country or with external elements to endanger national security" - a crime carrying a maximum sentence of life in prison. Lai is currently remanded in the maximum-security facility having previously been charged with fraud, and colluding with foreign forces under the security law. On Feburary 9, Hong Kong's top court ordered that Jimmy Lai would stay behind bars. Earlier, a judge had released him on an HK Dollar 10 million bond (USD 1.29 million). Jimmy Lai, founder of the Next Digital media group and the tabloid-style Apple Daily newspaper, was placed under house arrest on December 23 after the High Court ruled he had an arguable defence for both charges and was unlikely to abscond. He resigned as Next Digital's chairman and executive director two days before the Court of Final Appeal sent him back to jail on New Year's Eve. The 12 Hong Kongers had been facing protest-related charges in Hong Kong and were fleeing to Taiwan by speedboat when the China Coast Guard intercepted them in mainland waters on August 23. In September, the Chinese foreign ministry had confirmed that the group comprised 11 men and a woman, aged 16 to 33 have been detained while they were trying to escape China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/hong-kong-media-tycoon-jimmy-lai-denied-bail-again/articleshow/81097800.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa to present budget, his 8th, on March 8||BENGALURU: CM BS Yediyurappa, who holds the finance portfolio, will present the state budget for 2021-22 on March 8.  This will be his sixth budget as CM; he had presented two budgets as deputy CM in the HD Kumaraswamy government. The budget session will be held from March 4 to March 31. “The first two days have been reserved for discussion on ‘One Nation One Election’,” law and parliamentary affairs minister Basavaraj Bommai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bsy-to-present-budget-his-8th-on-march-8/articleshow/81097953.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Bengaluru||BJP rejects Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s claims against Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: The BJP brass on Thursday dissociated itself from allegations of senior BJP MLA and former Union minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal against chief minister BS Yediyurappa and his son BY Vijayendra. “For us, Yatnal is irrelevant from now on. Everyone knows his nature. We have stopped taking him seriously. We’re running a good government and his allegations are totally baseless,” Arun Singh, party general secretary and in-charge of Karnataka, said here before leaving for Delhi. He had attended a party meet in Hassan. Singh said the party’s central disciplinary committee will take the final call on Yatnal’s response to the show-cause notice. Earlier in the day, Yatnal fired a fresh salvo on Yediyurappa and Vijayendra. He told reporters: “I’ve asked the high command to find out how much money Yediyurappa and Vijayendra sent to RJD and Congress leaders to ensure the defeat of BJP candidates in Bihar elections to weaken PM Modi’s growing influence. I’ve requested them to investigate it.’’ He added that he has brought to the party brass notice that Vijayendra recently went to Mauritius and requested them to investigate it. He asked: “What was taken by the personal assistant of a former home minister to Mauritius?” Yatnal said he sent an 11-page reply to the show-cause notice issued for publicly criticising Yediyurappa and his son. “I have not sought an apology or expressed my regret. I’ve given details of corruption and intervention of Yediyurappa’s family members in government affairs and sought a detailed investigation by the high command,” he said In his reply, he clarified that he never criticised the party or the Prime Minister’s leadership and hence his public statements targeting the chief minister and his son for corruption should not be construed as anti-party activity. Yatnal was given the notice after he repeatedly attacked Yediyurappa and his son. Recently, he termed the transfer of 42 IAS officers a “wholesale deal involving a huge amount of money”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-dismisses-yatnals-charges-against-bsy-son/articleshow/81097959.cms||---
February 19, 2021||India||Huge quantity of arms, ammunition recovered in J&K||JAMMU: Security forces, in a joint operation, successfully recovered a cache of arms and ammunition from the forest area of Mahore in Jammu & Kashmir’s Reasi district. The recovery comes just days after a huge quantity of explosive material was found at the Jammu bus stand. The recovery included one AK-47 rifle, one SL rifle, one 303 bolt rifle, two Chinese pistols, one pistol magazine with ammunition, two radio sets with antenna, one sealed AK-47 ammunition box, and four UBGL grenades, a defence spokesperson said. The war-like stores were spread over a large uninhabited area in the remote region. “Late on the evening of February 17, an input was received from a reliable source regarding suspicious activity in the remote forests of Makkhidar in Reasi district, following which a joint team of police and Army recovered a huge quantity of arms and ammunition,” Jammu zone IGP Mukesh Singh said. “This recovery is the outcome of ongoing efforts of the J&K police with the Indian Army to thwart any attempts to destabilise peace and development south of Pir Panjal ranges in Jammu region,” the spokesperson said and added that terrorists were in acute shortage of weapons and desperate to disrupt peace and development after an extremely successful DDC election process. “Pakistan is continuously trying to push terrorists into this side of the border. In the past few months, close coordination and synergy between Indian Army, J&K police and intelligence agencies led to the unearthing of several war-like stores and network of overground workers of Pakistan-sponsored terrorists of Lashkar-e-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahideen in the hinterlands south of Pir Panjal ranges,” the defence spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/huge-quantity-of-arms-ammunition-recovered-in-jk/articleshow/81098111.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 19, 2021||India||Kashmiris’ suffering ended on Aug 5, 2019, Lt guv tells envoys||JAMMU/ SRINAGAR: A delegation of envoys of as many as 24 countries met J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha in Jammu on Thursday. The envoys were on a two-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir to have a firsthand appraisal of the government’s efforts to restore normalcy and boost development in the Union Territory. They also visited the 15 Corps headquarters in Badami Bagh Cantt and interacted with Lieutenant General B S Raju, General Officer Commanding, Chinar Corps, and other senior officers including inspector general of police Vijay Kumar. “Years of suffering for people in J&K people ended on August 5, 2019. The efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi ushered the Union Territory into a new era, which has brought about socio-economic development in the region and empowerment of the people”, said Sinha while interacting with visitors. The envoys represented European Union, France, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain, Portugal, Brazil, Chile, Finland, Bangladesh, Eritrea, Senegal, Kyrgyzstan, Ghana, Bolivia, Tajikistan, Estonia among others. While speaking on the focus areas of the UT Government, the Lt Governor said that the Government is investing more than ever before in infrastructure, industries, education, healthcare, skill development, sustainable. Terming terrorism as the biggest enemy of humankind, the Lt Governor said that “despite relentless attempts by our neighbour to destabilize the security situation and trigger social disharmony by exporting terror, the government is resolute towards holistic and equitable development of J&K.” “Recently, peaceful, violence-free and fair elections were held to the district development councils (DDCs) and the three-tier panchayat system was established to strengthen the grass root democracy. Now, true democracy is flourishing in the UT, which is not merely about governance but the feeling of fraternity, brotherhood, communal harmony and attitude of respect and reverence towards each other,” said Sinha as he sought support from the global community in shaping a new future for Jammu & Kashmir. The envoys were also briefed by police and army representatives on the ground situation at the Line of Control and in the hinterland. During the visit at the 15 Corps headquarters, where the heads of missions asked questions to the 15 Corps Commander, the envoys were informed that the overall security indicators have improved though terrorists still retain the ability for a terror act, official sources said. The Corps Commander also drew attention to the propaganda efforts of Pakistan and separatists. He shared that Kashmiri citizens have seen through the lies of the cross-border propaganda and are choosing to ignore it. On being about about de-radicalization efforts, the Corps Commander shared that the principal supporters in such efforts are parents, society elders and friends who help in identification of youth vulnerable to radical ideology. A joint civil society and government effort is made to counsel and support such an identified youth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kashmiris-suffering-ended-on-aug-5-2019-lt-guv-tells-envoys/articleshow/81098216.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 19, 2021||India||Gupkar alliance bags DDC chief’s chair in 2 Jammu districts||SRINAGAR: The National Conference-led People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration on Thursday bagged the chairperson's post in the two district development councils of Kishtwar and Ramban in Jammu, taking its tally to seven after two successive setbacks in Budgam and Baramulla because of cross-voting by its constituents. NC candidate Puja Devi bagged eight votes to win the race for the chair in Kishtwar. Congress's Saima Lone was elected vice-chairperson. In Ramban, NC nominee Shamshad Begum received 11 votes out of 14 to become chairperson of the council while Rabiya Beigh, an Independent candidate, was elected her deputy. The twin victories in Jammu came a day after three independent council members in Ramban, including former bureaucrat Bashir Rounyal, joined Farooq Abdullah's NC. The Gupkar alliance had previously won the DDC chairperson's post in Bandipora, Kulgam, Ganderbal, Pulwama and Anantnag. J&K has 20 DDCs, each of them with 14 members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gupkar-alliance-bags-ddc-chiefs-chair-in-2-jammu-districts/articleshow/81098404.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Diplomats enjoy a taste of Indian culture||Going out for a social gathering after almost a year is an occasion many have been awaiting. So for diplomats, artistes and socialites in the city, a cultural evening hosted by Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) was naturally a reason to celebrate. While some chose their favourite outfits to take good pictures for the gram, some could not contain their excitement as they tried matching steps with folk dancers at the event. Shovana Narayan shakes a leg with a folk dancerKristin Eva J Sigurdardottir, Charge d’Affaires, Embassy of Iceland, with Freddy Svane, Danish ambassadorCultural exchange: A special cultural performance was planned for guests. The idea was to give diplomats a glimpse of the Indian culture. “Culture has been the mainstay of India’s relationship with other nations. We share strong cultural relationships with several countries. Due to COVID-19, there have been challenges, but we are attempting to do new things and we are looking forward to further strengthen our cultural ties,” said Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, President, ICCR. Godfrey Majoni Chipare, ambassador of the Republic of ZimbabweArtis Bertulis, Latvian ambassadorPrathibha PrahladDinesh K Patnaik, Director General, ICCR, told us that this event was the beginning of a series of events that they plan to roll out soon. “This is going to be the start of the series of events that we are going to do. We have some top artists attending this event and we will take their help to introduce our culture to all the diplomats. COVID has made us realise that if we cannot go abroad then at least we should find ways to share our culture with diplomats who are here. So it is our attempt to bring India to them,” he said. Geeta Chandran Dinesh K Patnaik, Director General, ICCR, with Poonam PatnaikFirst social gathering of 2021: For most diplomats, this event was the first social gathering of the year. “It feels fantastic to be here, with people, chatting face to face with them,” said Freddy Svane, Danish ambassador. Godfrey Majoni Chipare, ambassador of the Republic of Zimbabwe, added, “The last social event I attended was in March. It feels good to finally be out and meet some friends in a gathering.” Alex Ellis, who has recently taken charge as the British High Commissioner, said, “It is good to be a part of this cultural evening. It is my first social event here. I have been in India before as I was teaching here in 1986. It is good to be back,” he said. Watch A glimpse of cultural evening hosted by ICCR for diplomats||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/diplomats-enjoy-a-taste-of-indian-culture/articleshow/81093179.cms||Divya Kaushik
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Cyclists join Mumbai Police in themed ride to mark road safety month||For cyclists, being safe on the road matters above all else and keeping this in mind they came together to embark on a ride. The group - comprising people from different parts of the city - wore yellow as they got onto their cycles and pedalled away on a special trail which also saw the participation of the city Police. They also took a pledge to follow all the traffic rules and regulations. The event was done in conjunction with Thane RTO. Says Mumbai bicycle mayor, Firoza Suresh, "Road safety education is essential in today’s world as road traffic is becoming increasingly busy with more cars, scooters, motorbikes, buses etc. on the road. It is most important for school and colleges to organise road safety awareness that can help the younger generation gain more knowledge about road safety rules and norms." She adds, "The COVID-19 pandemic has reshaped our cities in many ways. While the number of motor vehicles on the road had fallen during lockdown, an increasing number of people have turned to cycling moving speedily and safely through once congested streets, in the new normal. This cannot be just a passing fad: now that the pandemic has opened our eyes to the importance of non-motorised transport, we have a small window of opportunity to transform short-term responses into long-term change—and to create livable, breathable cities for all. The concern would always be of coexistence with motorized transportation hence Road Safety Awareness Month is of utmost importance and everyone's responsibility as we all share the road hence respect and be responsible."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cyclists-join-mumbai-police-in-themed-ride-to-mark-road-safety-month/articleshow/81104139.cms||Ismat Tahseen
February 19, 2021||Goa||Edu Bedia not guilty of biting Tangri, no sanction: AIFF||PANAJI: FC Goa heaved a huge sigh of relief after the All India Football Federation’s disciplinary committee found their captain Edu Bedia not guilty of biting Chennaiyin FC midfielder Deepak Tangri. In a written complaint, Chennaiyin had accused Edu of biting Tangri during the sixth minute of added time as the teams finished 2-2 at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on February 13. The Spanish midfielder was issued a show cause by the disciplinary committee and then provided with a personal hearing on Thursday. At the end of it all, the committee said they were not comfortably satisfied that he did bite Tangri and based on the same, “it cannot impose any sanction.” “The committee is required to assess the degree of culpability based on the charges. Biting an opponent player is a heinous crime and is required to be punished with utmost severe sanctions. In order to do that, the committee requires sufficient proof of ‘biting’ in addition to mere comfortable satisfaction. “However, from the video clippings that have been placed, while there appears to be a likelihood of biting, but the committee is not convinced that there had been any ‘biting’ at all. There's a difference between likelihood and/or possibility of biting and factual biting,” chairman Ushanath Banerjee said in his order late on Thursday. According to the order seen by TOI, referee Crystal John told the committee that he flashed the yellow card at Edu because of provocative reaction, and though Tangri complained of being bitten, he did not notice any mark when the player lifted his shirt. “Fundamentally, three excuses and mitigations were offered by the player: that no biting ever took place; as both hands of the player were underneath his body and the opponent player was on his chest, he was trying to push the opponent player with his head to escape from suffocating position; that the referee being nearby and having seen everything, he merely showed yellow card and did not punish him for any alleged biting as no biting mark could be seen,” states the order. In his defence, Edu – who was accompanied by his lawyer Manavendra Mishra at the hearing -- said he used his hands to push Tangri out and hold onto him in a natural reaction but “never did I once make an attempt to bite him or do so actually.” “Once he (Tangri) gets up, he attempts to make a gesture saying that I bit him, which I’m sure if you observe my facial expression is one of bewilderment. And when he does lift his t-shirt and shows no marks on his body, I ask him to show the referee his chest once again and encourage him to do so. “Why would someone who has bitten someone encourage the other player to show the evidence that may incriminate me? Further, within a matter of seconds, as we’re going towards their goal area for the free kick, I ask him to show me again where the marks are and he instead smiles and says nothing,” the Goa captain said in his response, while attaching video evidence to support his claim. The disciplinary committee order means the Goa captain is now available for the crucial last two league matches against Bengaluru FC (February 21) and Hyderabad FC (February 28). Goa are placed fourth at the moment with 27 points after 18 matches, the same as Hyderabad FC above them and NorthEast United below.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/edu-bedia-not-guilty-of-biting-tangri-no-sanction-aiff/articleshow/81099740.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 19, 2021||Goa||Luka strikes late winner as Churchill Bros regain top spot||Luka Majcen and Clayvin Zuniga is a match made in heaven. The two strikers combined once again for a late winner in Churchill Brothers FC’s 2-1 win over Chennai City FC at the Kalyani Stadium on Thursday.  Chennai couldn’t convert their chances in the first session and Churchill broke the deadlock in the 50th minute through Luka. However, Elvedin Skrijelj converted a 64th penalty to hand Chennai a lifeline.  Time was running out for Churchill, but Zuniga finally found his striking partner with a perfect cross in added time and the Slovenian made sure his header found the back of the net.  Both of Churchill’s strikers are now the joint top scorers in the I-League with five goals each. Only Bryce Miranda has found the mark for Churchill so far.  The win, after three straight draws, got Churchill back on top of the standings with 16 points from eight games. Along with Real Kashmir FC, they are the only unbeaten teams in the league.  Churchill struggled in their last three games as Zuniga was recovering from a knee injury. The Honduran striker did make a substitute appearance in the last game against Real Kashmir FC which ended goalless.  Zuniga’s return to the starting 11 boosted Fernando Varela’s side. They started strongly and had more of the ball. Bryce should have given them the lead early in the game, but the winger’s grounder lacked direction with only Chennai goalkeeper Kabir Thaufiq at his mercy. Soon, Churchill’s Lebanese centre-back Hamza Kheir headed wide.  Churchill tried to play long balls in the box for their strikers, but the plan didn’t work. They have the best defensive record so far and keeper Shilton Paul made sure it remained that way after denying Sriram B, Rajesh S and Vineeth Velmurugan from close.  Chennai’s Serbian forward Demir Avdic was a frustrating figure as he was ruled offside on four occasions in the first half itself.  After the restart, it was surprising to see right-back Jovel Martins being replaced by Vikas Saini. But Varela’s move made sense when Saini’s dangerous cross created panic in the Chennai defence. Tarif Akhand couldn’t clear the ball and it landed at the feet of Luka, who gave finishing touches from close.  Chennai regrouped and were lucky to win a penalty after the hour mark when Ranjeet Pandre’s effort was handled by Hamza. Elvedin kept his cool from the spot.  Churchill pushed men forward and came close with five minutes to go when Israil Gurung’s free-kick was chested down by Zuniga for Luka but the latter shockingly shot wide.  However, Luka made amends and headed in a Zuniga’s perfect cross in added time to break the three-match winless run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/luka-strikes-late-winner-as-churchill-bros-regain-top-spot/articleshow/81099754.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
February 19, 2021||Goa||RCB pick up Suyash for 20 lakh||Goa allrounder Suyash Prabhudessai just couldn't believe that he was bought by Royal Challengers Bangalore at a base price of Rs 20 lakh during the IPL auction in Chennai on Thursday. Suyash was busy attending a team meeting for their upcoming Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament preparations when his phone started buzzing. The moment he saw that he is in the RCB squad for the upcoming IPL, joy knew no bounds as the Goa team celebrated and congratulated him. Suyash became the fourth player from Goa to be part of an IPL team after Swapnil Asnodkar (Rajasthan Royals), Shadab Jakati (Chennai Super Kings, Gujarat Lions, Royal Challengers Bangalore) and Saurabh Bandekar (RCB). Suyash grabbed limelight with his 35 off 23 balls against Rajasthan which helped Goa upset their fancied rival in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Cup. Goa finished fourth, but Suyash played his part. The 23-year-old had attended selection trials for Mumbai Indians, Rajasthan Royals and RCB. Suyash has often been described as a perfect allrounder but with big names in Bangalore’s ranks, he will have to wait for his chance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rcb-pick-up-suyash-for-20-lakh/articleshow/81099932.cms||Paresh Mokani
February 19, 2021||India||1st since November: Average daily Covid cases up for 4th straight day||NEW DELHI: For the first nearly three months, the seven-day rolling average of daily Covid-19 cases in India has registered a rise for four consecutive days, mainly reflecting the resurgence of the pandemic in Maharashtra. On Sunday, the seven-day average was at 11,430. It had risen to 11,825 by Thursday. The rise is not large but it breaks the trend of falling cases that had been holding nearly uninterruptedly since the average had risen for six straight days from November 19 to 24. India reported 13,179 fresh cases on Thursday, the highest daily number in 25 days and the first time since January 30 that the count had exceeded 13,000. At 5,427, Maharashtra reported its highest daily tally in 78 days. The count has exceeded 5,000 for the first time since December 4. Maharashtra case count rises by 47%, tally highestIn the past seven days, Maharashtra’s case count has risen by 47% over the previous seven-day period, with 9,103 more cases being reported. On Thursday, the state’s tally was the highest in the country. Kerala recorded 4,584 new infections on Thursday. The state has registered a fall of 5,067 cases, a 13.4% decrease in the past seven days over the previous seven days. An increase in numbers is also visible in MP, Punjab and J&K. India recorded 97 deaths on Thursday, a drop from 100 in the previous two days. The number of active cases crossed 1.4 lakh, having risen by nearly 4,000 over the last two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1st-since-november-average-daily-covid-cases-up-for-4th-straight-day/articleshow/81100041.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
February 19, 2021||World||Nasa confirms Perseverance rover has landed on Mars||WASHINGTON: Nasa said Thursday that the Perseverance rover has touched down on the surface of Mars after successfully overcoming a risky landing phase known as the "seven minutes of terror." "Touchdown confirmed," said operations lead Swati Mohan at around 3:55 pm Eastern Time (2055 GMT) as mission control at Nasa's Jet Propulsion Laboratory headquarters erupted in cheers. The autonomously-guided procedure was completed more than 11 minutes earlier, which is how long it takes for radio signals to return to Earth. "WOW!!" tweeted Nasa Associate Administrator Thomas Zurburchen as he posted the Perseverance's first black and white image from the Jezero Crater in Mars' northern hemisphere. The rover is only the fifth ever to set its wheels down on Mars. The feat was first accomplished in 1997 and all so far have been American. About the size of an SUV, it weighs a ton, is equipped with a seven foot (two meter) long robotic arm, has 19 cameras, two microphones, and a suite of cutting-edge instruments to assist in its scientific goals. Touchdown confirmed. The #CountdownToMars is complete, but the mission is just beginning. https://t.co/UvOyXQhhN9— NASA (@NASA) 1613681975000Perseverance now embarks on a multi-year mission to search for the biosignatures of microbes that might have existed there billions of years ago, when conditions were warmer and wetter than they are today. Starting from summer, it will attempt to collect 30 rock and soil samples in sealed tubes, to be eventually sent back to Earth sometime in the 2030s for lab analysis. "The question of whether there's life beyond Earth is one of the most fundamental and essential questions we can ask," said Nasa geologist Katie Stack Morgan. "Our ability to ask this question and develop the scientific investigations and technology to answer it is one of the things that make us as a species so unique." NASA also wants to run several eye-catching experiments -- including attempting the first powered flight on another planet, with a helicopter drone called Ingenuity that will have to achieve lift in an atmosphere that's one percent the density of Earth's.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/nasa-confirms-perseverance-rover-has-landed-on-mars/articleshow/81100252.cms||---
February 19, 2021||India||Lockdown-like restrictions in 3 Maharashtra districts||MUMBAI: The state government on Thursday directed that three districts in Vidarbha — Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola — declare large areas as containment zones and implement lockdown-like restrictions. Also, collectors in almost 11 districts of Vidarbha have announced lockdown-like restrictions as cases are on the rise. A complete lockdown cannot be imposed without the Centre’s permission, so the local administration has termed these as restrictions. In Amravati, however, a weekend lockdown has been declared from 8 pm on Saturday to 7 am on Monday. Meanwhile, two Maharashtra government ministers — Rajesh Tope and Jayant Patil — have reportedly tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-like-restrictions-in-3-maharashtra-districts/articleshow/81100259.cms||---
February 19, 2021||India||Plot to frame ex-CJI in harassment case not ruled out: SC probe panel||NEW DELHI: : The Supreme Court on Thursday said its inquiry panel headed by former apex court judge A K Patnaik has said it could not rule out a larger conspiracy to frame former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi in a sexual harassment case in April 2019. Giving details of the Justice Patnaik committee’s findings, a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “The report acknowledges that the existence of conspiracy cannot be ruled out.” The bench said Justice Patnaik expressed inability to probe the larger conspiracy as he had limited investigation powers to access electronic records. The benchsaid Justice A K Patnaik expressed inability to probe the larger conspiracy as he had limited investigation powers to access electronic records like chats and phone calls on WhatsApp, Telegram and other social media communication networks. Justice Patnaik was appointed by the SC through a judicial order on April 25, 2019, as a one-member inquiry panel to probe the larger conspiracy issue. The inquiry report was submitted in a sealed cover to the SC in September 2019 and it was opened by the court for the first time on Thursday and conclusions made public. A separate three-judge inhouse inquiry panel headed by Justice S A Bobde had on May 6, 2019, dismissed the sexual harassment complaint against Justice Gogoi. The report of the inquiry committee, which had taken assistance from the Intelligence Bureau, CBI and Delhi Police, confirmed Justice Gogoi’s suspicion about a larger conspiracy. A July 5, 2019, report of the IB to the committee said there was strong reason to believe that some people, unhappy with the strong stance taken by Justice Gogoi in certain sensitive matters like finalisation of Assam NRC and tough administrative decisions to streamline the SC registry, could have hatched a conspiracy to embroil him in a controversy. The Justice Patnaik-led inquiry panel said it could not establish whether certain decisions taken by the CJI on the judicial side had triggered the conspiracy as the terms of reference were restricted to examining the veracity of the claims and allegations made by advocate Utsav Singh Bains. The lawyer had alleged a larger conspiracy and incidents of bench fixing with the help of staff in the registry. The panel said the lawyer could not give corroborative evidence for the charges about bench fixing by elements within and outside the court. The Justice Kaul-led bench closed the suo motu proceedings saying since almost two years had passed, it would not be possible to recover electronic records. Moreover, since the three-judge in-house inquiry panel of Justices S A Bobde, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee had already given a clean chit to Justice Gogoi in the sexual harassment case, finding no substance in the allegations levelled by a junior court staff, “no purpose would be served in continuing the proceedings”, the bench said. It ordered the report to be kept in sealed cover. Hours after a few web portals published the woman’s complaint, SG Tushar Mehta had requested the SC to take suo motu cognisance of the news reports, terming them a great affront to judicial independence. This led to the then CJI Gogoi holding court on April 20, 2019, a Saturday. During the suo motu proceedings, Justice Gogoi responded to the charge with anger and asked, “Is this (the allegations) just reward for a person who has selflessly served as a judge of the constitutional court and is going to retire with a bank balance of Rs 6.8 lakh and a career-long PF accumulation of Rs 40-odd lakh?  I would not stoop so low to even deny the charges. Nobody can catch me on the money part (corruption), so they found this to damage my reputation and destabilise the judiciary. “I don’t think a junior court assistant is behind this. Two offices are absolutely independent, that of the PM and the CJI. They want to destabilise the CJI considering the important cases coming up for hearing next week in the election month."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/plot-to-frame-ex-cji-in-harassment-case-not-ruled-out-sc-probe-panel/articleshow/81100277.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 19, 2021||India||Supreme Court agrees to hear PIL on e-voting from anywhere||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to examine whether e-voting system could be introduced in the electoral system under which a person who resides outside his constituency can cast a vote electronically. The court did so after initially a bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian expressed reservations in entertaining the PIL, asking how can a person, who resides outside his constituency, claim to cast his vote. “If a person chooses to remain out of his constituency then there is no denial of voting. How can one stay in USA and say that he wants to vote in Kerala. Why should law help you if you are not concerned about voting and remain outside,” the court said and asked the petitioner to approach the Centre and Election Commission on the issue. Times View: In India, millions are unable to cast their votes, since they are employed or studying far away from home. The goal ofany democracy should be to help every citizen engage with the electoral process. E-voting, for which as this newspaper has been campaigning for the last two years, will surely help in the endeavour to retrieve these “lost votes.”Advocate Kaleeswaram Raj, appearing for the petitioner, however, contended that use of technology could facilitate e-voting. Complimenting the judiciary for bringing about a “technological revolution” by conducting proceedings through video-conferencing during Covid-19 pandemic, he said the SC did a commendable work and lawyers are arguing cases without physical presence and e-voting could also be easily adopted with the use of technology. So far postal ballots are allowed for armed forces personnel and the elderly. The PIL was filed by Kerala-based K Sathyan who moved the court through his lawyer Nishe Shonker. She said there is provision of voting through postal ballots but it is limited to a few categories of persons and its benefit is not extended to classes like internal migrant labourers, students and NRIs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-to-examine-e-voting-for-people-not-in-constituency/articleshow/81100400.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
February 19, 2021||World||Biden pledges $4bn for global Covid-19 vaccine program||WASHINGTON: President Joe Biden will pledge $4 billion in US aid to the Covax global Covid-19 vaccination program during his virtual meeting with other G7 leaders on Friday, White House officials said. An initial $2 billion will be released "by the end of this month," with the rest coming over the next two years, said a senior White House official, who asked not to be identified, on Thursday. Covax is a global project to procure and distribute coronavirus vaccines for at least the most vulnerable 20 percent in every country, allowing poorer nations to catch up with the rush by dozens of wealthy countries to vaccinate. "The United States is really excited to be making our first contribution to Covax," the White House official said. "We do think it is vital to take a role in beating the pandemic globally." Although the United States is "prioritizing" domestic needs, assistance to other countries "decreases the risk to everyone in the world, including Americans, and also decreases the risk of variants," the official said. For now, the focus is on contributing funds for purchase of new vaccines but "when we have a sufficient supply it is our intention to consider donating surplus vaccines," the official said. Group of Seven leaders will be discussing international coordination on ending the deadly and disruptive pandemic when they meet virtually on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-pledges-4bn-for-global-covid-19-vaccine-program/articleshow/81100409.cms||---
February 19, 2021||India||Omar Abdullah goes to Supreme Court to expedite divorce case||NEW DELHI: As his matrimonial dispute lingers in the Delhi high court, allegedly because his wife’s advocate is not consenting to video-conferencing proceedings, former J&K CM Omar Abdullah moved the Supreme Court challenging an HC circular mandating that both parties in a case need to agree for hearing via remote mode. Agreeing to hear his plea, a bench of CJI S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice. It, however, refused the plea for early hearing and said the matter would be taken up in due course. Omar approached the SC after the Delhi HC refused to give relief and dismissed his plea against its circular saying lack of cooperation of his estranged wife, Payal, was not a ground for challenging the court’s April 26 order. Omar contended that his matrimonial appeal against a 2016 trial court order dismissing his divorce petition has not been listed for final hearing since February 2017. It was not taken up during the restricted functioning of the courts in view of Covid-19 pandemic as his estranged wife’s lawyer did not give consent to virtual proceedings. Omar had moved an application seeking early hearing of his appeal in July last year. The HC had declined to entertain it, saying a request for final hearing of pending matters will be entertained only if both the parties agree. On August 30, 2016, the trial court had dismissed Omar’s plea seeking divorce, saying he had failed to prove irretrievable breakdown of the marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/omar-goes-to-sc-to-expedite-divorce-case/articleshow/81100418.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Business||Private asset rejig companies will need cash to boost bad loans business||MUMBAI: Private asset reconstruction companies (ARCs) will need to come up with upfront cash or provide bank guarantees if they intend to compete with the national asset reconstruction company (NARC) for purchase of bad loans. According to banking sources, lenders have already identified corporate loans of over Rs 1.5 lakh crore to be transferred to the NARC, which will be promoted in the public sector. The NARC will offer to purchase bad loans at a negotiated rate. However, once a negotiated rate is struck, private ARCs will be allowed to better the bid. Typically, ARCs purchase loans by offering 15% cash and the remaining 85% in security receipts (SRs), which entitle banks to get a return in line with the amount recovered. Since the return under the SRs are uncertain, deals have not been taking place. Now, an NARC will offer a sovereign guarantee for its SRs, which will turn them into triple-A rated instruments. “The negotiated amount is based on the realisable value of the bad loan of which banks have a fairly good idea. While the NARC will have the advantage of a sovereign guarantee, private ARCs will also be in a better position than before as alternate investment funds (AIFs) have been allowed to invest in stressed loans, which opens new avenues for immediate monetisation,” said a banker. The loans that have been identified by banks are those where the lenders already have 75% voting rights, which would mean that they are in position to push through a decision. By inviting private ARCs to participate in a ‘Swiss auction’ — where others are asked to better bids by an anchor investor — would ensure that there is no accusation of the assets being sold at a marked-down price. “Transferring the loans to an ARC will ensure that bad loan numbers do not rise because of Covid-related stress,” the banker said. The NARC that takes over the bad loans will have a public sector character. But the asset management company that will work toward resolution of the non-performing assets (NPAs) will be a private entity with professionals whose sole focus would be value-maximisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pvt-asset-rejig-cos-will-need-cash-to-boost-bad-loans-biz/articleshow/81217335.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 19, 2021||Patna||SuMo lauds Union Budget at ADRI meet||PATNA: ‘Union Budget, 2021-22’, was the focus of a discussion organised by the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), Patna, at its premises here on Thursday with Rajya Sabha MP and former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi as the chief guest of the event. SuMo and other speakers were welcomed by ADRI director Prabhat P Ghosh. SuMo said the thrust of the Union Budget was on health, capital expenditure and infrastructure spending as well as financial reforms. He commended the increase in the capital expenditure which will have a multiplier effect on the economy, a much-needed move for a V-shaped recovery of the economy. Ashmita Gupta of ADRI stressed that though Covid-19 is an imminent crisis, one should not forget the impending climate crisis that could harm a poor-resource state like Bihar. Another speaker Sudhanshu Kumar of ADRI said the Union Budget will have an impact over the coming decade. He lauded the budget’s focus on key sectors of the economy, such as health and agriculture intended to augment economic growth. He also noted that it will take at least two years for the Indian economy to return to its pre-Covid status. Papiya Raj of IIT- Patna applauded the health component of the budget saying it was evident from the 137% increase in health spending, besides a shift from curative services to overall health promotion. Barna Ganguly of ADRI stressed the need to have a long-term focus on women and children, through separate budgetary allocations for them. Industrialist and Makhana exporter Satyajit Singh highlighted the need to strengthen the legal architecture for increased privatization and investment. Other speakers were Meghna Dutta (IIT-Patna), Nandini Mehta, Manoj Prabhakar, BIA representatives Ram Lal Khetan and K P S Keshri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-lauds-union-budget-at-adri-meet/articleshow/81096533.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||Gaya’s inoculation coverage 94%||GAYA: The Covid-19 vaccination coverage in Gaya district is almost 94% which is better than the overall ratio of the state, which is around 84.7℅, Gaya civil surgeon Kamal Kishore Rai said at a webinar on “Covid Vaccination Campaign : A Boon For Life”, organised by the Field Outreach Bureau (FOB), Gaya, and Press Information Bureau (PIB), Bhagalpur, on Thursday.  Rai added that registration of people above 50 years for the vaccination is expected to begin in the first week of March. FOB incharge Baland Iqbal was the moderator of the webinar. District evaluation and monitoring officer Akhilesh Kumar Singh said, "Vaccination of majority employees of various government offices including Gaya Municipal Corporation, revenue, police and other departments has been done. Now, letters would be sent to respective departments to encourage the employees for taking the shot. Once the shot is taken, a certificate is sent on the cellphone number of the beneficiary, which he or she can download." District immunization officer (DIO) Surendra Chaudhay said, “Although vaccination of people above 50 years is expected to begin in the first week of March, till date there is no guideline for vaccination of children in schools.” He added: “Myths and confusions over side effects of the vaccine have been sorted out now. There is no report of side effects from anywhere. Senior officials including Magadh division commissioner Mayank Barware, zone IG Amit Kishanganj, Gaya DM Abhishek Singh, Gaya municipal commissioner Sawan Kumar and other officials have already taken the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gayas-inoculation-coverage-94/articleshow/81095206.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Allahabad||Illegal liquor worth Rs 20L seized, 2 held||Prayagraj: A joint team of Utrav police and special operation group (SOG) on Thursday arrested two members of an inter-state racket involved in liquor smuggling and seized 285 cartons of illegal liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 20 lakh and a SUV near Raheempatti village on Prayagraj-Varanasi highway. The consignment of illegal liquor was being brought from Haryana for smuggling. The arrested persons were identified as Amit and Vishal Kashyap, both residents of Chandigarh. Police said SOG got a tip off about the racket involved in smuggling of liquor from Haryana to UP and Bihar states and cordoned the highway road near Raheemapatti when the racketeers were planning to smuggle liquor to eastern UP districts and Bihar border. A case has been registered in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/illegal-liquor-worth-rs-20l-seized-2-held/articleshow/81095834.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||Vigil up at airport, railway stations to keep Covid at bay||PATNA: With the Union aviation ministry issuing fresh travel guidelines, steps are being taken at the Patna airport to further boost Covid safety measures. The new standard operating procedures (SOPs) will come into effect from February 23 for all the travellers coming from or after transiting through flights originating from United Kingdom, Europe and Middle East. With India reporting the presence of South Africa and Brazil variants of SARS-CoV-2 or coronavirus, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday issued new SOPs stipulating multi-pronged strategy of thermal screening and testing. According to the SOP, all international travellers coming or transiting through flights originating from the UK, Europe and Middle East are required to submit a self-declaration form for Covid before the scheduled travel. They will be required to declare their travel history of past 14 days. Travellers from the UK, Brazil and South Africa, who have to take a connecting flight, will have to give their samples at a designated area at the airport and exit only after testing negative, which may take six to eight hours. Patna airport director Bhupesh C H Negi said all measures are being taken to ensure implementation of the SOPs issued by the Centre. “The new SOPs issued by the Centre are mainly for the airports receiving international flights. For flyers taking connecting domestic flights, documentation and health checks will be conducted at the international airport itself. In case of any discrepancy, the airports have been asked to inform the state authorities. A state health department team has been stationed at the city airport to take care of tests and other related protocols.” Meanwhile, Covid safety measures are also being revisited at railway stations in the state. Rajesh Kumar, chief public relation officer (CPRO) of East Central Railway, said, “We have already issued a general advisory, informing passengers regarding mandatory use of masks and sanitiser. In addition, bedrolls and curtains are not being provided to passengers on board trains. Only packaged food items of Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation are allowed.” State transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said all the Covid guidelines issued by the state health and home departments are being followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vigil-up-at-airport-railway-stations-to-keep-covid-at-bay/articleshow/81094917.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Active netizens will help cops fight cyber parasites||VADODARA: Wary of cyber frauds duping innocent citizens, the cybercrime cell has decided to launch an awareness online campaign in the city. The police have formed teams of cybercrime experts who will help cops not just sensitize people but also fight crimes. The campaign to be launched this week will focus on the vulnerable section that is likely to fall victim to cyber frauds. “We have designed the entire campaign to make citizens aware of the kinds of cyber frauds, especially the ones related to bogus social media accounts. Our teams have already started making online posters that carry details of the different types of cyber frauds,” said Hardik Makadia, ACP (crime). Cops have formed three teams to launch the online campaign. One team will be of cyber volunteers that will consist of common citizens who use social media and other online platforms regularly. “Cyber volunteers will be the ears and eyes of the police and keep police informed of any suspicious activities or bogus profiles online,” Makadia told TOI. The second team will be cyber warriors who have technical knowledge about the internet, various platforms, social media and online frauds. The cyber warriors will help the cops in investigating the cybercrime cases. “And the third team is of highly professional cyber gurus who have complete knowledge of cybercrimes, hacktivism and online scams. They will train us and the cyber warriors,” said Shamsher Singh, city police commissioner. These teams, with the help of their social media accounts, will also help the cops reach out to citizens online and also make the campaign posters viral. “Volunteers interested in joining us can fill up the forms that we will be posting on our social media accounts on Thursday,” Makadia added. The move follows the creation of bogus FB accounts of Gujarat assembly speaker and BJP MLA, Rajendra Trivedi and city police commissioner Shamsher Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/active-netizens-will-help-cops-fight-cyber-parasites/articleshow/81096006.cms||Tushar Tere
February 19, 2021||Business||Startups consider IPO as likely exit mode: Survey||Chennai: With public markets going strong, and the pandemic stressing on the significance of sound unit economics, startups are increasingly looking at Initial Public Offering (IPOs) as a likely mode of exit for its investors.47% of founders surveyed by InnoVen Capital as part of their annual sentiment check of startup founders said an IPO looks like a realistic exit scenario for them — up from 43% last year and 39% in 2019.Respondents from the logistics sector were most bullish towards going for an IPO in India with almost 83% saying they prefer the route.The financial architecture of a lot of startups improved in the initial shock period brought about by Covid-19 and around 15-20 companies are on a credible path to go public in the next two years, Ashish Sharmachief executive officer (CEO), InnoVen Capital, India, said. However, how this pans out will depend on public markets trends going forward and the Indian markets’ readiness for high-growth, low-profit companies, he added. Gaming company Nazara Technologies, which filed offer documents in January 2021, has kicked off India’s tech IPO rush. Zomato, Nykaa, PolicyBazaar, Delhivery, Freshworks and others are a few Indian late stage tech companies said to be considering an IPO in India or abroad in the next two to three years.The survey also noted that while customer growth and demand continues to be key focus for Indian startup, more founders are also batting for profitability over growth, as per the survey.When asked about what their “bigger focus for 2021” was, 23% startups picked profitability compared to 15% in 2019 and 21% in 2020. 42% of the startups said they were now in a path to turn EBITDA-profitable in one to two years. 23% said they were already profitable.Improving unit economics and talent management came out as top priorities for founders.Startups have also seen a strong recovery after major disruption in operations due to Covid-19. Two-thirds of surveyed founders said they are above pre-Covid revenue run rates in December 2020 with e-commerce, logistics, B2B platforms, enterprise software, and D2C brands seeing the strongest recovery.Edtech emerged as the most overhyped sector by a large majority with 56% of respondents indicating so. Logistics and consumer brands were considered the two most under-hyped sectorsInnoVen Capital’s annual survey is conducted among founders and senior leaders of around 100 leading startups across early, growth and late stages to gauge the sentiment prevailing in the startup ecosystem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startups-consider-ipo-as-likely-exit-mode-survey/articleshow/81097138.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
February 19, 2021||Kanpur||‘Dand-kanduk kridyayam’ a smashing hit at SSU||Revised Varanasi: It was not just a game of cricket, but ‘dand-kanduk kridyayam’ that drew the attention of many. A unique match in traditional India attire — dhoti-kurta with tripund on the foreheads —was played on the ground of Sampurnanad Sanskrit University (SSU) on Thursday with Vedic students taking up ‘dand’ (bat) and ‘kanduk’ (ball) to commemorate the 77th Foundation Day of Shashtrarth Mahavidyalaya, Varanasi. All the players and ‘nirnakahah’ (umpires) were in dhoti and kurta. The running commentary was also in Sanskrit catching the attention of the people passing through the area. “It is surprising to see the Sanskrit version of the cricket,” said one Santosh Kumar, who approached the ground after hearing the commentary in Sanskrit. The spectators got a flavour of this novel form of cricket, when dhoti kurta-clad ‘batuks’ (Vedic students) arrived at the cricket pitch. The Sanskrit version of cricket is an annual feature in the city to make the people aware that Sanskrit is not merely literary but has much more to it. “Sanskrit, the Devavani, has everything in its repertoire. You can see the Sanskrit students playing modern cricket in their own style, and the commentator is also making it in Sanskrit,” said Shashtrarth Mahavidyalaya principal Dr Ganesh Dutta Tripathi, adding that a message should go in the society in favour of Sanskrit. “Six teams from different Sanskrit colleges are taking part in this annual celebration of the Foundation Day,” said a teacher, Acharya Pawan Kumar Shastri. “Sanskrit students are generally viewed as the priests in making, but they can also show their talent in other spheres like cricket if given an opportunity,” he said adding that the main objective of the event is to make people aware about the vastness and richness of Sanskrit. All necessary precautions have been taken during the event as per the Covid-19 protocol, said Dr Tripathi adding that awareness regarding the protective measures against coronavirus is also being spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dand-kanduk-kridyayam-a-smashing-hit-at-ssu/articleshow/81096793.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Digilocker to ease passport verification||KOLKATA: To expedite passport processing, Digilocker — the virtual cloud storage for essential documents like Aadhaar card, driving licence, PAN card and results of major examination — has been integrated with document verification. However, the police verification report (PVR) remained the weakest link in the passport issuance system. A whopping 56,000 cases are currently pending with police in Bengal. If a passport applicant agrees to get his or her documents electronically verified on Digilocker, the applicant will not be required to carry any document in person at the time of interview at Passport Seva Kendra (PSK). Documents in the Digilocker can be accessed with Aadhaar-mobile number authentication. “We have integrated Digilocker into the passport processing system. Applicants often forget important documents pertaining to address, date of birth, nationality, etc. The individual then needs to seek a fresh appointment. But if the applicant gives consent, he does not need to upload those documents with the application or bother about producing them physically at the time of interview at PSK,” said regional passport officer of Kolkata Bibhuti Bhushan Kumar. Inordinate time taken to complete the police verification report in Bengal, Kumar said, has been delaying the passport issuance process here. While all India average for PVR is eight-nine days, it is 34-40 days in Bengal. Significantly, 93% of police districts across the country complete PVR within 21 days. Some states like Telangana, Kerala, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh complete PVR in four-five days. In Bengal only two police districts — Kolkata and Bidhannagar — use the mobile app to complete PVR. Bidhannagar Police commissionerate is the most prompt to issue PVR within 10 days. Kolkata police does it in 20 days. North Bengal districts, like North Dinajpur, take 117 days. RPO has again warned against falling prey to fake websites, which are duping a large number of pass-port applicants by charging hefty fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/digilocker-to-ease-passport-verification/articleshow/81098334.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||Matric examinees being frisked twice: BSEB chairman||PATNA: Taking lessons from the past, the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) has taken all precautionary measures to ensure fair conduct of 2021 Matric examinations which commenced on Wednesday. Thorough frisking of all examinees at two levels – one at the entrance gate of the examination centre and another inside the examination hall – has minimised the chances of copying. No student is allowed to carry anything other than the admit card with him or her inside the examination hall. Cellphones and electronic gadgets have been completely banned at the examination centres. BSEB chairman Anand Kishore said one invigilator has been assigned for 25 examinees and each invigilator has been asked to submit a declaration to the effect that he or she has done frisking of all the 25 examinees under him or her and no undesirable object was found from their possession. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC have been imposed around the examination centres and no crowd is allowed to be assembled within 200 metres of the centre. A round-the-clock control room started functioning in the BSEB office at 6am on Tuesday and it will function till 6pm on February 24, the last day of examination. Any problem related to examination anywhere in the state would be tackled on war footing at the control room. For quick dissemination of information, a WhatsApp group in the name of ‘BSEB Exam 2021’ has been created linking all the district magistrates, district education officers and senior officials of BSEB, Kishore said. On the first day of examination, as many as 82 candidates were rusticated for adopting unfair means and 15 candidates were caught for impersonation. The maximum number of rusticated students was from Bhojpur (21) and Munger (20). The maximum number of impersonating examinees was caught in Supaul and Madhepura. High ratio of girl examinees this time: It is interesting to note that girls constitute almost half of the total strength of students who are appearing for Matric examinations in the state this year. Of 16.84 lakh candidates taking the examinations this year, 8.37 lakh are girls. It means that the girls’ participation in school education has increased considerably in recent years. Magadh Mahila College principal Shashi Sharma said not only at secondary and higher secondary stages, girls are outpacing boys at the college and university levels too. “Thanks to the recent incentives taken by the state and central governments, the percentage of girls pursuing education at primary and university levels has increased manifold,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/matric-examinees-being-frisked-twice-bseb-chairman/articleshow/81096605.cms||B K Mishra
February 19, 2021||Patna||Induction of expelled leaders will erode JD(U): LJP||PATNA: A group of senior LJP leaders have claimed that the induction of some expelled members of the Chirag Paswan-led LJP in JD(U) will pave the way for the erosion of JD(U). Talking to reporters, LJP MP from Nawada Chandan Singh "thanked" JD(U) for inducting leaders of LJP, who were expelled for anti-party activities during the recently held state assembly polls. Describing those leaders as 'traitors', Singh said such people would damage any party they remain attached to. "Moreover, the list of the leaders as well workers, who joined the JD(U) at a function here, was a fake one," he added. Referring to the case of Atul Kumar Singh, former district president of Rohtas, the Nawada MP said he (Atul) was taken aback when he came to know about his induction in JD(U). "Atul reposed his faith in the leadership of Chirag Paswan by releasing a video, which went viral on social media," the Nawada MP asserted. The LJP MP claimed that only a handful of 'traitors' identified by the leadership were expelled from the primary membership of the party for their anti-party activities during the assembly polls. “Those people had worked in favour of JD(U) during the polls,” Singh alleged. Former MLA Raju Tiwari also said people of the state would teach a lesson to the traitors, who have caused damage to the 'Bihar First, Bihari First' campaign launched by the national president Chirag Paswan. He claimed the LJP was intact and would expand its base in the days to come. Terming the decision of the party supremo to go solo in the state assembly election as a bold move, the former MLA said while 24 lakh voters lent their support to the LJP chief, the support base of JD(U) decreased as people outright rejected its candidates. Notably, Chandan Singh, the younger brother of don-turned politician Surajbhan Singh, had met CM Nitish Kumar a few days ago, raising speculation over a major break-up in the party. However, Singh later clarified that his meeting with CM was non-political.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/induction-of-expelled-leaders-will-erode-jdu-ljp/articleshow/81096570.cms||Ramashankar
February 19, 2021||Pune||Two-day-old infant found abandoned in bushes in Pune||PUNE: A two-day-old infant was found abandoned in some bushes in the old Katraj ghat section early on Thursday. The boy is healthy and has been admitted to Sassoon general hospital for further care, the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said. The police received an emergency call from the employees of a hotel, who discovered the abandoned baby boy early on Thursday morning . Assistant inspector Madhura Korane of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police and her team rushed to the spot and found the infant wrapped in warm clothes. Fortunately, the baby was noticed by people before stray dogs found it, police said. Police suspect the child might have been born of an illicit relationship or a poor couple might have thought it impossible to support the baby. Police said the area is not under CCTV surveillance. However, the police are searching for clues to trace the parents by questioning regular commuters and local residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-day-old-infant-found-abandoned-in-bushes/articleshow/81097100.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||ECR cancels 28 spl trains||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has cancelled 28 special passenger trains due to yard remodelling and non-interlocking (NI) works to be carried out at Bachhwara station under the Sonepur division from February 25 to March 4. It has also diverted and short-terminated eight pairs of other trains during this period. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, railways has cancelled the Katihar-Sonepur MEMU (03367/03368), Jaynagar-Rajendra Nagar Terminal passenger (03325/03326) and Katihar-Samastipur MEMU (03315/03316) till March 4. The New Delhi-Saharsa Express (02563/02564) and the Barauni-Saharsa (03227/03228) specials will remain cancelled till March 3. “The Saharsa-New Delhi (02553/02554) and Bhagalpur-Muzaffarpur (03419/03420) specials have been cancelled till March 2,” the CPRO said. Similarly, the Habibganj-Agartala special (01665/01666) will not run on February 27 and the Gandhidham-Bhagalpur special (09451/09452) on February 26 and March 1. The Kolkata-Sitamarhi Express (03165/03166) and Dr Ambedkar Nagar-Kamakhya Express (09305/09306) specials have been cancelled till February 28,” the CPRO said, adding that the Gorakhpur-Hatia Express (05027 /05028), Gorakhpur-Kolkata Express (05047/05048), Sealdah-Jaynagar (03185/03186), Gorakhpur-Hatia (05027/05028) and Kolkata-Gorakhpur (05047/05048) specials will not run on February 28 and March 1. The railways has diverted the route of Balia-Sealdah special (03106) via Permanand Pur-Patliputra Junction-Patna-Mokama from February 25 to March 2. “While the Lokmanya Tilak Terminal-Kamakhya Express special (02519/02520) will run via Patna-Mokama-New Barauni route, the Mysore-Darbhanga special (02578) will run via Patliputra-Hajipur-Samastipur route,” the CPRO said, adding that the Anand Vihar Terminal-Kamakhya special (02550) will run via Patna-Mokama-New Barauni route. Likewise, the Dibrugarh-New Delhi special (02423/02424) has been diverted via New Barauni-Mokama-Patna route and the Anand Vihar Terminal-Kamakhya special (02506) will run via Permanand Pur-Patliputra-Patna-Mokama-New Barauni route. The Gwalior-Barauni special (04185/04186) will be short-terminated at Samastipur from February 24 to March 1 while the Hyderabad-Raxaul (07005/07006), Howrah-Raxaul (03021/03022) and Jaynagar-Kolkata (03135/03136) specials will be short-terminated at Barauni. “The Secunderabad-Darbhanga (07007) will be controlled for 30 minutes in Barauni and the Gwalior-Barauni special (04185) will leave Samastipur at least 20 minutes behind schedule on March 2. The Darbhanga-Kolkata special (05234) will be controlled for 90 minutes in Darbhanga on February 28,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-cancels-28-spl-trains/articleshow/81095695.cms||Kumod Verma
February 19, 2021||Pune||Katraj Metro extension plan awaits approval||Pune: The state government recently approved the plan to extend Metro services till Nigdi, but another extension proposal, from Swargate to Katraj, has yet to gain traction. The proposal is waiting for the civic body’s approval, even though its detail project report has been ready since last year. The Pune Municipal Corporation has yet to approve the DPR and send it to the state government for consideration. As per the DPR, drafted by Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro), the extension pegged at Rs4,300 crore will be underground from Swargate to Katraj. The approval has been stuck because of the lockdown imposed last year and subsequent restrictions on PMC’s general body meetings. In March 2020, PMC’s standing committee had approved the allocation of Rs233.75 crore for this extension and also sought permission from the general body to assign the project to MahaMetro and include the final route alignment in the development plan. PMC sources said the proposal would be taken up on priority in the next few days. Meanwhile, another proposal — to run Metro Neo on this route — is also under consideration. This option would be cheaper than underground or elevated Metro, officials said. MahaMetro said it was waiting for the go-ahead from the state government. “It is up to the state government to guide us on whether to study this proposal. We can only proceed once we receive instructions from the government and the civic body. A similar study on Metro Neo is underway on the Chakan corridor in Pimpri Chinchwad,” an official said. The Swargate-Katraj section is among the busiest stretches in the city. A senior corporator said, “If the extension is executed as part of the first phase of the Metro project, it would benefit people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/katraj-metro-extension-plan-awaits-approval/articleshow/81097079.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 19, 2021||Business||Piramal’s plan for DHFL resolution gets RBI nod||Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has cleared the way for Piramal Capital and Housing Finance’s acquisition of DHFL by approving its resolution plan. The committee of creditors had earlier approved the bid by Piramal and sought a nod from the regulator. The final step would be the approval of the National Company Law Tribunal. The DHFL stock gained 5% to end at Rs 18 by close of Thursday’s trade on the BSE, although it is not clear whether the Piramal Group intends to compensate shareholders in any way. In an insolvency process, the shareholders’ capital is the first to be written off, following which the lenders take a haircut if the resolution plan does not provide for adequate funds. According to bankers, creditors will get more than a third of their claimed amount. The recovery will add to their bottom line as most of the banks have fully provided for the loan. Also uncertain is the fate of the fixed deposit holders who had voted against all proposals for a resolution. According to insolvency guidelines, creditors who dissent against a resolution plan receive only their share of liquidation value if the bid against which they dissented is accepted. In this case, their share of the liquidation value would be lower than the amount offered by the resolution plan. Piramal had said that the group would offer around 10% over and above what was coming to the FD holders under the resolution process. The central bank’s approval for the acquisition comes while it released its master directions for housing finance companies. In these, the RBI had indicated that the licence to collect deposits would not automatically continue should there be a change in the management of the company. Among lenders, State Bank of India, Bank of India, Canara Bank, Union Bank, NHB and Bank of Baroda are the major creditors. One banker said that it was quite likely that the process might spill over into the next financial year, which meant that the resolution plan would not add to their fourth-quarter bottom line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/piramals-plan-for-dhfl-resolution-gets-rbi-nod/articleshow/81098756.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||Fraudulent transactions: EOU to send team to Maharashtra||PATNA: The Economic Offences Unit (EOU) of state police would soon send a team to Ahmednagar in Maharashtra for investigation in connection with fraudulent transactions of Rs 89 lakh from MPLAD fund of Maharajganj MP Janardan Singh Sigriwal using cloned cheques. EOU sources said they would move court in Ahmedabad seeking remand of the two accused arrested by Maharashtra police. Sources said the MP was kept in dark for several days by authorities concerned, including the bank, about the forged transactions. They said Sigriwal had later informed about the forgery to Lok Sabha Speaker and Union ministry of home affairs (MHA). Sources said EOU had even received a call from MHA on the matter. The FIR in connection with the fraudulent transactions was lodged by Saran district planning officer Vidhanchandra Rai on November 25 last year. He had made manager of Bank of Baroda branch at Chhapra in Saran an accused in the case. The EOU later took over the case for investigation. Two cloned cheques for Rs 42 lakh and Rs 47 lakh were used at Bank of Baroda branch in Ahmednagar to make the transactions from Sigriwal’s MPLAD account at Chhapra on November 4 last year. The original cheques were in safe custody of the planning officer and no SMS or verification call was received from bank before transacting the funds, as per the FIR. The bank had conducted its own internal inquiry and found that the amount was transacted from Ahmednagar after which a separate FIR was lodged there and two accused -- Sandeep Bhogilal Kothari and Ganesh Gawade – were arrested by Maharashtra police. EOU ADG Nayyar Hasnain Khan said a team would be sent to Ahmednagar soon. “A petition will also be filed in Saran court to amalgamate the Ahmednagar FIR with Saran FIR. There can’t be two separate FIRs in one case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fraudulent-transactions-eou-to-send-team-to-maharashtra/articleshow/81096559.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 19, 2021||Patna||Land survey method set to go hi-tech in Katihar||KATIHAR: Soon farmers will be able to get the details of their land records like ‘khatta’, ‘khesra’ and ‘chauhaddi’ (land boundary) at the click of a mouse. The complex procedure of measuring land and village boundary will be a thing of past, as electronic total station (ETS) machines will completely revolutionize the task. Survey amins, kanungo and settlement officers in the district are jubilant and some of them said that it will prove to be a game-changer in disposing land-related cases like mutation, registration, land sale and purchases and other matters. The ETS machine helps in measuring more than 50 land parcels in a radius of 18-20 km with 100% accuracy. District settlement officer Brajkishore Sadanand said: “The ETS machine can measure land parcels—its length and breadth as well as locate land and its distance, in a radius of 18-20km.” “To start the measurement process, the land boundary of three villages is taken into consideration for forming a tri-junction. A prism is kept at the centre of the tri-junction formed by the three villages. A powerful ray is released from the ETS machine, which is kept on the circular boundary line between any two villages. The ray hits the prism which comes back to the machine. This helps in measurement,” said Sadanand. “The returning ray after hitting the ETS machine gives accurate distance and other information. The machine works in the night and even during rainy season. It can measure 50 land parcels at a time,” said the officer. “While conducting land survey work, one operator for the ETS and two spotting staffers are required for carrying the prism. An agency from south India, which had earlier conducted the aerial survey work, has been given the responsibility of ground-truthing exercise,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/land-survey-method-set-to-go-hi-tech-in-katihar/articleshow/81095747.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Allahabad||Woman dies, youth battling for life after consuming poison||Prayagraj: A 20-year-old married woman died on Wednesday evening while her 28-year-old alleged lover was battling for life at SRN Hospital after they consumed some poisonous substance near High Court Road under the Civil Lines police station jurisdiction on Wednesday afternoon. SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh told TOI that the couple belonging to Hardoi district had arrived in the city on Wednesday morning and approached a local lawyer to submit an application before the High Court to have their court marriage formalised on Wednesday itself. When the lawyer told them that legal proceedings would take some time, the couple reached the court road and consumed the poisonous substances which they were carrying with them. Upon being alerted, the local police first took the couple to Colvin hospital from where the doctors referred them to SRN Hospital for treatment. The woman died during the treatment. Police said that a case of elopement with the woman was pending against the youth, Shamshad (28), a resident of Arwal Pooraratan village, with Arwal police station of Hardoi district. The marriage of the deceased woman was already solemnized by the family members about six months back and she had reportedly run away with her lover from Hardoi to Prayagraj, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/woman-dies-youth-battling-for-life-after-consuming-poison/articleshow/81095847.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||Stay alert as pandemic hasn’t ended yet: Govt||PATNA: Surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala has become a matter of concern for the state authorities too. Though Bihar is registering less than 50 new cases a day, health experts and senior officials have advised people not to let their guards down. Taking into account an increase in fresh cases in some other states, the state government is planning to intensify awareness campaign and rope in schoolchildren for the purpose. The daily Covid count in Mumbai and Pune has been crossing 600-mark over the past few days. Latest data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday stated that 4,892 new Covid-19 were registered in Kerala in 24 hours and 4,787 in Maharashtra. These two states contribute 75% of new cases in the country. Bihar chief secretary Deepak Kumar said since schools have reopened, students would be roped in to spread awareness about ways to contain Covid. “The pandemic is still alive and we have to remain alert,” he said. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar recalled how Covid-19 cases were initially being reported in Maharashtra, Kerala and Delhi. “Bihar did not have many Covid cases then. However, the virus gradually spread its wings in the state. People should continue using sanitiser, wearing mask, washing hands and maintaining social distancing,” he said. Dr Kumar said it was a matter of concern that Covid-19 protocols are being ignored at social and official gatherings. “People in large numbers are accommodated in one hall at wedding functions, which is not good,” he said, adding people should not hesitate in taking vaccine jab. As per the Union government’s data, Bihar is among the 15 states which have reported maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the country. However, the only silver lining is that Bihar has the lowest number of active cases among these 15 states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stay-alert-as-pandemic-hasnt-ended-yet-govt/articleshow/81094929.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 19, 2021||Patna||2nd dose: Private hospitals witness poor turnout||PATNA: Private health centres in the city are witnessing poor turnout of beneficiaries for taking the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccines. Only 64% of the targeted healthcare workers had been administered their second dose at three private hospitals till Wednesday and over 73% at the four government medical colleges and hospitals in Patna. According to the data shared by the Patna district administration, the three private hospitals include Ruban (75%), Paras (60%) and Big Apollo (57%) while the four government hospitals are Patna Medical College and Hospital (71%), Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (80%), All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (70%) and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (73%). Paras-HMRI regional director Dr Talat Halim told TOI on Thursday that altogether 163 healthcare workers had been vaccinated at the hospital in the first round. Of these, 100 were their own staff and 63 from other private hospitals. “Most of our healthcare workers have received their second dose. Those left are either not in Patna or working with other hospitals,” Dr Talat said. Another doctor associated with a private hospital claimed that many beneficiaries were not getting messages on time due to a glitch in the portal. “Also, the health workers are lesser aware than they were in the first round,” he added. Meanwhile, sources pointed out that nearly 73% of the beneficiaries, who were given Covaxin shots in Patna, had taken their second dose. However, only 57% of the health workers, who were administered Covishield shots, had received their second dose till Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2nd-dose-private-hospitals-witness-poor-turnout/articleshow/81094944.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 19, 2021||Patna||State registers 63 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths||PATNA: Altogether 17,377 healthcare workers took the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the state on Thursday. So far, 32,569 healthcare workers have received the second dose in the state. Meanwhile, 3,192 frontline and 97 healthcare workers took their first shot of the vaccine on Thursday. The vaccination was carried out at 367 session sites on Thursday and no adverse events following immunization (AEFI) was reported from anywhere. Healthcare workers in the state had started getting the second dose of the vaccine on Monday and maximum turnout of beneficiaries was recorded on Thursday. The least turnout was on February 16 when only 188 took their second jab. A health official said the second dose could be taken anytime four and six weeks after taking the first shot. “Since four-week since the start of first phase of vaccination has just got over, there is still time for the second dose. However, we also feel that the motivation level has dropped,” he added. As per the State Health Society, 5,06,361 beneficiaries have taken their first dose, including 1,08,935 frontline workers. The break-up for two different vaccines shows that 4,83,197 people have got Covishield and 23,164 Covaxin. Meanwhile, 63 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Thursday. With this, the state’s Covid tally has jumped to 2,61,942. As 68 more people recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, the state’s recovery rate has touched 99.22%. The virus claimed lives of two more people on Thursday and the victims were from Begusarai and Nalanda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-registers-63-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/81094949.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||200 LJP leaders, workers quit party to join JD(U)||PATNA: The Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) on Thursday received a major jolt in Bihar as around 200 of its senior leaders and workers, led by former state general secretary Keshav Singh, quit the party and joined the ruling JD(U). The disgruntled LJP netas joined the JD(U) in presence of party’s national president and Rajya Sabha member R C P Singh. Earlier on Wednesday, LJP’s senior leader Rameshwar Chourasia, who contested the 2020 assembly polls from Sasaram constituency, had left the party. Chourasia, a former MLA, was earlier with the BJP and had won Nokha assembly seat thrice on the BJP ticket. He had joined the LJP before the last assembly polls after the BJP denied him the party symbol to contest the election. Other prominent LJP leaders who joined the JD(U) on Thursday were Ramnath Raman, Dinanath Kranti, Md Ezaz, labour cell state president Kaushal Singh Kushwaha, EBC cell’s former state president Parasnath Gupta and Subhash Paswan. Welcoming the LJP leaders in his party, R C P Singh said, “JD(U) is the only party of socialist ideology in the country in which there is no place for nepotism and dynasty.” “If a person has merit and capacity and also does hard work, s/he can reach to any level in the JD(U). There is no scope for nepotism or dynasty politics in the party,” the bureaucrat-turned-politician said. Singh said CM Nitish Kumar gave a new identity to Bihar through his good works. “Nitish’s only ‘dharma’ is serving common people and the entire Bihar is his family,” the JD(U) boss said while addressing the newly-inducted party leaders. JD(U) state president Umesh Kushwaha and the party’s state general secretary Anil Kumar were also present. JD(U) to celebrate CM’s birthday as ‘Vikas Diwas’: The JD(U) on Thursday decided to celebrate CM Nitish Kumar’s birthday on March 1 as ‘Vikas Diwas’. JD(U) national president R C P Singh said the party workers would gather at each polling station in every village and town on March 1 and wish for the long life of Nitish. Besides this, the party workers would interact locals people about different development works being executed by Nitish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/200-ljp-netas-workers-quit-party-to-join-jdu/articleshow/81096551.cms||Madan Kumar
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||ISC board exam 2021: Question pattern changes for ISC practicals in Cov yr||KOLKATA: The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations will not set the question paper for the lab-based science practical for the upcoming ISC exams. The visiting examiner will do so in consultation with the head of the exam centre or the principal of the school in question. Hence, instead of a uniform question paper, each school will have its own for each science subject. All students will also not appear together for lab-based practicals for physics, chemistry, and biology. Students will be divided into batches and exams will happen in different slots, each time with a different question paper. Schools have received these instructions from the Council in a circular late on Wednesday, which said changes have been brought about keeping Covid-related distancing norms in mind. External examiners appointed by the Council will visit schools before the practicals and inspect the labs along with the school heads and subject teachers to fix the number of students who can be allowed in a given slot. Not more than 12 students are expected to be present in a lab for one slot and the examiner has to ensure that a distance of at least six feet is maintained between candidates. The practicals for one subject can be spread over several days because of the sanitization that will be required after each slot. “There will be guidelines sent to us by the Council for the question papers that will have to be set for each subject and the external examiner will set the paper. This is a big change from previous years,” said Seema Sapru, principal of Heritage School. The school has 60 science students who will be divided into three batches for each subject because there are multiple labs. At St Paul’s Mission School, 36 science students will be divided into three batches, said principal Sanchita Biswas. All other CISCE-affiliated schools are in the process of dividing their Class XII science students into similar small batches for the exams. Similar guidelines have come in for other lab-based subjects, like home science, too. In Loreto Convent Entally, which has 35 students in home science, three batches will be made for the practicals, said principal Jessica Gomes Surana. “We will divide the students into three batches because each student needs an elaborate setup in this subject. The examiner will inspect the setup and then set the question paper as per guidelines. This is a new and welcome move by the Council,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/question-pattern-changes-for-isc-practicals-in-cov-yr/articleshow/81103493.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 19, 2021||Patna||Patna: In Covid times, students gear up for Board exams||PATNA: Students, teachers and parents are leaving no stone unturned to prepare for the board examinations to be conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). While CBSE students of classes X and XII will write the offline exams between May 4 and June 10, the CISCE is yet to announce the datesheets. Students claim that resumption of higher secondary classes in schools has been quite helpful. Class XII student Sonali Priya, who studies at Loyola High School (CBSE), told this newspaper, “Our teachers are guiding us in all possible ways. Since the exam dates have been extended, we will get more time for revision.” St Karen’s High School (CBSE) student Vaishavi Kumari also thanked her teachers for providing study materials in the form of PDFs and PPTs and clearing her doubts. The 16-year-old, who will write her Class X exams, said, “Focusing on the board exams, I am revising everything thoroughly and reading NCERT books to understand the basics.” Teachers are also trying to make optimum use of the additional time given to the students for preparations. “I am trying to make my students understand every topic and giving them study materials for a better learning experience. I am also telling them about the importance of good writing skills and time management,” 35-year-old Archana Kumar, who teaches at St Karen’s High School, said. Although the syllabus has been reduced, computer teacher Bandana Mitesh is holding extra classes for the students who have doubts and queries. She said, “We will conduct one more examination before the boards.” Meanwhile, parents are not pressuring their children in view of the Covid-19 pandemic that affected educational systems worldwide. Homemaker Nandita Pandey, whose daughter will take her Class X exams soon, pointed out, “Even if the situation is different this year, my daughter is working really hard and preparing for her exams. Her school is supporting her and so am I.” Apart from board exams, many students are gearing up for different competitive exams. 19-year-old Mayank Mathur, who passed Class XII last year, said, “I am planning to go to Kota soon for joining a coaching institute. I have already wasted a lot of time due to the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/in-covid-times-students-gear-up-for-board-exams/articleshow/81094963.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Sasaram civic body struggles to find new garbage dump site||SASARAM: Garbage piles will continue to be dumped on the southern side of Sher Shah Tomb premises at Sasaram for some more time due to delay in finalisation of new garbage landfill site. Incidentally, heaps of garbage have dented the tomb’s lost glory and the stink emanating from the waste has worsened the situation. It may be mentioned here that the Sasaram Municipal Council has earmarked a portion of the tomb premises as garbage dumping ground, which is collected from about 2 lakh households under the civic body’s jurisdiction. The Rohtas district administration had recently identified five acres land at Bhadokhara village, about 10 km from Sasaram town for garbage landfill site. However, Sasaram civic body has demanded a landfill site somewhere near the district headquarters from the Rohtas district administration . Sasaram Municipal Council executive officer Abhishek Anaand said on Thursday that he has already requested Sasaram circle officer for a suitable place, so that garbage could be transported easily. Rohtas district magistrate Dharmendra Kumar also said that the process for identifying garbage landfill site will be completed soon. Earlier, garbage used to be dumped near the railway stadium situated at the heart of the town for around 15 years. However, following renovation of the stadium in 2019, the railways objected to it and the civic body shifted the dumping site near Sher Shah’s tomb. Sources also said that the vacant land outside the boundary wall of Alawal Khan tomb, situated on the outskirts of the town has also been filled with garbage. Alawal Khan was an aide of Sher Shah. Meanwhile, local BJP MP Chedi Pasawan has also protested the decision of the civic body to dump garbage near the premises of Sher Shah’s tomb, saying he would meet deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad soon to raise the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sasaram-civic-body-struggles-to-find-new-garbage-dump-site/articleshow/81095605.cms||Alok Chamaria
February 19, 2021||Patna||Covid restrictions take a toll on students in Patna||PATNA: Change seems to be the only constant during the Covid-19 pandemic and the same has happened with school and college students. Burdened with mandatory health precautions, students are struggling to adjust to the new normal. The restrictions imposed on students have taken the fun out of the school campuses. Students need to be on their toes right from the time they enter the school. “School is different from how it used to be in pre-pandemic days. There are many restrictions these days. I cannot enjoy with friends in a carefree manner anymore,” said Mrinal Singh, a student of DAV Public School. Dr M P Singh, a paediatrician, said stress in any capacity can affect children psychologically. “The past year had been difficult for everyone, especially the children as their coping mechanism is not like adults. Children’s proper interactions with peers and teachers are necessary,” he said. “I miss sharing lunch with my friends and going to canteen during the lunch break. The constant feel of the mask is irritating. When I take it off after returning home, I can see marks on my face,” said Shashwat Shwetank, a student of Delhi Public School. The shift in mode of education was also an adjustment which the students had to get accustomed to this academic session. Aarti Mishra, a Hindi teacher, said, “The students had to shift from offline to online mode of education. This was something new for teachers as well. The task was really challenging.” Mohit Mayank, a Class XI student of Loyola High School, said school without sports activities is monotonous. “The social distancing norms prevent us from playing games which require physical contact, such as cricket, football and basketball. Track games are also not possible because wearing mask while running is very difficult,” he said. Aarin, a student of Don Bosco Academy, said, “I was happy when the offline classes resumed. However, since two batches of students come to the class on alternate days, I miss my close friends.” Teachers are trying their best to help students adapt to the new normal. Sunita Gupta, a government high school teacher, said, “I am happy that schools have reopened as most government school students do not have laptops to attend online studies. But students are still adjusting. Earlier, midday meals were being provided to the students. However, the students have been told to bring their own food now due to the pandemic.” Parents too are apprehensive regarding their ward’s education and health. “I understand that it was necessary to reopen the schools to break the psychological barrier of children, but as a parent I want my child to study in a conducive atmosphere,” said Anjali Chauhan, mother of a Class XI student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-restrictions-take-a-toll-on-students-in-patna/articleshow/81094958.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Business||G-Secs worth Rs 25,000 crore left unsold, yields jump||MUMBAI: Compounding the woes in the bond market, government securities (G-Secs) worth about Rs 25,000 crore, out of the Rs 31,000 crore put on auction this week, remained unsold. RBI data also showed that the entire auction amount for the benchmark 10-year bonds, worth Rs 11,000 crore and G-Secs of four-year tenure worth Rs 10,700 crore, were nearly devolved in Thursday’s auction. In addition, G-Secs worth Rs 3,500 crore of 40-year tenure also remained unsold. As a result of the devolvement, the 10-year G-Sec yield shot up by nearly 10 basis points in the secondary bond market to close at 6.13%. The rising US yields and price of crude oil is weighing on market sentiment, bond dealers said. With the government’s huge borrowing programme scheduled at least till the end of FY22 and some expected rise in combined market borrowing by states, bond dealers feel yields are expected to remain elevated for at least a few more months. Since the benchmark yield is one of the determinants of the rate of interest in the economy, rising yields could lead to higher lending rates. In what bond dealers said was the first such instance in the gilt market , the RBI didn’t accept any underwriting offer for the longest dated bonds of 40-year tenure in Thursday’s auction. Underwriting is a type of insurance under which the RBI pays some fee to approved bond houses (primary dealers) to buy the unsold bonds in G-Sec auctions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/g-secs-worth-rs-25000cr-left-unsold-yields-jump/articleshow/81098822.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||‘Kata tel’ returns, riding on surge in fuel price||KOLKATA: All-time high diesel and petrol prices have led to the revival of fuel adulteration, the practice that had largely been curbed a decade ago with the introduction of CNG-powered autos. Cartels of fly-by-night operators have started siphoning a large quantity of subsidised kerosene, which is meant for below poverty line (BPL) consumers and for running irrigation pump sets for agriculture, to mix it with diesel to produce a pocket-friendly alternative. The outcome, experts said, would be a manifold increase of particulate pollution and frequent engine dysfunctions. TimesViewWe should consider the environmental impact of this practice besides the obvious corruption angle. The impact on health can be long-lasting and disastrous.Automobile expert Professor Prabir Bose said: “Adulterated fuel will invariably increase particulate pollution. The generation of poly-aromatic hydrocarbons will be much higher. Moreover, the emission of carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide will also skyrocket. Also, kerosene impacts automobile engines adversely.” The price of diesel rose to Rs 83.5 and petrol to Rs 90.8 on Wednesday, burning a hole in the pocket of motorists. Many bus, truck and other commercial vehicle motorists are opting for adulterated fuel, in most case not knowing about the irreparable harm they are causing to their vehicles. Kerosene is rationed through hundreds of dealers in Bengal at Rs 42 per litre. The adulteration cartels buy kerosene in bulk at Rs 50 a litre. They mix it with diesel at a 1:1 ratio. Some times, the proportion of kerosene is higher than that of diesel. The production cost of diesel comes down to Rs 66. The cartel keeps a profit margin of Rs 5 per litre to sell diesel at Rs 70-Rs 71 per litre, said Shankar Dolui, a driver with a transporter agency. The cartels are mostly operating in city fringes, closer to state and national highways. Their business is flourishing at the shacks mushrooming along the highways. “They get hold of a small goods vehicle, purchase full tank fuel from the pumps and transfer the fuel into a big drum. Thereafter, the diesel is mixed with kerosene. They also have lower grade adulterated diesel which is widely used by mechanised vans (colloquially called Vano) and mechanised boats. Here, diesel is mixed with naphtha, which is even cheaper. The naphtha-mixed diesel is sold at Rs 50 per litre,” said environment activist Somendra Mohan Ghosh, who has been probing the adulterated fuel business and its impact on the city’s ambient air. Majority of buses and trucks buy adulterated fuel and leave a trail of toxic fumes all the way. “The adulteration of fuel is very common across the nation whenever there is a sharp rise in fuel price. Since a large quantity of kerosene is diverted to the automobile sector, poor people suffer a lot. They don't get their quota of fuel,” said Prabir Bose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kata-tel-returns-riding-on-surge-in-fuel-price/articleshow/81098315.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 19, 2021||Goa||Goa: To test waters, GFP ties up with Congress for municipal polls||PANAJI: To fight BJP in the forthcoming municipal polls, Congress has decided to forge an alliance with non-BJP parties such as GFP and others, including MGP. “We have taken a decision that wherever possible we will have an alliance to defeat the ruling dispensation,” said leader of opposition Digambar Kamat about the civic polls. He told TOI that “the party (central leadership) has taken a decision that as the municipal elections are not being held on party lines, the decision about an alliance should be left to the local leaders”. TOI had reported last week that the Goa desk incharge Dinesh Gundu Rao while speaking on the possibility of alliance for the civic polls, had said that he had left it to the local leaders to decide on the alliance. GFP president Vijai Sardesai on Thursday announced that his party will field panels in Pernem, Mapusa and Margao for the coming municipal polls and that he is in touch with the opposition leader who he said, has agreed to an informal tie up with GFP for the civic polls. Asked about collaborations, Kamat said, “Why only Pernem or Mapusa? Even in Sanguem and other places we will have such tie-ups. If GFP has no presence there, there are other parties and we can go with them”. Elections are likely to be held on March 20. In Margao where BJP is trying to go all out to wrest power from Kamat-Sardesai combine, there appears to be a repeat of 2015 in the run up to the elections. Sardesai said that he spoke to Kamat on Wednesday night where municipal poll strategies were discussed. “Kamat has expressed his view that he would like the arrangements made in 2015 for the Margao municipal elections to be continued again. We have absolutely no problems with this arrangement,” said Sardesai. “As far as Margao municipal council goes, (Curtorim MLA) Alexio Reginaldo Lourenco, Kamat and I will be together”, Sardesai said. Three wards of Curtorim assembly constituency come under Margao municipal council’s jurisdiction. GFP’s working president Kiran Kandolkar will lead the party’s campaign for Mapusa where the party will field candidates in three wards. “We don’t have the strength and we don’t want to split the votes so we may field three candidates in Mapusa and in the rest we will work with MGP and Congress to defeat BJP,” said Sardesai. He went on to say that GFP has offered to work hand-in-hand with Congress in Pernem, which has 10 wards, a total of approximately 4,500 voters. GFP inducted former BJP Pernem mandal president Prashant Gadekar, a sitting councillor in the Pernem municipal council, and declared that a panel under Gadekar’s leadership will be put up for the Pernem civic polls. GFP said it hoped to have a similar alliance for the 2022 assembly elections, but clarified that there will be no alliance with any party that inducts BJP MLAs ahead of the polls. Sardesai said that GFP did consider contesting the elections for the Corporation of the City of Panaji, but dropped out due to paucity of time. He said that BJP decided against holding the elections on party lines in order to avoid embarrassment. When asked about reports that NCP has approached some of the Congress turned BJP MLAs and offered them the option of contesting the 2022 elections on NCP ticket, Kandolkar said that GFP will not associate itself with such “garbage”. “We want to take like-minded people together, but if NCP is going to take BJP MLAs in and give them tickets, then we will not take them along,” said Kandolkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-test-waters-gfp-ties-up-with-cong-for-municipal-polls/articleshow/81099731.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||‘Rail roko’ agitation of farmers evokes mixed response in stat||PATNA: The ‘rail roko’ agitation by farmer groups had negligible impact on train services in the state on Thursday. However, farmers squatted on railway tracks at some places. The agitation was limited to two hours in the state instead of four hours as the farmer bodies avoided causing inconvenience to Matric examinees. Apart from farmers, opposition parties, including Jan Adhikar Party (JAP)-Loktantrik and CPI (ML), also participated in the agitation at some places. Barring symbolic squatting on railway track and stopping of the Jansewa Express train near Akbarnagar railway station by the JAP-L activists, train movement remained largely uninterrupted in Bhagalpur. The railway police, GRP and district police persuaded the JAP activists to keep away from the tracks and eventually restored the normal movement of trains. In Purnia, at least 30 JAP members squatted on rail tracks and blocked the Janaki Express for about half-an-hour. Ashok Kumar Yadav, spokesperson of the JAP, said, “We have been protesting not only against the three black farm laws, but also the rising fuel prices. The skyrocketing prices of essential items have taken us to economic subjugation.” In Nalanda, farmer unions backed by left parties, RJD and JAP-L, symbolically blocked movement of Gaya-Kiul memo train in Sheikhpura for some time and their leaders courted arrest at Biharsharif railway station. In Biharsharif, the farmers under the banner of Kisan Sangharsh Samiti courted arrest under the leadership of Pal Bihari Lal, who has been leading relay dharna of various farmer unions at Biharsharif Hospital Mor for the last 44 days. In Bhojpur, the CPI(ML) and Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Mahasabha leaders stopped the Patna-Bhabua Intercity Express for a few minutes at Ara station. Station manager of Ara B K Pandey said Patna-Bhabua Intercity Express was delayed by five minutes due to the agitation. At least 13 people were detained and later released after being fined Rs 1,100 each. (With inputs from Kumar Rajesh in Bhagalpur, Sanjeev Mishra in Purnia, Farrukh Nadim in Biharsharif and Praveen in Ara)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rail-roko-agitation-of-farmers-evokes-mixed-response-in-stat/articleshow/81095505.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||Sales of sanitiser & mask down in Bihar||PATNA: There was a time when masks and sanitisers were not available across the city because of huge demand for precaution from Covid-19. But the scenario has changed in the last 10 months and shopkeepers are now struggling to clear their stock. First cases of Covid-19 were registered in Bihar in March, followed by the nationwide lockdown. People across the country were afraid of the new virus initially. The demand was such that masks and sanitisers started flying off the shelves and even pan shops and ice-cream stalls started selling these items. “I remember how sanitizer and soaps from my shop were finished in my shop just before the lockdown. Even after some relaxation when offices resumed, there was a huge demand for sanitisers and masks. But for the past four to five months, sales have drastically decreased,” said a general store owner, Babloo Kumar. Bihar Chemist and Druggist Association member Tarun Kumar recalled the boom in business of masks, sanitisers, disinfectants and gloves from March previous year. Tarun said in April, when there were not many Covid positive cases, a wholesaler used to sell these products worth Rs10 to 12 lakh. “Now, these items worth even a few thousand rupees are not being sold and many are clearing their stock by sending back to the company,” said Tarun. Another medicine shop owner said even though there were less cases initially, there was more advertisement regarding the dos and don’ts and people were more afraid and used to take precautions. He said, “However, now you can see many people moving around in public places without masks and hardly any one is carrying sanitizer while travelling. This trend has become common especially after election in the state. Now we are not earning much from these products.” Binay Kumar alias Pappu ji, who owns a kids garment shop in Boring Road, said even the price of masks has reduced, further narrowing the profit margin. “Earlier, one mask was sold for Rs35 and fetched Rs10 to 15 profit, but now almost all the garment shops and makeshift stalls are selling masks. In fact, tailors are stitching masks with suits. Because of increased competition in the market and decrease in demand, we are selling each mask with only Rs5 as profit. There has also been a decrease in the number of masks sold per day from 25 to 30 pieces each day to two to three in a day.” Pappu said people like him are now focusing on their original business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sales-of-sanitiser-mask-down-in-bihar/articleshow/81094986.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 19, 2021||Business||MSME credit up on govt guarantee||Mumbai: There has been a revival in bank credit to small businesses driven by public sector banks on the back of the government’s emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS). According to TransUnion Cibil’s report, credit to small businesses grew twice as fast as advances to large borrowers. “The on-balance sheet commercial lending exposure in India stood at Rs 71.3 lakh crore in September 2020 with year-on-year growth of 2.1%. MSME segment’s credit exposure is Rs 19 lakh crore, showing year on year growth of 5.7% and this credit growth is observed across all the sub-segments of MSME lending,” the report said. The highest year-on-year growth of 9% was seen in the category of small businesses with a loan exposure of between Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 lakh. This was followed by the Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore segment which saw a growth of 8%. According to TransUnion Cibil, the stimulus package announced by the government through ECLGS has helped credit demand and supply bounce back to pre-Covid levels. It added that commercial credit enquiries in January 2021 have settled at pre-Covid levels. ““The resurgence in MSME credit growth, which is back at pre-pandemic levels, is a very promising indicator of economic recovery in our markets. …Budget announcement by the FM have doubled the contribution to the MSME sector over last year, which shall further provide much needed financial support to the sector,” said Rajesh Kumar, MD & CEO, TransUnion Cibil. The study on small businesses is published jointly by TransUnion Cibil and Small Industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi). The report also include a Cibil MSME Rank (CMR) indicating creditworthiness. The study on CMR downgrades across sectors reveals that rank deterioration is relatively lower for MSMEs that are focused on consumer staples or necessity sectors like auto, infrastructure and FMCG and higher for MSMEs where consumer discretionary spends are highest — sectors like hospitality, commercial real estate and textiles. TransUnion Cibil is committed to work with all the ecosystem players including the government, the regulator, lenders and last-mile MSMEs to support sustainable growth of the sector”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/msme-credit-up-on-govt-guarantee/articleshow/81098712.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Rajkot||Two men trying to extort Rs 6L from contractor trapped||Rajkot: Two labourers who tried extorting Rs 6 lakh from a paint contractor in Gandhidham were arrested on Wednesday night. According to police, complainant Janardhan Raju had received a call on February 15 morning threatening to kill his son Ajay if he doesn’t pay the caller Rs 6 lakh. After receiving another call the next day, Raju approached his friend Kripalsinh Rana and both went to the police on Wednesday. Police asked Raju to agree to the blackmailers’ demands. As told, Raju agreed to pay the money and asked the two accused to meet him near a petrol pump in Gandhidham the same evening. In the meantime, cops had covered the entire locality in civil dress, which the accused did not even guess. The duo arrived at the spot on a scooter and police nabbed them. During interrogation, they revealed their names – Taj Mohammed Nigamna and Umar Khamisa Katiya. “They work as labourers and knew that the victim is a migrant so he will get scared and give money,” said a police official. The official added that they had followed Raju and had gathered details about him before placing the ransom call. A knife was also found from the duo which was seized along with a mobile phone and the scooter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-men-trying-to-extort-rs-6l-from-contractor-trapped/articleshow/81096282.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Business||Sensex dips for 3rd day on yields, crude||Mumbai: The sensex closed 379 points down at 51,325 points on Thursday as rising crude oil prices and bond yields globally weighed on investor sentiment. During the day, banks, financials and RIL contributed the most to the sensex’s slide, while buying in IT stocks limited the fall to some extent. Since touching its lifetime high of over 52,500 points on Monday, the sensex has closed lower for three consecutive sessions. The slide came despite a Rs 903-crore net buying by foreign funds, while domestic funds were net sellers at Rs 1,217 crore, BSE data showed. According to HDFC Securities deputy head (retail research) Devarsh Vakil, major Asian markets ended in the red on Thursday as investors sold to lock in profits from the recent rally. “Rising bond yields and a surge in crude prices weighed on sentiments. European markets are trading flat (now) following the sharp losses of (Wednesday),” Vakil said in a note. On Thursday evening in the US, the 10-year bond yield was hovering around the 1.3% mark, a year-ago level, while Brent crude was trading above the $64 level, which was also a more than a year high level. Of the 30 sensex stocks, 18 closed in the red, while 12 closed with gains. In the broader market, however, 1,624 stocks closed with gains compared to 1,342 that closed lower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-dips-for-3rd-day-on-yields-crude/articleshow/81098839.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh scores on positivity rate, but testing/mn is still lower||BHOPAL: Over the last 100 days, the number of Covid-19 tests has dropped. Low positivity ratio in the same period has come as a relief, but statistical indications are that more needs to be done to maintain the drop in Covid-19 cases witnessed in the first two weeks of February. A massive 9,47,957 people have been tested for the infection since January.  At the turn of the year, the number of people being tested and those who were diagnosed as positive for Covid-19 was 2.8%.  The number has since dropped to 1% on February 1. On January 1, 27,970 people were tested. Compared to December 1, when the positivity rate was 5%, only 27,403 tests were conducted. “Free testing is widely available across Madhya Pradesh. The quality and number of tests are assured through a protocol. The number of tests is based on people turning up to get tested,” said a health department official. As of November 30, when MP’s Covid-19 tally had crossed 2.04 lakh, it was again at the bottom of the table in terms of tests, though it has more than doubled. MP was testing 45,616 per million population, but it’s still far below other states, going by the November data.  For 5,61,8355 tests conducted, till Wednesday, the testing million has improved. Every 12th person is being tested. Earlier, the ratio was one in 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-scores-on-positivity-rate-but-testing/mn-is-still-lower/articleshow/81097078.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||Buxar jail to supply ropes for 1st woman facing the gallows||PATNA: The Buxar central jail is set to create a history of sorts by supplying the death ropes for the execution of the first woman convict in the country after independence at the Mathura district jail. Shabnam Ali, 38, was convicted and awarded capital punishment on the charges of killing seven members of her family, including her father, mother, sister in-law, cousin and 10-month old nephew, by slitting their throats at Omraha village in Meerut district in April 2008, for defiance over her marriage with one Saleem. Deputy superintendent of Buxar central jail, Tribhuvan Singh, said on Thursday that the authorities had received the requisition for a pair of hanging ropes from the Mathura district jail on Monday. However, no specific time was mentioned for the supply of the ropes in the letter. “A few inmates adept at making the hanging ropes have been put on alert. Since there is scarcity of a special kind of brass required for the purpose, it will take a couple of days to meet the demand from the jail concerned,” he told this newspaper over the phone on Thursday. The prison officials swung into action soon after the requisition for the ropes, which are supplied to the jails across the country from Buxar, was received. A particular type of yarn called J-34 is required for making the hanging ropes. Suppliers from Punjab provide the raw material to the Buxar jail as the cotton for making the yarn is cultivated there. Singh revealed that the price of the 16-foot-long ropes being prepared on the demand of the Mathura jail superintendent would depend on their weight. “Once the payment is received, the ropes will be sent to the authorities concerned under tight security arrangements,” he added. Jail superintendent Rajiv Kumar is stated to be on leave after being infected with coronavirus. “The jail superintendent is in quarantine and is expected to assume duty in a day or two,” another official posted at the Buxar central jail said. IG (prisons and correctional services) Mithilesh Mishra claimed that the officials of the Buxar central jail were already on the job. “Whenever there is a demand for hanging ropes, the Buxar jail is assigned the task,” he added. Mishra recalled that hanging ropes were also supplied to the Tihar central jail in 2019 for the execution of four gang rape-cum-murder convicts of Nirbhaya. According to records available with the prison department, the hanging ropes were earlier supplied to the jails in Maharashtra in 1981, 2012 and 2013, West Bengal in 1990 and 2004, Bhagalpur in 1995, Andhra Pradesh in 2003 and Delhi in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/buxar-jail-to-supply-ropes-for-1st-woman-facing-the-gallows/articleshow/81096587.cms||Ramashankar
February 19, 2021||Business||RBI tightens norms for e-payments||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has tightened payment security norms, making banks and other regulated entities more responsible for apps provided by third parties. In its new directive on digital payments security control, the central bank has got down to the minutiae of the transactions. It requires banks that use third-party apps for digital transactions to have the apps’ source code in escrow should the vendor be unable to provide services. It is not clear whether this is applicable for only proprietary apps of the bank developed by third-parties or all third-party apps. Bankers say that this regulation could have far-reaching implications if it is applied to third-party apps for the Unified Payments Interface (UPI). Currently, banks are responsible if there is any data breach from a third-party unregulated entity. In UPI payments, the market is dominated by third-party apps like Google Pay and PhonePe with Amazon and WhatsApp preparing to play a larger role. The new directions issued by the RBI apply to all commercial banks, small finance banks, payment banks and credit card-issuing non-banking financial companies (NBFCs). This is the first time that the central bank has got into the operational part of digital payments. Earlier, the central bank had left it to the National Payments Corporation of India to set the ground rules, both as a service provider and as a quasi-regulator. The directions further require banks to do security testing, including review of source code, vulnerability assessment (VA) and penetration testing (PT) of their digital payment apps. This is to assure that the application is secure for putting through transactions, while preserving confidentiality and integrity of the data that is stored and transmitted. “The regulator has taken a holistic approach to this segment because digital payments, which have become mainstream today, will become the primary mode of payments in future. These guidelines will go a long way in developing trust and bringing scale,” said Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma. The RBI had earlier come out with norms to regulate payment gateways. According to payment service providers, the latest move will improve confidence in the market. “This is good for the ecosystem as it helps build higher confidence with the consumer and the merchant. This will ensure that better quality and better-governed players participate in the processing of payment transactions. This definitely will improve governance,” said Rajeev Agarwal, CEO of digital payments company Innoviti. Another new regulation is the requirement that banks and other regulated entities do reconciliation of payments in real time or near real time. In any case, this should not be later than 24 hours from the receipt of settlement files for detection and prevention of suspicious transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-tightens-norms-for-e-payments/articleshow/81098600.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||Budget session of Bihar legislature begins today||PATNA: The budget session of the state legislature will begin on Friday with the address of governor Phagu Chauhan to the joint sitting of the House in the Central Hall. Deputy CM-cum-finance minister Tarkishore Prasad will table the state’s Economic Survey Report for 2020-21 in the assembly on the opening day of the session after the governor’s address. The 2021-22 state budget will be presented on February 22. The slightly over a month-long budget session will have 22 working days in the state assembly, after which it would be adjourned sine die on March 24, as per the schedule released by the office of Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha. It being the first budget session of the state legislature after the recently concluded assembly elections in the state, the governor, in his address to the joint session, is likely to thank the Election Commission for successfully conducting the polls. The governor might also refer to a few new policy prescriptions of the state government, including creation of job opportunities for the youths. The governor is also likely to highlight the achievements of both the Centre and state government with regard to the tackling of the coronavirus pandemic, even as the state government has started an inquiry into the alleged data fudging. While the Economic Survey Report for 2020-21 might not refer to the outputs on the issue of tackling the coronavirus pandemic, the quantum of the 2021-22 budget, along with the volume of expenditure made during the 2020-21 fiscal that was marred by the pandemic, will be eagerly awaited, as the pandemic had caused disruptions in economic activities during the first two quarters last year. While former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi had presented Rs 2.11 lakh-crore budget for the 2020-21 fiscal, the observers would be keen to know the size of this year’s budget and other details pertaining to the new fiscal. Meanwhile, the assembly Speaker convened an-all party meeting on Friday to convince the opposition members to ensure smooth running of the House. Among those who participated in the meeting were deputy CM Prasad, ministers Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Bijendra Prasad Yadav and Shrawan Kumar as well as leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Congress member Ajit Sharma and representatives of other parties. Tejashwi told media persons that the opposition pleaded for proper replies from the government to the questions and issues that would be raised by them. He referred to the issues like the coronavirus pandemic, under-utilisation of funds meant for schemes and projects and the government’s alleged indifference to the demand for inquiry into some “scams”. The deputy CM said the government would address the questions and concerns that would be raised by the opposition members. Security tightened: The Patna district administration imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 in and around the Vidhan Mandal premises for maintaining law and order during the budget session of the House from February 19 to March 24. DM Chandrashekhar Singh and SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma, in a joint order issued on Thursday, said police personnel and magistrates would be deployed in adequate numbers on the assembly premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/budget-session-of-bihar-legislature-begins-today/articleshow/81096518.cms||Abhay Singh
February 19, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Vaishali man with criminal record shot||PATNA: A 40-year-old man with criminal antecedent, Gopal Singh, was shot dead by criminals on NH-22 near Raghunathpur Imadpur under the Bhagwanpur police station area in Vaishali district on Thursday. The victim was a resident of Bithauli village under the same police station area. SHO of Bhagwanpur police station Alok Kumar said the four motorcycle-borne criminals intercepted Gopal and his friend Sonu Singh, who were riding a bike, and opened fire. “The bullet hit Gopal, killing him on the spot,” he added. Sonu told police that his wife had won primary agricultural credit society election from Raghunathpur Imadpur and Gopal had helped them a lot in the election. “Gopal was probably killed for joining the campaign of Sonu’s wife,” the SHO added. “At least 14 criminal cases are lodged against Gopal with Bhagwanpur police station alone. These cases include extortion, scuffle, Arms Act and robbery. He had arrested on many occasions earlier,” the SHO said. Vaishali Sadar SDPO Raghav Dayal said the locals blocked the road for around an hour after the incident. “Raids are on to arrest those involved in the murder,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vaishali-man-with-criminal-record-shot/articleshow/81095733.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Covid fears: State may reduce budget session to 2 weeks||Mumbai: Concerned about the rise in Covid-19 cases in several districts, the Maharashtra government is likely to reduce the state legislature’s budget session to two weeks from the usual four to five weeks. The final decision on the duration of the sessions will be decided in February last week. The state legislature’s budget session will commence March 1, and the budget is likely to be presented on March 8. On Thursday, during the state business advisory committee meeting held at Vidhan Bhavan, members raised concern over the rise in Covid-19 cases in both urban and rural areas in the state and discussed reducing the number of days of the budget session. “The government will keep an eye on the pandemic situation and schedule another meeting on February 25 to make a final decision,” said Narhari Zirwal, deputy speaker of the legislative assembly. The government has also decided to restrict entry in the legislature building during the budget and has asked everyone to take the RT-PCR test every week. Devendra Fadnavis, opposition leader in the assembly, alleged that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government was afraid of facing the session and questions raised by opposition. “If the session in the Centre can go smoothly, why not in the state by taking all precautions,” he said. But Shiv Sena minister Anil Parab countered that the state government does not fear the opposition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-fears-state-may-reduce-budget-session-to-2-weeks/articleshow/81098917.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 19, 2021||Bhopal||6 lakh vaccinated in Madhya Pradesh, 2nd dose likely from February 22||BHOPAL: More than 6.07 lakh vaccine doses against Covid-19, have been administered to healthcare and frontline workers across Madhya Pradesh, according to the health department here on Thursday. The second dose of vaccine to health workers is expected to start from February 22. In the ongoing mop-up round for frontline workers, 14,103 were administered the vaccine on Thursday, according to health department report. The average vaccination target achieved was about 26%. 384 sessions were held across Madhya Pradesh on Thursday. Target covered by way of percentage was highest in Ashoknagar 58%, followed by Ratlam 48%, Dhar 47%, Ujjain 45%, Neemuch 44% and Chhatarpur 41%. In terms of vaccination doses administered, most were reported from Bhopal 1163, Indore 1149, Ratlam 801, Gwalior 723 and Dhar 699.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/6l-vaccinated-in-mp-2nd-dose-likely-from-feb-22/articleshow/81097109.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Goa||Behind Fatorda attack, a tale of illegal sand mining & drug racket||Margao: The assault on notorious criminal Anwar Shaikh two days ago has brought into sharp focus the underbelly of illegal sand mining and the drug trade in South Goa. Several of the accused in the case are known to be involved in either or both of these clandestine activities. Two known criminals suspected to be the main accused in the crime — Vale D’Costa of Tilamol and Imran Bepari of St Cruz — are still at large, police sources said. As reported by TOI earlier, police investigation has revealed that the attack on Shaikh was borne out of inter-gang rivalry over issues concerning illegal sand extraction as well as the narcotic trade. Sources familiar with the illegal sand mining trade are of the view that the failure of police and the directorate of mines and geology in cracking down on the illegal sand extraction and transportation has only emboldened the sand mafia with criminals now venturing into the trade. With the closure of iron ore mining activities, several youths from the mining belt ventured into illegal sand extraction and transportation activities. It is common knowledge that law enforcing authorities turn a blind eye to these illegal activities. And when a raid does take place, the culprits are tipped off well in advance enabling them to retreat in time to evade police action. “The illegal sand trade has now arrived at a dangerous cusp,” said a source. “While earlier there would be occasional turf wars between groups owing to business rivalry, with the entry of criminals in the trade now, extortion for ‘protection money’ has taken the trade to a dangerous proportion.” Curtorim MLA Alexio Reginaldo Lourenco had recently written to the chief minister demanding action against those involved in illegal sand trade. “It is given to understand that for rampant sand mining, suction pumps are being used freely in many Goan rivers. To be frank, any illegal extraction of sand must be treated as theft of government property and the police should file FIR on all such illegal extraction of sand and culprits should be booked,” Laurenco had said. Drug trade, sources said, is also rampant in the hinterland areas of South Goa. As reported by TOI, Shaikh is learnt to have had plans of venturing into the illegal sand business, a proposition that stood to harm the prospects of those already in the clandestine trade. D’Costa, who has a number of cases booked against him for illegal drug trade under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, was wanting to take revenge on Shaikh whom he suspected of having tipped off the crime branch leading to his (D’Costa’s) arrest in one such case nearly two months ago. Shaikh, in his complaint recorded by police, had mentioned the names of D’Costa and Ricky Hornekar, besides Bepari and Vipul Pattari of Khareband, Margao, apart from six unknown persons. While Hornekar was arrested soon after the assault on Shaikh on Tuesday, Pattari was nabbed on Wednesday. Fatorda police are on the lookout of the other accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/behind-fatorda-attack-a-tale-of-illegal-sand-mining-drug-racket/articleshow/81099747.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Researcher having roots in city receives Rs 70L grant||Ahmedabad: Gunjan Mehta, an assistant professor at IIT Hyderabad (IIT-H), has received Innovative Young Biotechnologist Award from the Department of Biotechnology, ministry of science & technology of Government of India. Mehta got his BSc degree from St Xavier’s College in Ahmedabad and completed his MSc in microbiology from the MS University of Baroda. The highly competitive award, which grants Rs 70 lakh for the period of three years, received over 950 applications, out of which 15 entries were selected. The award is granted for innovative ideas at the frontier of biotechnology. “Before joining IIT-H, I got my PhD from IIT Bombay in biosciences and bioengineering and later completed my post-doctoral research at the National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, MD, USA,” said Mehta. “My work focuses on chromosomal biology and gene regulation using advanced bio-imaging technologies. With the award, I intend to develop sophisticated technologies to understand the role of chromatin remodelers in meiotic chromosome segregation.” The field has applications for developing therapeutics to treat infertility, genetic disorders and cancers, he added. “St Xavier’s has played a major role in shaping my interest in biotechnology and inspired me to pursue research and a career in the field. I am also thankful to my family for their inspiration,” said Mehta. The cutting-edge technology can witness the cellular-level protein function. “We also intend to understand aneuploidy (presence of abnormal number of chromosomes in a cell), which is a major cause of cancer,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/researcher-having-roots-in-city-receives-rs-70l-grant/articleshow/81097113.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Goa||Govt will end goondaism: Sawant||Margao: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that the government was working towards eliminating goondaism in the state. Externment proceedings will be initiated against all such elements involved in criminal activities, he said. “The police have cracked down against gangsters involved in murders, half-murders, gang wars, etc, whether it be in Merces, Fatorda or the coastal belt. Nobody will be spared. The government has decided to extern such criminals within the next six months,” Sawant told reporters on the sidelines of a function here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-will-end-goondaism-sawant/articleshow/81099753.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Pune||Pune: Avian population soars high in forest reserve in Kondhwa post-lockdown||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: The Anand Van Forest Reserve in Kondhwa, which is home to a number of avian and reptile species, has been thriving since the lockdown. This, in turn, urged the management to think of new rules to keep it that way even after opening up the premises to the public for most of 2020. “We did not have any peacocks in 2013 and till last year there were seven. Visitors often plucked or destroyed the fruits on the trees and disturbed their habitat. But since the last few months, all the custard apples and mulberries are only being consumed by birds. Now we have 17 peacocks, the number of kingfishers, kites and grey hornbills has also increased notably, and over 50 new species can also be found. There has also been an increase in the reptile population, which, in turn, has contributed to the increase in birds,” said president Praveen Kumar Anand of the Anand Van Mitra Mandal (AVMM), a non-governmental organisation (NGO) working towards preservation of wildlife and forest hills in the city. “The reserve is currently open to the public only for two hours a day — 7am to 9am. We plan on putting up signboards requesting the public to only use the walkways and not step on the grass, to not pluck any fruits and not disturb the habitat in any way. Often, we find people jumping over the fence and entering the premises to party. Though it is banned, people also find corners to smoke or drink on the grounds. We will keep a close watch and take stringent action henceforth,” said Bhupesh Sharma, secretary of AVMM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/avian-population-soars-high-in-forest-reserve-in-kondhwa-post-lockdown/articleshow/81097110.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Two con call centres busted in city, 8 held||Ahmedabad: City police on Thursday busted two con call centres in Vastrapur and Vastral and arrested eight persons for allegedly cheating foreign nationals. In Vastrapur, police got an input that some persons were running a call centre operation at Krishna Complex in Bodakdev that was cheating US citizens. A police team reached the third floor of the building and caught seven persons allegedly running the illegal call centre. According to the FIR filed at Vastrapur police station, the centre was being run by a resident of the Jodhpur area, Saurin Rathod, and his aides Dushyant Verma, a resident of Bodakdev; Avishkar Thakur, Shreyas Sangle and Chinmay Nikam, all residents of a flat in Ramdevnagar; Sanjeev Chhetri, a resident of Bodakdev, and Chandragupt Maheria, a resident of Vejalpur. Police officers said the accused had a script and would call US citizens using a software, leaving a number asking the target to call on. When the person returned their call, they would intimidate them saying drugs were found in their car due to which their social security number would be cancelled. The accused would then extort money in bitcoin or gift vouchers and ended up getting between $2,000 and $5,000 from the targets. In Vastral, a team of the Ramol police surveillance squad received intelligence that a resident of Madhav Homes was running a one-man con call operation that was cheating US citizens. They caught one Hiren Suthar while he was making these calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-con-call-centres-busted-in-city-8-held/articleshow/81097222.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Surat||Congress cancels roadshow hours after PAAS ‘warning’||Surat: The city unit of Congress cancelled its roadshow scheduled on Friday within hours of its announcement on Thursday following ‘warning’ from Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS). The roadshow in Varachha area was to be lead by Congress state president Amit Chavda.However, Congress leaders claimed that the event was cancelled because of change in Chavda’s program at the last moment.The roadshow was to start from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s statue in Mangadh Chowk, which had become the centre of Patidar quota movement in 2015. As the Congress announced the roadshow, PAAS convener Alpesh Kathiriya released a couple of text messages on social media. Under the heading of PAAS Gujarat, one of the messages in Gujarati read “Thanks to Congress high command for accepting the challenge of PAAS. This is just the beginning, the fight will continue”. In another message, Kathiriya wrote “Patidar will remain present to welcome you at the statue”.Soon after the messages went viral on social media, Congress cancelled the rally and made the announcement. “We had challenged Congress to hold public meeting of their top leaders in Patidar areas. They tried this on the last day of campaigning hence we decided to welcome them,” said Kathiriya.City Congress president Babu Rayka said, “The roadshow has not been cancelled due challenge from PAAS. But it was put off as Chavda has been called by the high-command for some urgent work.”Meanwhile, Congress candidates continued to hold bike rallies and door to door campaign in Patidar dominated areas on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/congress-cancels-roadshow-hours-after-paas-warning/articleshow/81096261.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||NDMC launches six CNG-based compactors for waste collection||New Delhi: To curb pollution and ensure efficient collection and transportation of household waste, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) launched six CNG-based compactors on Thursday and became the first civic body in the city to introduce clean fuel-based garbage collection compactors. NDMC had been operating diesel fuel-based compactors since long. Now, the civic body will be using only four diesel compactors. “It’s a pioneering step towards green and sustainable city as it will ensure efficient collection and transportation of waste. These CNG-based compactors will significantly reduce air and noise pollution,” said NDMC chairman Dharmendra after flagging off the compactors. “These compactors have latest proven technology and burn clean fuel doing away with sulphur and particulate matter emission. These produce less noise and are cheaper than diesel vehicles. A CNG-based compactor also involves lower maintenance cost,” said the NDMC official. NDMC generates 150-160 metric tonne dry waste and 40-50 metric tonne wet waste per day along with 50 kilogram domestic hazardous waste. “These eco-friendly compactors help in proper collection and transportation of segregated waste,” said the official. In the wake of the Swachh Survekshan-2021, NDMC has already initiated an exercise to install underground bins at strategic locations. As of now, 26 underground bins have been installed and 32 more conventional dustbins are likely to be replaced in phases. Unlike conventional bins, which often give an ugly look when filled, underground bins are barely visible on roads and can be cleaned conveniently. For processing of segregated waste, NDMC has also installed organic waste converters. These converters dispose organic or wet waste collected from residential neighbourhoods, thereby removing the need to transport it to Okhla Waste Processing Plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-launches-six-cng-based-compactors-for-waste-collection/articleshow/81098923.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||‘Will soon finalise speaker poll date’||A day after governor B S Koshyari wrote to the government asking it to hold the election for the post of legislative assembly speaker as early as possible, deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal said the state will finalise the poll date and inform the governor. Meanwhile, state parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab said the governor should take a call on the 12 nominations recommended by the MVA for MLC posts before the budget session. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/will-soon-finalise-speaker-poll-date/articleshow/81098926.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh second only to Tamil Nadu in number of road accidents: NCRB||BHOPAL: According to the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) report-2019, increase in road accidents was highest in Madhya Pradesh. Overall, 53,379 road accidents were reported in MP, second only to Tamil Nadu, which reported 59,499 road accidents. Even more populous states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar reported far lesser road accidents than MP. In terms of fatalities too, MP had a very high rate, third in the country after UP and Maharashtra. A total 13,497 people died in road accidents in the state in 2019. Unfortunately, those causing deaths in road mishaps normally get away with minor punishment or no punishment at all. The prosecution directorate, which keeps track of the conviction rate in heinous crimes, doesn’t have a handy data on conviction rate in road accidents, even fatal ones. DG (prosecution), Vijay Yadav, when asked about conviction rate in fatal accident cases, said, “I will have to check, but needless to say, it should be very low.” In fact, a report based on all-India data of conviction in road accident cases reported in 2014 stated, “In 79% cases, drivers were found at fault, but only 5 to 10% of them were convicted.” The report attributed poor conviction rate to a high number of hit-and-run cases and lack of eyewitnesses and surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-second-only-to-tamil-nadu-in-number-of-road-accidents-ncrb/articleshow/81097212.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
February 19, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Only 3 districts have new cases in double digit||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh on Thursday recorded 241 new Covid-19 cases. Since the pandemic began, 2,58,574 people have been diagnosed with the infection. Two deaths were attributed to Covid-19 on Thursday, one of which was reported from Rajgarh. However, the death toll increased by two from Wednesday to 3,844. No fresh Covid-19 case was reported in 19 of the 52 districts in the state on Thursday, according to the state health bulletin. Thirty districts reported new cases in single digit. Only three reported double-digit increase. A total 193 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the count of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh to 2,52,821. With 95 new cases, Indore’s tally went up to 58,364 while that of Bhopal rose to 43,462 with addition of 48 coronavirus cases. Jabalpur reported 10 new cases of the infection. Indore has so far reported 927 deaths and Bhopal 618. Bhopal is now left with 526 active coronavirus cases while Indore has 435 such cases. With 14,576 new tests, the total number of samples tested for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh has crossed 56.32 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/only-3-dists-have-new-cases-in-double-digit/articleshow/81097224.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Chandraprakash Dwivedi to get UPSNA’s BM Shah award||Lucknow: Director and actor Chandraprakash Dwivedi, who shot to fame as the maker of India’s first televised biopic Chanakya aired in 1991, will soon be conferred with Uttar Pradesh Sangeet Natak Akademi’s prestigious BM Shah award for his work as director and performer. The 60-year-old is among several other awardees who will be conferred with UPSNA awards in the coming month. The UP Sangeet Natak Akademi (UPSNA) on Thursday announced its awards for music, dance and drama for 2020. There are 17 awards in various categories of music, dance and drama, including the prestigious Safdar Hashmi and BM Shah awards given for stage direction. Out of 344 entries, 18 have been shortlisted (11 artistes are awarded annually) to be honoured with Sangeet Natak Akademi awards and 4 for Ratan Sadasyata. Safdar Hashmi award will be given to Vipul Krishna Nagar (stage direction and performance). BM Shah award will be given to Chandraprakash Dwivedi (stage direction). Ratan Sadasyata will be given to Poornima Pandey (kathak), Ustad Yugantar Sindoor (sugam gayan), Kunwar Ji Agrawal (theatre review), and Urmila Srivasatva (folk singing). “Besides a shawl and a brass plaque, the recipients of Akademi awards and Safdar Hashmi award will be given a purse money of Rs 10,001, while the recipients of BM Shah award will be given a sum of Rs 25,000. The award ceremony is being planned in March,” said Tarun Raj, secretary, UPSNA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chandraprakash-dwivedi-to-get-upsnas-bm-shah-award/articleshow/81099785.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Retired sub-inspector and son duped of Rs 59 lakh||Ahmedabad: A 31-year-old man from Gota accused two men of duping him and his father, a retired police sub-inspector, of Rs 59 lakh by promising them a job and profit in their pharmaceutical business. In his FIR with Gujarat University police, Bhaveshpuri Bawa, a resident of Royal Residency, stated that he and his father Mahendrapuri met accused Darshan Vyas, a resident of Memnagar, and Vishal Gandhi, a resident of Adajan in Surat, in 2017. "They told us that they had a pharmaceutical manufacturing and trading firm. They promised us to give lucrative profits and permanent job if we invested in their business. My father invested his gratuity and PF amount, and I also paid money from my deposits to invest in their firm,” he told police. Bhavesh said that he paid Rs 11 lakh, his father shelled out Rs 16 lakh, and they gave Rs 3 lakh from his mother’s account into to the accused. They also paid Rs 20 lakh in cash, states the FIR. Later in 2018, they paid another Rs 9 lakh in the accounts of Vyas and Gandhi, adds the FIR. The accused employed Bhavesh as an executive in a firm named Rhythm Divine Healthcare. The retired PSI was given the job of an accountant in March 2018. A year later, the accused sacked them and did not even give them any profit, claiming that the firm did not get any business. When Bhavesh and his father demanded their money back, the accused gave cheques of varying amounts which bounced. Following this, Bhavesh approached Gujarat University police and filed a complaint of cheating, breach of trust and abetment against Vyas and Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/retired-sub-inspector-and-son-duped-of-rs-59-lakh/articleshow/81097234.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Shashwat’s knock steers Parth Academy to win||SLUG: BBD super league Lucknow: Man of the match Shashwat Pandey (67 runs, four wickets) helped Parth Academy defeat DYA by 12 runs in the Babu Banarasi Das prize money super league on Thursday. DYA opted for fielding after winning the toss at Parth Republic grounds here. Batting first, Parth Academy scored 217 runs for eight wickets in 40 overs. Opening batsman Piyush was out on zero. After that Shashwat made unbeaten 67 runs with the help of six fours and one six. Utkarsh Pandey and Pawan Kumar scored 47 and 39 runs respectively. Tanishk Verma of DYA took three wickets for 48 runs in seven overs. Abhinav Sharma, Sunil Rawat, Nishesh Singh and Sidharth took one wicket each. Chasing the target of 217 runs DYA could score only 205 runs in 38.4 overs. Opening batsman Prem Prakash scored 19 runs and Rohan Bambi scored 48 runs in 60 balls with the help of five fours. Sidharth scored 38 runs and Rishi Aryan 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shashwats-knock-steers-parth-academy-to-win/articleshow/81099828.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Jewellery store robbery solved||Mumbai: Two men were arrested for looting 60 gms of gold from a jewellery store at Charkop recently. Investigators tracked them down by following a trail of CCTV grabs. The theft was reported on February 4 at Padmavati Jewellers in Sector 4. The owner, Chetan Khicha, had kept gold jewellery in display showcases. A man entered the shop posing as a customer and asked to see some of the jewellery. He picked up 60 gms of gold and suddenly dashed out of the door where his accomplice was waiting on a motorcycle. The men fled before Khicha could react. A video clip of the robbery had gone viral on social media. The bike did not have a numberplate. The police started investigating by going through surveillance footage. They found the motorcycle abandoned at Somwar Bazaar in Malad. It turned out that the two accused had taken up a disguise and after abandoning the motorcycle, they set out in two autorickshaws. The police managed to find CCTV grabs of the route taken by one of the autos. It led them to a chawl in Malwani. One of the accused was taken into custody and led investigators to his accomplice. The accused were identified as Ravikumar Singh and Shyam Gujjar, 23. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jewellery-store-robbery-solved/articleshow/81099803.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Rajkot||24-year-old man flogged to death in Kutch village||RAJKOT: A 24-year-old was flogged to death at Gundiyali village in Kutch on Wednesday evening. Mandvi police have registered a murder case against Piyush Rajgor, Rohan Goswami and an unidentified person for killing Vinod Maheshwari. Vinod’s cousin Kishan Maheshwari told police that he had received a call from Vinod in the evening that he has been picked up by the accused and they were beating him. By the time, Kishan reached the crime scene, Vinod had died and the three accused had fled. “The three accused had asked the victim to call his cousin and inform. But why they asked him to do that and what was the motive behind the murder has not been known yet,” said a police official. Besides murder, Mandvi police have also booked all the three accused under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/24-year-old-kutch-man-flogged-to-death/articleshow/81096287.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Winner of 2 top medals wants to teach the underprivileged||LUCKNOW: The two most coveted medals of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti Language University (KMCLU) have been bagged by the same student this year. Maryam Hafeez of BA (hons) has won the chancellor’s gold medal for being the overall topper as well as the Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti gold medal, awarded to a student scoring highest in languages. She will be conferred both medals during the university’s fifth convocation ceremony to be held on March 1. Former head of the department of Hindi at Jamia Millia Islamia and noted poet-author Ashok Chakradhar will be the chief guest on the occasion. The varsity will award him the DLitt degree. The third prestigious medal, the vice-chancellor’s gold, has been bagged by BA (hons) student Rashid Khursheed Ahmed. In all, 85 medals and 482 degrees will be awarded to the students. On her feat, Maryam said, “I had never thought I would win these. It’s like a dream come true. I want to become a teacher so that I can teach underprivileged students, especially girls.” Medal winner Rashid shared that not missing classroom lectures was the key to his victory. “I have been a regular student and have never missed a single classroom lecture, which is why I scored better. Concepts learned in the classroom remain in mind forever,” said Rashid, who aspires to become a lecturer of Arabic. “I want to pursue MA from Jawaharlal Nehru University and then PhD in Arabic. The language has good employment opportunities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/winner-of-2-top-medals-wants-to-teach-the-underprivileged/articleshow/81099756.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Varanasi||Criminal puts vermilion onminor girl’s head, lands in jail||Revised Varanasi: A youth with criminal history created sensation on the busy Luxa Road in the city after he intercepted a minor girl returning home from her school and forcefully put vermilion on her forehead on Thursday afternoon. Stunned by the incident, the girl raised an alarm after which local residents caught hold of the youth and thrashed him before handing him over to the police. “On the complaint of the girl’s mother, we have lodged an FIR lodged against the youth, Sonu Prajapati, under section 294 (obscene act), 354D (stalking), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and 7/8 Pocso” said CO Dashaswamedh Awadhesh Pandey, adding that the youth was sent to jail. Pandey said that Prajapati had earlier been jailed in a similar case after getting booked under the same sections mentioned in the Thursday’s FIR. “Preventive action had also been taken against him twice and he was booked under Goonda Act,” said Pandey adding that initial investigation revealed that Prajapati had been harassing the girl and her family for a long time. An eyewitness said the girl was returning home on foot via Gurubagh-Luxa road after the end of college hours. Before she could reach Luxa crossing, Prajapati of Jadddumandi area stopped her midway. Before the girl could react, he put vermilion (powder applied on forehead by Hindu women) on her head. Shocked by his act, the girl raised alarm after which passersby and local traders caught Sonu and thrashed him till the police from Luxa police station reached there and took him under custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/criminal-puts-vermilion-onminor-girls-head-lands-in-jail/articleshow/81096802.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
February 19, 2021||Varanasi||Man shoots self on failing to pressurise girl, kin for marraige||Times News Network Varanasi: One Ishan Khosla, aged around 34, committed suicide by shooting himself with a pistol in Kailashpuri area under Mughalsarai police station in Chandauli district on Thursday after failing to pressurizing a girl and her family for marriage. Inspector Mughalsarai NN Singh said that Khosla shot himself in the presence of police personnel after threatening the girl and her family. Khosla had earlier served five-year term in jail for killing his first wife in Greater Noida in 2013. According to police, the girl’s family had sought the police help after Khosla raided their place at around 7.30am and started pressurizing the girl for marriage following which the 112 police reached the girl’s place in the morning. The police tried to take Khosla out of the home while he was arguing with the girl’s family. Angered over it, Khosla took out a pistol, said the police adding that he started threatening the girl, her family and also police. Before the police could snatch the weapon from him, Khosla shot himself and died on the spot, said Singh. His body was sent for postmortem. SP Chandauli Amit Kumar and other senior officials also reached the spot. It was found that Khosla had earlier married one Akanksha Srivastava, who was murdered in Greater Noida in January 2013. As a prime accused of his wife’s murder, Khosla was jailed for five years. After getting released on bail he had started dwelling in DDU Nagar. About a fortnight ago he had quarrelled with family of a former palika parishad chairman and attacked them with knife for which he was sent to jail and was later released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-shoots-self-on-failing-to-pressurise-girl-kin-for-marraige/articleshow/81096822.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Budget session begins amid opposition's boycott of governor speech||LUCKNOW: The budget session, the last before the next assembly election, began on Thursday amid opposition's protest against the government's handling of farmers’ agitation and deteriorating law and order situation. Most opposition parties boycotted the address of governor Anandiben Patel to the joint sitting of the houses on the opening day. As members of the Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress staged a walkout, Om Prakash Rajbhar-headed SBSP, which was part of the Yogi government till 2018, but parted ways thereafter, did not join the boycott. In her speech, the governor highlighted the achievements of the state government, especially its efforts towards the construction of the Ram temple and handling of the Covid crisis. Before boycotting the governor’s address which they described as ‘a bunch of lies’, members of the SP, holding placards against the Yogi government, raised slogans for a few minutes and then trooped out of the House. The governor completed her address of 36 pages in about 40 minutes. However, unlike previous years, this year the opposition did not create much ruckus during the address. Earlier, the SP MLAs drove down to the assembly building on tractors to highlight ‘plights of farmers’ and express their solidarity with farmers’ agitation. Instead of 11 am, the session took off at 11.07 am after the governor was given a guard of honour. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit, protem chairman of the council Manvendra Kumar Singh, principal secretaries Pradip Dubey and Rajsh Kumar Singh of the assembly and council respectively, received the governor and escorted her to the assembly. After the governor’s address when the House reassembled at 12.30 pm, the Speaker declared that the address of the governor be deemed as read out again and passed half-a-dozen ordinances promulgated earlier by the Yogi government. At around 1 pm he adjourned the House to meet again on Friday. “The government accomplished the task of starting the construction of Ram temple at his birth place Ayodhya,” said the governor in her address. Highlighting the government's Covid-control measures, she said “At present, 125 labs are working in the public sector and 104 in private to conduct Covid tests. Vaccination is also in the process to break the corona chain. It is noteworthy that in the ‘ease of doing business’ index the state has been ranked at number two in the country. Moreover, UP remains on top in the sugar, sugarcane and milk production.” The governor also highlighted how the state government has progressed in different sectors, including infrastructure. It has achieved remarkable success in strengthening health and social sectors, she said and added that the MSME sector too is recording rapid growth and exports are on the rise. Referring to the tourism sector, she said that there were immense possibilities of tourism development in Uttar Pradesh while lauding the Yogi government for undertaking initiatives to promote tourism in religious, wildlife and heritage segments. Referring to achievements made in the field of Tourism, she said, “Due to the efforts of my government, Uttar Pradesh has come from the second place in the year 2019 to the first place in the year 2020, according to the Indian Tourist Statistics, in terms of the arrival of domestic tourists from all over India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/budget-session-begins-amid-oppns-boycott-of-guv-speech/articleshow/81099921.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 19, 2021||Varanasi||Youth shoots at girlfriend, kills self in UP's Jaunpur||VARANASI: Upset after the marriage of his girlfriend was fixed with another youth, one Ankul Yadav, 24, shot himself dead after shooting the girl in Sauraiya village under the limits of Khutaha police station in Jaunpur district on Thursday. “Ankul died on the spot while the girl was referred to Varanasi for treatment due to sharp deterioration in her health condition,” said Khutahan Ïnspector Trivenilal Sen, adding that the incident took place on the outskirts of Sauraiya village when the 23-year-old girl was returning home from a school where she taught junior classes. During initial investigation, it came to light that Ankul, a native of Ghughuri Sultanpur village under Sarpataha police station area, and the girl studied in the same class in the past and they were also friends. Police said that Ankul had proposed the girl to marry him but her family members were not ready and fixed her marriage with another youth. Upset over the development, Ankul tried to kill the girl before committing suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/youth-shoots-at-girlfriend-kills-self-in-jaunpur/articleshow/81096837.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||‘Air pollution snuffed out 6,700 lives in Lucknow last year’||LUCKNOW: The hazardous air pollution due to high PM2.5 levels in Lucknow caused as many as 18 deaths per day in 2020, claims a joint study by a global environmental group and a Swiss air quality technology company. Track the pollution level in your cityIn India, the study was conducted in six metropolitan cities by Greenpeace, which after the analyses of life cost estimator and live air quality (PM2.5) data collected by IQAir, claimed that 1,19,700 deaths (13 every hour) could have been avoided in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai and Lucknow if the pollution level was below the prescribed World Health Organization (WHO) limits of 10 μg/m3 annual mean. According to Greenpeace, Lucknow suffered an estimated economic loss of Rs 8,001 crore ($1.1 billion) and 6,700 deaths in 2020 due to air pollution. Greenpeace India climate campaigner Avinash Chanchal told TOI, “The cost estimator uses real-time ground-level PM2.5 measurements collated in IQAir’s database, which includes both government and private monitoring units. The algorithm applies scientific risk models in combination with population and public health data to estimate the health and economic costs of air pollution exposure. Mortality and cost estimates represent the total impact attributable to PM2.5.” “Air pollutant levels in Lucknow remained higher than prescribed WHO limits of 10 μg/m3 annual mean. For instance, from March 24 to April 24 — peak of Covid-19 lockdown — average PM2.5 level in Lucknow was 50 which was 55.56% less than in 2019, but still exceeded WHO standard. The damage in other cities is equally worrying, with 25,000 avoidable deaths in Mumbai, 12,000 in Bengaluru and 11,000 each in Chennai and Hyderabad attributed to air pollution,” said Chanchal. “Despite recording relatively better air quality this year due to lockdown, air pollution continues to be a serious public health issue and also drastically impacts our economy. It is crucial for the government to ensure investments are made for green and sustainable solutions. When we choose fossil fuel over clean energy, we put our health at stake. Polluted air increases likelihood of deaths due to cancer and stroke, spike in asthma attacks and worsens Covid-19 severity,” he added. Globally, around 1,63,000 deaths have been attributed to PM2.5 air pollution in the five most populous cities, including Tokyo (40,000), New Delhi (54,000), Shanghai (39,000), Mexico City (15,000) and Sao Paulo (15,000), said the report released on Thursday. CEO of IQAir, Frank Hammesm said, “Breathing should not be deadly. The fact that poor air quality claimed an estimated 1,63,000 lives in five cities alone should give us pause, especially in a year when there was less air pollution due to less activity. Governments, corporations and individuals must do more to eliminate the sources of air pollution and make our cities better places to live.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-witnessed-18-die-daily-dueto-pm2-5-air-pollution-in-2020/articleshow/81099738.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 19, 2021||Kanpur||‘2 men uploaded bag in pantry,said it belonged to rly official’||Kanpur:The mystery of the trolley bag containing Rs 1.40 crore, found in the Swatantrata Senani Express train on Tuesday, deepened with the GRP stating on Thursday that two men had uploaded it in the train’s pantry after telling the pantry staff that it belonged to a senior railway official. “Fifteen minutes before the train was about to open on Monday night from Delhi railway station, two persons carrying a red trolley bag had approached the pantry staff. One among them had briefed the staff that the bag belongs to a senior railway official and would be collected at Kanpur Central or Prayagraj railway stations,” said Inspector GRP Kanpur Central Ram Mohan Rai. “Simultaneously, a call was received at Commercial Control room, wherein the caller after introducing himself to be a senior official of the division instructed the Control room staff to receive the bag from the pantry staff at Kanpur Central. The bag was finally received by a class four employee. Suspicion, however, grew when the caller again made a call and further instructed the Control room staff to hand over the bag to a man standing near the Canteen at the Cantt side of the railway station. When the staff asked about the identity of the man, he disconnected the call and refused to elaborate further in this regard,” he added. “We are now in the process of interrogating nearly a dozen staff members including manager of the pantry to ascertain the origin of the bag containing huge cash, besides also waiting for CCTV footage of Delhi railway station from where the train originates,” he said. To recall, the bag containing cash was found abandoned in the pantry of Swatantrata Senani Express heading towards Jai Nagar from Delhi and which arrived at Kanpur Central 2.51 am on Tuesday. Pantry staff had found the bag and informed them about the matter after the train arrived at Kanpur Central. Subsequently, the GRP and RPF had conducted scanning of the bag and it came to fore that it contained currency notes. Later, a search operation here to look for any suspicious person, but in vain. The police later counted the notes in denominations of Rs 500 and 100 and it amounted to Rs 1.40 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-men-uploaded-bag-in-pantrysaid-it-belonged-to-rly-official/articleshow/81096878.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Plea to re-route DTC bus from GK-II internal road||New Delhi: The Greater Kailash-II RWA has written to the Delhi government transport department to reroute DTC buses from the internal roads leading to M-Block market to the arterial Alaknanda Road. The RWA has argued that the changes are important to deal with the increasing congestion and traffic jams in the area. In a letter to transport minister Kailash Gahlot, the RWA said, “Diverting the buses will minimise traffic jams in the congested lanes and also help reduce pollution. Many residents, especially the elderly, use these lanes to buy household items, so changing the route will ensure safety to all.” Sanaj Rana, GK-II RWA president, said alternative mode of transportation was available for locals residents. “In fact, most people prefer to use their private vehicles. We floated the idea after many residents raised this demand. Some people expressed concern over commuting of their household workers, who use these buses. But we have to look at things from a larger perspective,” he added. “The problem is that along with DTC buses, even other heavy vehicles such as trucks and private buses use this route,” said Sangita Arora, secretary of GK-II RWA. The association has requested the transport department to reroute DTC buses via Savitri Road and Alakananda Road till Tara Apartments instead of the M-Block road. To avoid congestion at M-Block market, South Delhi Municipal Corporation has planned to introduce parking area management, but the project is yet to be implemented. Despite repeated attempts, Delhi government did not respond to TOI’s queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-to-re-route-dtc-bus-from-gk-ii-internal-road/articleshow/81098959.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Budget will be job-oriented & people- friendly: Fin Min||Ahead of presenting the state budget, finance minister Suresh Khanna has hinted at a people-friendly package this year. The minister, credited with reviving industrial activity in the state after the Covid-19 lockdown hit revenues severely, had headed a high-powered committee to achieve the goal. When he tables the budget for 2021-22 on Monday, he would be laying the blueprint of development plans of the Yogi government ahead of the crucial 2022 Assembly elections. Amid his busy schedule, Khanna spoke to Subhash Mishra on how the budget would impact the common man. Excerpts: Q: After a tough time last year, it was not possible to achieve every target set for the current financial year. How is this going to impact the budget? A: It is true that targets for the current financial year veered around 80%. But despite the pandemic and subsequent lockdown, our revenue recovery has been much higher than that of 2019. This has encouraged the government to plan a people-friendly budget. Q: Please elaborate on how it would be a people-friendly budget. A: It will be job-oriented. The government’s focus is on boosting economic activities and strengthening infrastructure. All these activities would help the government in creating more job avenues for the youth. The MSME sector would be a driving force for the state economy. Q: Will the CM’s dream project Ganga Expressway draw special attention? A: As I said, infrastructure would be the main theme and all big-ticket projects would get due attention. Q: Since this will be the last budget before the 2022 Assembly elections, have you included some populist schemes? A: The budget would be all-inclusive. Our aim is to ensure that benefits of developmental schemes reach the last man in the queue. Q: The Opposition has been a strong critic of your previous budgets. A: It is unfortunate that the Opposition reacts to the budget with preconceived notions and prejudices. I would expect leaders of all parties to first read the budgetary provisions carefully and then give their reactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/budget-will-be-job-oriented-people-friendly-fin-min/articleshow/81099931.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Suit filed in Varanasi to restore worship at 'ancient temple' on Gyanvapi complex||Lucknow: A suit was filed before the court of civil senior divisional judge, Varanasi, on Thursday to restore 'pooja and darshan' at an "ancient temple" which is now part of Gyanvapi Mosque complex near the Kashi Vishwanath temple. The suit was registered as a miscellaneous case and will be put up before the court concerned, said the petititoners' lawyer HS Jain. Counsel for the Committee of Management Anjuman Intazamia Masajid was present in the court from the respondents' side and sought time to file counter affidavit. "It is a title suit," said the petitioners' lawyer. Property in question is the temple complex known as "ancient temple" existing at settlement plot No. 9130 within the area of Dasaswamedh in Varanasi. The plaint has been filed through ten individuals acting as next friends of the deities within the precincts. High court is hearing a similar matter on a day to day basis. On Friday, the lawyer of the petitioners, HS Jain, would file the plea in the high court to urge that they (petitioners) should also be heard. Also, he said that the petition that was filed on Thursday was by a new one, with new reasoning , seeking new relief. The suit was filed for restoration of darshan, pooja, aarti, bhog and performance of rituals at 'asthan' of Lord Adi Visheshwar and of Goddess Maa Shringar Gauri and other deities within this temple complex. The Jyotirlinga was damaged in 1669 during the reign of Aurangzeb but other deities including Goddess Maa Shringar Gauri continued to exist within the temple complex which is claimed by Muslims to be part of the Gyanvapi mosque, the petition says. It says that the ownership of the entire property in the radius of five 'kos' vests in the Asthan Adi Visheshwar and deity is the owner of the entire land. Forcible possession of the religious place can not change the nature of the property and ownership rights of the existing deity. Petitioners pleaded that it should be declared that the property belonged to the deity. The suit was filed by Goddess Maa Shringar Gauri through next friend and devotee Ranjana Agnihotri, Asthan Lord Adi Visheshwar, Jyotirlinga in the radius of five 'kos', situated in city and district of Varanasi through next friend and devotee Jatinder Singh 'Vishen' and eight others including Jan Udghosh Sewa Sansthan, a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, in Lucknow against the Union of India, Government of UP, State of UP, District Magistrate, Varanasi, SSP, Varanasi, UP Sunni Central Waqf Board, Committee of Management Anjuman Intazamia Masajid and Board of Trustees of Kashi Vishwanath Temple. The petition said that every individual has the right to perform puja and rituals as per the tenets of his religion under Article 25 of the Constitution of India. Any obstacle in this would mean denial of one's right to religion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/suit-filed-in-varanasi-to-restore-worship-at-ancient-temple-on-gyanvapi-complex/articleshow/81099918.cms||Neha Shukla
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Govt to roll out projects forwomen, children in March||Slug: Mission ShaktiLucknow: The government will roll out projects on women empowerment, child marriage abolition and child protection and child rights in all districts from March under the Mission Shakti programme. The women’s welfare department will conduct a programme for women and adolescent girls on abolition of child marriage and women empowerment, while the child development and nutrition department will launch a programme on child protection and child rights from March 1. Meanwhile, the Jaunpur district administration held an awareness programme on Cent Kalyani Scheme for government polytechnic students on Thursday. The scheme launched by Central Bank of India offers easy loans to women for starting business. A sports competition was held at Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Rajkiya Ashram Paddhati Balika Vidyalaya in Mirzapur. Students of Bhagwandeen Arya Kanya Inter College in Lakhimpur Kheri were informed about domestic violence, crime against children, good and bad touch, POCSO Act and helpline numbers. In Badaun, the administration reached out to 65,000 residents through awareness events. Another 5,000 people attended awareness programmes in Rampur. Discussions on women security and safety were held at schools in Muzaffarnagar. In Mau, the agriculture department imparted training to 88 women in farming of cash crops, vegetable farming, kitchen gardening, value addition and food processing. The government is also running welfare programmes for destitute children through sponsorship and foster care. A government spokesperson said 271 children were rehabilitated in 2019-20 through adoption homes, while 6,800 children who had been separated from their families were rescued. In 2020, 961 destitute children were rehabilitated through adoption centres while 2,822 children in observation homes were sent back to their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-roll-out-projects-forwomen-children-in-march/articleshow/81099879.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Govt’s pandemic relief work exemplary: BJP||Lucknow: Attributing the development and progress of the state despite pandemic to the Yogi Adityanath government’s commitment to the people, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh thanked governor Anandiben Patel for highlighting the milestones achieved by UP in her address. Singh said the government conducted highest number of Covid tests in the country, increased beds in hospitals and arranged ventilators for treatment. The government also ensured safe return of over 40 lakh migrant workers to their homes from across the country during lockdown and provided ration besides arranging livelihood for them, he said. “The government sent a fleet of buses to fetch students stranded in Kota, the hub of coaching centres for medical and engineering competitions when the Opposition was busy politicising the crisis,” Singh said. Now, the government is providing free coaching to over 50,000 students aspiring for competitive exams under its Abhyudaya scheme, he added. “In previous regimes, most projects and schemes remained confined to files, but now development is visible on ground. The government is giving special attention to industrial infrastructure as a result of which projects involving investment of over Rs 3 lakh crore are being executed,” Singh said. “Setting a record of sorts, the government has made payment of Rs 1 lakh crore sugarcane dues to farmers,” he said, adding the Opposition is doing petty politics on farmers’ protest and should have listened to the governor’s address and the details of how the Yogi government has procured more wheat and paddy from farmers than previous BSP and SP regimes. Singh said the manner in which the government has cracked down on crime and criminals has strengthen people’s trust in BJP and its governance model. The people of UP will vote for us again in the 2022 assembly elections, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govts-pandemic-relief-work-exemplary-bjp/articleshow/81099842.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Allahabad||Youth brigade springs surprise,grabs top ranks in PCS results||Prayagraj: Bucking the trend this time, the youth brigade has claimed top honours in the overall merit list of PCS 2019 exam, the result of which was declared by Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) on Wednesday. Among the top 10 rank holders, nine are less than 30 years of age. Moreover, the topper Vishal Saraswat and two other candidates in top 10, are just 25 years old. Vishal’s father Shiva Prakash is priest of a temple in Mathura while his mother Rajeshwari is a homemaker. His elder brother is working in the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Vishal had appeared in PCS 2018 interview as well, but was not successful. Vishal had passed Class X in 2011, Class XII in 2013, graduated from Agra University in 2016 and completed MA Economics in 2018 after which he started preparing for PCS exam. Likewise, seventh rank holder Kunwar Sachin Singh of Jaunpur and Siddharth Pathak of Varanasi on ninth ranks are also 25 years old. 26-year-old Vikalp from Delhi has also made it to the top 10 list. Kunal Gaurav of Muzaffarpur, Bihar, who has bagged fourth rank, is 28 years old. After doing BTech in electrical engineering from IIT-BHU, Gaurav got a job in Power Grid Corporation in Bihar, but he started nurturing dreams of being in administrative services. Kunal’s father Tribhuvan Singh and mother Savita Kumari are teachers, though his father has retired now. Similarly, Yugantar Tripathi, 29, the second rank holder, is from Prayagraj and lives in Naini. His father Ravi Prakash Tripathi had retired from Railways in 2017. His elder brother Anshuman is a software engineer in Bengaluru and the other Devabrata is a scientist at Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai. His mother Madhu Tripathi is a homemaker. Priyanka Kumari, Abhishek Kumar Singh and Neelima Yadav are also 29 years old and have made it to the top 10. Dr Poonam Gautam, a 36-year-old doctor from Lucknow, the topper among women, is the only candidate who is more than 30 years. Significantly, talk of reducing the age limit in PCS has intensified in recent years. As per present norms, the upper age limit for general category is 40 years with further relaxation for reserved categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/youth-brigade-springs-surprisegrabs-top-ranks-in-pcs-results/articleshow/81095859.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Booster shot: Glitches fixed, turnout jumps to 86% in round 4 in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: As frontline workers trooped in large numbers for vaccination against Covid-19, the penultimate round of Phase-II in the city on Thursday witnessed 86% turnout, which was the highest in all the rounds held so far. Against the target of 10,428, around 8,981 frontline workers — officers and employees of civic agencies, urban development, police revenue and panchayati raj departments — took their vaccine first shots in the drive carried out at 83 booths in 20 centres. Times ViewEnthusiasm among people and better coordination between department concerned made possible the high turnout for the covid vaccination among frontline workers on Thursday. Similar efforts are required to complete vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers by the month end so that the health department can start inoculation of elderly and vulnerable at the earliest.About 45,000 frontline workers in the city will be vaccinated in Phase-II. The turnout in previous three rounds was 64% (Feb), 24 % (Feb 11) and 54% (Feb 12). However, despite the high turnout on Thursday, about 24,885 beneficiaries are still to be inoculated in Phase-I. Only a mop-up round on February 22 is left. As vaccination of all the left out beneficaries in a single day would be a mammoth task, authorities may add another mop-up round as was done in the case of healthcare workers who are being vaccinated in the Phase-I. Officials attributed the higher turnout to check on the “hesitancy factor” witnessed in the previous rounds. In fact, many beneficiaries who missed the previous rounds turned up on Thursday and were allowed through the “add-on option” in the CoWIN app. There were also fewer complaints of delay in communication, software glitch and anomalies in beneficiary lists. Most who could not take shorts on Thursday were those who were out of station or had health issues. As a result, many centres witnessed above 90% turnout. It also led to overcrowding at several centres with no social distancing and masks. District immunisation officer, Dr MK Singh, said, “This time we had ensured that every beneficiary was called twice besides sending a message to inform her/him about vaccination schedule as well as to motivate for the shot.” The UP Police Headquarters at Signature Building near Shaheed Path saw 98% attendance with 1,477 beneficiaries out of 1,500 taking the jabs. Special arrangements were made to convert some areas in the building into vaccination centres. “The turnout was high because all the staff members got information in time,” said an officer. At SPM Civil Hospital, around 702 — almost three times of the target 250 – were inoculated. “My name was not showing on the portal, but when I enquired, authorities called me for vaccination,” Pramod Kumar Yadav, posted in the security of urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon. A few also went back disappointed. Constable Alok Kumar (25), who came to RMLIMS for vaccination, was not given the shot because of health issues. “I waited for four hours in the queue, but when my turn came the doctors said I was ineligible for the vaccine. They could have told me in the beginning itself after a check up,” he said. (with inputs from Pragati Shukla, Yashita Arora, Anahita Chauhan and Niharika Ranjan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/booster-shot-glitches-fixed-turnout-jumps-to-86-in-round-4/articleshow/81099748.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 19, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Mentally challenged man hacks wife to death in her sleep||BAREILLY: A mentally challenged man allegedly hacked his wife — mother of three — to death in her sleep in Gangoli village under Faizganj Behta police station in Budaun district on Wednesday midnight. The accused woke up all of sudden at the midnight, picked a sickle and repeatedly attacked his wife in her sleep, said police. Hearing the woman’s screams, other family members rushed to their room and rescued her, but she died before getting medical attention, said police. According to police, the accused, Sukhdev, who has been undergoing treatment for mental illness for a few years, sometimes turns violent. His family members told police that they had never expected that Sukhdev would take such an extreme step. Usha Devi (43) and Sukhlal had got married about 22 years ago and the couple has three children. Three years ago, Sukhlal had met with a minor accident and later he was diagnosed with some mental illness, said police. Sukhlal often used to shout at Usha, accusing her of planning to kill him, said police Faizganj Behta police station SHO Ajay Chahar said, “We have taken the accused in our custody. He was booked for murder on the complaint of his brother-in-law. The accused has been changing his statements time after time. We are trying to gather information about his mental illness. The decision on his custody will be taken by the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mentally-challenged-man-hacks-wife-to-death-in-her-sleep/articleshow/81094366.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 19, 2021||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Cops, netas trooping into Unnao hamlet punctuate eerie silence||UNNAO: A serpentine dirt lane cutting through rows of mustard fields leads to the village in Unnao, 50 km from state capital, where two sisters were found sprawled on the ground, frothing from their mouth. Their teenage cousin is battling for life at a hospital in Kanpur. An eerie silence hangs over the village punctuated by blaring horns of police vehicles or cavalcade of netas trundling into the obscure hamlet, predominantly inhabited by Dalits. Villagers are in awe of the sudden glare, stunned by the massive deployment of policemen and long queue of politicians. “How did the girls die? Was it honour killing or suicide?” This seems to be the refrain in the village, where conspiracy theories abound in hushed tones. When one reaches the doorstep of the aggrieved families, members are in mourning. The women folk utter a few syllables before bursting into tears while district administration officials try to console them while policemen make furtive attempts to dig out the truth from family members and neighbours. “She was a brilliant student and passed her class 10 examinations last year with good grades. She wanted to be a doctor, but the pandemic forced her to stay indoors. She was jovial, disciplined and would hardly hang around with friends,” said the mother of the 16-year-old girl, who died. Her five-year-old son is still unaware about his sister’s death and believes she’s playing hide and seek and would suddenly appear from the shadows to surprise him. The mother of the 13-year-old deceased girl, said, “My daughter was obedient and would never return home late. Something tragic must have happened with her. I can’t believe she’s no more.” The family of the 17-year-old girl, who’s battling for life in hospital, is living on hope. “We are praying that she returns from hospital soon,” said her uncle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/unnaos-dalit-hamlet-in-mourning-as-cops-netas-flock/articleshow/81104377.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: 17 Tablighis booked during lockdown let off||LUCKNOW: Chief judicial magistrate, Lucknow, Sushil Kumari, has discharged as many as 17 alleged members of Tablighi Jamaat, booked during the Covid-induced lockdown -- from the various charges under IPC, Foreign Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. Passing the order on Wednesday, the court observed that there was no prima-facie evidence on record to make the accused persons stand trial in the case. Out of 17, seven are foreign nationals while ten are Indians. The foreign nationals include Idras Umar, Adekushtiwa, Samshulhadi, Imam Safi, Sarno, Hendera Simbolo, Satijo Jodisono Bedjo and Dedik Skander, all from Indonesia. The court also discharged Professor Mohd Shahid for want of evidence .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-court-discharges-17-tj-men-booked-amid-lockdown/articleshow/81099836.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Cops, netas trooping into Unnao hamlet punctuate eerie silence||UNNAO: A serpentine dirt lane cutting through rows of mustard fields leads to the village in Unnao, 50 km from state capital, where two sisters were found sprawled on the ground, frothing from their mouth. Their teenage cousin is battling for life at a hospital in Kanpur. An eerie silence hangs over the village punctuated by blaring horns of police vehicles or cavalcade of netas trundling into the obscure hamlet, predominantly inhabited by Dalits. Villagers are in awe of the sudden glare, stunned by the massive deployment of policemen and long queue of politicians. “How did the girls die? Was it honour killing or suicide?” This seems to be the refrain in the village, where conspiracy theories abound in hushed tones. When one reaches the doorstep of the aggrieved families, members are in mourning. The women folk utter a few syllables before bursting into tears while district administration officials try to console them while policemen make furtive attempts to dig out the truth from family members and neighbours. “She was a brilliant student and passed her class 10 examinations last year with good grades. She wanted to be a doctor, but the pandemic forced her to stay indoors. She was jovial, disciplined and would hardly hang around with friends,” said the mother of the 16-year-old girl, who died. Her five-year-old son is still unaware about his sister’s death and believes she’s playing hide and seek and would suddenly appear from the shadows to surprise him. The mother of the 13-year-old deceased girl, said, “My daughter was obedient and would never return home late. Something tragic must have happened with her. I can’t believe she’s no more.” The family of the 17-year-old girl, who’s battling for life in hospital, is living on hope. “We are praying that she returns from hospital soon,” said her uncle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unnaos-dalit-hamlet-in-mourning-as-cops-netas-flock/articleshow/81099728.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||UP becomes first state to conduct 3 crore Covid-19 tests||LUCKNOW: Even as new cases continue to decline in UP, the number of Covid-19 tests has been maintained like before. As a result of the same, Uttar Pradesh became the first state in the country to have conducted over three crore Covid -19 tests on Thursday. Data from the state health department showed that with 1,30,384 tests in the past 24 hours, the total number of Covid-19 tests done in the state reached 3,00,37,025. The achievement is surely remarkable considering that at the onset of the pandemic, the state had just one lab to run Covid-19 confirmation tests. Secretary to CM Alok Kumar-III, who tracks the progress of testing on a daily basis, said that the CM had expressed satisfaction over the achievement. “The CM has reiterated that the momentum on testing and surveillance has to be maintained despite decline in the number of cases. About the milestone, he expressed happiness and satisfaction,” he said and added that the credit for the feat goes to each and every personnel engaged in testing from the staff in labs to those responsible for collection and allied works. According to information from the Indian Council of Medical Research which is tracking progress of testing in the country, the total number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the country so far is 20,87,03,791. This means that UP accounts for over 14% of the total tests done in the country. Officials pointed out that there are clear instructions from the CM to ensure that an average number of 1.10-1.25 lakh tests are conducted every day across districts. Meanwhile, 81 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours. With this, the covid-19 tally for state reached 6,02,490. Of the total, 5,91,194 or 98.12% have recovered. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad reiterated the importance of following Covid-19 prevention protocol to keep any trouble at bay. To note, two persons succumbed to the complications caused by the pandemic infection in the past 24 hours taking the total number of deaths to 8,711.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-becomes-first-state-to-conduct-3cr-covid-19-tests/articleshow/81099833.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 19, 2021||Varanasi||Research on high prevalence of gallbladder, liver cancer in Gangetic belt||Times News Network Varanasi: The Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai, which runs two cancer hospitals in Varanasi -Mahamana Pandit Madanmohan Malviya Cancer Centre (MPMMCC) and Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital (HBCH), has started an extensive research to explore factors behind the high prevalence of gallbladder and liver cancer in the Gangetic belt. Talking to reporters on the second annual day on Friday, the TMC director Dr Rajendra A Badwe said that the study of gallbladder and liver cancer cases is in progress. The number of cases of gallbladder and liver cancer reported in the plains of Ganga and Brahmaputra rivers is high in comparison to other parts of the country. These types of cancer are reported in UP, Punjab, Bihar and the North East in greater numbers. “In these areas 15-20 cases are found in one lakh population, while the figure is 0.002 in Mumbai,” he said adding that the exact reason and the measures to check the occurence of thses cases will only be clear only after the outcome of the study. Meanwhile, the TMC had already started a population-based cancer registry in the district in 2017 in collaboration with the Banaras Hindu University and district health department. The Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated both the hospitals on February 19, 2019. The HBCH offers the facility of 180 beds, while the MPMMCC has the capacity of 350 beds. According to the records, since the inception of the hospitals, 34,248 new cancer patient registrations were reported from May 18, 2018 to January 31, 2021. Around 11,706 surgeries and 3,944 radiotherapies were performed in the same period. “We are committed to our objective of ‘Cancer treatment for all. Not a single cancer patient will have to discontinue the treatment due to financial restraints,” said Dr Badwe, adding that the TMC is also opening a cancer hospital in Muzaffarpur in Bihar. The MPMMCC and HBCH director Dr Satyajit Pradhan said that in 2020, when the whole world came to a standstill due to the coronavirus pandemic, not a single patient was turned away from the hospitals. Despite numerous challenges, both hospitals, not only registered more patients in 2020 than in 2019 but increased the number of patient-centric services. Data suggested that 14,438 new patients were registered in both hospitals in 2020 as compared to 12,292 in 2019. Similarly, 4,098 surgeries were performed in 2019, which rose to 6162 in 2020. He said that the number of exclusive facilities offered by the hospitals increased parallelly. Some major services launched by the hospitals in the last few months include Tovaas Surgery, Mega Prosthesis, Platelet Registry initiated by doctors, RTPCR screening of Covid to ensure hassle-free cancer treatment, amongst others. “Our aim is to provide high-quality cancer treatment to not only Varanasi and it’s surrounding districts but to Uttar Pradesh in entirety. All our doctors, support staff and top management is committed to this cause. We promise to deliver state-of-the-art cancer management programs right at the doorstep of the cancer patients,” said Dr Pradhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/research-on-high-prevalence-of-gallbladder-liver-cancer-in-gangetic-belt/articleshow/81116033.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Varanasi||Mafia taking shelter in Punjab, says BJP state chief||Gorakhpur: Lauding the Yogi government for action against anti-social elements, BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh said on Friday that “goonda-mafia elements are no longer seen on the roads of Uttar Pradesh.” Speaking as the chief guest after inaugurating the three-day Basti Mahotsav at Atal Bihari Vajpayee auditorium in Basti on Friday, Dev attacked previous state governments on the law and order front. “Unlike earlier regimes, criminals and mafia are restless in the state. Goonda-mafia elements could not be seen on the roads during Yogi government... they are allo taking shelter in Punjab,” he said. “Yogi government is bulldozing the properties of the mafias and they are leaving the state,” he elaborated. Dev said, “There is no more lathicharge on kanwar yatras. Instead, flowers are showered from helicopter.” Comparing Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Chhatrapati Shivaji, Dev said, “While Shivaji gave priority to human values, PM Modi is working for making the country self-reliant and ‘vishwa guru’. Family members of PM Modi and CM Yogi do not use government services as they understand the pain of people.” On Ram temple, he said its construction could be started due to PM Modi. Both PM Modi and CM Yogi have respect for Lord Ram, he added. Dev asked the people to pledge and not vote for those who distribute alcohol among the pople at the time of elections. He also said that poor people are getting Rs 5 lakh for treatment of serious ailments. Speaking about the vinegar of Basti, he said it has given a distinct identification to the district at global level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mafia-taking-shelter-in-punjab-says-bjp-state-chief/articleshow/81116030.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Ordinance on forced religiousconversion tabled in assembly||(Revised intro) Lucknow: The ordinance making forced religious conversion unlawful was tabled on the first day of the budget session of UP assembly on Thursday. It would be turned into an Act if passed by both legislative assembly and the council. The state cabinet had passed the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 in November making forced religious conversion punishable in Uttar Pradesh with a jail term between 1 and 10 years and a fine between Rs 15,000 to Rs 50,000. The ordinance declared conversions as unlawful if done through marriage or misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or other allegedly fraudulent means. The ordinance was promulgated in November last year after it was passed by the state cabinet. Violation of the provisions of the ordinance would invite a jail term of not less than one year, extendable to five years, with a fine of Rs 15,000. However, if a minor, a woman or person belonging to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribes communities was converted through the said unlawful means, the jail term would be a minimum of three years and could be extended to 10 years with a fine of Rs 25,000. The house was also informed that the bills provisioning 10% reservation for the economically poor upper caste and recovery of damages to public and private properties have returned to the UP assembly without undergoing any amendments by the UP legislative council last year. The bills on reservation for the economically poor upper caste and recovery of damages to public and private properties had come back to UP assembly in August last year after being taken up for discussion in the upper house of state assembly. The bill on reservation for economically poor paves way for providing 10% reservation in public services and posts in favour of those belonging to the economically weaker section in addition to the existing quota for SC/ST and socially and educationally backward classes. The bill was tabled and passed by the UP assembly on February 27 last year after the state cabinet ratified reservation for economically weaker section amongst the upper caste. Likewise, the UP recovery of damages to public and private properties bill, was passed by the UP assembly on August 22 last year. It was also returned to the UP assembly by legislative council on August 23 without making any amendment. The bill had replaced the ordinance which was promulgated by the state government in the backdrop of the protests against the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act. The bill aims at dealing with all acts of violence at public places and to control its persistence and escalation, and to provide for the recovery of damage to public or private property during strike, bandh, riots, public commotion or protests. Among other ordinances tabled in the assembly were related to UP pension and service, UP cinema (regulation) and UP sugarcane (supply and regulation) and on tenancy (regulation). The house was also informed that the bill on the UP education service tribunal, 2019, had been returned by the governor who has asked the house to reconsider it. The bill entails setting up a specialized education service tribunal – with jurisdiction over all districts -- at Lucknow. Similarly, the UP Industrial Disputes (amendment) bill, 2017, provisioning direct access for the workman in the labour court or tribunal in case of disputes arising out of Section 2-A pertaining to retrenchment, discharge, dismissal or termination of services has also been returned by the governor for reconsideration of the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ordinance-on-forced-religiousconversion-tabled-in-assembly/articleshow/81099858.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||ED to move HC for extending Prajapati’s custody||Lucknow: The zonal unit of Enforcement Directorate (ED) will move high court for extending the custody of former cabinet minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati on Friday. ED said it was forced to move court because the local court rejected its demand of extension of the four-day custody of Prajapati, who was under ED custody for seven days from February 11 to 18. Joint director, ED Lucknow zone, Rajeshwar Singh told TOI that Prajapati was confronted with documents including election affidavits, property sale purchase deeds, income tax returns, bank account statements and others of several properties in his name but he did not provide complete details and particulars. Hence, an extension was needed. “We have moved high court challenging the lower court order to further extend Prajapati’s custody by four days,” he said. Another ED official said that in investigations of money laundering offences, most of the vital facts are within the special knowledge of the accused and the same can only be deciphered by the accused through his special knowledge. To identify the proceeds of crime pumped into acquiring several immovable and movable properties, the presence of the accused seems warranted for their proper identification and need for further extension arises, ED said. The special judge of PMLA court had in his order stated that there is no good ground to justify ED custody. It also stated that seven days in ED custody were enough.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-to-move-hc-for-extending-prajapatis-custody/articleshow/81099752.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||After Ayodhya, govt to focus on airstrip & airport in Chitrakoot||Lucknow: After initiating the construction of a full-fledged airport in Ayodhya, the state government has decided to accelerate the expansion of airstrip and construction work of the airport terminal at Chitrakoot, the place where Lord Ram is believed to have spent part of his 14 years in exile. Situated on the Madhya Pradesh border amidst the Vindhyachal mountain range, the Chitrakoot airport is proposed to have a table-top runway. “The airport, to be built on approximately 260 acres of land, will be expanded with a 1475 metre long and 23 metre wide runway. The work on the new terminal, apron, air traffic controller and a car parking is going on in full swing,” a government spokesperson said. The government has already issued Rs 50 crore out of the allocated Rs 92 crore for the project. The development of Chitrakoot airport is projected to spur religious tourism in the state besides lending a push to the development of Bundelkhand region. Sources said the department of civil aviation plans to connect Prayagraj and Kanpur with air services from Chitrakoot under the regional connectivity scheme. Secretary, civil aviation, Surendra Singh said, “The state government has already made airports in Prayagraj, Kanpur, Hindon and Bareilly operational, while the ones in Azamgarh, Aligarh, Chitrakoot, Moradabad, Sonbhadra, Shravasti, Ayodhya, Kushinagar and Saharanpur (Sarsawan) are under construction and will be operational soon.” He said flights from Bareilly and Pantnagar to Prayagraj are also likely to start in the near future. The government also plans to take up the development of airports in Meerut, Jhansi and Ghazipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-ayodhya-govt-to-focus-on-airstrip-airport-in-chitrakoot/articleshow/81099874.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Rajkot||Kutch’s Jurassic history lures int’l attention||Rajkot: The historical Kanthkot hill and Trambu riverbed in Kutch are rich repositories of geological, historical and cultural history, demanding stringent preservation of the embedded heritage for posterity. A paper in an international general published by the Kutch university’s department of earth and environment science and central university of south Bihar’s department of geology under the school of earth, biological and environment science proposed to recognize these two sites as the first ‘Jurassic Geopark’ of Kutch basin. The paper argued that the recognition will help in developing geo tourism as well as protecting the rich past.The paper elaborates on the proposed geosites’ significance in scientific, educational, and geotourism aspects and lists the factors like palaeontology, sequence stratigraphy, sedimentology, volcanism, structures, and geomorphology to act as great attraction for people interested in historical, geological and India’s cultural heritage. The paper published in ‘International Journal of Geoheritage and Parks’ also urged the authorities to treat the area as a world heritage site looking at it spatial importance.According to geologists, documentation of Trambau riverbed as well as Kanthkot fort hill sections will provide an opportunity to study the upper Oxfordian to early Kimmeridgian sediments. Middle oxfordian and younger sediments here lie exposed for hundreds of square metres in the gently dipping dry riverbed and also on the Kanthkot fort that is spread in 1.91sqkm area.Trambau river bed and the Kanthkot fort hill preserve both marine to terrestrial Jurassic biodiversity and geomorphosite, respectively with early cretaceous volcanism. According to geologists, Jurassic sediments of Kutch mainland uplift are of middle Jurassic to late cretaceous era. Professor M G Thakkar head of department of environment science, Kutch university said, “The conversion of unique sites into Geopark is not solely for scientific purposes but also for education, tourism, and preservation of natural geoheritage. This will, in turn, help boost the local economy. Basic awareness and professional training to tourist guides, village leaders, and school teachers will help protect the invaluable geoheritage of Kutch together with the efforts of local geologists.” Thakkar further said that important fossils like ammonites, belemnites, brachiopods, and some vertebrates with impressive figures can be added to the handicrafts’ motifs like stitches and mud works for better dissemination of information.The paper suggests setting up of large tableau of Jurassic fossils of Kanthkot and Trambau to attract tourists has been implemented at Dholavira Fossil Park besides forming a management plan for the geosites’ conservation with minor logistical efforts. The head of archaeological department of Kutch university, Subhash Bhanderi said, “We believe that if the these geosites are protected, then the sites can be used for educational purposes in geology, including sedimentology, sequence stratigraphy, palaeontology, igneous landforms, tectonic geomorphology etc. With professional training to locals, geotourism can achieve self-sustainability and help generate employment avenues locally.”This geologists’ team comprised Suraj Bhosle, Ketan Chaskar, Dhrendra Kumar Pandey, Abhishek Lakhote, Adarsh Thakkar and Gaurav Chauhan of Kutch university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutchs-jurassic-history-lures-intl-attention/articleshow/81096316.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Cow gulps papaya from cart, fruit vendor stabs it in abdomen & limb||Navi Mumbai: A fruit vendor was arrested for allegedly stabbing a cow with a knife in the abdomen and limb after the bovine gulped down a papaya from the fruit cart at Murud in Raigad on Tuesday. The vendor, Taufiq Bashir Mujawar (35), has been arrested. The cow was treated for injuries. It was given injections to stop the bleeding and the wound was bandaged to prevent infection, said constable Suresh Waghmare of Murud police station where a complaint was lodged by the cow owner. Mujawar was produced in a magistrate’s court on Wednesday.  —George Mendonca||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cow-gulps-papaya-from-cart-fruit-vendor-stabs-it-in-abdomen-limb/articleshow/81072775.cms||George Mendonca
February 19, 2021||Nashik||Police permission a must for events in Nashik city||Nashik: The city police have made it mandatory for organisers of big events like agitations and sports tournaments to seek their permission, failure to do which will mean legal action. The move, to prevent large gatherings, comes in the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city. “The order will be in place for a long duration. If need be, it could even remain in force for the next one year. Orders have been issued under section 36 of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951,” deputy commissioner of police (Zone 1), Amol Tambe, told TOI on Thursday . Police have also directed different mandals in the city to seek their permission to celebrate Shiv Jayanti on Friday. Like other parts of the state, Nashik celebrates Shiv Jayanti in a grand manner every year on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Programmes like rallies, accompanied by dhol-tasha groups, are organised. Police officers said that as per the state government directive, mandals have to ensure that the gathering at Shiv Jayanti programmes should not exceed 100 people. Moreover, mandals will have to give in writing that they would be adhering to Covid safety protocols, including wearing of masks, maintaining social distance and use of sanitisers during celebrations. A large number of police personnel will be deployed in view of the Shiv Jayanti celebrations, said the officers. “Police will ensure that there are no large gatherings during the Jayanti celebrations. Moreover they will keep an eye to prevent any untoward incident,” added the officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-permission-a-must-for-events-in-nashik-city/articleshow/81097251.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Woman strangulates husband over tiff, held||New Delhi: A 24-year-old woman was arrested for allegedly strangulating her husband following an argument over sending money to their son, who lives in Bihar with his maternal grandparent. The man, Om Prakash Kumar, was killed at his house in south Delhi’s Mandi Village using a dupatta on Monday. Police received a call about the incident from Safdarjung Hospital at 8am claiming that a man was admitted by his wife Sunita and was declared brought dead. Ligature marks on the neck suggested that he was strangled to death, following which a case of murder was registered. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said, “Technical evidence did not reveal much. It was established that the couple was alone at home on the night when Kumar was killed. On this, Sunita was called for questioning, who later confessed to have killed him,” Thakur said. She told police that she often had arguments with him over giving monthly expenses to her son. “She said in the heat of the moment, she used her dupatta and strangled him to death. She was arrested and sent to judicial custody,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-strangulates-husband-over-tiff-held/articleshow/81098981.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Bldr, three civic officials held for Jilani bldg crash||Kalyan: Nearly five months after the Jilani building crash in Bhiwandi claimed 38 lives, Narpoli police on Thursday arrested four persons, including the builder, and three officials of the Bhiwandi-Nizampura city municipal corporation for inaction and negligence. The accused have been identified as builder Mohammed Mukhtar Fandole, assistant municipal commissioner Sudam Jadhav, beat in-charge Sunil Vagad and clerk Praful Tambe. The accused face charges under IPC sections 304 (2) (act done with knowledge that it is likely to cause death, but without intention to cause death), 337 (causing hurt by rash or negligent act that endangers human life or safety) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act that endangers life). On September 21, 2020, 38 people were killed and 23 others injured after Jilani building at Patel compound in Bhiwandi collapsed. It was the highest ever toll in a building collapse in the powerloom town. After the incident, the BNMC had carried out an internal probe. Two civic officials, including Sudam Jadhav, who has been arrested, were suspended after the probe pinned responsibility on them for not taking action against the builder as notices had been issued to him to get the dilapidated structure vacated. The police carried out a probe too. During investigation police found the civic body had issued notices to Fandole who had been asked to conduct a structural audit of the building by the land owner, Sayed Jilani. The structural audit revealed the building was unsafe but Fandole did not carry out repairs. Jadhav, who was the ward officer, was held responsible for failing to evacuate the building and demolish the dangerous structure. “The probe has revealed that since the structure was old, the civic body had issued a notice calling for a structural audit of the building which later revealed it was unsafe. The builder did not repair the structure and civic officials did not vacate the building and demolish it, which resulted in the collapse,” said senior inspector Maloji Shinde. Bhiwandi sessions court remanded the four accused to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bldr-three-civic-officials-held-for-jilani-bldg-crash/articleshow/81098980.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||No BMC nod yet, but schools start offline exams, activities||MUMBAI: Though there are no instructions from the BMC on allowing schools to hold classroom examinations unless mandated by the educational boards, several schools have started sending students consent forms for offline exams. Parents also claimed schools are calling students across various grades, and not just those taking the board exams, in small batches for remedial teaching, practicals, viva and exam preparation. On January 12, the civic body issued a circular stating schools affiliated to Cambridge international board can hold board examinations. For other schools, the BMC has permitted board exams to be conducted. Times ViewLack of clarity from the authorities has caused confusion among schools and parents with some using loopholes to circumvent the rules. If Covid-19 cases continue to increase, local authorities, empowered to decide on reopening of schools, must come up with an action plan to ensure students appearing for the boards do not lose out as compared to their peers in other cities where physical classes resumed in November 2020.Recently, an ICSE-affiliated school from the western suburbs sent out consent forms for class X students to attend offline examinations starting March 1. The form requires parents to give permission and states they will not hold the school responsible for any unforeseen incident. “A lot of parents are protesting the decision to hold offline classes, but the school isn’t giving us a choice. We have submitted our consent,” said a parent on condition of anonymity. Similarly, at another school in Kandivali, students of class IX were asked to select between online or offline exams. “We were given an option, but the school has stated for students taking online exams, the academic year will be extended by 10 days. This resulted in a lot of parents opting for the offline mode under pressure,” said a parent. The parent said offline examinations began on Thursday. However, the school principal remained unavailable for comment despite repeated attempts. A few more junior colleges too have informed students about imminent offline examinations. “Parents have told us some schools have been calling them to send their children for sports activities, offline exams (not mandated by board), teacher guidance etc. when we don’t have permission from BMC yet,” said Francis Joseph, member of the School Leaders Network, a group of educationists. Many principals said they were being pressured by parents. “There are many schools in low-income areas which are not able to continue online learning for all students. With the board examination dates announced, parents are panicking students will not be able to cope and their performance will be impacted. While we have yet not allowed students to come to school, several in the vicinity have,” said Prashant Redij, principal, Hilda Convent High School and member of Mumbai Principals’ Association. BMC education officer, Mahesh Palkar, did not respond to calls or messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-bmc-nod-yet-but-schools-start-offline-exams-activities/articleshow/81102408.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 19, 2021||Lucknow||Jhunsi author’s poem on Lord Ram finds place in global poetry collection||Prayagraj: A poem penned by a Jhunsi-based poet Brijendra Pratap Tiwari alias Vijayanand ‘Rama ka avatar na hota’ has found a place in Ram Kavya Piyush, a global poetry collection dedicated to Lord Ram in America. There are compositions of 123 poets from 13 countries in the famed collection. These poets include 69 poets from India and 54 from Australia, Canada, Kenya, America, Netherlands, Singapore, Trinidad, Saudi Arabia and England. The editor-in-chief of this first edition of Ram Kavya Piyush is Omprakash Gupta who hails from the city of Houston, US. This compilation has been published from Ram Charit Bhavan of America. The work represents harmony of all religion across the world. “In a world where people have different beliefs about religion, compiling poems written on Lord Ram by his followers in Rama Kavya Piyush displays harmony among all religions,” says Vijayanand. It also has two poems in English and one in Bengali, he added. He said all the compositions titled Priya Ram, Usme Tera Naam Nahi, Ram Kaun aur Kahan, Mere Mann Basse Ram, Maryada ke Path have been included in the collection. Vijayanand said online poetry recitation was conducted thrice during the corona period by Ram Charit Bhavan of the US. In it, more than 300 poets of the world recited their poems on Lord Ram and Ramayana. The outstanding works of 123 poets were included in compilation of this work. Vijayanand has published 78 books in various genres of literature. He has been awarded with two honours from Uttar Pradesh Hindi Sansthan, including the Bharatendu Harishchandra award from Hindustani Academy. “Few lines of one of my poem reads…Lanka Jeetkar bhi Ramji haare hue aate. Laxman, Sugriv, Hanuman hath pasaare hue aate, agar Ravan Sita ko surakshit rakh nahi paate, to Lanka kya Ayodhya tak mann maare hue aate”, says the litterateur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jhunsi-authors-poem-on-lord-ram-finds-place-in-global-poetry-collection/articleshow/81114929.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Pune||Strain with antibody-escape mutation found in four Amravati patients||PUNE/NAGPUR: Experts from the Pune-based BJ Medical College and Sassoon Hospital have detected the E484Q mutation in coronavirus samples drawn from four randomly selected Covid patients in Amravati. The mutation, located in the virus' spike protein region, helps it evade neutralizing antibodies and is similar to the E484K mutation detected earlier. The coronavirus strain with this specific alteration cannot be neutralized with existing virus-specific antibodies seen in recovered patients. The experts also found the N440K mutation in positive samples of four patients from Yavatmal. But they are yet to evaluate the significance of this mutation in terms of antibody-escape capacity. "The strain found with E484Q and N440K mutations belongs to the 'Clade A2' lineage of SARS-CoV-2, which is prevalent in India and Brazil. These mutations should not be confused with the mutations seen in the UK or South African strains," said Rajesh Karyakarte, head of the microbiology department at the state-run B J Medical College and hospital. Virologist Raman Gangakhedkar said, "The mutation seen in the Amravati samples is certainly a matter of concern. We must boost contact tracing by tracking all contacts of the patients. They have to be isolated, tested and treated. Immediate containment can curb the spread of the mutated strain." Karyakarte said BJ Medical College was asked to carry out the genome sequence of positive samples from Amravati, Yavatmal, and Akola after the districts reported spikes in daily cases. Health officials in Amravati and Yavatmal said they were not aware of the new findings. Rajkumar Chavan, divisional deputy director of health services for Akola division, which includes both Amravati and Yavatmal, said, "We have not received any report about a mutated strain in Amravati and Yavatmal so far. We were asked to send samples to Pune for sequencing after the sudden surge. And civil surgeons from Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola sent them last week. The reports are yet to come in." Amravati has people who returned from South Africa recently. "We have already tested them. Their close contacts are now being traced," said civil surgeon Shyamsundar Nikam. He added, "We sent five more samples for genome sequencing to Pune on February 17 and their reports are awaited." A majority of Covid patients admitted recently in Amravati have had mild to moderate illness, Nikam said. In Yavatmal, civil surgeon Tarangtushar Ware said they too have not received a report of specific mutations in circulation. “We are taking precautions because the number of infected patients has surged. Tracing and testing have been increased across Yavatmal,” Ware said. Out of 620 people tested over the last 24 hours, 237 have tested positive in Yavatmal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strain-with-antibody-escape-mutation-found-in-four-amravati-patients/articleshow/81098965.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Delhi court seeks status of chargesheets||NEW DELHI: Taking a strong note of non-filing of chargesheets by the investigating officers (IOs) despite being forwarded by a senior officer, a Delhi court has sought filing status of chargesheets forwarded in the last three years and said it would definitely “unearth many hidden ghosts” (files) and “wake many souls (IOs) from slumber”. Non-filing of chargesheets despite being forwarded by a senior officer amounted to undermining the hierarchy and discipline of service, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dl-court-charge-sheets-delhi-court-seeks-filing-status-of-charge-sheets-forwarded-by-senior-officers-in-last-3-years/articleshow/81098995.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Rajkot||Liquor dens busted on grabbed land||Rajkot: Amreli police on Thursday invoked PASA (Prevention of Anti-Social Activities) Act against four, including two women, after they were booked under the new anti-land grabbing Act last month. The accused were found manufacturing country-made liquor on the encroached land of Chittal village in Amreli. Last month, the police had raided the liquor factory after it got an application from Vohra Yusufali, his sister Asmita and his brother Mohammadbhai alleging that their non-agricultural land was allegedly grabbed by four persons. The police had booked Ramji Charola, Ganguben Manduriya, Mukesh Charola and Shobha Vaghela under the new anti-land grabbing Act. P B Lakkad, police sub-inspector of Amreli taluka police station said, “Looking into the severity of the offence we had requested the district magistrate to invoke PASA against the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/liquor-dens-busted-on-grabbed-land/articleshow/81096364.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Nashik||Tests increased in Malegaon as Covid cases rise||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare, who visited Malegaon on Thursday, expressed concern over the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the textile town, which had earned praise during the outbreak for carving out a ‘Malegaon pattern’. The Covid situation in Malegaon, which was once the hotspot of Covid-19, had shown a marked improvement. Mandhare was speaking at a meeting at the Malegaon Municipal Corporation, where the heads of all the departments were present. “The local enforcement authorities have been already been told to take action againt those who fail to adhere to the Covid-19 safety protocols,” said Mandhare. Compared to the single-digit cases being reported per day and the active cases tally standing at 25, Malegaon is now reporting 20 cases per day on an avergae with the active case count hovering in the range of 35. A 69-year-old woman succumbed to the infection on Sunday. The last time a fatality from the infection was reported was on December 29. Nitin Kapadnis, the deputy commissioner of Malegaon Municipal Corporation, said, “ The death was that of a comorbid person.” Around 120 Covid tests are being conducted in the textile town. “Since the staff is now busy with routine immunization programmes, it will be difficult for us to increase the testing. However, the throat swab sample of every person coming to the testing centre will be collected and processed,” Kapadnis said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tests-increased-in-malegaon-as-covid-cases-rise/articleshow/81097297.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: You can check all info on civic bypolls on a mobile app||NEW DELHI: Voters in the five municipal wards where byelections are scheduled to take place on February 28 will be able to check their names in the voters’ list and get details about their polling booths on their smartphone itself. The state election commission has launched an Android application for the purpose. An official said that “Delhi Nigam Chunav” application would help citizens find names in electoral rolls, file complaints, locate their polling stations on maps, and also, know about candidates and their affidavits. The application will be used to disseminate live counting of votes and results as well, the official said. “Information on ‘waiting time’ at a queue will be provided to ensure that crowding does not happen during voting. This feature has been added in the wake of the Covid pandemic.” “Those who are at higher risk should be advised by candidates and political parties to take extra precautions and such people should also stay away from crowded meetings and rallies,” said another official. A total of 327 polling stations will be set up and the number of electors at each polling booth will be 1,000. The guidelines state that there will be thermal checking and handwashing provisions at the entry points and the voters will have to sanitise their hands before touching an EVM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/you-can-check-all-info-on-civic-bypolls-on-a-mobile-app/articleshow/81099014.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Rajkot||SIT to probe Rs 76 crore cheating by Bhavnagar firm||Rajkot: Bhavnagar range IG, Ashok Kumar Yadav, on Thursday constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe allegations of Rs 76.55 crore fraud against a Bhavnagar-based firm. As many as 98 people have claimed that the firm, My Money Solution (MMS), with its office near Surabhi Mall, had duped them of lakhs of rupees by promising them better returns with investment in stock markets. The SIT will be led by Dy SP A M Sayyed and will comprise local crime branch inspector V V Odedara and in-charge police inspector of Nilambaugh police station, N G Jadeja.Police said that the allegation of fraud was first reported by Hasmukh Viradiya (43), based on which the Nilambaugh police had registered an FIR against five persons on Wednesday night. The accused include partners in MMS company Chirag Mehta, Chirag Trivedi, Jaydeepsinh Gohil, Upen Joshi, and Surpalsinh Gohil. They have been booked for cheating, breach of trust and criminal intimidation.In his complaint, Viradiya said that he had been investing in MMS company since its inception in 2014. However, after the death of one of its founding partners, Indrajitsinh Gohil (accused Surpalsinh’s son) in January 2021, he had stopped receiving the monthly payments for his invested money.MMS invested money collected from its clients in the stock market and used to pay them profit every month. However, in December 2020, the company could not make payments to its investors. When the investors met Indrajitsinh (37), he said that they were currently facing financial crunch due to Covid-19 pandemic, but assured them that he would make payments next month. However, Indrajitsinh died of Covid-19 in January 2021. After this, the company stopped making payments totally to its investors.When the investors met the other partners, they refused to take responsibility of the payments and said that since all transactions were handled by late Indrajitsinh, they were unaware of the operations. Indrajitsinh’s father Surapalsinh, who is also one of the partners in MMS company, had even allegedly threatened some of the investors if they demand money from him.Following this Viradiya approached the police. And so far, total 98 people who had invested in MMS company have approached the police. They claimed the company partners owed them a total of Rs 76.55 crore.Police said that the figure of Rs 76.55 crore was only from investors from Bhavnagar. The company had similar schemes running in Rajkot, Ahmedabad, Amreli, Junagadh and Botad, which will push the figure of what company owes its investors manifolds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sit-to-probe-rs-76-crore-cheating-by-bhavnagar-firm/articleshow/81096397.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Goa||Tough task for weakened Goa in one-dayers||Panaji: The Goa squad for the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament to be held in Surat will be a weakened one. For a start, there is no coach Dodda Ganesh who has resigned citing health issues, while former India pacer and professional recruit, Ashoke Dinda, retired from all forms of cricket following an injury during the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament last month. Though Dinda made little impact during his short stint, Goa will miss out on a professional player. Team sources, though, believe it is coach Ganesh's strategies that helped the team during last year’s Ranji Trophy campaign and Syed Mushtaq Ali, where they finished fourth in the group. “There is no doubt he devised plans and got players to execute it well, but we trust Ninad Pawaskar (batting coach) and Rahul Keni (fielding). They will step in for him,” said Goa Cricket Association secretary Vipul Phadke. With Ganesh resigning, GCA asked Prakash Mayekar, director of coaching and cricket operations, to accompany the team to Gujarat, along with Pawaskar and Keni. Goa have been drawn in Group A along with Baroda (February 20), Gujarat (Feb 22), Chhattisgarh (Feb 24), Tripura (Feb 26) and Hyderabad (Feb 28). Goa will have to watch out for Smit Patel, who left for Baroda after playing a season with Goa. They will face the U-19 World Cup winner in the opener on Saturday, and although Smit's replacement, Eknath Kerkar, has proved his worth, Goa will be wary of Smit's attacking batting. “Cricket is a team game and our focus will be on the overall team and not just one individual. There are 10 other players who can take the game away from us. We are focused on our players and performance," said Mayekar. Players like Snehal Kauthankar, Aditya Kaushik, captain Amit Verma are all capable of playing big innings, while Goa have a good pace attack and plenty of allrounders. "There is no doubt that we are a talented bunch. Snehal and Aditya are due for a big one. Darshan, Amulya are both allrounders. Eknath has been scoring runs. We have confidence in our boys to do well," said Mayekar. Suyash Prabudessai, who has now been picked up by Royal Challengers Bangalore, sparkled in T20s with his batting skills for Goa. The 23-year-old is one to look out for, while pacers Lakshay Garg and Felix Alemao have been the backbone of Goa's attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tough-task-for-weakened-goa-in-one-dayers/articleshow/81118081.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Nashik||NMC acts against those not wearing face masks||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), taking the serious cognisance of rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city, on Thursday started a drive against the erring citizens for not wearing masks in public and crowded places. Over 100 people along with some fruit vendors and shop owners were fined Rs 200 each for not wearing masks. The NMC said they have recovered around Rs 20,000 from those flouting norms. The civic body has again started implementation of ‘No Mask, No Entry’ in the city and has appealed to shopkeepers to not allow people inside their shops if they are not wearing masks. The NMC has activated its six teams at divisional levels for stricter implementation of Covid-safety guidelines like wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing at vegetable markets and other crowded public places in the city. “As per civic chief Kailas Jadhav’s directives we have started taking action against erring city residents, traders and shopkeepers. On the very first day, we slapped fine on erring city residents as well as traders who were found not wearing masks,” Kalpana Kute, director of NMC’s solid waste department, said. “There has been a rise in Covid-19 cases during the last few days. Hence, we all need to take all precautions like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and using sanitizers or washing hands frequently. But a section of the city residents are not following the safety measures to prevent Covid-19,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-acts-against-those-not-wearing-face-masks/articleshow/81097395.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Drunk tempo driver abuses, shoves Kalyan cops, nabbed||Kalyan: The Mahatma Phule police in Kalyan have arrested a 42-year-old man for abusing and pushing traffic policemen under the influence of alcohol. The arrested tempo driver, Gokul Padghan, verbally abused traffic cops and also pushed them after his tempo was intercepted. The incident took place at Mahtma Phule chowk near Kalyan railway station at 10.30 pm. A routine check for drinking and driving was underway and the traffic police had stopped the tempo driven by the accused. Police seized the vehicle after a breathalyser test revealed that Padghan was driving under the influence of alcohol that was way above the permissible limit. “When the accused was taken to the traffic police station, he started abusing cops and even pushed traffic staff Prakash Jadhav by holding his collar,” said Sukhdev Patil, in charge of the Kalyan West traffic police station. The traffic cops have recorded video footage of the incident in which Padghan can be seen abusing and clutching the collar of one of the staff. —Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drunk-tempo-driver-abuses-shoves-kalyan-cops-nabbed/articleshow/81099031.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 19, 2021||Nashik||Nashik to get new garden coming fiscal||Nashik: The civic administration has planned a new garden in the Chunchale area of the city for which a financial provision of Rs 3 crore has been made in the budget of the next financial year. Moreover, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has also planned to renovate the existingVasant Kanetkar garden in Satpur division of the city at a cost of Rs 4.79 crore. Both the new garden and the renovation of Kanetkar garden are to be completed in the next financial year. The flower festival, that is organised by the NMC in February every year, was not held this year on account of the Covid-19 outbreak. However, municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav said that the flower show would be held in February 2022 and adequate financial provision has been made in the budget for the purpose. Meanwhile, the garden department of the civic body has planned plantation of 18,000 trees — with 3,000 trees being planted in each division. So far, the garden department has planted around 8,000 trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-to-get-new-garden-coming-fiscal/articleshow/81097453.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||Garia-Airport Metro breaks Avishikta jinx||Kolkata: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) has decided to do away with the proposed Ruby flyover arm turning right at Avishikta crossing into Prince Anwar Shah connector, removing a complication in the New Garia-Airport Metro corridor. Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL), which is implementing the New Garia-Airport Metro, can now start construction of the staircase to access the Kavi Sukanta Metro station coming up at the crossing. RVNL has already commenced work on entry and exit to other stations on the 5km priority section of the 32km corridor but work on Kavi Sukanta Metro station had been held up due to the complication over the design of the proposed flyover. KMDA’s infrastructure committee has proposed that the arm turning right at the Avishikta crossing should be eliminated. Consultancy firm RITES, appointed by KMDA to prepare the flyover’s DPR, too, has written to the authority that it was best to give up the right-turning arm of the flyover. RVNL has been chasing an internal deadline of this year’s December to complete Phase 1 or the stretch between the Ruby crossing (Hemanta Mukherjee station) and New Garia (Kavi Subhas station). Even as track-laying started in some parts of the viaduct,there is a 120m gap at the Avishikta crossing that RVNL has now started filling up. Two piers — P110 and P111 — will have to be constructed to build the 120m viaduct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/garia-airport-metro-breaks-avishikta-jinx/articleshow/81097455.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 19, 2021||Rajkot||Sikligar gang members held, valuables worth Rs 6L recovered||Rajkot: Junagadh police arrested two history-sheeters of Sikligar gang on Thursday who had targeted an elderly woman as key makers around 10 days back. Police had received information that the two accused Parbat Singh Sikligar and Amrut Singh Sikligar are roaming around in Junagadh looking to target another house. Based on the tip-off cops were on watch and nabbed them on Thursday. The two thieves were found in possession of six gold bangles and a necklace worth Rs 6.2 lakh. They admitted that they had stolen the valuables from the safe of the house of an elderly woman near Junagadh bus-stand. “They had come to Junagadh from Surat around two weeks ago and were working as key makers. Around 10 days back they went to the woman’s house to make the key of her house and they told her that they will also make key of her safe,” said deputy superintendent of police Pradeepsinh Jadeja. Under the pretext of making key of the safe, they stole the jewellery and fled.During interrogation, Parbat Singh admitted of committing 16 thefts in Surat, Rajkot and Maharashtra while Amrut Singh told cops that he was involved in four thefts in Surat, Vadodara and Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sikligar-gang-members-held-valuables-worth-rs-6l-recovered/articleshow/81096428.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Foundation stone laid for new office of Delhi Legal Metrology department||NEW DELHI: Foundation laid for new office of legal metrology department: Food and Supply minister Imran Hussain on Thursday laid the foundation for a new office complex of the legal metrology department at Vishwas Nagar. The new building, which proposes to have state-of-the-art scientific labs, is being constructed by PWD at an estimated cost of Rs 5.92 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dl-metrology-new-office-foundation-stone-laid-for-new-office-of-delhi-legal-metrology-department/articleshow/81099020.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||Partial closure of Ambedkar bridge from tonight||Kolkata: The long-pending load test of Ambedkar bridge near Science City on EM Bypass will start on Friday. Unlike the previous load tests in other bridges that were completely shut down for the exercise, the Ambedkar bridge will be partially shut down with the load test being carried out in two phases. “The eastern flank used by Ruby-bound traffic will be shut around 11pm on Friday and opened around 5am on Monday. The western flank used by Science City-bound traffic will be tested later,” an official said. During the first phase, the western flank can be used by traffic plying in both directions. Police will set up guardrails in the middle to split the flank in two halves to minimise chances of an accident as traffic plies in opposite direction,” said DC (traffic south), Atul V. “There are certain logistics and other issues that need to be taken into account. It is to be seen how the machinery equipment can be brought and employed for some time to conduct the test as one part of the bridge will remain open to motorists,” said a senior KMDA official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/partial-closure-of-ambedkar-bridge-from-tonight/articleshow/81097509.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Nashik||293 recruits of MIRC put up impressive show during passing out parade||Nashik: The Mechanised Infantry Regimental Centre (MIRC), Ahmednagar, on Thursday attested 293 recruits at an impressive passing out parade at Akhaura Drill Square.The commandant of Ahmednagar based Armoured Corps Centre & School, Major General S Jha, reviewed the parade. The smartly attired recruits gave a fine display of their professional training and marching in front of the reviewing officer. In keeping with the age-old tradition, the recruits were administered the oath of allegiance and devotion to duty by religious teachers. It was a proud moment for the parents of these recruits. Jha called upon the recruits to perform their duties with utmost honesty and and devotion. Recruit Mukesh Singh Rawat was awarded the General Sundarji gold medal for being the best overall cadet. Recruit Joy Bora received the General K L D’Souza silver medal and recruit Shiv Shankar bagged the General Pankaj Joshi bronze medal. The passing out parade marked the culmination of the advanced military training for these recruits and beginning of their lives as young soldiers of the country. They will now be undergoing technical military training in advanced weaponry and equipment before joining their respective combat units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/293-recruits-of-mirc-put-up-impressive-show-during-passing-out-parade/articleshow/81097485.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Now, ride an e-bike from Kurla to BKC||Mumbai: Commuters at Kurla station can now use e-bikes Yulu bikes at affordable rent to travel to Bandra-Kurla Complex. Central Railway’s chief PRO Shivaji Sutar said space has been alloted in Kurla (west). The facility was inaugurated on Thursday. The Public Bike Sharing (PBS) vehicle system was first introduced by MMRDA to ensure last-mile connectivity in Bandra-Kurla Complex from August 31. The e-bike is a low-speed, small-sized e-scooter rental service designed for one user. The booking of the Yulu scooters is done using the Yulu App, and the ride is taken by unlocking the e-scooter.  —Manthan K Mehta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-ride-an-e-bike-from-kurla-to-bkc/articleshow/81099935.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Powai woman booked for violation of isolation rules||MUMBAI: Acting on BMC’s complaint, the Powai police on Thursday registered an FIR against a woman for violating quarantine rules and leaving her apartment that was sealed after the detection of a positive case on the same floor. Civic officials said that in the wake of rising cases, those violating quarantine norms will be dealt with sternly. The woman, a resident of Everest Heights in Powai, was seen leaving her apartment on the 17th floor despite the floor being sealed by health officials. On February 14, officials had sealed the floor after a 48-year-old man had tested positive for Covid-19. The officials had also put up a banner stating that the floor was sealed, which means residents shouldn’t leave their homes before the completion of 14 days. However, when an assistant medical officer visited the floor for an inspection at 11.30 am on February 17 (Wednesday), the woman was not present. The official was told she had to travel out of the city for work, BMC officials said. A day later, when the same official visited again, the woman had not returned. “Following this, we fetched the CCTV footage from the society, which clearly showed her entering the elevator and leaving,” said Dr Jeetendra Jadhav, medical officer of health, L ward. He said the decision to deal with the incident firmly was taken to deter citizens from breaking quarantine rules. “If educated people don’t understand the need to quarantine and stop the infection from spreading, what can we expect from the rest,” he said.  The woman has been booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act) and the Disaster Management and Epidemic Act. If found guilty, the accused will be punished with imprisonment for a term of six months and fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/powai-woman-booked-for-violation-of-isolation-rules/articleshow/81097517.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||Screen test: Metro set to reopen in multiplex avatar in Kolkata||KOLKATA: At a time when cinemas are struggling to draw audiences back, the iconic Metro at Esplanade is set to start its shows again this Saturday. Shut in 2011, one of the oldest theatres in the city will rise from the ashes in a new multiplex avatar. Redeveloped by the Metro Realty Group, in consultation with heritage architect Subir Kumar Basu, Metro will reopen with two screens and 422 seats. Named Metro Inox, the multiplex will open with ‘Tom & Jerry’, ‘Tuesdays & Fridays’, ‘Prem Tame’ and ‘Chakra’. While iconic theatres in and around Esplanade, like Lighthouse, Roxy, Elite, Jyoti, Chaplin, Lotus, Tiger and Paradise, have drawn the curtains down —temporarily or for good— Metro offers a glimmer of hope to Bengal’s exhibition industry, which is striving to survive. Designed by New York-based architect Thomas Lamb, Metro started its journey on December 5, 1935 with the screening of ‘Bonemain Girls’. It was once used by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer to promote their films here. Blockbusters, such as ‘Gone with the Wind’, ‘Ben Hur’, ‘Quo Vadis’ and ‘Ivanhoe’ were screened there. ‘Bobby’, ran there for 52 weeks in 1973. But the fate of the theatre changed over the years with the dwindling footfall forcing it to down the shutters in 2011. Metro was subsequently bought and revived by Mumbai-based Metro Realty Group, the current owner. Metro Inox will be the fifth property of the multiplex chain to open in the pandemic. The other properties are in Gurgaon, Salem and Thane. The Kolkata plex will be different, as modern facilities are juxtaposed with the theatre’s original Art Deco design and structure. The lobby, chandeliers and grand staircase have been brought back to their old glory. Calling it a “special occasion”, Alok Tandon, CEO of INOX Leisure Ltd, said, “Even in its fresh and new contours, we are sure the cinema will create the magic it had done for over eight decades. We are honoured to be part of this restoration and are committed to reviving the glorious memories that Kolkata witnessed at Metro.” The modern experience of cinema-viewing will include cutting-edge sound and projection technology, razor-sharp visuals, surround sound of Dolby Atmos and a choice of 3D screen. Vinay Khandelwal, business development head, Metro Realty, said, “The revived Metro INOX is a fine confluence of heritage, nostalgia and legacy with the contemporary vision of INOX.” The news has elicited mixed reaction from single-screen owners. Arun Mehra of Bengal Properties Pvt Ltd that runs Paradise said it “wasn’t an encouragement” for reopening his cinema. But Suranjan Paul, owner of Minar, said, “Revival is important. I want to do the same thing with Minar.” Asked about reopening, Mitra owner Dwipen Mitra replied in the negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/screen-test-metro-set-to-reopen-in-multiplex-avatar/articleshow/81097529.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||Modi to attend V-B meet on virtual platform||Santiniketan: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is the Acharya of the Visva-Bharati, will virtually attend the convocation programme to be held on Friday. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar will be in Santiniketan to attend the programme in person. Minister of state for education, Sanjay Dhotre, will however, take part virtually. The convocation programme will start at Amra Kunja in Visva-Bharati campus at 9.30am and continue for two-and-a-half hours. A limited number of students have been allowed to be present in person. The university authorities have made alternative arrangements for students to collect their certificates without attending the convocation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/modi-to-attend-v-b-meet-on-virtual-platform/articleshow/81097528.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Kochi||Kochi corporation starts move to enhance revenue||KOCHI: Kochi corporation authorities are starting an intensive drive to plug the leaks in revenue and increase it by adopting a slew of measures. The decision of the corporation authorities comes against the backdrop of falling revenue making even the day-to-day operations of the local body very difficult. The local body will soon start measures to float municipal bonds to raise funds. It is learnt that civic body authorities have held talks with one of the major nationalized banks in this regard. “Unlike other cities in the state, Kochi requires big strides in infrastructure development — both in terms of physical and social infrastructure. Corporation’s own revenue comes from limited sources.  So, we need to find out means for more funds for arranging the infrastructure to usher in development on a large scale,” mayor M Anilkumar told TOI. “We have started initial steps to float municipal bonds. The finance standing committee has given its nod for floating the bonds. Still, we require consensus and support from all for moving forward,” the mayor said. “No municipalities of corporations in the state have floated municipal bonds,” he said. The local body authorities also decided to check the leakage of revenue. As part of the move, officials will contact the agencies like Kerala water authority (KWA) and Kerala state electricity board Ltd (KSEBL) with a demand to install adequate meters for measuring the quantity of water and power used by the corporation and various firms or facilities funded by the corporation. Moreover, the local body authorities will ask the government to clear the dues in GST compensation and give back the amount spent by the corporation for giving welfare pensions to those living in the city limits. “Kochi corporation is paying the pensions to the beneficiaries of welfare pension schemes on behalf of the state government. The government delays repayment of such funds,” an official with the corporation said. Local fund audit department has pinpointed the loopholes in collecting taxes and other revenues by Kochi corporation authorities several times. Though many lawyers and doctors are working from the city, the sum being collected as professional tax is very low. There is a severe shortfall in the collection of various taxes like building tax. The corporation authorities haven’t fully moved on to the new regime for building tax. Manual assessment for the collection of tax is said to be one of the reasons for dip in the income. So, the corporation would conduct satellite mapping of all the buildings in the city. On the basis of digital mapping, all the buildings will be categorized and tax will be assessed. “The local body requires at least Rs 5 crore for giving salaries to the employees and meeting day-to-day expenses every month. Many of the projects of the corporation have got delayed due to shortage of funds. For completing the construction of the main office of the corporation, it will require Rs 25 crore more,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-starts-move-to-enhance-revenue/articleshow/81097514.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Investigate MMRDA chief: Pratap Sarnaik to Maharashtra CM||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik wrote a letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray, demanding an inquiry into state agency MMRDA’s chief RA Rajeev, for breach of secrecy by sharing confidential government info to the media. Sarnaik alleged that after ED questioning on Wednesday, Rajeev disclosed confidential information to media. While leaving from the ED office, Rajeev told waiting mediapersons that MMRDA had not given a clean chit to Tops Grup, a private security firm. ED is investigating a money laundering case against Tops Grup and Pratap Sarnaik for defrauding MMRDA and laundering money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/investigate-mmrda-chief-sarnaik-to-cm/articleshow/81099122.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Petrol Rs 96.32/litre, diesel Rs 87.32 in city||Mumbai: Parbhani district in Maharashtra is Rs1.52 short of reaching Rs100 for a litre of petrol, while in 20 other state districts the price is over Rs96. In Mumbai, it went up for the tenth consecutive day, with petrol being hiked by 32paise to retail at Rs96.32 on Thursday, while diesel went up to Rs87.32 a litre. Diesel in Amravati was Rs1.29 short of the Rs90-mark and is the highest in the state at Rs88.71. In 18 state districts diesel is over Rs86 now. Premium petrol has crossed Rs100 in several cities of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, and also in Parbhani and Nanded in Maharashtra. In Thane and Navi Mumbai, petrol was Rs96.44, and diesel Rs87.43. Several transporters have backed out of the February 26 one-day token strike as few politically-backed unions will participate, said Bal Malkit Singh of All-India Motor Transport Congress. “We gave an ultimatum to the government of 14 days, and if it fails to give us relief, we will protest nationwide,” he said. Sources said transporters may go in for a chakka jam, like they did during the all-India strike in July 2018 on fuel price hikes. Shiv Sena, MNS, AAP and Congress plan protests once again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/petrol-rs-96-32/litre-diesel-rs-87-32-in-city/articleshow/81098620.cms||Somit Sen
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Citizens told to quarantine face FIR if seen on streets||MUMBAI: The BMC is keen to ensure estabishments stick to occupancy limits laid down by it. At least five such places will be raided and inspected every day; they will be penalised for the first offence and if found repeatedly flouting rules, a police complaint will be filed. In case of weddings, legal action will be taken against the organisers, parents of the bride and groom as well as the venue management, officials said. To monitor places of worship, women marshals will be deployed along with male ones. BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chhal, who had a video conference meeting on Thursday with all ward officers in the city, said stringent action would be taken to arrest the spread of coronavirus. As a beginning, the BMC has sealed a seven-storied apartment (Shreyas) in Mahim after five persons from a single family tested positive and filed an FIR against a Powai resident for flouting quarantine rules on a sealed floor. The civic chief held a meeting after the city reported 721 new cases on Wednesday, the highest in 42 days, followed by 736 on Thursday. A civic official who was present said, “Most of the directions given are those which we had followed during the early days of Covid-19.” The official added that in case asymptomatic patients who are to be home-quarantined are found out on the streets, FIRs would be lodged and the patients sent to mandatory institutional quarantine. Ward officers have also been asked to start tracking 15 high-risk contacts of every positive patient and keep tabs on whether they were self-isolating. In case such patients do not have enough space in their homes to self-isolate, wards can again activate their Covid Care Centres 1 (CCC-1) and Covid Care Centres 2 (CCC-2) which were operational until late last year and shift the patients there. The BMC had last year created Covid Care Centres 1 for suspects and high-risk contacts and Covid Care Centres 2 for mildly symptomatic and asymptomatic positive patients. Mostly vacant SRA buildings, welfare centres and sports clubs were used for these facilities. However, many of these were shut after the number of active patients declined. Initially, in March and April 2020, the BMC would seal off an entire building if a Covid-19 case was found. In May, it revised its protocols for sealing of buildings and decided to seal only floors where cases were found. Meanwhile, in the first new case in the broader MMR, Dombivli cops lodged an FIR against four people, including a local BJP functionary Sandip Mali, for organising a haldi-kumkum programme. In Navi Mumbai too, officials said restrictions on functions and gatherings would be imposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citizens-told-to-quarantine-face-fir-if-seen-on-streets/articleshow/81097535.cms||Richa Pinto
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: PM Narendra Modi may flag off new Metro remotely||KOLKATA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi may remotely unveil Dakshineswar Metro from the Dunlop grounds in Hooghly on Monday due to security issues and space crunch that emerged as possible hindrances against physical inauguration. The 4.1km Dakshineswar extension of the north-south Metro will be inaugurated by Modi on Monday along with some railway projects. The exact time of gthe inauguration and other details are being worked out. However, there was a speculation whether Modi would flag off the new section from Dakshineswar station, which is next to Kali temple built in 1855 by Rani Rashmoni. Talks of the PM performing puja before Bhabatarini (Kali) idol alongside the Metro event have also been doing the rounds. However, sources said the Special Protection Group, which is in charge of the PM’s security, has inspected the new Metro station and found several issues that may prevent Modi from launching the Dakshineswar Metro section. “There is no open space near the Metro station where a helipad could be set up for the PM to disembark and quickly reach the venue,” said an official, adding that there could be last-minute changes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pm-may-flag-off-new-metro-remotely/articleshow/81097531.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||College student dies as KMC tanker hits two-wheeler||Kolkata: A first-year college student, riding pillion with a friend, was killed as their scooterette was hit by a KMC water tanker before they climbed up the EM Bypass end of Ultadanga flyover on Thursday afternoon. The deceased, Uttaran Bakshi (19), was returning home with his friend, Soumik Roy (21), around 3.20pm when the accident happened. Though the killer vehicle sped away after the accident, the driver was apprehended later and the vehicle was seized. Cops said Roy had veered right to take the flyover when the tanker hit the two-wheeler from behind. Bakshi, who sustained severe chest injuries, was rushed to the nearest ESI Hospital in Maniktala in an app cab by a sergeant near the accident site. Doctors declared him dead on arrival. Roy was also taken to the same hospital but he was discharged after preliminary treatment.  “The impact of the collision was such that the two were flung off the two-wheeler. The duo had their helmets strapped on, so none of them sustained any head injury. It seems that the deceased had a fractured rib cage,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/college-student-dies-as-kmc-tanker-hits-two-wheeler/articleshow/81097537.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: PWD to build two flyovers on Amravati Road||NAGPUR: The national highway division of state public works department (PWD) will build two flyovers on Amravati Road. These structures have been sanctioned under Government of India’s national highway budget for 2020-21. The funds will be released by ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), headed by Nitin Gadkari. Executive engineer Naresh Borkar told TOI that the first flyover would start from Bole Petrol Pump opposite the Regional Transport Office (RTO) and end at University Campus Square. “The length of the structure is 2.9 kilometres and it will have four lanes. This will reduce congestion on Amravati Road and people will be able to reach University Campus in four minutes from the RTO. The cost of this flyover is about Rs230 crore,” said the official. Borkar further said that the consultant was preparing the final estimate and as soon as it was ready it would be submitted to MoRTH for approval. “We plan to build the flyover in two years after issuance of the work order,” he added. Gadkari had announced recently that he wanted to perform the bhoomipujan of this flyover within next couple of months. The second flyover on Amravati Road will be built in Wadi. “It will start from Wadi Gurudwara and end beyond Gate No 1 of Ordnance Factory, Ambajhari. The length of the structure will be 1.8km and its approximate cost will be Rs150 crore,” said Borkar. According to the official, the final estimate of this flyover too was being prepared and would be submitted to Gadkari’s ministry soon. The national highways division of PWD is also building a new bridge on Kanhan river connecting Kamptee and Kanhan. Borkar said that the bridge would be ready by end of May. “The approaches are ready. Earthwork on Kamptee side is complete while that on Kanhan is 50% over. Construction of the parapet is going on and then a wearing coat will be applied to the bridge,” said the PWD official. Work on this bridge has been going on since years and public representatives of Kamptee and Kanhan area have asked the PWD to expedite the work. The existing bridge on Kanhan is quite narrow and traffic jams are frequent on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pwd-to-build-two-flyovers-on-amravati-road/articleshow/81097532.cms||Ashish Roy
February 19, 2021||Patna||60 Bihar ITIs set to be upgraded at a cost of Rs 2,188 crore||PATNA: Altogether 60 government-owned Industrial Training Institute (ITIs) will be upgraded as centres of excellence by March next year in collaboration with the Tata Technologies at a cost of Rs 2,188 crore. Tata Technologies, a subsidiary of Tata Motors, will spend 88% of the amount while the rest 12% will be spent by the state government to upgrade the ITIs to impart advanced training to the state's youths. “The work of upgrading 60 ITIs under Industry 4.0 will begin from April 1 this year and will be completed latest by March 31, 2022. An average of Rs 36.46 crore will be spent on each ITI,” state’s labour resources minister Jibesh Kumar told TOI over the phone on Thursday. "After the upgrade, every year around 15,000 students would be imparted advance training on latest machines and technologies at the 60 upgraded ITIs," the minister said. “Though Tata Technologies has agreed to upgrade all 149 government-owned ITIs across the state, 60 of them which have their buildings and other necessary infrastructures will be upgraded in the first phase,” an official of the labour resources department told TOI. Earlier in the day, Sushil Kumar, vice-president, Tata Technologies, and Pushkar Raj Kaulgud, director, Global Technologies, and labour resources principal secretary Mihir Kumar Singh made a detailed presentation about the programme before CM Nitish Kumar. After reviewing the presentation, the CM asked officials to complete the construction of buildings of all ITIs, which currently don't have their campus. Nitish said the students would get better placement after being trained in advance technologies. It would also help the industries grow further. The CM also ordered to increase the number of trainers in each ITIs as per requirements. He also asked for starting physical training for students along with online training. The state government will provide 1,000 square feet of space in each of the 60 ITIs to Tata Technologies for the company to install its new and advance machines, the official said. “In the entire programme, Tata Technologies, which has the support of well-known companies of the world including big industries of the country, will also act as a primary partner with 60 ITIs in the first phase. Tata Technologies will bring all global industrial partners together for the upgrade of ITIs," the official said. "A baseline study will be prepared for this project and the prevailing industry needs assessed in the light of physical infrastructure and available industrial environment,” the labour official added. Tata Technologies will provide 120 trainers along with a partner industry as well as 20 expert trainers at the nodal centre. Through these trainers, a subject-based industry expert will get regular and timely supervision. “Students who will be given training under this programme will be given priority by the selected partner industry in giving employment to them,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/60-bihar-itis-set-to-be-upgraded-at-a-cost-of-rs-2188-crore/articleshow/81096577.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Patna||Train passengers robbed, UP youth shot at in Saran||PATNA/CHHAPRA: In a daring incident, more than a dozen heavily armed men looted valuables from at least 50 passengers inside a general coach of the Barauni-Gwalior special train between Sonpur and Dighwara stations in Saran around midnight on Wednesday. The robbers also shot at a passenger who resisted them just before the train reached Dighwara. The injured youth, Pawan Kumar alias Shivam Yadav, is a resident of Yashwant Nagar of Etawah in Uttar Pradesh. He had come to Muzaffarpur to take part in an Army recruitment drive. Pawan has received a bullet injury in his right thigh. The gang entered coach number D-5, which was the second last carriage before the guard van. The train left Sonpur junction at 11.02 pm and reached Dighawara at 11.30 pm. The distance between the two stations is around 20-25kms, as per police. GRP sources said an armed escort party was in the general coach number D-4 when the robbers struck the adjacent coach. “Firing sound from the neighbouring coach had alerted the escort party. However, they could not do much as coach number D-5 and D-4 being general compartments were not interconnected and lives were at stake,” a GRP source said, adding, a message was flashed about the robbery by the escort party before the train reached Dighwara alerting the rail police authorities, but the looters managed to escape. Sonpur DSP (Rail) Shailendra Kumar told this newspaper over the phone that an FIR has been lodged with the GRP at Sonpur railway junction based on the injured passenger's statement. “More than Rs 50,000 in cash, at least a dozen cellphones and a gold chain from a woman passenger were looted by the criminals. Their identity has been ascertained. Raids were on to nab them,” the DSP said. He said there are CCTV camera footages of suspects who had boarded the train at Sonpur junction. “No CCTV camera footages at Dighwara is available. We are trying to gather footages from shopkeepers and other private persons,” Kumar said. “He has been sent to Etawah after being treated at district Sadar hospital at Saran,” the DSP further said, adding, all those involved are from Saran and they would be nabbed soon. Chhapra GRP SHO, Dharmendra Kumar, who recorded the statement of the injured youth, told TOI over the phone that the gang of 12 boarded the coach as the train rolled out of Sonpur at a slow speed. “Soon after entering, dacoits fire two rounds to terrorise passengers. None moved out of fear. They soon locked the coach gates,” he said quoting passengers and the injured youth. Kumar said the robbers got off the coach at Dighwara and fled. “No one could see anything as it was completely dark at the end of the platform where the coach had stopped being at the train’s end,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/train-passengers-robbed-up-youth-shot-at-in-saran/articleshow/81096543.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 19, 2021||Madurai||Need to fill learning gap at start of academic year: CBSE schools||Madurai: With Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announcing that the next academic year is set to begin as usual from April for all classes except students of classes X and XII who are set to write their board exams, CBSE schools are keen on making plans to ease students into the new academic year. However, since there is no clarity on schools reopening in Tamil Nadu for primary and middle level classes, the schools are apprehensive.“Students and parents of course are keen to return to school, so we hope schools can reopen by April for the next academic year for all. Completing the syllabus won’t be an issue as online classes have been going on. For other classes, online exams could be conducted and children allowed to progress to the next class,” said M Gnanasundari, principal, Sri Aurobindo Mira CBSE school. The principal also added that there was a need for conducting a bridge course when schools are reopened, ideally before the start of the academic year so that students can recall and revise what they learnt in online classes.“For students, as we had seen with Class IX to XII, even getting up early and coming to school has been difficult. Further, we found students have also lost touch with writing exams since they were giving only online exams till now. These are challenges for us to overcome. For Class IX and XI, revision tests are going on and it is going to be tough as we may have to hold their exams by March. We are waiting for further directives,” said Subha Manikandan, principal, Mahatma Montessori CBSE School. She said that for Classes I to VIII, as of now, the school is planning to hold a bridge course by April and then start with the new academic year by June.Another aspect that has left schools worried is the lack of clarity on the date of reopening for Classes I to VIII. Schools are not keen on ending the academic year without having any offline classes. “Even with digital learning, students need at least a month of offline classes to review what they learnt in the previous academic year before moving on to the next year,” said Jayendran Mani, correspondent, Sri Jayendra Group of Educational Institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/need-to-fill-learning-gap-at-start-of-academic-year-cbse-schools/articleshow/81099953.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Winter forest fires affecting bird and butterfly population in Uttarakhand||NAINITAL: As forest fires continue to rage in Uttarakhand’s hills, bird and butterfly watchers say that they are witnessing a significant drop in their population. Environmentalists say a shrinking habitat as well as decreased prey population as a result of forest fires, are among the major factors affecting avian communities. The months of February-April as well as September-November are considered ideal for bird watching in the hills as several birds migrate from plains at the onset of monsoon and from hills to plains during winter. This year though, their numbers have been unusually low. Anup Sah, a Nainital-based environmentalist and veteran photographer told TOI that the migratory bird numbers at popular bird-watching places like Kilbury, Bhimtal and Jilling Estate have significantly reduced. “I have gone to all these locations for bird watching and clicking pictures for decades, but the numbers are very low this year. There is a lot of smoke in the hills and that can be a reason for the low number of birds,” he added. The significant dip in butterfly and bird population comes as a blow to enthusiasts after a good pre-winter season when their numbers were very high. The experts had then credited few forest fires as well as limited human activities in the forests for the healthy butterfly population in the hills. Ghanshyam Pande, project coordinator for the Central Himalayan Institute for Nature & Applied Research (CHINAR) told TOI that the fires have caused a habitat problem for birds and limited their hideout spaces since a lot of shrubs have been gutted. “The fires have badly affected the prey rate this year that has affected the migratory birds. The fires have also created a dry patch which is affecting their numbers this spring,” he added. Experts worry that the high number of forest fires will adversely affect the butterfly population too. “We don’t know if the butterfly numbers have been affected, but the forest fires are harmful for the butterflies whose cocoons and caterpillars are destroyed in the fire. The effect will be known only next month,” said Sanjay Sondhi of Doon-based Titli Trust. Meanwhile, the forest department officials also said that this season has seen “unprecedented dryness” at several locations in the forests. “The level of dryness in the forests this winter has been unprecedented. Our visits to places like Mandal as well as Do Gaon near Kathgodam revealed that moisture has almost completely been sucked out of the soil because there have been virtually no rains after September," said Sanjiv Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests (research).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/winter-forest-fires-affecting-bird-and-butterfly-population-in-ukhand/articleshow/81096503.cms||Prashant Jha
February 19, 2021||Patna||Missing girl’s body found in Bihar's Begusarai||BEGUSARAI: The family members of an 11-year-old girl, whose body was found from the Burhi Gandak river bank in Begusarai district late on Wednesday evening, have alleged that she was abducted, raped and murdered. The body of the Class VI student, who had gone missing on Saturday evening, was found nearly three kilometres from the village under Birpur police station area of the district. She had gone out to buy something while still wearing the school uniform, police said. According to Mahesh Kumar, the investigating officer from Birpur police station, the girl had gone missing on Saturday evening and a case of her suspected abduction was lodged on Sunday after she failed to return home. “The girl's kin told the police that she had gone out to buy some biscuits in the evening, and despite making frantic searches all through the night they failed to find her. The girl had not changed her school uniform after returning from school,” Mahesh said. On late Wednesday evening, the family members of the girl were informed by villagers that the body of a young girl has been found near Seori Ghat. They rushed to the spot and identified the body. Police sources said the girl is suspected to have been raped before the murder as some parts of her school uniform were missing. The investigating officer, however, said the reason behind the murder will be clear only after the postmortem report and medical examination comes in. The family members of the victim girl alleged police inaction even after lodging a kidnapping case on Sunday. Angry family members demanded immediate arrest of the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/missing-girls-body-found-in-begusarai/articleshow/81096560.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Capital rises to 21st position among India’s ‘smart cities’||Thiruvananthapuram: The capital has steadily risen in ranks to attain 21st position in the country among cities under Smart City Mission project. The scheme for 100 cities in the country was rolled out by the Union government in June, 2015. A total of 20 cities were selected in the first round by January, 2016. As many as 40 cities were selected by September, 2016, in the second round. Thiruvananthapuram was one of the cities (out of 30) selected in the third round of Smart City Mission in June, 2017, with the highest score. A month ago, Thiruvananthapuram’s rank leapt from 90 to 46. Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Ltd (SCTL) had to compete with cities including Kochi which had a head start of 2.5 years. Kochi, which was selected in the first round, is now ranked 11 in the list. SCTL has so far tendered out projects worth Rs 1,068.4 crore. It has issued work orders for projects worth Rs 1,065.04 crore out of Smart Cities grant allocation of Rs 1,135 crore from Centre, state and city corporation. Many of the projects undertaken by SCTL have entered the execution phase and the completion of each project would substantially raise the city’s rank in future months. Many of the projects are scheduled for completion in 2021 and the mega projects like Smart Roads, Palayam market redevelopment, Chalai warehousing, Rajajinagar slum redevelopment etc. are expected to be completed by 2022. The mission works on a competitive mode where cities performance is constantly monitored by the Smart City Mission using a ranking system which is based on performance indices which has to be updated by respective city officials periodically on the ministry’s portal. The Mission’s ranking is based on a formula which calculates the score considering the percentile of number of projects for which work has been tendered, number of projects that have been awarded and number of projects which have been completed. “This success has been achieved by the complete and proactive support of the local self-government minister, chief secretary, mayor of Thiruvananthapuram corporation, principal secretary, LSGD, and the team effort of SCTL - SPV and IPE Global project management consultancy. In spite of challenges posed by Covid-19, the team worked on a war footing to meet the deadlines,” said P Bala Kiran, CEO, SCTL. SCTL has taken a lead by moving ahead of first round cities like Delhi, Jabalpur, Bhuvaneshwar and second round cities like Warangal, Raipur, Panaji, Faridabad, Amritsar, Chandigarh, Dharamshala, etc. and third round cities like Bengaluru, Shimla, Puducherry, Srinagar, Jammu etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/capital-rises-to-21st-position-among-indias-smart-cities/articleshow/81099983.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Kochi||Local body loses at least Rs 3cr for failing to collect fee for hoardings||Kochi: The cash-strapped Kochi corporation hasn’t collected supervisory charges from the agencies who have put up hoardings in the city in the past three years. As per a rough estimate, the local body might have suffered a loss of at least Rs 1 core each year due to this. It was during an inspection conducted by the officials at the behest of mayor M Anilkumar that the startling facts regarding the negligence came to the fore. “Almost four years ago, the corporation had increased the licence fee for erecting hoardings in the city. As per the norms, the advertisers who have erected such hoardings should renew the licence every year by paying renewal charges. The advertising agencies moved the court and the court ordered no fee for renewal of licence can be charged. “Other local bodies like Thiruvananthapuram enacted law to charge supervisory charges for hoardings every year in lieu of licence renewal fee,” an official with the corporation said. Though Kochi corporation also started such moves, they didn’t complete the procedures. “The finance standing committee had cleared a model of supervisory charges but the authorities didn’t proceed with it,” an official said. Now, the finance standing committee has decided to charge supervisory fees and remove all illegal hoardings.  In 2018, the high court had asked the authorities to remove all the illegal hoardings from the city. Then, the corporation started a drive to remove such hoardings, only for namesake though.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/local-body-loses-at-least-rs-3cr-for-failing-to-collect-fee-for-hoardings/articleshow/81097570.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||Woman arrested for Rs 1.5 lakh ear stud theft in showroom||Kolkata: A 43-year-old woman was arrested on Wednesday in connection with the theft of a pair of diamond ear studs, worth Rs 1.5 lakh, from a jewellery showroom at Maniktala on January 31. The accused, Sukla Acharya, a resident of a posh address at Anandapur, confessed to having stolen the ear studs as she needed money to sustain her family and maintain her lifestyle in the post-lockdown period. The woman had visited the showroom, wearing double masks and posed as a genuine customer. She asked an attendant to show her ear tops with diamonds. She managed to walk away with the jewellery without being noticed. DC (ESD), Ajoy Prasad, said, “During the investigation we had a tough time as the woman had left no stones unturned to conceal her identity. We went through the CCTV footage and using face recognition software, we fixed the identity of the woman and raided her flat in Anandapur, from where she was arrested. The stolen ear studs have been recovered from her possession.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-arrested-for-rs-1-5-lakh-ear-stud-theft-in-showroom/articleshow/81097556.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 19, 2021||Madurai||Shallot prices shoot up in Madurai mkts||Madurai: Shallot prices shot up in Madurai markets due to low supply and were being sold for more than Rs 160 per kg for the past one week. Shallots were not available in many of the retail stores on Thursday and the ones that had, sold it for Rs 180 per kg. Generally, around this season shallot prices dip to about Rs 25 to Rs 30 per kg as it is harvesting time and the main markets in Madurai --the Paravai wholesale vegetable market and the Matuthavani central market -- receive tonnes of shallots from the southern districts besides from Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. However, supply has dropped due to the unseasonal rains that continued through December last year to January this year. President of the Paravai wholesale vegetable market, Manuel Jeyaraj said that usually, the market received about 150 tonnes of shallots per day during the months of February and March, but this year it had been as low as about 50 tonnes per day. The shallots are usually cultivated around October every year and they are ready for harvest in about 120 days. Last year the seasonal rains helped the cultivation, but then as the rains continued during the bulb formation in December, the plants started rotting, said S Pandi, a farmer from Oddanchathiram. The price of onions also went up to Rs 50 a kg in the Madurai markets. The supply of onions was also low according to Jeyaraj, who said that they were receiving only about 100 tonnes per day in Madurai, compared to about 300 tonnes per day during the same period last year. President of the Matuthavani central vegetable market, P S Murugan, said that the prices would come down in the next few weeks when the supplies from the northern states start coming in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shallot-prices-shoot-up-in-madurai-mkts/articleshow/81099938.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Madurai||Southern dists insulated well from Kerala’s high coronavirus cases||Madurai: Even as Kerala continues to report among the highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the country, districts in south Tamil Nadu bordering the state have been witnessing little impact, reporting only less than 20 new cases a day. However, district health officials urged the public not to be complacent and follow Covid-19 safety precautions strictly.In Kanyakumari, around 10-15 fresh Covid-19 cases are being reported daily. The district has 69 active cases as on Thursday, which is the second highest in the southern region of Tamil Nadu after Madurai. “Surveillance has been tightened at the border check posts and all those entering the district are being strictly screened. Medical camps are also being conducted. Around 250-300 swab samples are being collected on an average in a day and sent for testing for Covid-19. The situation is under control in the district but there is a need to be vigilant,” said a senior health official from the district.In Tenkasi, the case count is even lesser and new cases per day are being reported only in single digit consistently, sometimes hardly one case. The active cases in the district stand at 48. “At Puliyarai check post, all those entering the district are screened immediately. Fever surveillance is also being done. There have been a few Covid-19 cases in the district among those who returned from Kerala. But, there have been no clusters as such and we hope to keep it that way. Around 600-700 samples per day are being tested for Covid-19 in the district,” said a district health official.In Theni as well, there has been no significant Kerala impact in Covid-19 cases. The district has merely 29 active cases, reporting an average of fresh cases in single digit. Despite the low count of new cases, health officials across the district pointed out that there is a slow decline in adherence to Covid-19 safety measures like wearing masks and maintaining social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-dists-insulated-well-from-keralas-high-coronavirus-cases/articleshow/81099967.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 19, 2021||Chennai||Police station on wheels reaches more residents in Chennai||CHENNAI: Ice House resident Karthikeyan, 70, had been enduring abuse from his son for more than a year. But he was hesitant to file a complaint against him. In early December last year, he came across a mobile police station that registered a complaint at his door step and by the end of the month arrested his son. Once known to patrol the roads and rush to the crime scene when alerted, designated police vehicles were converted into mobile police stations in 2019. These are stationed for four hours in the morning and in the evening across the city. And in the past four months, police have attended to 437 complaints filed at these police stations. The numbers, show police data, have steadily gone up. Between March and June last year, police attended to 110 complaints. It went up to 250 between July and October. “This is because we have introduced a system for an official to review the complaints received through mobile police stations,” said a senior police officer. Unlike in a police station, where the complainant has to visit, a mobile police station works almost like a home-delivery system where a citizen can file a complaint from almost his or her doorstep. The mobile number of the complainant is sent to the respective police station and the status of the complaint is sent to the resident in a week’s time, so promises the system. “The objective is to expand the police presence on streets thereby increasing the confidence and sense of security among people. People will be ready to air their grievances when at their doorstep,” said Chennai police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal. Aggarwal said all complainants are acknowledged and those that cannot be resolved on spot are communicated to the local police station. A community service register receipt is generated for further action and communicated to the complainant on mobile. Police officers said complainants who approach mobile police stations are usually those hesitant to walk into a police station or those confused about a police station’s jurisdiction limits. Complaints include quarrel with neighbours, public nuisance, road rage, abandoned vehicles, threats and prohibition-related offences. “Such complaints are not dealt with seriousness at police stations,” said Singaram, a resident of Flower Bazaar. Singaram said he was threatened by a man in a road rage incident and he got the man arrested after he submitted a complaint along with CCTV footage to the patrol team. In some cases, police also counsel the people. “Some of the elderly people want us to advise their sons instead of registering a case for not taking care of them,” said a police officer from Royapettah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/police-station-on-wheels-reaches-more-residents/articleshow/81097572.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Kochi||Mega project for Kochi’s development on anvil||KOCHI: Kochi corporation authorities plan to develop certain areas in the city for augmenting infrastructure. The plan is to design a mega project to develop infrastructure in around 10 divisions of the corporation. The local body will acquire land parcels in different locations in those divisions and develop it and sell or lease such holdings for generating revenue. “Many areas adjacent to Marine Drive area were part of Marine Drive town planning scheme of Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA). Earlier, the GCDA had developed certain areas in the city like Panampilly Nagar by including those places in the agency’s town planning scheme,” sources with the corporation said. “The GCDA has scrapped the Marine Drive town planning scheme as developing the areas near Marine Drive require massive reclamation. Now, we plan to adopt a sustainable and eco-friendly strategy for developing the areas under the scheme,” sources said. Massive investment will be required for the project and corporation authorities expect that municipal bonds can be a means of mobilizing funds for the purpose. “Land parcels will have to be acquired in different locations. Road will be widened. Social infrastructure like parks, stadia, etc. will also be developed within the project area,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mega-project-for-citys-devpt-on-anvil/articleshow/81097603.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
February 19, 2021||Nashik||More passengers in rural areas take MRSTC buses||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses in rural areas have started witnessing an increase in the number of passengers. According to the data provided by the MSRTC (Nashik division) the number of passengers travelling by the buses in rural areas of the district rose from 1.07 lakh per day on January 15 to 1.36 lakh on February 1 and to 1.78 lakh on February 15. “The number of passengers rose by 28 % in the first fortnight (from January 15 to February 1) and by 30% in the second fortnight ending on February 15,” Rajendra Patil, divisional controller of Nashik Division, said. The MSRTC officials admitted that one of the reasons for the rise in the number of passengers was the rise in fare by the taxi operators. Also many people are choosing to travel by the MSRTC buses instead of their personal vehicles. “Rise in taxi fares is one of the many factors that have contributed for the rise in occupancy of buses,” divisional transport official Kailas Patil said. The MSRTC earned revenue of Rs 58.39 lakh per day on January 15 and it rose to Rs 68.66 lakh on Feb 1 and later to Rs 86.16 lakh on Feb 15. It should be noted that the price of fuel rose in the range of 4 to 6% during the period of one month, forcing taxi operators have increased the fare. Taxi operators plying between Nashik and Yeola have started charging Rs 120 instead of Rs 100 per seat, but are finding it difficult to get passengers. “We have increased the fares as the price of fuel has increased by huge margin. Not all passengers pay the difference. The daily travellers have started travelling by the MSRTC as the state transport utility has not hiked the fares,” Sandeep Veer,one of the taxi operators, said. Similarly, individuals using petrol vehicles have also turned to mass transportation for travelling. “I would travel to district collectorate from Harsul by my motorcycle. But as petrol price has gone up, I have been forced me to shift from my motorcycle to the MSRTC bus,” Rajesh Jadhav, an employee working on contractual basis in the collectorate, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/more-passengers-in-rural-areas-take-mrstc-buses/articleshow/81097580.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||DC racket: Cops looking for luxury carmaker’s official||Mumbai: In a registration racket involving car designer Dilip Chhabria, police are looking for a senior official attached to the captive financing arm of a leading luxury carmaker. The sessions court last week rejected the anticipatory bail of Rohit Arora. Police on Thursday went to his Delhi residence but he was not there. Police are also looking for two foreigners who held senior positions in the firm, according to the reply filed in court opposing the anticipatory bail of Arora. Another former official is also under the scanner, police said. Police on Thursday searched offices of the firm. Assistant inspector (crime intelligence unit) Sachin Vaze told court they found evidence to suggest his involvement. Police said the financing arm granted loans to fake customers created by Dilip Chhabria, who is in jail for fraud running into crores. Police claimed around 90 DC Avanti vehicles manufactured by his Dilip Chhabria Designs Pvt Ltd (DCDPL) were used for fraudulent financing. Police claimed multiple loans were obtained on these cars by Chhabria by posing as customers. The loans were mainly availed from non-banking finance companies. These vehicles were subsequently sold to a different set of customers. Police claimed Chhabria’s firm had taken loans on 41 Avanti cars from the financial arm of the carmaker. Of these, 16 cars were not registered but loans were sanctioned, an official said. “One car loan was disbursed on November 3, 2015, but the application was dated November 16, 2015. DCDPL had permission to manufacture two-seaters but many of the cars were five-seaters. Going by Chhabria’s son Bonito’s CIBIL report, the loans could not have been granted,’’ an official said. The company did not carry out due diligence before granting the loan, the official said. DCDPL manufactured two cars with the same chassis and engine numbers and registered them in two states on the basis of fake documents. Police have seized 22 DC cars and 40 engines worth Rs 16 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dc-racket-cops-looking-for-luxury-carmakers-official/articleshow/81098654.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 19, 2021||Madurai||Tender floated for bridge over Vaigai||Madurai: The Madurai Corporation has floated a tender for the construction of a bridge across the Vaigai river replacing the existing causeway at Obula Padithurai after the proposal for the project was cleared by the state government recently. The bridge will be similar to the specifications of the Kuruvikkaran Salai Bridge, which is under construction at present. It will be 200m-long with wide platforms on both sides for pedestrian usage. A corporation official said that the tender was floated on February 12 and the bids will be opened on February 25. The project will be allotted to a suitable contractor. An official from the engineering wing said that the new bridge will cater to the expected increase in road traffic in near future. The widening of the Vaigai river bank roads is under way. Once widening is completed and opened for the public, the number of people using the road will dramatically increase. The widened road will help bring down the traffic chaos prevailing in arterial city roads. At present, the causeway is getting submerged during floods in the river. The proposal for the new bridge was sent in early 2020, but the approval was mired in delay as Covid-19 outbreak threw the functioning of the government mechanism out of gear. Corporation had to start the paperwork afresh after the lockdown was eased. While the corporation had initially estimated the construction cost at Rs 26 crore, it was slashed to Rs 23 crore by the state-level committee, before providing the approval. The project is planned under the infrastructure and amenities fund of the town and country planning department,the agency which has funded the Kuruvikkaran Salai Bridge. Madurai corporation has already built two bridges across the Vaigai river in recent years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tender-floated-for-bridge-over-vaigai/articleshow/81099973.cms||V Devanathan
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Chamoli disaster: 2 bodies, a body part recovered; death toll reaches 61, 143 still missing||DEHRADUN: The rescue teams recovered two more bodies from the Tapovan tunnel and a body part near Raini village in the early morning hours of Thursday. With this, the total bodies recovered have gone up to 61 and 27 human parts have been recovered so far, whereas 143 people are still missing. “Despite heavy debris and slush in the entire area, we were successful in finding bodies from the Tapovan tunnel and remains near Raini village. Dog squads, rafts and drones are being used to search for the missing people,” said DGP Ashok Kumar. The two deceased recovered from the tunnel have been identified at Jagdish Tomar, a resident of Kalsi in Dehradun, and Vikki Bhagat from Jharkhand. The body part of Madhvi Singh, a resident of Jugju village was recovered from the north side of Raini village. Kumar said, “The rescue operations are on and will continue.” The DGP pointed out that in addition to the rescue operations, SDRF and other teams were searching for the missing people in areas around the villages and also near the river banks. Meanwhile, the state government said that it has provided a cumulative compensation of Rs 92 lakh to the next of kin of 23 deceased and the process is on to provide compensation to other families. The kin of the deceased are being given Rs 7 lakh — Rs 4 lakh from the State Disaster Relief Fund, Rs 1 lakh from CM Relief Fund and Rs 2 lakh from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chamoli-disaster-2-bodies-a-body-part-recovered-death-toll-reaches-61-143-still-missing/articleshow/81096538.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Bhandara cops register FIR 40 days after hospital fire that killed 10 infants||NAGPUR: 40 days after a fire in Bhandara district general hospital’s neonatal intensive care unit killed 10 babies, Bhandara police finally registered an offence in the case. The delay was raising suspicions of undue pressure on them to shield the culprits. FIR has been registered in police station Bhandaraunder section 304 part 2 of IPC. Arun Waykar, SDPO Sakoli, is the complainant in the case while Shubhangi Sathavane and Smita Ambildhuke, both nurses in the hospital have been named as accused. Bhandara police cited not having received response to some queries from the concerned departments for ascertaining the probable culprits behind their delay. They were also not given the fact-finding report of the expert committee constituted under the divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar. Following the submission of the report, the Bhandara civil surgeon was suspended and others too were penalized in varied degrees. For reasons not clear, police have been kept in the dark regarding the expert committee report. Kumar said the inquiry was completed and report was sent to the health department. “The report was submitted before the government,” he said. While Bhandara police dilly-dallied for seven weeks, Wardha police promptly registered an offence the same day after an accident in the furnace section of Uttam Galva Metallics plant at Bhugaon in the first week of February. When the FIR was registered by Wardha police none of the injured workers had died. Two of them later succumbed to their injuries. After the deaths, police invoked more charges against the company employees for their negligence. Wardha police too are learnt to be waiting for some technical reports but that did not hinder them from registering an offence. “Prima facie, there was an accident which was clear after visiting the spot and hence no question of not filing a FIR,” said an official from Wardha. Bhandara and Wardha district police are under Nagpur range IG Chiranjeev Prasad. In Bhandara’s case, police are explaining the delay in filing the FIR by stating that initial reports of technical experts and forensic science have reached but more queries were being raised on the findings. “We are awaiting some advanced query reports. The case is being duly probed from all the angles,” said IG Prasad. During an informal press meet at city, state home minister Anil Deshmukh too could not say much beyond the routine ‘need to take an update on the issue’. The delay had led to a strong buzz in the district regarding someone powerful trying to shield the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandara-cops-register-fir-40-days-after-hospital-fire-that-killed-10-infants/articleshow/81097631.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 19, 2021||Chennai||North Chennai commuters want metro to slash fares||CHENNAI: An average 9,000 people travelled in metro trains on the new line from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar in the past three days but many passengers said they will not use the service for daily commute if Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) does not reduce ticket prices. Commuters, who travelled after CMRL began charging for rides on February 15, said they spend double or at times triple the amount on a metro ticket compared to MTC bus or share auto. “I started commuting in metro since Monday to my workplace from Washermenpet to Thiruvottiyur. I spend an average Rs 10 on a one-way bus ticket but the metro costs Rs 40. If they do not reduce the fares, I may not use it regularly as I cannot afford,” said M Rajan, a resident of Washermenpet. Passengers said long-distance commutes of more than 15km work out cheaper for a person travelling alone but they have to shell out double for a shorter distance. “It takes Rs 20 from Washermenpet to Thiruvottiyur in a share auto. But it is double in metro,” said Khader Hussein, a marketing executive from Korukkupet. “Even shorter distances like from Wimco Nagar to Kaladipet which is around 2km costs Rs 20 which I cannot afford daily,” he said. Reducing ticket prices has been a long-pending demand since the first line from Koyambedu to Alandur opened in June 2015 and has often been cited by experts as a reason for metro rail’s poor patronage. “There are seven lakh daily wage workers in North Chennai who cannot afford metro services due to high ticket fares. CMRL has to bring it down,” said Ernest Paul, coordinator North Chennai People’s Rights Federation, which campaigned for the metro line in north Chennai. Recently, city-based NGO Traffic and Transportation Forum, wrote to the Prime Minister requesting him to intervene and reduce metro rail fares. “We demand CMRL to reduce fares with a price starting from Rs 10 and capped at Rs 35. Unless this is done, metro rail will remain a distant dream to the poor and middle class,” said V Rama Rao, director of the NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/n-chennai-commuters-want-metro-to-slash-fares/articleshow/81097630.cms||U Tejonmayam
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Court seeks health report of ex-MP’s royal scion husband||Mumbai: The Bombay high court has sought a report from Thane Civil Hospital on the physical and mental condition of a former MP’s ailing husband, who is descendant of a royal family from Rajasthan. A bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Madhav Jamdar on Wednesday heard a plea by Rajkumari Ratna Singh to appoint her legal guardian of her husband Jaising Sisodia and caretaker of properties. Singh added her son and daughter as parties after the judges said they would consider appointing them jointly as guardians. Singh was an MP from Pratapgarh in Uttar Pradesh. The judges directed the hospital’s psychiatry head of department to visit Sisodia at the rehabilitation centre in Vasai and file a report stating whether he “suffers any disorder which impairs his understanding, judgement and capacity or ability to meet the ordinary demands of life including whether or not he is in a position to sign cheques/papers with understanding of what he is signing”. Also, the resident deputy collector shall visit Sisodia and submit a separate report “of his response, if any, by disclosing the filing” of the petition. The HC’s order followed after government pleader Poornima Kantharia said that the Mental Health Care Act 2017 will apply to Sisodia who has a history of drugs and alcoholism. She said the Act does not provide for guardians, but nominated representatives. Kantharia said she has not received documents of Sisodia’s other ailments including cancers. The judges said they would ask a doctor and the collector to go and ascertain facts. Singh’s advocate Ashok Saraogi said there is no family dispute. “The wife was thrice MP. The son is an MLA. This is not someone of no means coming and saying ‘appoint me guardian’,” he said. But Justice Sayed said, “We have to ascertain his condition. Is he in a position to sign? We cannot go by what you say. Let the reports come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-seeks-health-report-of-ex-mps-royal-scion-husband/articleshow/81099265.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 19, 2021||Kochi||Farm at St Mary’sUPS reaps award||Kochi: St Mary’s UP School in West Cheranallore, which had bagged first prize for maintaining the best organic vegetable farm in the district in 2019-20, has been adjudged second in the state-level evaluation of the same by agriculture department. Even though the school has been maintaining a large vegetable farm for the past 10 years, it is the first time it has received an award at state level. The award was received by headmistress Raji Parackkal and senior teacher Sr Sherly from minister for agriculture V S Sunilkumar at a function held in Thrissur on Sunday. Earlier in February, the school won the district level award for the second consecutive year. Also, Leema Paul, who is the convener of the vegetable farming initiative, has won the award for best coordinator of vegetable farms in schools in Ernakulam. The school has a vegetable farm spread across 50 cents of land within its campus. The farm grows wide varieties of vegetables and is maintained by teachers who spend their money and time excluding their working hours. The teachers have been divided into two groups for the purpose and they compete with each other in a healthy manner in terms of productivity of the farm and range of vegetables grown there. “In our farm there are around eight types of tomato, three types of lady’s finger, two types of spinach in addition to cauliflower, pumpkin, cucumber, bottle gourd, snake gourd, taro, yams and sweet potato. Every year the cultivation begins in October and goes up to April before the rain begins. In 2017-18, we made revenue of Rs.16,000 from the sale of the harvest. Most time we sell them in the local markets and shops,” said Sr Sherly. The school suffered severe damage in 2018 floods and it took much effort for teachers to restore the farm to its earlier condition. The Krishi Bhavan in the area had helped them set up trip irrigation system in the farm and also provided necessary seeds. “We never use any kind of chemical pesticides or fertilizers,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/farm-at-st-marysups-reaps-award/articleshow/81097636.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Uttam Galva incident: Compensation rules do not cover those scarred by fire||NAGPUR: The Uttam Galva incident has raised questions over compensating workers who are left disfigured after mishaps, but may not be rendered disabled. The accident at Uttam Galva’s plant in Wardha had left 38 workers cleaning a blast furnace wounded with burns. Out these, two have died and 18 are undergoing treatment. Experts say severe burns can leave scars on the skin leading to permanent superficial disfigurement. These can be scars on face or other parts of the body. It can be a cause of psychological trauma and social embarrassment for the victim. As investigated by TOI, under the present system, there are no clear guidelines on compensating such workers either through lump sum amount or disability pension. A payout happens only in case of death or physical disability. The workers have to directly negotiate with the employer. It has been learnt that Uttam Galva has paid an amount ranging up to Rs1 lakh depending on the degree of burns as ex gratia to the workers. The company is also bearing the treatment cost. There was no response from the company to TOI’s query whether it has a policy for compensating the workers for the trauma that may be there due to cosmetic disfigurement, no matter if it is not termed as disability. The management of Uttam Galva has recently come under Nithya Capital, through an NCLT bidding process. TOI had sent its query to Nithya Capital’s CEO Ankit Kothari, which went unanswered. Factories are covered under Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC). Even Uttam Galva is a covered unit. Getting coverage under ESIC takes care of the compensation cases. Senior officials of ESIC contacted by TOI said in case of death, pension is paid to the dependants. The pension is calculated on the basis of a certain formula and the amount is close to the last drawn salary. There is provision for pension in case of disability too. The degree of disability is certified by a medical board. Since the scars due to burns are superficial, it is not covered under ESIC’s compensation schemes, said a senior official here. “It is up to the employer to pay or maybe the worker can move the court,” said the officer. A doctor, not wishing to be named, said burn injuries on hands can lead to contractures (tightening of muscle, tendons, ligaments, or skin). This prevents normal movement of the associated body part. The defect can be restored after surgery. The scars, however, can remain permanent, leaving a mark even after plastic surgery. This can leave a permanent impact on the victim’s psyche, said the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/compensation-rules-do-not-cover-those-scarred-by-fire/articleshow/81097639.cms||Shishir Arya
February 19, 2021||India||Amit Shah on Disha Ravi: Age, gender not relevant in assessing culpability||NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday strongly defended Delhi Police’s action in the Disha Ravi case, saying the arrest of the climate activist in the “toolkit” investigation had been explained by police and factors such as age, gender and profession could not be relevant in assessing culpability in a crime. The minister said the nature of a crime case should not be judged on extraneous factors, even as he refused to elaborate on the “merits” of the investigation, which he said was being handled “meticulously” by Delhi Police. “Kya gender, age, profession pooch kar gunah tay hoga? (Will a crime or culpability be decided on the basis of gender, age and profession),” Shah asked in response to questions being raised on Ravi’s arrest. Read AlsoSeveral legal eagles question sedition charge against Disha RaviMUMBAI/ DELHI: Legal experts on Monday questioned the invoking of the sedition law in the Disha Ravi case, saying Delhi Police had ‘over-reacted’ and the 22-year-old climate activist’s arrest was ‘unwarranted’. Former chief justice of Bombay high court Pradeep Nandrajogsaid the purpose of using “Delhi Police have been given a free hand to deal with the case… there is no political pressure on them and they have the freedom to act as per the law, therefore, I will not speak about the merits of the case,” Shah said in comments to Times Now and ABP News. Read AlsoDisha Ravi panicked when Greta Thunberg leaked toolkit, say policeDelhi Police on Monday claimed that arrested climate activist Disha Ravi had panicked when Greta Thunberg accidentally leaked the toolkit on the farm protests and asked her to refrain from saying anything on it. Disha wanted to consult a lawyer fearing that the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act“Do you ask the age of someone who commits a crime?” he added, apparently responding to the focus on the activist’s age and environmental activism.H ome minister Amit Shah said there was little scope of error by Delhi Police but there was an option to approach the courts for quashing the case. “One should approach the court and seek remedy if he or she feels that there is no evidence,” he said. Read AlsoDisha Ravi arrest: Followed norms, no leniency on basis of age, says policeDelhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava on Tuesday said all procedures laid down in the law were followed during the arrest of Disha Ravi from Bengaluru. Shrivastava told mediapersons that law does not differentiate on the basis of age. “Law does not differentiate between a 22-year-old and aShah said raising questions against the arrest was easy but who would accept responsibility in case something untoward happened. “What kind of trend is this that people start talking about profession, association and age in terms of a case?” he asked and also criticised media reports questioning why just one 22-year-old was singled out. Read AlsoFarmers Protests: Demonstrations held across country condemning Disha Ravi's arrestNEW DELHI: Farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws since November 2020, however, since January 26 violence that took place during the tractor rally, controversies have overshadowed the farm agitation. At the centre of the controversy is a toolkit, which came on Delhi Police“There might be many other 22- year-olds who would have been arrested,” he said. He added, “There must be some evidence on which Delhi Police has taken action.” “Delhi Police is acting as per the law. It has already given details of the IPC Sections which have been used in the case. It has explained the case and the sections in detail for the people,” he said, adding that he was not in a position to prevent people from speaking on the issue with a political motive. Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava had said that Disha Ravi’s arrest was made in accordance with the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shah-on-disha-age-gender-not-relevant-in-assessing-culpability/articleshow/81100424.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Woman’s nephew gets arrested as her ‘husband’, entire family booked for fooling cops||NAGPUR: A 39-year-old woman fooled Hudkeshwar police earlier this week into believing that her nephew was her husband, so the actual husband, who is a cardiac patient, would not get arrested. After the arrest formalities and registration of offences had been completed, a co-accused in the case told police they had nabbed the wrong man. Now, the cops are looking for the real husband, and have also booked the entire family for helping perpetrate the fraud. The cops had booked a jeweller and his wife for purchasing stolen gold from burglars, who were later arrested by the cops. When the cops reached the jewellers house, his wife presented her nephew Sachin as her husband. The cops had arrested Sachin and processed his case. The family was exposed since Sachin was exposed by the burglars already in custody. “The man (Pradeep Hathagade) who had taken the stolen gold from the burglar (Sanmet Dabhne) and sold it to the jeweller pointed out that Sachin was not the jeweller,” said a police source. “We will now discharge Sachin from one offence and again arrest him for masquerading as the jeweller,” said the cop. The woman, from whom cops had recovered 28 tolas stolen gold during investigation, was also arrested for her alleged complicity in case. Her husband, a jeweller, had purchased the gold from Hathagade, who had taken it from Dabhne, a notorious burglar. Dabhne had stolen the gold from the residence of Parate family at New Mahalaxmi Nagar on New Narsala Road on February 9. He had also melted the stolen valuables and turned them into ‘biscuits’ which were seized by Hudkeshwar police. Hudkeshwar police team comprising head constable Deepak More, naik constable Rajesh Mote and others under assistant PI Swapnil Bhujbal and Inspector Pratap Bhosale had trapped Dabhne while on his way back to the city from Shirdi a couple of days after he committed the burglary. Police had arrested two of his accomplices too. Their custodial interrogation had led the cops to the jeweller and his wife. Apart from burglary, Hudkeshwar police have now registered fresh offence against the jeweller couple, their nephews Sachin Khedekar and his brother Manoj. The jeweller’s elder brother too was made a co-accused for misleading the cops. Police said the woman had to be taken into custody as the family was not cooperating and the husband is still on the run, even though the burglars have named him clearly. “The jeweller’s wife had claimed his nephew (Sachin) was her husband, which was supported by the rest of the family members, and hence all were booked,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/womans-nephew-gets-arrested-as-her-husband-entire-family-booked-for-fooling-cops/articleshow/81097650.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Man dressed as cop stole Rs 1.5 lakh from my bag: Fuel station employee||Chandigarh: A man dressed in a “police uniform” allegedly stole Rs 1.5 lakh from a petrol pump employee after taking a lift on his bike in Sector 26 on Monday evening.Ranjan Singh, owner of a petrol pump in Sector 34, said, “Akash works at my fuel station and handles cash. After collecting Rs 1.5 lakh from the station, he left for my office in Sector 7, Panchkula. The cash was in a bag he hung on his shoulder. When he reached near sectors 7 and 26 roundabout, a turbaned man in police uniform signaled him to stop. Akash thought he might have violated a traffic rule. As soon as he stopped his bike, the man sat on it and requested him to drop him at Grain Market roundabout.” Akash said, “As we reached near the Grain Market roundabout, I slowed down due to the rush. The ‘cop’ alighted from the moving bike and later took a lift from a pick-up van. When I reached Sector 7 and opened my bag, I found the cash packet missing.” Akash and Ranjan reached Sector 26 police station and apprised the cops of the incident. The police checked the footage of the CCTV at the roundabout and saw a man taking lift from Akash.Ranjan said they checked the footage of CCTV at Grain Market parking and found the suspect in it. As he was wearing a mask, it would not be easy to recognise him, said the complainant. They have given the CCTV footage to Sector 26 police. The complainant said police had registered a DDR and were not registering an FIR in the case.DSP, east division, Gurmukh Singh said, “The case is being investigated. Sector 26 police have registered a DDR. An FIR will be filed after completing the investigation. The suspect’s clothing was not a police uniform, but similar to it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-dressed-as-cop-stole-rs-1-5-lakh-from-my-bag-fuel-station-employee/articleshow/81097640.cms||Pawan Tiwari
February 19, 2021||Kochi||Cusat to work with artisans to develop clay water filter||Kochi: In an attempt to address the problem of potable water in coastal areas of Kerala, Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) has entered into collaboration with researchers at IIT Jodhpur. Under the collaboration, IIT Jodhpur, which has developed a G-filter using Rajasthan clay for clay-ceramic water filters, will transfer the technology through Cusat to the potter community here for making similar pots with the clay available in Kerala. The G-filters are found to be excellent in removing biological contaminants. Frustum-shaped clay ceramic water filters are being manufactured by the potters of the Thar Desert for household use. The clay composite consists of a homogeneous mixture of an equal volume of clay and sawdust. “The major aim is to revitalize the cottage industry in Kerala. The initial financial support was from the department of science and technology (DST) under the water technology initiative project. We will work with the artisans for the development of specific G-filters utilizing the clays available in Kerala,” said Usha K Aravind of school of environment sciences, Cusat, who is the project coordinator with Anand, professor at IIT Jodhpur. She said that the research will focus on developing G-filters for the removal of various water pollutants, including bacteria, ions and also other emerging contaminants. It is expected to develop eco-friendly and cost-effective G-filters for drinking water solutions in the wake of high-level contamination of the water in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-to-work-with-artisans-to-develop-clay-water-filter/articleshow/81097653.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Madurai||DMK cadre hacked to death||Tirunelveli: DMK Tirunelveli east district youth wing organiser S Chelladurai of Ariyanayagipuram was hacked to death near Mukkudal on Thursday evening. The murder is suspected to be the fallout of a property dispute among people of the same locality. Chelladurai, who was aged 38 years, was on the way to his poultry farm on a motorcycle when a gang waylaid and attacked him with machetes and deadly weapons. Chelladurai was rushed to the Mukkudal Government Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. His body was sent to the Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital for autopsy. Police were on the lookout for the suspects. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-cadre-hacked-to-death/articleshow/81099986.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Tribal museum, Art Street in New Town||KOLKATA: An art street has been thrown open on the service road in front of Eco Park Gate 1 in New Town, where artists can exhibit their works. Hidco is also developing a tribal museum at Eco Urban Village to showcase artefacts, reflecting tribal culture and tradition. Hidco chairman Debashis Sen said, “A group has been reaching out to artists who can exhibit their paintings, sketches and sculptures there.” Empanelled artists and organisations will get display rights on rotation every few months. The museum will be built in Santiniketan’s Kalo Bari style. “It is planned to showcase items depicting tribal culture, including musical instruments and artefacts. But it hasn’t been finalized,” Sen said. Artist Rupchand Kundu will direct the museum’s look and Hidco engineers will build it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tribal-museum-art-street-in-new-town/articleshow/81097654.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 19, 2021||Nashik||City under surveillance: Nashik gets 2 integrated command & control rooms||Nashik: The smart city development corporation has established two integrated command and control rooms for its ambitious CCTV project among other projects planned in the city.While one of the command and control centre has been established at the Panchavati divisional office building of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), where the LED screens will be monitored by 35 operators, 20 operators will be working at the other centre set up at the headquarters of the city police commissionerate. According to the officials of the Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Limited (NMSCDCL), the work of installing over 800 CCTV cameras at 335 locations will start from the last week of February. All the CCTVs will be connected with the command and control room so that police can keep tabs on all illegal activities and traffic movement. “The agency appointed for the installation of the CCTV cameras has given its implementation plan. It will start installing the cameras at the locations finalized by the civic authorities and the police,”said Prakash Thavil, CEO of NMSCDCL. “A Delhi-based company will soon start dispatching iron pipes in a phased manner that will be required for installing the CCTV cameras,” said another smart city official. “Some LED poles have been installed at over a dozen traffic junctions in the city. We will start the work for installing CCTV cameras from these junctions,” said an official. While the NMC has identified 110 locations for the installation of the CCTV cameras, the city police has identified 225 locations, which include 47 junctions on different roads, market places and crime-prone spots in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-under-surveillance-nashik-gets-2-integrated-command-control-rooms/articleshow/81097641.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope tests positive; Jayant Patil, Khadse too infected||MUMBAI: Two ministers in the Maharashtra government, public health minister Rajesh Tope and water resources minister Jayant Patil, have tested positive for Covid-19. Sources said Tope was admitted to a private city hospital on Thursday afternoon. He has been touring different districts of the state to review Covid-19 cases. “My Covid test has come out positive. My health is fine and I am following doctors’ advice,” said Tope in a tweet. He also appealed to all those who have come in contact with him to get themselves tested if they show symptoms. Water resources minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil too said he has tested positive. Patil tweeted, “I have tested COVID positive. Whilst I am doing fine, I am taking appropriate medical advice and hope to recover soon. I shall be undertaking my duties via video-conference.” NCP leader Eknath Khadse and his daughter-in-law and MP Raksha Khadse too posted that they have tested positive. Khadse had also announced in November last year that he had tested positive for the infection. Eknath Khadse was admitted to Bombay Hospital on Thursday. Sources said he has been put on oxygen support and a course of remdesivir. “His condition is stable though,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/health-min-tope-tests-positive-jayant-patil-khadse-too-infected/articleshow/81097842.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: High diesel prices halt trawlers, fish could cost more||CHENNAI: When D Selvaraj, a trawler owner at Kasimedu fishing harbour, went fishing a week ago, the quantity of catch could not fetch the sum he spent on fuel and provisions required for the sail. The hike in diesel prices has hit the likes of Selvaraj as they are finding it difficult to spend more on diesel and look for a good catch. A Ragupathi, a fisherman and trawler owner, said despite the subsidy given by the government, fishermen were making very little now. Selvaraj said if the quantity of fish caught is less, he has to incur losses of up to Rs 10,000 a day. “I have anchored my vessel in the harbour for the past one week. This is the condition of most of the fishermen in Chennai,” he said. Kasimedu fishing harbour has nearly 1,500 boats which include trawlers, gillnet boats, fibre boats and country boats. While trawlers and gillnet boats go for fishing for almost 30 days, fibre boats stay in the sea for about 10 days. The country boats stay in the water for a few hours from late evening to early morning. Fishermen said with boats stationed in the harbour, the quantity of fish arriving at Kasimedu will come down and push up fish prices in the city. “This weekend, the price of fish may skyrocket in the city,” said Selvaraj. Already, fishermen at Kasimedu had incurred huge losses last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The footfalls at the harbour had come down and during the lockdown fishermen were not allowed to venture out.  “Many of us had hoped that in 2021 fishing activities will revive and we can compensate for the losses made last year. But the fuel price hike has hit us very hard,” S Arumugam said, a fibre boat owner said. He said when the fuel prices are reduced, more fishermen will be able to venture into the sea and return with a better catch to the shore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/high-diesel-prices-halt-trawlers-fish-could-cost-more/articleshow/81097651.cms||P Oppili
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Handicrafts industry seeks separate policy||Jaipur: Rajasthan has more than 1 lakh handicraft units including those run by rural artisans, serving as a source of livelihood for over 7 lakh people. Of the Rs 25,000 crore handicrafts exports revenue in the country, Rajasthan accounts for about Rs 8,000 crore, about 30% of the total shipments. But the state has no policy to support the sector. The industry wants the state Budget to spell out a broad vision for the industry that is facing stiff competition from aggressive strategies of state governments like Uttar Pradesh.“With a defined policy, dedicated setup, and designated officials for handicraft industry will not help in its growth but to prevent unique crafts forms from getting extinct. To preserve the languishing crafts which are the symbols of the state’s heritage” and help artisans stay occupied, a special package needs to be announced in the budget,” said Dileep Baid, ex-president of Federation of Rajasthan Handicrafts Exporters (FORHEX).Rajasthan has an age-old tradition of export business for not only being falling under golden triangle map of international tourist but also for its craftsmanship in handicrafts, reflecting the heritage of the state which has international recognition.Baid said to revive the sector which has been severely hit by the pandemic, the state needs to set up a design university. Besides, electricity rates should be offered at concessional rates to export oriented units. “Group medical insurance policy for manpower engaged in soft goods units, establishment of integrated handicraft parks and raw material banks on PPP model, common facility centres at government and private level handicraft marts at prominent tourist places would go a long way in building a vibrant sector,” added Baid.The existing Handicraft policy of the state is a part of MSME industrial policy, revolving around the functioning of IICD & RSIC. ‘A well-defined policy will make it reach artisans at spread across the state,” he said.Demands of the sectorCreation of design university Concessional power rates to export oriented unitsMedical insurance for manpower engaged in sectorSetting up of an integrated handicraft parkRaw material banks on PPP model Common facility centre at govt level,Establishment of handicraft marts at tourist places||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/handicrafts-industry-seeks-separate-policy/articleshow/81097677.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||BJP’s stir on power bills is bogus, says Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut||NAGPUR: Energy minister Nitin Raut again attacked the BJP calling its agitation against inflated power bills bogus and said it was with sole purpose of diverting attention from failures of central government. On Wednesday, former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule had declared in Mumbai that BJP activists would court arrest on February 24 against MSEDCL’s disconnection drive and state government’s failure to reduce power bills of common citizens. Raut said that Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had been formed with the primary aim of uplifting farmers and hence there could be no question of the government harassing the agriculturists. The minister said that MSEDCL had launched the Mahakrishi Urja Abhiyan on January 26 for the welfare of farmers. “Between January 27 and February 18, we have provided electric connections to 14,355 farm pumps and installed 7,800 solar farm pumps,” he added. Raut said that farmers were taking advantage of the amnesty scheme announced by the state government. “So far, the farmers have paid Rs 174 crore of which Rs 53 crore is the current bill amount and Rs 121 crore past dues,” he added. The minister said that BJP leaders were misleading people that the MVA government had increased the power tariff from April 2020. “The powers of deciding the electricity rates are with Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) and the government has no role in it,” he further said. “In any case, MSEDCL had submitted the tariff hike petition well before MVA government came to power,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjps-stir-on-power-bills-is-bogus-says-raut/articleshow/81097689.cms||Ashish Roy
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Cong trying to fool people: Diya Kumari||Jaipur: BJP MP from Rajsamand Diya Kumari accused Congress of luring public for the by-elections with false promises.Reacting to the announcements made by the Congress at a programme organised by the municipal council on Wednesday, she criticised speaker C P Joshi and said that looking for the by-elections they were trying to fool the public and talking about development in Rajsamand.She said, “The Congress should stop day dreaming. The public cannot be lured by greed and false promises.”She said UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal claimed that all promises will be fulfilled only when the public gives their blessings. This clearly shows with an eye on bypolls, the Congress has given wind to the politics of deception, she alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-trying-to-fool-people-diya-kumari/articleshow/81097655.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand becomes first state to give co-ownership rights to women in husband’s ancestral property||DEHRADUN: In a landmark decision, the Uttarakhand government has brought an ordinance to give co-ownership rights to women in their husband’s ancestral property. The ordinance has been brought keeping in mind the large-scale migration of male members in search of work. Through the ordinance, the Trivendra Singh Rawat government aims to provide economic independence to women – who are left behind in the hills and are solely dependent on agriculture to meet their financial needs. The amendment made to the Uttarakhand Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act is likely to impact around 35 lakh women in the state. In the revenue records, the name of the wife would be now mentioned as a co-owner. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “Uttarakhand has set a precedence for other states to follow. This is the biggest reform of our government. I am confident that this reform will not be limited to Uttarakhand and other states will also follow it. We talk of equal partnership and this ordinance provides equal partnership to women. This will have a major impact and will go a long way in overall development of the state.” According to the ordinance, in case a woman files for divorce and marries someone else, she will not be regarded as co-owner of the land owned by her first husband. But, if her divorced husband is unable to bear her financial expenses, the woman would be allowed to be the co-owner. Besides, if a woman divorces and does not have a child or her husband has been missing for a period of seven years, she can become a co-owner of land owned by her father. “It was unfair that despite performing all the agri works, the women could not take decisions or apply for loans as the land was in the name of their husbands,” CM Rawat said. State agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal told TOI, “Uttarakhand is the first state to give co-ownership rights to women in their husband’s ancestral property. Earlier, the changes made by some states gave women co-ownership rights in their ancestral property.” Migration has remained a problem in the Himalayan state. In the past 10 years, a total of 4.56 lakh people moved out – 50% of them in search of work. Several villages are left with elderly couples and women. In such a scenario, the women – in the absence of adequate jobs – are involved in carrying out household chores and working in the fields – without any ownership rights. According to the Election Commission, Uttarakhand has 37.40 lakh women voters out of total 78.15 lakh. Rashmi Jungwan, whose husband works at a private firm in Bengaluru while she stays in their native village Chandrapuri in Rudraprayag district, said, “It is a pragmatic move. There is no point bringing in a scheme or a loan, when people who need it cannot apply or avail it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-becomes-1st-state-to-give-co-ownership-rights-to-women-in-husbands-ancestral-property/articleshow/81096564.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Stakes high, govt woos voters in 4 bypoll seats||Jaipur: With bypolls in four assembly constituencies around the corner, the government is leaving no stone unturned to nurse these constituencies.Bypolls in assembly constituencies of Sujangarh in Churu, Rajsamand, Sahada in Bhilwara and Vallabh Nagar in Udaipur district, necessitated following the demise of sitting legislators is yet to be announced by the Election Commission.Whether approval of new roads or attending to long pending demands of the people like sanctioning of new faculty, new subjects in schools, or approval of public health centres, the ministers are working overtime to attend to even minor grievances.“In fulfilment of the promise made earlier to my fellow MLA late Shri Gajendra Singh Shaktawat ji, in his Vidhan Sabha Vallabh Nagar, additional faculty has been approved in three government higher secondary schools and additional subjects in two government higher secondary schools have been approved,” announced education minister and PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra in a tweet a few days back.Vallabh Nagar in Udaipur is one of the constituencies going to the polls after the untimely demise of young Congress MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat.The stake for the ruling Congress is very high as three of the four assembly seats going to the polls were held by the Congress, while the ruling party gets a chance to capture the Rajsamand seat in the wake of the passing away of popular BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari.Rajsamand is also the home district of assembly speaker C P Joshi who represents the neighbouring Nathdwara seat in the assembly. The other day, Joshi took three ministers, UDH Minister Shanti Dhariwal, medical and health minster Raghu Sharma and cooperatives minister Udailal Anjana, to Rajsamand to announce developmental works worth several hundred crores.This includes the setting up of a new medical college, the upgradation of PHC to CHC and filling up the vacant posts medical staff etc. In January the government had sanctioned 12 road projects in the district.The ministers in-charge of the districts were directed to attend to the demands of the people and get the work done by the district administration on an urgent basis.The Congress leaders think that any setback in the bypolls would put the party and government on the backfoot.A Congress leader said, “The previous Vasundhara Raje government which came to power with unprecedented majority could not recover from the bypoll debacle held within six months. For the Congress, with its thin majority in the House, it could ill-afford losing any seat to the opposition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stakes-high-govt-woos-voters-in-4-bypoll-seats/articleshow/81097652.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Supreme Court puts stay on Uttarakhand government’s clearance to allow movement of buses through core zone of Corbett Tiger Reserve||DEHRADUN: The Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday put a stay on the state government’s decision of plying of buses in the core region of the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR), which has an estimated 19 tiger families living in the area. A bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde issued notices to the state government, Centre, National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) as well as officials of CTR seeking their response on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) which highlighted the environmental impact of plying buses through the core area. The PIL was filed by Delhi-based advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal challenging the decision of the forest department to allow a private company to ply their buses within the core area which it termed was “an act of compromise with the protection and conservation of our national animal.” Speaking to TOI, Bansal said, “The move of plying buses through the core area is clearly in contempt of SC’s order of 2005 whereby it had asked to use alternate alignment for connecting Garhwal with Kumaon. Along with it, it also violates various sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and Indian Forest Act, 1926 by harming the rich biodiversity of CTR.” He added that “surprisingly, NTCA, the apex tiger conservation authority of the country, was not kept in the loop regarding plying of buses which was informed to us through an RTI response by the authority in January.” Hailing the apex court’s intervention in the matter, Doon-based environmental activist and lawyer Reenu Paul said, “It is so obvious that a road which houses 19 tiger families shouldn’t have any vehicle movement. But just to cater to their constituencies ahead of elections, politicians are going to any extent. These kind of projects only promote wastage of exchequer money and bring shame for Uttarakhand at national level since the apex court has to intervene to put a stop on such activities.” In a similar vein, environmentalist Ashish Garg said, “Considering climate change and climatic extremities, we have to leave wildlife abodes sacrosanct. We are fragmenting the forests by creating networks of road not only in and around CTR but across Uttarakhand. Politicians should stop this kind of development which is harmful for us as well as future generations.” Meanwhile, forest minister Harak Singh Rawat, who has been aggressively promoting the project, when queried about the SC stay, said, “We will study the entire case and then take the next move. The bus service has been there since the British period and we have simply restored it.” To recall, CM Trivendra Rawat after assuming power in 2017 had announced that the Kandi road would be constructed from Kotdwar to Ramnagar and pass through the core area of CTR. Also, funds to the tune of Rs 3.14 crore were approved for the project and Wildlife Institute of India (WII) was engaged for the study. In March 2019, National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered the state government to construct the road as per the initial plan approved by the Supreme Court in 2005. The plan kept CTR out, giving full protection to the tigers. However, the plan was not followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sc-puts-stay-on-ukhand-governments-clearance-to-allow-movement-of-buses-through-core-zone-of-corbett-tiger-reserve/articleshow/81096573.cms||Shivani Azad
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||MahaMetro launches shuttle service at Nagpur airport||NAGPUR: MahaMetro has started a shuttle service at the city airport connecting the Airport Metro station with the airport terminal. The shuttle is the joint initiative of MahaMetro, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Mihan India Ltd (MIL), which manages the airport. The shuttle was flagged off on Thursday evening by MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit. The shuttle will leave the Airport Metro station every 15 minutes. It will operate between 8 am and 8 pm. The ticket for a passenger will be just Rs 10. Metro officials said the shuttle had lot of space to keep the luggage of passengers. A feeder bus service between Khapri Metro station and Mihan was also started on Thursday. MahaMetro has signed an agreement with India Pacific Travels Company to run the bus. The bus will connect the Metro station with all the offices in Mihan. Earlier, in the morning, MahaMetro officials celebrated the agency’s sixth foundation day in Metro Bhavan. Dixit addressed Metro staffers and invitees on the occasion. The MD said that central government had sanctioned Nagpur Metro phase II and Nashik Metro due to the excellent work done by MahaMetro in Nagpur and Pune. “City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) has asked us to complete the first line of Navi Mumbai Metro. This is a matter of great pride for us,” he added. Director (project) Mahesh Kumar, director (finance) S Sivamathan, director (rolling stock) Sunil Mathur, executive director (administration) Anil Kokate and other Metro officials were present in the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-launches-shuttle-service-at-airport/articleshow/81097723.cms||Ashish Roy
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Form panel to resolve paper row: HC to RPSC||Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court on Thursday asked the Rajasthan State Public Commission (RPSC) to constitute an expert committee to decide on the disputed questions of the Rajasthan school lecturer secondary education combined competitive examination 2018.The single bench of Justice SP Sharma issued the order on a petition by one Jitendra Meena and others.The court directed the expert committee to decide on the disputed questions and submit its findings to the RPSC within seven days and the RPSC, if necessary, revise the result based on the report of the expert committee within 15 days. The court advised the government not to go ahead with appointment till the matter is resolved.Anoop Dhand, counsel for the petitioners, said the petitioners had participated for the commerce stream of the examination and they were in the provisional merit list. But since the RPSC deleted some questions or changed answers options some questions before the final merit list was made they were thrown out of the merit list.They were deprived of their chance due to the arbitrary action of the RPSC. It was also alleged in the petition that the answer keys were changed to favour some persons. The petitioner had demanded awarding bonus marks for the questions deleted and issue fresh merit list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/form-panel-to-resolve-paper-row-hc-to-rpsc/articleshow/81097685.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Puducherry||On Day 1, L-G Tamilisai Soundararajan orders floor test in Puducherry on February 22||PUDUCHERRY: Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who assumed additional charge as lieutenant governor of the Union territory of Puducherry on Thursday, directed Congress chief minister V Narayanasamy to prove his majority in the assembly on February 22. The direction came after MLAs of the opposition parties led by the leader of the opposition and All India NR Congress founder N Rangasamy called on her on Thursday. The opposition parties said the government had lost majority after four of its MLAs resigned in the past 25 days and one member was disqualified last year. In an official communication, the L-G said a session of the legislative assembly shall be summoned on February 22 with a single agenda to ascertain if the government of the incumbent CM continues to enjoy the confidence of the House. “Voting shall take place by show of hands. The entire proceedings of the assembly shall be videographed. The floor test shall be conducted by 5pm on February 22, and the proceedings shall not be adjourned/delayed or suspended at any cost,” said a note from the lieutenant governor’s secretariat. The legislative assembly has 30 elected members and three nominated members. Five seats fell vacant after resignation and disqualification of MLAs. The ruling Congress party has 10 MLAs (including speaker) and three DMK members and one independent MLA support the government. Opposition camp has 14 MLAs seven members of the AINRC, four from the AIADMK, and three nominated MLAs of the BJP. The nominated MLAs also have voting powers as per the Supreme Court’s order dated December 6, 2018 in Puducherry chief minister’s parliamentary secretary K Lakshminarayanan vs Union of India case. The SC while citing the UT Act, declared that the ‘statutory provision does not give an indication that nominated members have no right to vote on the budget and no-confidence motion against the government...Thus there is no basis for submission raised by Shri Sibal (Lakshminarayananan’s counsel) that nominated members cannot exercise their vote in budget and no-confidence motion against the government. The issue is answered accordingly.’ The L-G’s order directed the assembly secretary to ensure that there is no breach of law and order in the course of the proceedings and the floor test is conducted in a peaceful manner. She has also directed the chief secretary and director general of police to make necessary arrangements to ensure that there is no restraint or hindrance on any of the MLAs in attending the session. Narayanasamy also called on her and held discussions after the Rangasamy-led delegation called on her. The Congress government has seen a spate of desertions over the past few weeks. Public works minister A Namassivayam and Congress MLA E Theeppainthan resigned and joined the BJP on January 25. Health and family welfare minister Malladi Krishna Rao, who resigned from his ministerial post on January 13, quit his MLA post on Monday. Congress MLA A John Kumar resigned on Tuesday. Congress MLA N Danavelu was disqualified by the party for indulging in anti-party activities. Rangasamy said Narayanasamy instead of claiming that his government has the majority in the House must have owned moral responsibility and stepped down. “The ruling Congress and its allies have 14 members. Remember the strength includes the speaker of the legislative assembly. The strength of the opposition parties is also 14. How can the government prove its majority?” questioned Rangasamy. CM Narayanasamy said the party will take a decision after holding a meeting with the MLAs of its ally DMK and leaders of its alliance partners on Sunday. He accused the BJP party of indulging in anti-democratic activities in toppling Congress governments in several states and form government using muscle power and money power. “The opposition parties have been attempting to dethrone the Congress government for the past four and half years. They continue to do so even when polls dates are about to be announced,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/on-day-1-l-g-tamilisai-orders-floor-test-in-pondy-on-feb-22/articleshow/81099301.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 19, 2021||Jodhpur||Asaram back in Jodhpur jail after medical check-up||JODHPUR: Asaram was lodged back in Jodhpur Central Jail on Thursday after a detailed physical examination and hospitalistion of two days. The MDM Hospital administration discharged him after all his reports were found normal. Cardiologist Sanjeev Sanghvi said he had been kept under observation at the CCU following complaints of chest pain, but his ECG was consistently normal. “After a detailed check up, we advised him angiography, but he refused and preferred to get it done some other time. So we prescribed him some medicines,” said Sanghvi. According to the superintendent of MDM Hospital, MK Aseri, during sonography, he found to have an infection in his bladder, after which he was referred to an urologist, who prescribed him antibiotics. “After all these examinations and two days of observation, he was finally discharged from the hospital late afternoon”, Aseri said. His devotees, who had converged at the hospital in large numbers on Thursday, gave a tough time to police, who had to sweat it out to disperse them. Many of them tried to sneak into the hospital impersonating as patients. On spotting his vehicle during discharge, these devotees tried to get close to the vehicle in anticipation of getting a glimpse of Asaram and ran after the vehicle with their cell phone cameras on to record the glimpse. Many of them even followed him in their vehicles to the jail right from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/asaram-back-to-jail-after-check-up/articleshow/81097715.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Farmers fast for water||Jaisalmer: Farmers, who have been agitating for the last 13 days at Mohangarh canal area in Jaisalmer demanding sufficient water in canals, launched a hungerstrike from Thursday. On the first day, five farmers sat on a fast while other farmers continued their stir along with them.The farmers said their crops require water in next 2-3 days, but for the last one month, water in the canals is less and every time they only get assurance of supply. For the last few days, flow of water in Indira Gandhi canal was very less compared to normal days and it has been said there was seepage in the canal in Punjab because of which there was shortage of water at the tail end of the canal in Jaisalmer. The farmers said more will join the agitation from Friday till they get water. Farmer leader Himmat Choudhary said water in canals was stopped due to seepage. The matter was informed to all the officers but even after 20 days, they are not getting 6,000 cusecs of water due to which crops are getting ruined. They asked the district administration to listen to their demands and not to take it lightly as it is a question of their life and death. Farmer leader Prem Singh Parihar said crops are getting ruined due to shortage of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-fast-for-water/articleshow/81097691.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Bengaluru||Raids on medical colleges in Karnataka reveal Rs 403 crore ‘hidden’ income||BENGALURU: The income-tax department’s raids on nine major education trusts, some of which run medical colleges, have yielded Rs 403 crore in undisclosed income which they allegedly accepted as capitation fees by manipulating the online admission process. The tax raids were conducted at 56 locations across Karnataka, including Bengaluru, Mangaluru and Tumakuru, and Kerala on Wednesday and Thursday. The house of a minister’s driver in Adugodi, Bengaluru, was also searched. Some colleges had politicians in their management, a source said. Sources said the searches blew the lid off cash-for-seat malpractices for admission to MBBS, BDS and postgraduate seats. Some students helped agents block seatsSurabhi Ahluwalia, commissioner of I-T (media and technical policy) and spokesperson of Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), said: “During the raids, Rs 15 crore cash, gold worth Rs 30 crore, 50 diamonds and 40kg of silver articles were seized from residential premises of the trustees. Evidence of undisclosed assets of Rs 2.4 crore in Ghana and investments in 35 luxury cars in benami names were also found.” Notebooks, handwritten diaries and datasheets containing details of cash received from students and brokers were seized. An official claimed one medical college has a package offer for passing management-quota students in written exams and viva voce for a sum ranging from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2 lakh. Officials said the selection process to medical colleges through NEET has allegedly been subverted by trustees and managements in collusion with agents/brokers and students. According to sources, some high-ranking students in NEET take admission to MBBS courses through state counselling though they have no intention to join as they already have secured admission or are likely to get it elsewhere. The intention is to block seats during the Karnataka Examinations Authority counselling. This is done in connivance with agents, who help in converting regular seats into management ones. These students would later withdraw from the admission process, making the seats available for managements to fill up through the “stray vacancies round”. Such seats are allegedly filled by admitting less-meritorious candidates after collecting capitation fee or donations through a network of agents employed by the trustees of these colleges, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/raids-on-med-colleges-in-state-reveal-403-crore-hidden-income/articleshow/81100754.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Man gets life term for rape in Bundi||KOTA: A POCSO court in Bundi on Thursday convicted a 53-year-old man to life imprisonment till natural death for raping a 12-year-old girl of the city two years ago. The court also slapped a penalty of Rs 50,000 . The POCSO court number 1 of the city convicted Jugdish Khatik (55), a resident of Undhaliya ki Dungeri area of Bundi city, to life term in jail for raping the girl of his neighborhood in April 2019, public prosecutor, POCSO court- 1, Rakesh Thakur said. “Khatik (55) lured the minor girl for a toffee from nearby shop and took her to deserted Old Grain Mandi ground where he raped the minor in an abandoned shop on April 18, 2019. The convicted left the minor survivor in horrible mental and physical state with warning not to disclose the act to anyone.” Thakur said, on report by the minor survivor’s father on the same day in Bundi Sadar police station, the police lodged a case under Sections 363, 366, 376 of IPC and Section 5n/6 of POCSO Act against Khatik and arrested him since then he had been in jail under judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-gets-life-term-for-rape-in-bundi/articleshow/81097735.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Kochi||Open conversations a must in democracy: Hareesh||Kochi: Human affinity towards narrating stories and listening to them shows that a democratic process lies at the core of human existence, said writer S Hareesh, who recently won the Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award for the best novel. Hareesh, who is also the scriptwriter for the film ‘Churuli’ directed by Lijo Jose Pellissery, being screened at the international competition section of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK), said the pandemic has shown that art has the potential to bring people close together. “Art has been with us since the beginning of the human race and the time demands that we engage in debates and conversations about art because it also concerns our democracy. Conversations are always important in democracy and we need to keep them open,” he said inaugurating the open forum on cinema in the aftermath of disaster. Hareesh said the state is always fearful of democracy and art and this is now reflected in the censorship even in OTT platforms. “Today they have arrested someone in the name of sharing a toolkit. This is because they fear the process of democracy. They also fear art and that’s the reason why they lock-up artists and filmmakers and censor OTT platforms,” he said. Director Don Palathara said that the decision of the authorities to hold the festival in four zones despite the Covid-19 crisis is admirable. “The decision to conduct the festival in locations spread across the state ensured that filmmakers like me, who find it hard to get theatrical releases, could reach out to more people,” said Palathara, whose two films — ‘1965, Central Travancore’ and ‘Santhoshathinte Onnam Rahasyam (Joyful Mystery) — are being screened at the festival. Critics K P Jayakumar, G P Ramachandran and director Sohan Seenulal also spoke at the forum. A special event paying tributes to 43 artists and directors who passed away recently was also held at Sarita theatre on Thursday. While director Renjith, delivered a lecture in memory of director Sachi and Anil Nedumangad, IFFK vice-president Bina Paul spoke on Kim Ki Duk, Fernando Solanus, Soumitra Chatterjee and Bhanu Athaiya. Music director Sudeep Palanadu spoke on ‘Karie’ director Shanavas Naranipuzha, while music director Bijibal spoke on S P Balasubrahmanyam and Anil Panchooran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/open-conversations-a-must-in-democracy-hareesh/articleshow/81097746.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: ITBP, DRDO team reaches lake formed near Rishiganga, to trek to its source on Friday||DEHRADUN: A joint team of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has camped close to the lake, which was formed following the devastating flash flood on February 7. A team of SDRF, Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC), Nehru Institute of Mountaineering and experts, which was expected to reach the spot on Thursday but could not leave, is now expected to inspect the lake on Friday to suggest ways to increase the outflow of water. The ITBP has also identified a location to make a helipad near the lake. A team of 20 ITBP personnel, headed by assistant commander Sher Singh Bahadur, along with a 5-member team of DRDO has camped close to the artificial lake and is scheduled to reach the head of the lake on Friday morning. The team would collect the details of the feed being provided to the lake by the glaciers. The ITBP spokesperson, Vivek Pandey, told TOI, “The team reached the confluence of Rishiganga and Raunthi stream from Muranda axis on Thursday. The team will cross Raunthi on Friday morning to inspect the lake for further course of action. The team is camping on the spot for the night.” He pointed out that the team would thereafter trek towards the head of the lake and collect the details on water being fed to it by the glaciers. “Thereafter, the required steps would be taken to speed up the flow of water coming out of the lake,” said the ITBP official. Pandey pointed out that the rescue operations were underway at Tapovan and rescue teams were successful in reaching up to 160 metres. “Two persons were found in the tunnel on Thursday and the efforts are on to find others,” he added. Meanwhile, a 9-member team comprising USAC director MPS Bisht could not leave for Raini on Thursday. Sources said that the team is expected to visit the area on Friday and submit its report to the chief secretary. The report will primarily focus on having more openings for the lake to help the water to flow out from different sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/itbp-drdo-team-reaches-lake-formed-near-rishiganga-to-trek-to-its-source-today/articleshow/81096582.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 19, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Fresh summer onions arrive at Lasalgaon, slight rise in prices||NASHIK: The average wholesale price of onions has increased marginally by Rs 270 per quintal to Rs 3,870 at the Lasalgaon APMC in the past two days, following the arrival of summer variety. The rate was Rs 3,600 per quintal on Tuesday. The average price of summer onions was recorded at Rs 3,551 per quintal at Lasalgaon on Thursday, while it was recorded at Rs 3,870 per quintal for the kharif variety, which is better in quality. The summer crops are arriving in the market, but in low quantity, and the late kharif crop arrival has also reduced, leading to the rise in prices, said APMC officials on Thursday. According to the officials, the daily arrival at the APMC has reduced from 15,000 quintal to around 5-7,000 quintals a day. The stocks of kharif onions have started diminishing. On the contrary, the 200-500 quintal of the summer variety is showing up in the market daily. The summer onion supply is expected to increase in two to three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fresh-summer-onions-arrive-at-lasalgaon-slight-rise-in-prices/articleshow/81097728.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur chosen for program to improve public spaces||NAGPUR: Nagpur is one of the 25 cities in the country shortlisted for the ‘Nurturing Neighbourhoods Challenge’. Through this three-year challenge, the cities will scale ways to improve public space and support childhood-friendly neighbourhoods under the government’s Smart Cities Mission. The initiative is a joint collaboration between the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) and Bernard van Leer Foundation (BvLF) and World Resources Institute, India. The first stage of the challenge, which was held recently and involved open applications from cities, saw participation of 63 cities across the country which submitted applications proposing neighbourhood-level pilot projects in public space, mobility, access to services to enhance the physical and psychological health of young children and their caregivers. “From the list of applicant cities, the evaluation committee chose 25 on the strength of their applications,” stated a press release by WRI. During the three-month application period, over 100 cities were engaged in the challenge and cumulatively over 300 pilot projects were proposed in neighbourhoods across India that would improve quality of life for over 12 lakh children aged between 0-5 years. Cities, including Nagpur, proposed a diverse array of pilot projects, including creating toddler-friendly walking corridors in residential neighbourhoods, safer commutes to early childhood services for vulnerable young children and caregivers living in urban slums; increasing opportunities for nature play and sensory stimulation; and adapting underused open spaces within government school grounds into public play areas after school hours. Kunal Kumar, joint secretary and mission director of Smart Cities Mission in the ministry, said, “By engaging cities to shape healthier urban environments for early childhood, the challenge has refocused attention on the importance of neighbourhood-level interventions. This approach is well-aligned with the strategy of the Smart Cities Mission to promote inclusive, people-oriented development in compact, local areas towards scaling citywide solutions that enhance our citizens’ quality of life.” Focusing on the quality of our immediate surroundings at the neighbourhood-level will help young children and their families explore the public realm, said Rushda Majeed, India’s representative from Bernard van Leer Foundation. “It will give way to living a healthy life in a clean and green environment which is critical for the holistic development of young children. We are very pleased to receive such an encouraging response from cities, demonstrating our resolve to provide a better future for our young citizens.” Stating that placing young children at the heart of urban planning is important, CEO of WRI India OP Agrawal said, “As Indian cities build back from the pandemic, there is growing interest in creating walkable, mixed-use neighbourhoods. We look forward to working with the selected cities to pilot data-driven solutions that can serve as a model for other cities to follow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-chosen-for-prog-to-improve-public-spaces/articleshow/81097766.cms||Manka Behl
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Meeting between Berozgar mahasangh and govt remain inconclusive||Jaipur: The meeting between Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh and the officials of the department of personnel (DOP) remained inconclusive on Thursday.“They assured us of fulfilling our demands during the meeting, but nothing was given in writing. Because of this, the talks remained inconclusive. We’ll continue our mahapanchayat till the demands are met. We had a meeting with DOP principal secretary Hemant Gera and joint secretary Jai Singh,” said Upen Yadav, convener of the mahasangh.Five protesters fell sick on Thursday at the protest site and were later admitted to SMS Hospital. The Mahasangh continued their protest over state government’s delay in fulfilling their demands related to pending recruitment in various departments for the fourth consecutive day at Bais Godam. The demands of the unemployed youth include release of advertisement for examination to the posts of technical helpers in the energy department and that the examination should be held offline. Apart from this, they also demanded holding of computer teacher recruitment exam (education department), RAS recruitment 2021, exams to recruit school lecturers and several other pending exams for various posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/meeting-between-berozgar-mahasangh-and-govt-remain-inconclusive/articleshow/81097751.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Why BRT in Ahmedabad a stunted public transport system?||AHMEDABAD: By the end of this year, Ahmedabad will be home to 90 lakh people, including the floating population, within its municipal limits, according to the state urban development department. But when it comes to the use of public transport, only 22% of the total trips in the city are accomplished through public transport. Of these, the city buses, including BRTS, account for 16% of the trips. Back in 2009, the Ahmedabad Janmarg Limited had claimed that by 2020 Ahmedabad BRTS alone will carry an average of 5.4 lakh passengers a day. But the average ridership today is just 1.2 lakh passengers a day (pre-Covid months). Despite winning several international awards, why do so less number of people travel by the BRT? A major reason for this is accessibility of the bus stands. While an efficient last mile connectivity is a must, a study by the civil engineering department of Nirma University for 30 BRT bus stations found that commuters generally avoid walking more than 200 to 300 metres to access a BRTS bus stand. The existing catchment areas for all bus stops that was analysed was up to 600 metres. The research found that those stops that could be accessed within 150 metres saw a 50% to 60% rise in ridership compared to those stops that were 400 metres to 600 metres away. The bus stands that were analysed included Lilanagar, Thakkarnagar, Hirawadi, Vijay Park, Krishnagar, Dhanushdhari, Naroda Patia, Vadodara Expressway, CTM, Jhansi ki Rani and University. A senior AMC official pointed out that Ahmedabad also missed out on fare integration. Of the three BRT systems in Gujarat, Surat is the first city in India to have a fare integration across different public transport systems comprising BRTS and city bus services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-brt-in-abad-a-stunted-public-transport-system/articleshow/81099494.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Ex-home secretary of India latest victim of phone snatching in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Exposing the lofty claims of Jaipur police on its patrolling, two bike-borne assailants looted the mobile phone of retired IAS officer of 1978 batch, Rajiv Mehrishi on Thursday evening from Gandhi Nagar police station area in the city. Initially, police was in denial, but later they accepted that the incident had taken place. Senior police officers were in a tizzy after the incident and claimed they are working to trace the assailants. Mehrishi had served as home secretary, government of India and was former chief secretary of Rajasthan. Jaipur police (East) has been witnessing a spurt in petty crimes, including mobile snatching and chain snatching, and had even witnessed back-to-back cycle thefts from the residential localities like Tilak Nagar in broad daylight. On Thursday evening at 4.30pm, Mehrishi was moving at the service lane parallel to the main gate of University of Rajasthan on a bicycle. “Two bike-borne assailants came close to the bicycle, snatched the phone mounted on the mobile stand and sped away,” said Anand Srivastav, commissioner of police. Mehrishi returned home and intimated police about the incident. “We have lodged an FIR and special teams are on the job to trace the assailants,” Srivastav added. “It took place at 4.30pm. I have informed the police,” Mehrishi told TOI. Such is the lacklustre approach of police that they don’t even bother to lodge an FIR, if a victim approaches them with a complaint. On February 9, some burglars had stolen a bicycle from a house in Tilak Nagar. “We approached Aadarsh Nagar police station with an application and with recommendation from senior police officer of Jaipur (East). But the policeman said why we had approached senior authorities for such trivial issues? They did not take our complaint seriously. Within some days, our house witnessed a second theft of bicycle,” said the complaint who wished not to be named. Jaipur police (East) has become a bastion for bike-borne assailants involved in mobile phone and chain snatching. Areas including Tilak Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Raja Park, Aadarsh Nagar, Gandhi Nagar have been witnessing a spurt in such cases for the past couple of months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-home-secy-of-india-latest-victim-of-phone-snatching-in-city/articleshow/81097767.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Kochi||Delegate cycles to protest fuel price hike||Kochi: With the petrol price bypassing Rs 90 per litre mark in the state and overall anxiety over the cost going further north past the psychological barrier of Rs 100, a delegate at the ongoing International Film Festival of Kerala in Kochi found a unique way to protest against it. M L Mohammed Sadick, a professional photographer and a film buff, is cycling all the way from Sreemoolanagaram in Kalady to the IFFK venues to highlight the issues due to hike in fuel prices, which has put common man in a spot. “A film festival is a gathering of artists and who would protest if not them. I have been regularly attending film festivals and thought of cycling to the IFFK venues to bring some attention to the burning issue,” said Sadick, who runs a studio in Kalady and undertakes wedding shoots. Every morning before the first show of the IFFK starts he would reach the theatre, covering a distance of 26km. “I can watch four shows a day, which is the maximum. I would return home after the last show. In the past two days I have seen seven films,” said Sadick, who also has interests in wildlife photography.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/delegate-cycles-to-protest-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/81097795.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur woman tries to end life, cops save her||JAIPUR: Panic prevailed at a four-storey building situated near Bus Stand No. 7 of Pratap Nagar here when a 33-year-old unmarried girl went to the terrace and threatened to commit suicide early morning on Thursday. After a high-drama that lasted for almost 30 minutes, the girl was safely taken out and saved by a police and civil defence team. It all started at 5.15 am when locals of the locality intimated the police control room that a woman had gone up to the terrace of the four-story building and was threatening to commit suicide by jumping down. Initially the locals engaged her in talks and almost after 25 minutes, she was surrounded by a team of civil defence and Pratap Nagar police. A large number of people gathered at the spot in the morning especially the morning walkers. “Our team kept talking to her and assured that we will sit together to solve whatever problem she has in her personal life. But she kept threatening that she will jump down,” said a senior police officer of Pratap Nagar. The civil defence team brought a huge net. “As per plan, we decided not to reach to the terrace where she was standing as our arrival might irk her and she may jump. Thus, our team reached two parallel buildings which were close to this building,” said Mahendra Sewda, a volunteer of civil defence, who was part of the team. While the police team downstairs kept talking to her, a civil defence volunteer after reaching at nearby building jumped onto the terrace and grabbed the woman. “She was continuously weeping and was taken to hospital,” Sewda added. According to police, the same woman had attempted suicide two months ago when she had jumped from the second floor and fractured her hand. “The family including her father and elder sister are in tension. Our team will soon visit them to know the reason,” said a senior officer of Pratap Nagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-threatens-suicide-cops-save-her/articleshow/81097786.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid hospital on BKC terminus land delays bullet train project||MUMBAI: Work on the Bandra-Kurla Complex terminus for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project has got delayed as the earmarked land had been handed over by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for a Covid care facility. Bids for the Rs 1,800 crore underground terminus were scheduled to open on February 19. However, the land has not yet been handed over to the National High Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRC), the implementing agency for the bullet train project. “The last date for submission of bids for the underground station is now May 5,” an NHSRC official said. Sources said that the 4.9 hectares of land in G-Block where the terminus is expected to come up is currently housing the jumbo Covid care facility. “With the recent rise in in Mumbai, it seems the hospital may function for a few more months,” they added. The NHSRC has already finalised the design for the BKC terminus, will be built 30m below ground level, and have six platforms 425m long to accommodate 16-car trains. While the BKC terminus is to be built underground, above it will be erected the International Financial Services Centre building. The terminus will have three basements: The first level will have the ticketing area, passenger amenities and clearance, the second level will have room for all utilities, including AC plants and other train-related systems, and the platforms will be on the third level. The terminus will be integrated with the nearby Metro station. The foundation stone-laying ceremony for the bullet train project was done in September 2017 in Ahmedabad and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had set August 15, 2022, as the deadline for services to commence. However, there are indications that Phase I may operate only between Vapi and Ahmedabad on this date as the land acquisition poses a serious challenge in Maharashtra. The estimated bullet train project cost is Rs 1.1 lakh crore of which 81% is to be funded through a loan from Japan International Cooperation Agency. Of the remaining, Maharashtra and Gujarat are to contribute Rs 5,000 crore each as equity through a special purpose vehicle and the balance Rs 10,000 crore will be equity from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-hosp-on-bkc-terminus-land-delays-bullet-train-project/articleshow/81100034.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Tukaram Mundhe's decision reversed, NMC to give 70 gardens back to NIT||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) general body on Thursday reversed the decision of the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe of taking over 70 gardens owned by Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT). Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari directed the civic administration to hand over all the gardens back to the NIT. The issue came up before the general body meeting after former mayor Sandip Joshi highlighted the taking over 70 NIT gardens was without the consent of the House. “The NIT gardens were taken over on oral instructions of the former civic chief,” the garden department told the House. Tiwari expressed anguish over the garden department implementing Mundhe’s oral orders. As per rule, policy decisions should be implemented only by following rules and not on oral orders, he said. “On one hand, the NMC is withholding development works citing financial crisis, on the other it is spending money on NIT gardens,” observed the mayor. Mayor also directed to restart the work of Late Anusayabai Kale counseling centre for women, which was stalled by Mundhe. During the meeting, former mayor and MLC Pravin Datke alleged irregularities in sapling plantation drive conducted in Bhandewadi area in 2020. The garden department split tenders for planting 15,500 saplings worth Rs70 lakh without the knowledge of the standing committee, he said.. In fact, the work orders were issued by splitting the job in three tenders — digging of soil, planting saplings and conservation. This was done to skirt the need to take standing committee nod, said Datke. NMC’s garden superintendent Amol Chorpagar admitted that, in the past, the civic body had entrusted the work to only one agency. He said this decision was taken at the behest of the then municipal commissioner. Terming the process a massive irregularity, Datke demanded immediate suspension of Chorpagar. “Prima facie, it was nothing but a scam,” he said. Following this, the mayor directed municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B to conduct an inquiry into the matter and submit report before the House. The mayor also ordered to suspend Chorpagar, to which the civic chief assured action only after detailed probe and as per rules. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said similar work orders were issued to strengthen NMC-run hospitals during Covid-19 lockdown. He demanded probe into splitting of work orders to avoid the need to take nod from the standing committee. BJP corporator Parineeta Fuke raised the issue of lackadaisical attitude of the garden department in not chopping 117 dry trees across the city. She said the department was going slow on taking decision to cut dead trees, which endanger the lives of the citizens. Radhakrishnan B informed the House that the civic body tries to save each and every tree, but assured action before monsoon. Fuke also alleged allotment of maintenance works to contractors in small gardens without inviting tenders. She demanded that corporators from the areas concerned should be taken into confidence while selecting any contractor for maintenance of gardens. Mayor also directed to install display boards having details of contractors, their work areas etc at all city gardens. Datke raised the issue of illegal chopping of a tree on Pataleshwar road. The garden department did not act even after complaints, he alleged. The civic chief assured to look into the allegation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-decision-reversed-nmc-to-give-70-gardens-back-to-nit/articleshow/81097810.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 19, 2021||Nashik||70-yr-old man found in farm with slit throat||Nashik: A 70-year-old man was found with his throat slit in the Anandwalli area of the city on late Wednesday evening. The victim has been identified as Ramesh Mandalik. Anchal Mudgal, inspector at Gangapur police station, said, “Mandalik had goneto water the farms where some people were already hiding. They slit his throat and fled the scene.” Mandlik was bleeding profusely after his throat was slit. He somehow reached the road near his farm. He was quickly spotted nby locals who rushed him to a hospital where he eventually died. A complaint has been registed by Mandlik’s son Vishal who said there were aroud five to six people who hid themselves in the farm. “The accused were apparently aware about Mandalik going to the farms in the evening to water the crops and accordingly, took advantage of the situation. After the incident, none of the locals saw any of the accused coming after the victim which means they must have taken some other route to escape,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/70-yr-old-man-found-in-farm-with-slit-throat/articleshow/81097812.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Coimbatore||Two kids die after getting pentavalent vaccine in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: Two infants died within hours of being administered the pentavalent and rotavirus vaccines in Coimbatore on Wednesday. The state health secretary and immunization experts said vaccination was unlikely to be the cause of the deaths. The children, both boys aged two-and-a half months, were vaccinated at different places. One child was vaccinated with 13 others at an anganwadi at Masakalipalayam in Coimbatore around 10.30am on Wednesday. He was declared dead a couple of hours later, after he was hospitalised with breathing problems.  The second child was given pentavalent, rotavirus and polio vaccines on Wednesday morning at the Sowripalayam PHC. In a complaint to the police, the first child’s mother, Vijayalakshmi, 24, said,”The vaccination was done by the nurse at the anganwadi. But when we returned home, the child kept crying and refused to breastfeed, after which I administered four drops of the syrup given to me at the anganwadi. However, two hours later, my son developed severe breathing problem, and we rushed him to Uppilipalayam PHC. They said he was critical and referred us to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where they said he was already dead.” The child also had bronchitis for the last one week, the mother said. The official autopsy report is awaited, though unofficial reports said there was a pneumonic patch in the lungs. The second child was also given pentavalent, rotavirus and polio vaccines at 10.56 am on Wednesday morning at the Sowripalayam PHC, where six other children were also vaccinated. The child had no problems and went to bed at 12 am on Thursday. However, he did not wake up as usual at 6 am. When his parents found him unresponsive they took him to hospital where doctors said he was brought dead. The child had no medical history or contra-indications. The parents have refused an autopsy. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said both the children’s deaths were not due to the vaccine. Health department officials said the babies were given different batches of vaccines. Deputy director of public health, Dr G Ramesh Kumar, said the same batch of vaccine had been administered to 13 other children at Masakalipalayam. In Sowripalayam, six other children were vaccinated. All the children who are being monitored have not reported any problems so far. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report and plan to send the vaccine vials for testing,” he said. “We suspect that the bronchitis had not left the lung, though outer symptoms of cough had subsided. The death seems to be due to pneumonia or aspiration and not the vaccine. The exact cause of death of the second child will not be known,” said a member of the vaccine technical committee which met on Thursday evening. Infectious disease specialist, Dr V Ramasubramanian, said it was possible for a vaccine to cause breathing problems and death. “However, we can reach any conclusion only after a complete investigation into what happened. It is more likely that the drops administered to the first baby, led to him aspirating, which can happen in very small babies. Breathing difficulty is not a contraindication to the vaccine. I have not seen an adverse reaction to this vaccine in my years of experience,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-kids-die-after-getting-pentavalent-vaccine-in-tn/articleshow/81099306.cms||---
February 19, 2021||India||‘Metroman’ to join BJP, may fight polls||Former Delhi Metro Rail Corporation MD E Sreedharan, popularly known as ‘Metroman’, is set to join BJP on Saturday, Kerala BJP president K Surendran said. Sreedharan said he would contest the upcoming state election if the BJP asked him to do so. “Other parties in Kerala are just working for their own interest... A lot of development works can be done and I hope to do it by joining BJP,” he said. He told TOI that he was joining BJP to ensure justice for the people of Kerala who were being deprived of the fruits of development due to the self-centric attitude of the present CPM-led LDF government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/metroman-to-join-bjp-may-fight-polls/articleshow/81100843.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Candidate disqualified for not paying property tax||AHMEDABAD: After a Congress candidate was disqualified for not having a toilet, the nomination of an independent candidate Krishnakumar Arya (38),who had filed his nomination from Shahpur ward in Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, was rejected as he had failed to pay property tax before filing his nomination. During the scrutiny of the forms, the BJP candidates and leaders took objection to the candidature of Arya and submitted that Arya has not paid his property tax and has defaulted. Also, it was submitted that Arya who is a resident of Lakhajini Chali near Shahpur Darwaza, also does not have a toilet. Arya claimed that he had a toilet at his residence and he asked the returning officer to form a five-member team and check at his residence. “The objection was then dropped, but later the BJP pressed for the charges that I have not paid my property tax and hence when I realised that the tax was due, I did not press further. I had forgotten to pay the corporation taxes which were nearing Rs 8000,” he said. Officials said that as per the election rules, the candidate cannot have any due of the government or the body for which he is contesting the elections for. “If any person has any due his candidature can be rejected.” Arya who is a painting artist claims to have organised exhibition not only within the country but even abroad. Arya has completed graduation in Painting from CN Fine Arts and is now pursuing his masters also from CN Fine Arts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/candidate-disqualified-for-not-paying-property-tax/articleshow/81099492.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 19, 2021||Aurangabad||HC imposes Rs1 lakh fine each on Jalna civic chief, 4 other officials for false info over illegal slaughter house||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has imposed Rs1 lakh fine each on the chief officer (CO) and four other officials of the Jalna municipal council for “making misleading statements, amounting to false information” relating to an illegal slaughter house operating since 2015-16 at Mangal Bazar, Kadrabad area in Jalna. The slaughter house had no clearance from the Maharashtra pollution control board (MPCB). “We intend to donate the said amount to the account of the District Collector, Jalna to be utilized for the Covid-19 vaccination in Jalna district, in those areas where poverty-stricken persons are held eligible for vaccination,” the bench of Justice Ravindra Ghuge and Justice B U Debadwar said on Wednesday. The HC decided against initiating a contempt of court proceeding against the five officials after they tendered apologies and expressed remorse and regret over the matter. The fine amount is to be deposited with the court registry by March 5, the bench said and also directed the Jalna CO Nitin J Narvekar to furnish an affidavit by the next hearing on February 26 listing names of the officials who can be held responsible for not maintaining records of the animals slaughtered at the facility. The bench was hearing a PIL against the slaughter house. Apart Narvekar, the other officials are: Ashok Shamrao Deshmukh, then municipal engineer and city sanitary department officer, Devanand Trimbakrao Patil, then HOD of sanitary department, Ratnakar Shankarrao Adshire, municipal engineer connected with the slaughter house and Rahul Vishnu Mapari, junior engineer, sanitary department. “We are of the view that the Majesty of Law has to be upheld and any person, howsoever high office he may hold, should not be permitted to mislead the court,” the bench said and added, “We also find that various affidavits filed by these officers to which we have already adverted to in our earlier orders, practically made us believe that the slaughter house, which was commenced from 2015/16, was after following a due procedure laid down in law and was legally permissible.” “It is a coincidence that this matter was not circulated in between December 2015 till 20.01.2021 and the petition was not disposed of keeping in view that the petitioners had filed this petition in public interest to ensure a legal slaughter house being operated in Jalna district. Considering the contents of the affidavits filed by these officers, we were made to believe that the purpose, for which this petition was filed, had been achieved and the petition was worked out. It is only on account of the intervention of the court vide orders dated 20.01.2021 and 25.01.2021 that these officers were exposed and the truth about their affidavits putting forth false statements, surfaced,” the bench said. The HC sounded a “note of caution that any further act of such nature or any misconduct if committed by any of them in their employment, these observations and the directions shall be considered as an aggravating factor while deciding the quantum of punishment. This order shall be entered in the service book of the above officers, who are in employment today.” The MPCB had furnished a report to the HC on January 29 stating that an uncontrolled slaughtering was performed by group of persons in the said slaughter house and the blood that flowed post-slaughtering was dumped in the open nullah in the premises of the slaughter house and then disposed of into the municipal nullah outside the premises which are open gutters in the residents colonies without any effluent treatment. Several residents in the said area expressed their grievances in this context.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-imposes-rs1-lakh-fine-each-on-jalna-civic-chief-4-other-officials-for-false-info-over-illegal-slaughter-house/articleshow/81095740.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 19, 2021||Nashik||Demand for jobs under MGNREGA drops in district||NASHIK: The demand for jobs under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in Nashik district has registered a huge drop in comparison with the demand during the lockdown period. The employment under MGNREGA proved to be a boon for people during the pandemic phase with economic activities coming to a standstill and many people loosing their jobs. “When Covid-19 was at its peak, the number of people working under MGNREGA had touched the 40,000-mark every day. Currently, there is a drop in the number of workers but, at the same time, it is at par with the figures of last year,” said collector Suraj Mandhare. This year, the number of workers under various programmes of MGNREGA across the district stood at 6,288 per day while the figures during the same period last year were 7,278 per day. “MGNREGA is a time gap arrangement and not a permanent employment scheme. At a time when people returned to their hometown due to loss of work and no economic activities were carried out anywhere because of the prevailing Covid conditions, the MGNREGA provided best opportunity for people in terms of employment,” Mandhare said. Once the unlock phase began, the economic activities slowly started gaining pace and people left for major cities and towns in search of work. Therefore, the number of workers has now dropped even though there is employment available under MGNREGA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/demand-for-jobs-under-mgnrega-drops-in-district/articleshow/81097824.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Congress tally in Moga rises to 29 as 9 independents join party||CHANDIGARH: A day after announcement of results of civic bodies in Punjab, nine winning candidates, who had contested the Moga Municipal Corporation polls as independents, joined the Congress in the presence of party state president Sunil Jakhar on Thursday. In addition, one independent from Pathankot and two from Sujanpur municipal council also joined the ruling party. In Moga, the Congress had emerged as the largest single party, winning 20 of the total 50 wards. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had given a tough fight to the Congress, winning 15 wards. While the Congress managed to have a clear majority in the seven other corporations, it was falling short of the magic figure in Moga. With nine independents joining the Congress, the way has been cleared for the party in Moga too. Jakhar said, “Independent councillors have started joining the Congress after people across the state gave an overwhelming mandate in favour of the grand old party in the civic bodies’ elections. People of Punjab voted for the pro-people policies of the Congress and independent councillors too are impressed by the pace of development and peace in the state.” The independent councilors of Moga Municipal Corporation who joined the Congress on Thursday included: Jaspreet Singh Vicky, Gurpreet Singh Sachdeva, Praveen Makkar, Buta Singh, Sukhwinder Kaur, Reema Sood, Tirath Ram, Payal, and Surinder Singh. Others from Sujanpur Municipal Council in Pathankot district who have joined the Congress are: Surinder Minhas and Tarsem Makkar. Apart from this, Pathankot Municipal Corporation councillor Baljit Singh Tinku also joined the Congress. Food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Moga MLA Harjot Kamal, Pathankot district congress president Sanjeev Bains were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-tally-in-moga-rises-to-29-as-9-independents-join-party/articleshow/81097846.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Bareilly||Rape case against Swami Chinmayanand likely to be withdrawn||BAREILLY: In the alleged rape case against former Union minister Swami Chinmayanand, the complainant has now taken a step back and told the Allahabad high court in writing that she doesn’t have any objection to the state withdrawing the case against him. Earlier in May 2018, the Uttar Pradesh government had decided to withdraw the rape case against Chinmayanand and had filed an application under CrPC section 321 (withdrawal from prosecution) in CJM’s court. However, the survivor raised an objection to the government's decision and had filed an application. The complainant has now told TOI that she doesn’t want to pursue the case and wants to raise her child which is why she decided to take this step. The next date of hearing in the high court is February 19. Advocate Anurag Kumar Pandey, who represented the survivor, told TOI, “I have filed a counter affidavit but I cannot disclose the facts of the case as the matter is in the court.” The survivor said, “I never had any objection to the state withdrawing the case because the case was not filed by me. I had never raised any objection even in 2018 when the state had decided to withdraw the case. I never appeared in a Shahjahanpur court.” “I don’t have time to think about it (case). I am busy taking care of my son. My priorities have changed, I have a life and I can’t be dragged into that all the time,” she added. In 2011, the survivor had alleged that she was kept at an ashram and raped by the former minister. When she got pregnant, the former minister forcefully aborted her child. She had lodged an FIR against him at Kotwali police station in Shahjahanpur. A charge-sheet was filed in this case after a police investigation, but the Allahabad high court stayed Chinmayanand’s arrest. The case was pending in the high court since 2012. In 2018, the state government decided to withdraw the case and filed a petition under CrPC section 321 on March 12. The then Shahjahanpur chief judicial magistrate Shikha Pradhan had asked for the objection to be filed by the rape survivor during the last court hearing. Lawyer of the rape survivor Mukesh Gupta filed an objection on behalf of the survivor. The survivor had released her videos and wrote on her Facebook wall that she was happy with the court’s decision of not withdrawing the case against Chinmayanand and issuing a warrant against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/chinmayanand-ist-rape-case-likely-to-be-withdrawn-as-complainant-now-has-no-objection-in-state-taking-back-the-case/articleshow/81096624.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Akalis find some air in Punjab’s opposition vacuum||JALANDHAR: Notwithstanding the claims of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal), AAP, and BJP, the civic election results have confirmed a vacuum in Punjab’s opposition space. Even as the Akalis emerge the “biggest” opposition party in these elections, they remain a distant second in the municipal corporations and committees, where the Congress took the lion’s share of seats. The only solace for the SAD is that other two opposition players— the Aam Aadmi Party and ally-turned-opponent BJP—have performed even worse. It was AAP mainly that damaged the SAD in the 2014 Lok Sabha and 2017 assembly polls. The SAD failed to keep its flock together even in the 2019 parliamentary fight and has since not recovered the ground. The Bharatiya Janata Party was routed even in most of the urban constituencies, as for once it lost the perception war during the farmers’ stir. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee’s rushing to the legal aid of farmers arrested on or after January 26 even before the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha could get its act together helped the SAD at least stay afloat. The Akali-controlled SGPC also spoke up for the farmers. A senior Congressman said: “The party markets this as vote for good governance in Punjab but the gap in results reflects more of a rejection of the opposition parties. The situation is comfortable for the Congress but complacency can be counter-productive.” Punjab’s political vacuum in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections allowed AAP to emerge out of almost nowhere and win over the villages, even though it failed to build on that in the 2017 assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/akalis-find-some-air-in-pbs-oppn-vacuum/articleshow/81097849.cms||IP Singh
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Govt to promote BC staff on basis of their seniority||Mumbai: The MVA government will allow promotion of backward class officials and employees on the basis of seniority, instead reservation. The decision will benefit over 30,000 employees and officials as their promotions had been stopped following a 2017 Bombay high court order related to ‘reservations in promotion' case. The state general administration department issued a GR Thursday following the state cabinet sub-committee for ‘reservation in promotion’ led by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar recommendation. The GR stated that implementation of the decision will be subject to SC final verdict. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-to-promote-bc-staff-on-basis-of-their-seniority/articleshow/81100048.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||AIIMS Rishikesh doctors conduct successful surgery on patient whose organs were on opposite side of body||DEHRADUN: Doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh conducted a successful stone removal surgery on a patient whose liver and gall bladder were on the opposite side of his body. The laparoscopic operation which usually takes 20 to 30 minutes was completed in 90 minutes because of the patient’s organs being on the left side of his body while the doctors, traditionally, are trained to conduct the gall bladder surgery on the right side of the body. Talking to TOI, surgeon at AIIMS Rishikesh Dr Sudhir Kumar Singh said that traditionally, the doctors are trained to perform the liver and gallbladder surgeries on the right side of the body. However, in this patient’s case, it was not possible as his organs were on the left side. “Cases where organs are on the opposite side of the body happen one in every 20,000 people. The process of such surgeries is not complex but the hand and eye coordination, which gets disturbed due to organ positioning, makes it a tough task,” Dr Singh said. Apart from the organ positioning, patient’s condition was also serious as he had developed wounds and sepsis due to delay in treatment, he added. The surgery was performed on 44-year-old Ganga Dutt who hails from Tehri Garhwal. Dutt was informed about stones in his gallbladder around a year ago but as per AIIMS doctors, no hospital was ready to conduct the stone removal surgery due to the complexity in his internal system. Dr Singh further added that this happens at the time of development of the foetus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-docs-conduct-successful-surgery-on-patient-whose-organs-were-on-opposite-side-of-body/articleshow/81096622.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 19, 2021||Amritsar||Youth Congress leader shot in Punjab's Faridkot||BATHINDA/CHANDIGARH: Two unidentified and masked men on a motorcycle fired at Faridkot district Youth Congress president Gurlal Singh (35), who was about to sit in his car, in Faridkot on Thursday evening. Gurlal was declared brought dead at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College Hospita. The assailants fired nearly a dozen bullets at hi m at a busy point in Faridkot and he collapsed immediately after being hit in the head and chest. Gurlal was also a member of the Faridkot zila parishad. The attack was caught on a CCTV camera installed near the crime scene. A resident of Faridkot’s Green Avenue locality, Gurlal was the only son of his parents and was considered close to sitting Congress MLA Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon. Senior police officials reached the spot and forensic experts collected empty rounds. Faridkot SSP Swarndeep Singh said the police are thoroughly examining the incident and efforts are being to identify the persons behind the crime. A case under murder charges and Arms Act has been registered. A few hours after the murder, a Facebook account in the name of gangster “Lawrence Bishnoi” took responsibility for the killing. “I, Bishnoi, and Goldy Brar take the responsibility of murdering Gurlal Singh. The victim was warned not to interfere in our work and not do anything against us in connivance with anti-party people, but he did not stop and at last, we were forced to eliminate Gurlal,” the post claimed. The Facebook post also indicated that revenge for former Sopu leader Gurlal Brar, who was killed in October 2020 in Chandigarh’s Industrial Area Phase-1, was yet to be completed despite the murder of Youth Congress leader Gurlal Singh at Faridkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/youth-cong-leader-shot-in-faridkot/articleshow/81097858.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Universities will not foot bill for Janta Darbar: Maharashtra minister||MUMBAI: State higher education minister Uday Samant on Thursday clarified that none of the city’s public universities were required to shoulder the expenses of his Janta Darbar. Samant took to social media to inform those opposing his decision to hold the Janta Darbar that neither Mumbai University nor SNDT University was expected to foot the bill for the event. Earlier, the MU issued a press note stating that there was no clarity on who was expected to pay for the event, and clarified that to date, it had not spent any money for the same. Samant is slated to meet and address the grievances of students, parents, teachers and non-teaching staff at Worli’s Nehru Science Centre on February 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/min-univs-will-not-foot-bill-for-janta-darbar/articleshow/81099400.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||PM writes letter, hails ‘page committee’ drive by state BJP||Gandhinagar: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has written a letter to the Gujarat unit of the BJP, appreciating its efforts in creating 15 lakh page committees, and said that it would help in connecting with Gujarat’s 2.25 crore voters. The letter, written in Gujarati, was released by the party’s state unit here on Thursday. In the letter, Modi said, “I congratulate Gujarat BJP for starting the ‘Page Committee Maha Jan Sampark Abhiyan’. A committed ground-level worker is an important asset for any party and an outreach exercise undertaken by such workers ultimately becomes a medium to serve the people.” Under the ‘Page Committee Maha Jan SamparkAbhiyan’, a ‘pramukh’ (in-charge) was appointed for a page in the electoral rolls. Each page normally contains details of 5-6 voters of that booth. Every page pramukh has to focus on those 5-6 voter families as part of micro-level booth management. Releasing the letter, Gujarat BJP president C R Paatil said all the ministers in the state and key party functionaries, including CM Vijay Rupani, have become ‘page pramukhs’ under this drive. He added that apart from working towards ensuring BJP’s victory in polls, this exercise is also about reaching out to the needy and making them aware of the benefits under various government schemes in case they have been left out due to some reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-writes-letter-hails-page-committee-drive-by-state-bjp/articleshow/81099484.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Bareilly||Nepal removes illegal construction from no man’s land on int'l border||Pilibhit: Following an objection raised by officials of the Sashstra Seema Bal (SSB), the Armed Police Force (APF) of Nepal removed an illegal construction of a commercial premises on no man’s land on the Indo-Nepal border bordering Pilibhit district. Sources said the construction was started at night on February 15 by a Nepalese citizen between border pillar number 777/2 and 778/1 of India. The countries share a 53-km border touching Pilibhit and Lakhimpur Kheri districts in UP. The SSB received the information about the illegal construction on February 16. It was removed following an agreement between the SSB and APF, said Amandeep Singh, deputy commandant of SSB’s 49th battalion deployed in Pilibhit. In reply to a question, Singh said the Nepalese citizens had encroached upon two other sites. “One of these is around pillar number 200 near Basai village in India and the second near Tilla village number 4 between pillar number 777/2 and 778/1,” he said. “Under a mutual understanding between the security forces of the two countries, the status quo has been maintained at these spots since March last year. At that time, a fresh joint survey of the international border being conducted by the Survey of India and the Survey of Nepal was suspended due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic,” Singh said. The fresh survey had indicated the encroachment by Nepalese side on Indian land at the two spots. The issue of physical possession of the land by the Indian side was aggressively opposed by the Nepalese, he said. The survey was expected to soon resume. The factual situation on ground zero would be clear after the joint survey decides the exact coordinates of the new border pillars and also land titles, Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nepal-removes-illegal-construction-from-no-mans-land-on-intl-border/articleshow/81096648.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 19, 2021||Chandigarh||ETPB, PSGPC teams turn up to receive jatha||Amritsar: Despite knowing about the cancellation of Indian Sikh jatha, the officials of the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) and Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) arrived at the Wagah border, carrying bouquets and garlands. In the photographs taken at Wagah (Pakistan) border, the officials of both ETPB and PSGPC, including its president Satwant Singh, are seen taking pictures of themselves. According to sources, the intelligence agencies had allegedly received inputs of the Pakistan government’s plan to exploit Sikh sentiments over farmers’ stir by provoking them against the Indian government. “Their plan was to take out a tractor rally in Nankana Sahib, which would have served as a large Sikh gathering in the protest against the Indian government,” said sources. Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal asked the Union government to take up the issue of security threat to Sikh devotees visiting Pakistan with Pakistan government instead of “arbitrarily” denying permission to a Sikh jatha to visit Nankana Sahib.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/etpb-psgpc-teams-turn-up-to-receive-jatha/articleshow/81097882.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Vaccine wastage 5.2%; record single-day rise in turnout for jab||MUMBAI: An estimated 40,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine have gone waste in Maharashtra since the launch of the countrywide vaccination drive on January 16. State health officials, though, said the vaccine wastage rate was 5.2% and well within the 10% limit factored in by the centre. The wastage was higher during the initial days of the vaccination when the turnout was poor in several districts, said officials. It subsequently reduced as more recipients turned up and centres could take walk-ins. Sources from vaccination centres said wastage was more in Covaxin centres, where turnout has been low, and vials contain 20 doses. Compared to that, Covishield vials contain 10 doses and often there is an 11th dose, said a doctor from RN Cooper’s vaccination centre. Till Thursday, Maharashtra had completed vaccinating over 8.3 lakh healthcare and frontline workers. Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, said that vaccine wastage is an expected component of any immunisation programme and the vaccine is always procured with estimated wastage. “Open vials have to be discarded within six hours. However, centres are coordinating well to use every last dose,” he said. While states like Tamil Nadu have reported up to 15% wastage, most have claimed their wastage rates to be between 3%-4%. Studies in the past have shown that BCG and measles vaccines have a wastage rate of up to 61% and 35% respectively. Meanwhile, the vaccination turnout in the state saw a record rise on Thursday. As many as 48,006 healthcare and frontline workers took the vaccine across Maharashtra. This is by far the highest turnout seen in a single day since the beginning of the drive. Dr Patil said it would be difficult to comment if a rise in infections was driving more healthcare workers to come out and take the vaccine. Of the 48,006 vaccinated, 21,748 were health workers and 26,258 were frontliners. Mumbai, too, for the first time saw a more than 100% turnout of health workers. A total of 12,459 people took the vaccine out of the scheduled 10,500. It included 3,316 healthcare workers and 10,097 frontliners. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said CoWin was functioning well and people were getting comfortable with the idea of vaccination. The city completed vaccinating 1.5 lakh of the nearly 4 lakh registered. Administration of the second dose picked up in the state, where 7,075 could take it, while it could be administered to nearly 1,000 in Mumbai. Two more private hospitals, Saifee and Breach Candy, started vaccinating their staffers within their own premises on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vaccine-wastage-5-2-record-single-day-rise-in-turnout-for-jab/articleshow/81097903.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Businessman’s four-year-old son kidnapped in Amravati||AMRAVATI: A four-year-old son of a businessman was kidnapped by two bike riders from posh Sharda Nagar locality under Rajapeth police station on Wednesday night. Police have been combing the city to search Nayan Mukesh Luniya, who was kidnapped around 8pm when he was walking in front of his house holding the hand of grandmother Vimlabai. CCTV footage showed that the two kidnappers, one of whom was a female, came on a bike, picked up the kid and sped towards Ravi Nagar. CCTV network captured the movement of the kidnappers, which showed them deserting the bike near Shrimali Complex in Ravi Nagar and escaping in an autorickshaw to Power House Square, purportedly to catch private bus to flee to some place outside Amravati. Around 10.15 in the night, the bike was removed from the spot by two youths. The Luniyas is a joint family of businessman Jaswantraj Nemichand Luniya, who resides with his three sons Ankit, Mukesh and Vikas and their families at Nokida Sadan near Samarth High School in Sharda Nagar. Though police conducted search operation in the city throughout the night and also in nearby Bhatkuli area, they have not yielded any results so far. Police commissioner Dr Arti Singh visited the spot along with a team of Rajapeth police station staff. Inquiries were made with Akshara, 10-year-old sister of Nayan, who witnessed the kidnapping drama. Police have also laid hands on the CCTV footage that showed the kidnappers escaping in an autorickshaw from Ravi Nagar. Arti Singh told TOI, “As per eyewitness and CCTV footage, the child was very comfortable with the kidnappers, which indicates the duo was very close to the family. Other clues also point at insider role in the abduction.” Police said the family did not suspect anybody and there has not been any demand for ransom yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bizmans-4-yr-old-son-kidnapped-in-amravati/articleshow/81096632.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Corbett tigress on prowl, two elephants deployed to send it back to forest||DEHRADUN: An adult tigress of Bijrani zone of the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) has become a matter of concern for the villagers residing near the reserve since past few months. The number of times the tigress has attacked the villagers has only increased over the months. On Thursday, foreseeing the threat to the lives of the villagers, two elephants, Asha from Bijrani and Gomti from Dhikala, have been deployed to send the tigress back to forest. On February 11, the tigress had killed a woman who had gone to bring fodder and firewood from Bijrani forest. More than six attacks have been reported in the past few months. According to a source in the forest department, “This was its eighth attack, so today, we have deployed two elephants hoping the tigress and its cubs would go back to the forest. Two drones are actively observing its movement.” The source added that the villagers, despite being alerted, paid no heed and hence, they are facing attacks. CTR director Rahul said that they are aiming to rescue the tigress and its cubs. “While we are trying to keep the tigress away from the residential areas, we are also alerting the villagers to stay far from Bijrani zone in order to minimize any conflict situation,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corbett-tigress-on-prowl-two-elephants-deployed-to-send-it-back-to-forest/articleshow/81096652.cms||Shivani Azad
February 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Post-civic polls, focus on churning in party?||CHANDIGARH: As Congress emerges victorious in the high-stake civic body elections in the state, the focus is now likely to shift to the churning in the party ahead of the next assembly elections due in 2022. Till now, the party had held back changes in the organisational structure, and even dithered on announcing a new role for former cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu. On the day of announcement of results on Wednesday, Punjab Congress had announced the launch of ‘Captain2022’ campaign, which is being seen as an attempt to forestall any move by any disenchanters of chief minister Amarinder Singh and underline his undisputed leadership. There is already talk of how the election results in the backdrop of the farmers’ agitation has bolstered the chief minister’s position in the party. The favourable results come at a time when the party high command has been pushing for Sidhu’s active involvement in the state affairs. Leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said, “The campaign is an attempt to snub rebel voices in the Congress’s state unit and the civic body election results have been chosen as an apt time by Amarinder loyalists. However, they forget that the local body polls have had no bearing on the results of assembly results in the state.” Despite speculation, there has been uncertainty over the new role for Sidhu. SAD (Taksali) leader Bir Devinder Singh, who was earlier with the Congress, said, “It is quite unusual for the party to launch such a campaign and is against the democratic principles that the party claims to propound.” Last year, the party had put on hold revamping of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) and the move got further delayed due to the farmers’ agitation. This was followed by party’s incharge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat underlining the need for strengthening of the organisational structure at grass root level in the state. “The CM has reinforced his position as the numero uno in the high-stake battle. He has also been doing a tight ropewalk in dealing with the farmers’ agitation and his position on the issue seems to have paid off for the party. In such a scenario, where the state leaders would want to fit into his group, the high command would also go by his word on the proposed changes,” said a party leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/post-civic-polls-focus-on-churning-in-party/articleshow/81097861.cms||Vibhor Mohan
February 19, 2021||Bareilly||Evict forest dwellers of Surma village from Dudhwa core area: Allahabad High Court||PILIBHIT: Following an Allahabad high court order, a Lucknow-based petitioner, Kaushalendra Singh, has sent a representation to the principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) of UP, the field director of Dudhwa National Park (DNP) and the district magistrate of Kheri, to start proceedings for the eviction of dwellers of village Surma from the core forest area of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR). As per the petitioner, the relocation of the village is essential as its residents indulge in poaching, illegal felling of trees and other wildlife crime in the core forest area, dozens of cases of which have been officially reported so far. The petitioner also said although the first time an order to relocate Surma villagers had been delivered by the HC in 2003, due to negligence and apathy of officials of both forest department and the district, not only is the work pending, but in 2006-7, the district administration had unlawfully declared Surma a revenue village and subsequently launched various development schemes for it. Providing a copy of his representation to TOI, the petitioner said under Section 35 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 the forest area under North Kheri Forest Division (NKFD) had been notified by the government as DNP and a critical tiger habitat on January 21, 1977. At the time, there were 34 villages in the buffer zone, which were settled on ‘as is where is basis’, leaving two villages — Surma and Mora — in the core forest area. As forest laws did not permit dwellings of any villagers inside the core forest, the then state government had decided to shift both villages outside the core area. As a result, the forest department had initiated arrangements to relocate the two villages, said the petitioner. Residents of Mora subsequently relocated on lands allotted by the government, but those belonging to village Surma preferred to file a writ petition in Allahabad HC in 1980. After a protracted litigation, they lost the writ in 2003 and were ordered to shift to sites allocated by the state government within three months from the date of the judicial order, the petitioner said. But district officials of the time flouted the court order, and then in 2006-7, declared it a revenue village, after the Centre promulgated the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act in 2006, Singh said. “Although FRA had subsumed provisions for constituting district- and state-level committees to review authenticity of rights of the forest dwellers, no such committee was ever set up in Kheri, and the district administration continued to provide development packages to Surma village,” said the petitioner. In view of the defiance of HC orders by district and forest authorities, a fresh writ titled “Tiger and terrain versus Government of India” was filed at the HC in 2011, under which, the court delivered a final order, asking the petitioner to send representations to competent authorities to investigate and pass a reasoned order in the matter within two months from the date of receipt of a copy of the order. The petitioner said he will again knock on the doors of the HC if forest and administrative authorities failed to relocate Surma outside the core forest area. On being asked about it, Kheri DM Shailendra Kumar Singh said in light of the HC order, he will review the situation on priority basis and take all necessary steps. Principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Pawan Kumar Sharma, said the FRA had made provisions for seeking prior consent of the tribal forest dwellers before relocating them. This process would begin soon, he added. The petitioner said the FRA, which had been promulgated in 2006, could not overrule the HC order passed in 2003.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/evict-forest-dwellers-of-surma-village-from-dudhwa-core-area-allahabad-hc/articleshow/81096661.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 97k-mark in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 41 new cases of Covid-19 reported here on Thursday, the coronavirus tally in Uttarakhand crossed 97,000-mark. Almost after 11 months, the doctors at the Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) started conducting eye surgeries from Thursday, and two people were operated on. The eye department’s OT was closed since March last year due to Covid-19 induced lockdown. According to the health department, 7,302 samples tested negative while among the 41 positive samples, 17 were reported from Dehradun followed by 9 in Haridwar, 6 each in Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar, and 3 in Chamoli. “One Covid-19 patient died in state in the last 24 hours after which the coronavirus toll reached 16,884,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room. Dr Sushil Ojha, head of ophthalmology department at GDMC, said that patients who want to undergo any kind of eye surgery can approach the hospital OPD and take further appointments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-cases-cross-97k-mark-in-ukhand/articleshow/81096667.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Nod denied to Tikait’s Feb 20 Yavatmal meet, virtual rally to be held||NAGPUR: The Yavatmal district administration has denied permission to Samyukt Kisan Morcha to hold a public meeting to be addressed by farm leader Rakesh Tikait in the town, on account of deteriorating Covid situation. Tikait was scheduled to address a farmers’ mega rally at Yavatmal on February 20. The organizers have put up a fresh application in which it has been mentioned that not more than 50 persons would attend the meet, which would be broadcast on social media. A decision is pending on the application. The meeting at Yavatmal was the first major rally to be held out of Delhi, where farmers are protesting demanding law guaranteeing MSP and repeal of 3 farm laws. Under the original plan, the organizers had claimed that close to lakh farmers from all over the state would attend the meet. The purpose of the meet was to show that the farmers’ protests on Delhi borders were not limited to the northern states only. Yavatmal was chosen for the meet as it has been the hotspot for farm suicides. Prime Minster Narendra Modi had also held one of his Chai pe Charcha meets in Dabhadi village of the district during 2014 poll campaigning. The promises made during the event have not been fulfilled yet, said the organizers. Sandeep Gidde-Patil of Maharashtra unit of the Kisan Morcha said only the permission for a large public rally has been turned down. The organizers have submitted a revised application in line of the Covid norms, which is under consideration. “During the Chai pe Charcha meet, the prime minister had talked about implementing Swaminathan Committee recommendations and fixing the minimum support price (MSP) at cost-plus-50%. It would be brought before the farmers that the same promises have been broken. Rather, implementation of the three new farm laws itself goes against the recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee,” he said. Yavatmal resident deputy collector said a fresh application was received at around 5pm on Thursday. It has been forwarded to the superintendent of police for further consideration. Gidde-Patil said the denial of permission will not change Tikait’s plans to visit Yavatmal. “The rally will be held at the same place on the same day though the numbers may be less,” he said. The speech will be broadcast live from the site with huge screens put up for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nod-denied-to-tikaits-feb-20-yavatmal-meet-virtual-rally-to-be-held/articleshow/81096655.cms||Shishir Arya
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad schools witness 15% attendance||AHMEDABAD: Schools in Gujarat, which re-opened doors for students of class 6 to class 8 from Thursday saw less than 35% attendance on the first day, as per estimates by the state education department. In Ahmedabad, the schools saw even thinner attendance with very few students turning up on the first day. “In Ahmedabad city, about 15% students from class 6 to class 8 attended classroom studies on Thursday,” said R C Patel, district education officer, Ahmedabad city. Concerns about a new spike in Covid-19 cases seemed to weigh heavily on the minds of parents, who are not ready to send their wards to school in the near future. Less than 10% parents have agreed to send their children to school for class 6 to class 8 on-campus studies, said a principal of an Ahmedabad-based school. Another common reason cited by parents is that the syllabus for the academic year 2020-21 has largely been covered and they are content with online education that is presently going on. Attendance is not be compulsory though, and online classes will continue, the education department clarified in its statement earlier this month. classes at schools of all boards will resume with strict adherence to the Covid guidelines issued by the state and central governments. Instructions have been given to all district education officers and primary education officers to ensure schools comply with the standard operating procedures. Educational institutions will have to get the prescribed consent form from parents before allowing students to attend class room studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-schools-witness-15-attendance/articleshow/81099498.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||GU re-schedules exams to Feb 25||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University has decided to reschedule online college examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate semester 3 and semester 5 candidates from February 22 to February 25, the university said. Ahead of the exams, the varsity has decided to conduct mock tests on February 22 and February 23 to ensure that students can take exams smoothly. This, after students recently complained of facing issues while participating in the online exams. GU had earlier planned to conduct the mock exams on February 22 but it has not revisited its plans and decided to conduct another round of mock test on February 23. While candidates can take the mock test on February 22 between 11am and 5pm, the varsity has announced a trial test on February 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-re-schedules-exams-to-feb-25/articleshow/81099490.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||Sobhandeb tests positive for Covid||Kolkata: State power minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He has been advised to stay at home for two weeks. A family source said he was stable and was in touch with his family physician. According to a family member, Chattopadhyay decided to get tested following mild fever and body ache. “Till a couple of days ago, he was busy preparing for Saraswati Puja and meeting visitors at Trinamool Congress bhawan. Yesterday, he felt feverish and complained of body ache. Following advice from his physician, he decided to get tested. On Thursday, he went into home isolation,” a source said. A Trinamool leader said, “He was being treated for lower back pain at a hospital and might have been infected there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sobhandeb-tests-positive-for-covid/articleshow/81099401.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Without FIR, Akola cops unable to trace missing vaccine vials||NAGPUR: There has been no headway in the case of seven Covishield vaccine vials going missing from a rural hospital in Akola. Even 24 hours after the complaint was first received, hospital authorities have not lodged an FIR, making it difficult for Akola cops to step up investigations. Chatari rural hospital authorities, who have started an internal inquiry, had lodged a ‘missing’ complaint on February 16 with Channi police of Akola. After finding no conclusive clues from staffers, the cops are now contemplating questioning family members of staffers. Police feel there could be an insider behind the vials going missing. The missing vials had been kept in a container with 37 other vials. The seven vials had been untraceable since February 12. The hospital authorities had initially tried to zero down upon the culprit themselves before approaching the cops, already causing a delay of four days. The vials were stored at a place accessed by only a handful of staff nurses since February 5, when the vaccination drive started nationwide. The on-duty nurses would hand over the vaccine container to their relievers when duty changed. A senior official of the police department said they have now approached the district administration to inform them of technical difficulties in conducting a thorough probe without an FIR of theft. “The persons being questioned at present are revealing almost nothing. So police cannot come to a logical conclusion. Police are unable to grill anyone more or summon suspects to police stations as there is no complaint of theft,” said an officer. SP G Shridhar, who is monitoring the probe, said the matter is at a nascent stage. “We are looking into all possible angles,” he said. Investigation officer Assistant PI Rahul Wagh of Channi police station said statements of seven persons have been recorded so far, including medical superintendent, staff nurses and also ward boys. “We are questioning all the concerned persons at the hospital connected to the vaccine drive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/without-fir-akola-cops-unable-to-trace-missing-vaccine-vials/articleshow/81096659.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Hesitancy to take Covid jab in state same as last month||Mumbai: With the number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated likely to touch 1 crore on Friday, an online survey showed a decline in vaccine hesitancy as compared to the previous month. In Maharashtra, however, vaccine hesitancy remained nearly constant – from 49% in January to 47% on February 18. State health officials have regularly made a statement denying vaccine hesitancy among healthcare and frontline workers, but only half of the healthcare workers have taken the vaccine so far. Officials blame the Co-WIN app for failure to draw up lists and send alerts on time. The survey, conducted by social media platform LocalCircles, found that the percentage of those willing to be innoculated went up from 38% to 50% in a month. The hesitancy levels were 69% just before the vaccination drive started on January 16 and reduced to 58% on February 3. The majority of respondents maintained that they were largely worried about side-effects, with a small percentage not sure about its efficacy. The survey got 16,000 responses (including 1,841 from Maharashtra) from 255 districts of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hesitancy-to-take-covid-jab-in-state-same-as-last-month/articleshow/81097927.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Thane||Thane: Carpenter gets 10 years’ RI for raping daughter||THANE: A 41-year-old carpenter from Thane city’s Ghodbunder Road was found guilty of repeated raping his teenage daughter, impregnating her, he was convicted and sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment by the Thane district court ōn Thursday. In her order, the Special Judge (Pocso) Kavita D Shirbhate, who found the accused guilty of the charges of Rape under IPC and also POCSO fined him a collective sum of Rs. 10,000. Prosecutor Sandhya Mhatre, informed the victim then aged 14 was living with the accused as her mother and father got separated. It was since her age of 10, the accused used to rape her intermittently in the night. It was on August 30, 2018 once again he forcibly raped her against her wishes. Later it was September 04,2018 when the victim experienced severe pain in her abdomen she approached the local Civic health center where the doctors informed her of her being pregnant. The doctors wanted her to bring her parents which she could not do as she was afraid for her father and instead reached the police and registered the complaint against her father. Prosecutor examined 5 witnesses and DNA of foetus that matched that of the accused. The judge in his order held that the prosecution has proved all the charges against the accused beyond reasonable doubts for which he needs to be convicted and sentenced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/carpenter-gets-10-years-ri-for-raping-daughter/articleshow/81100100.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
February 19, 2021||Bareilly||UP: 1 week on, kin, locals protest police failure to crack murder of Dalit woman||BAREILLY: Family members of a 30-year-old Dalit woman whose body with strangulation marks was found in a vacant plot in Moradabad’s Majhola area last week, took to the streets on Thursday, raising slogans against police and local administration for failing to arrest the culprit. The woman’s family members, accompanied by residents, took out a march from Ambedkar Park till the district magistrate’s office on Thursday. Moradabad police said several clues had been gathered by police. Prabhakar Chaudhary, senior superintendent of police, said, “We have recovered some CCTV footage of a day prior to the murder. In the footage, the victim is seen sitting on the pillion of a two-wheeler driven by a man wearing a red cap in Kashiram Nagar locality. The same cap has been recovered from the crime scene. His face, however, is not clear in the footage accessed.” The SSP added, “The video has been made public and a reward of Rs 25,000 has also been declared for identifying the accused. We have formed five teams to probe the case and it is expected it will soon be cracked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/1-week-on-kin-locals-protest-police-failure-to-crack-murder-of-dalit-woman/articleshow/81096673.cms||Maria Khan
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Widow entitled for maintenance from in-laws holding dead husband’s property: Bombay HC||NAGPUR: Even after husband’s death, a wife is entitled for maintenance from in-laws holding properties in their son’s name, ruled the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court. While setting aside Nagpur family court’s verdict that rejected the widow’s appeal for maintenance from deceased husband’s parents, a division bench comprising justices Atul Chandurkar and Nitin Suryawanshi directed the latter to handover Rs1.75 lakh to her that included Rs10,000 litigation cost. The bench fixed Rs7,500 per month maintenance from February 21, 2008 to December 13, 2009 to be handed over to the petitioner within four weeks. “We are of the considered view that the petitioner is entitled for maintenance from the date of husband’s death till her remarriage. Since the respondents are holding the claim amounts of her husband of more than Rs42 lakh and also holding his estate, they are liable to pay maintenance to her,” the judges said. The 28-year-old petitioner entered into wedlock on May 3, 2007. Her husband met with an accident and succumbed to injuries on February 21, 2008. Afterwards, her in-laws severed ties with her and she started living with her father. The husband’s parents received Rs42.98 lakh towards life insurance policies of their son and also got some amount out of his gratuity. According to the petitioner, she had a half share in insurance policies and gratuity, but in-laws denied her. She then approached the family court contending that she was unable to maintain herself after being driven out of matrimonial home by in-laws. Her case was rejected forcing her to approach the higher judiciary. Justices Chandurkar and Suryawanshi noted that while denying maintenance to petitioner, the provisions of sections 19, 21 and 22 of the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956, were misread and misconstrued by the family court and it ignored object and purport of its provisions. “We are unable to agree with the trial court’s conclusion that her father was a retired railway employee and was maintaining her when she had been to the parental home. And therefore, she wasn’t entitled for maintenance from the in-laws. This finding is unsustainable,” they said. Holding that the woman has proved that she was unable to maintain herself, the bench noted that the in-laws have neglected and refused to maintain her. “There is no evidence brought on record by the respondents to show that the daughter-in-law was able to maintain herself. We’re of the view that respondents were having sufficient means to maintain her from the estate of her deceased husband,” the judges said while partly allowing widow’s plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/widow-entitled-for-maintenance-from-in-laws-holding-dead-hubbys-property-hc/articleshow/81096666.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Mokariya, Anavadiya file nominations for RS bypolls||Gandhinagar: The two vacant Rajya Sabha seats of Gujarat are expected to go into the BJP kitty, as the Congress did not field any candidate for the by-elections. Thursday was the last date for filing nominations for the by-elections. “BJP candidates Dinesh Anavadiya and Ram Mokariya, along with dummy candidates submitted their papers. We have not received any nominations from Congress,” returning officer C B Pandya said on Thursday. In this situation, voting will not be necessary as the dummy candidates are expected to withdraw, he added. The last date for withdrawing nominations is February 22. The by-elections were necessitated by the deaths of Congress veteran Ahmed Patel in November and BJP leader Abhay Bhardwaj in December . The RS terms of Patel and Bhardwaj were to end in August 2023 and June 2026 respectively. Anavadiya has been chosen by the BJP to fill up Patel’s seat, while Mokariya will replace Bhardwaj. Mokariya is founder of an established courier company and a real estate developer. He has been associated with the BJP for decades ad was also an ABVP member from 1974 before joining the Jan Sangh in 1978. “I will raise issues like that of Sagar Khedu (fishermen) and Rajkot’s medium and small industries,” Mokariya said. Anavadiya, who hails from Deesa in Banaskantha district, heads the BJP’s OBC morcha. He was the BJP Banaskantha district general secretary earlier. Amit Chavda, state Congress president said, “Despite the fact that one seat was held by Congress, the ECI decided to hold separate elections for both seats. Since the BJP will win both seats, the Congress decided not to field any candidate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mokariya-anavadiya-file-nominations-for-rs-bypolls/articleshow/81099501.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Vacant flats for poor to be given on rent||JAIPUR: Flats constructed for the slum dwellers in the city will now be given on rent to others as none of the dwellers have shown any interest in shifting to these houses. Around 1,968, flats were developed in Jaisinghpura Khor Block A&C for Kacchi Basti dwellers and were asked by the government to give their consent that they are ready to shift in writing. None of the slum dwellers, however, applied in Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Heritage, reacting to which now those flats will be given on rent to other companies or individuals. The decision of not applying to the JMC, Heritage for flats will have difficult consequences on slum dwellers as now they have lost the right to be provided an accommodation by the government while authorities can remove them from the land whenever they want. A senior official of JMC, Heritage, on condition of anonymity said, “Slum dwellers were given time and they didn’t submit their consent and now they have lost the right to get accommodation. The land they are currently residing will be considered as encroachment. Proceedings are on and in a recent meeting at RUDISCO, it has been decided that all the vacant properties constructed under various schemes in the state will now be given under Affordable Rental Housing Complex (ARHC) under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna.” The decision was taken to make these houses useful for others who are not able to afford houses in the city instead of waiting for others to shift. The flats at Jaisinghpura Khor were constructed by Jaipur Development Authority (JDA), hence it was decided that it will be inviting proposals for rent. Very soon, the file will be sent to make these properties available on rent. According to the minutes of the meeting held in RUDISCO, it was mentioned that of the total 11,772 flats in Rajasthan, 7,095 are unoccupied and 4,677 are under-construction. Out of 15 cities mentioned in Rajasthan, 5,234 houses are unoccupied in Jaipur, highest in the state. In 324 cities of the country, over 1.19 lakh houses are lying vacant constructed under various schemes for affordable housing for the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vacant-flats-built-for-slum-dwellers-in-jaisinghpura-khor-will-be-given-on-rent/articleshow/81097921.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Four illegal buildings sealed in Jaipur's Malviya Nagar||JAIPUR: Four buildings being constructed illegally were sealed for 180 days in a joint action taken by the Malviya Nagar Zone Team and Vigilance Branch of Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Greater on Thursday. Deputy commissioner, Malviya Nagar, Suresh Chaudhary and inspector of police Rakesh Yadav received information that the construction was being done against rules in Malviya Nagar area. The places include plot no. 23 in front of Pipladham Temple, plot no.118 in Sector 7, plot number 5 Ramjipura Malviya Nagar in front of Sector 7 and plot number 5 Ramajipura in front of Sector 7, that are now being sealed for 180 days. Commissioner Yajna Mitra Singhdev said, “The illegal constructions have been sealed for 180 days after the violation of provisions of Rajasthan Municipality Act 2009. We have to become vigilant against such violations.” JMC, Greater even took action against the temporary encroachment of street vendors in Vidhyadhar Nagar zone. Encroaching public roads is against the law and such street vendors have become a major menace in the city. Deputy commissioner, vigilance, Seetharam Banjara informed that while proceeding on temporary encroachment complaints received from Rajasthan Contact Portal, call centre and councillors of the area - in the Vidyadhar Nagar Zone, bypass from Lata Circle in the Vidyadhar Nagar Zone, Kalwar Road Jhotwara and National Handloom Vaishali Nagar in Jhotwara Zone, a revenue charge of Rs 27,000 was charged. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-greater-acts-against-illegal-constructions/articleshow/81097922.cms||---
February 19, 2021||India||On Disha plea, HC notice to cops, media on ‘leaks’||NEW DELHI: :The Delhi high court on Thursday issued notices to TV news channels and the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) on a plea by jailed climate activist Disha Ravi seeking to restrain police and media from selectively leaking private chats. Justice Pratibha M Singh issued notices to the channels even as police maintained that they had not leaked any material to the media in relation to its probe on the FIR against Disha for her alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing the ongoing farmers’ protest. Appearing for police, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said he will file an affidavit in this regard. Since there were no counsel representing NBSA and some of the channels named in Ravi’s petition, the court issued notices to them and said it will hear the matter on Friday. The petition has also sought to restrain the media from publishing the content or extract of any private chats, including those on WhatsApp, between her and third parties. Disha said she was "severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial”. Disha said she is being “viscerally attacked by respondent 1 (police) and several media houses”. The climate activist has also questioned why investigative matters have been leaked to the media and termed the press briefings by police as “prejudicial” and “grossly violative of her right to a fair trial and presumption of innocence”. Claiming that her arrest from Bengaluru on February 13 by a cyber cell team of Delhi Police was “wholly unlawful and without basis”, Disha pointed out that in the current circumstances, it was “highly likely” that the general public will perceive the news items “as being conclusive as to the guilt of the petitioner (Disha)”. Disha’s petition also sought to “restrain the respondents from further violating her privacy, her reputation, and her right to a fair trial”. “The illegal actions and omissions on part of the respondents have irrevo cably violated the petitioner’s fundamental right to privacy, her right to reputation, her dignity, and the consequent effect of the administration of justice and right to fair trial,” her petition further states . The petition has claimed that police first “leaked investigative material” — including alleged WhatsApp chats — the substance and details of which were in the possession of the investigating agency only. The plea said the “private alleged WhatsApp chats” were publicised and disseminated by various media houses which was a violation of the provisions of Cable Televisions Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995, Programme Code and Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines. The petition has also claimed that the “media houses have published onesided defamatory, suggestive innuendoes and half-truths about the petitioner”. Disha’s plea further contended that the ministry of information & broadcasting and NBSA “have failed to exercise their statutory and self-regulatory powers in ensuring compliance with the Programme Code under the CTN Act and the Code of Ethics of National Broadcasting Standards Association”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-disha-plea-hc-notice-to-cops-media-on-leaks/articleshow/81100866.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Festivals back on Rajasthan’s cultural calendar||JAIPUR: After last year’s washout, festival calendar is coming back to life again and it is kicking off with the annual desert festival in Jaisalmer. Incidentally, it was the last major festival to have taken place before the lockdown. Bejeweled camels with colourful beads, out in the procession against the historic fort, folk music and village games like tug of war are a big draw for foreign tourists but this year festival has to move on without their presence. But the tourist department and the district authorities are excited that they are able to organise the festival in the backdrop of how the pandemic till recently had restricted movement of people. “Jaisalmer desert festival is one of the best festivals to make a new beginning after the Covid lockdown. We are planning to hold other festivals like Rajasthan Day on March 30, Jaipur Gangaur festival and Mewar festival in Udaipur in April and summer festival in Mount Abu in May,” said Nishant Jain, director, department of tourism. But the level of extravaganza may be tempered keeping inview risks of the lingering pandemic. “But following Covid precautions would be a priority. We are aware of the risks. Arrangements will be in place having the protocols on mind,” added Jain. The tourism department supports and organizes about 45 festivals which are spread out over the whole year. Showcasing the rich cultural heritage of the state has been a strategy to attract tourists. “Each festival is unique in its own way. The visitors get to know the richness of the each region through these cultural events. It increases the appeal of the state among tourists,” said a senior official of the department. He said these festivals would be key to providing livelihood opportunities for local artists who have been sitting idle since the pandemic broke out. “These festivals give opportunities not only local artists but also artisans who make handicrafts,” said the official. Since these festivals have lot of tourist interest, the tour operators and travel agents are also thinking of marketing them. “Festivals attract tourists. If the department has a define calendar, we would like to market them as well,” said a tour operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/festivals-back-on-states-cultural-calendar/articleshow/81097925.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Visakhapatnam||FDNA writes to Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Simhachalam land issue||VISAKHAPATNAM: Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) has urged chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to solve the Panchagrama (Simhachalam lands) issue which has remained unsolved for over two decades now. The Pancha Gramalu lands issue has been hanging fire for the last 25 years and all previous attempts to break the ice have failed. Over 25,000 people stay in the Pancha Gramalu stretch comprising Purushothapuram, Vepagunta, Adavivaram, Gopalapatnam and Cheemalapalli villages leading to Simhachalam Devasthanam. The problem started after revenue officials issued Ryotwari pattas for 12,000 acres in 1996, stating that the lands belonged to Simhachalam temple. FDNA general secretary A Aja Sarma said Jagan, during his padayatra in Vizag region, had promised to solve the problem after coming to power. The new government also issued an order announcing the formation of a three-member committee to resolve the issue and later added three more members to the committee. However, the issue still remains unsolved. The three members added to the committee in the second GO have no knowledge about temple lands, Sarma alleged, adding that none of them have spoken to the people whose lands are at stake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fdna-writes-to-cm-on-simhachalam-land-issue/articleshow/81097073.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy to dedicate new chariot to temple today||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy will visit Antharvedi town in East Godavari district on Friday and formally dedicate the newly-built chariot to Sri Lakshminarasimha Swamy temple in the town. It may be recalled that the chariot was set on fire by miscreants a couple of months ago. Jagan is scheduled to reach the temple in the morning, and after offering special prayers to the presiding deity, would dedicate the new chariot to the temple amidst chanting of hymns by vedic pundits. BC welfare minister Chelluboyina Srinivasa Venugopala Krishna visited the temple on Thursday and supervised the arrangements being made for the chief minister’s visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-to-dedicate-new-chariot-to-temple-today/articleshow/81096724.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Goa||Goa: Doctors urge citizens not to drop guard although Covid cases reduce||PANAJI: Since December, Goa has seen a slowdown in the number of Covid cases. Currently, the daily average is less than 50 cases, but the medical fraternity is still a worried lot. Their concern has been heightened with people hardly taking precautions against Covid, especially when the parts of Maharashtra are reporting a rise in Covid infections. “Coronavirus has sprung up surprises globally. People should follow Covid appropriate behaviour. Hand sanitisation, wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing in public, need to be followed strictly,” state epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said. Goa Medical College (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar said that doctors in the government set-up have been overworked for the past several months and it is difficult for some to even avail an off for an half day. “Both the government Covid hospitals put together, we have over hundred patients under treatment,” he said. South Goa district hospital is a Covid hospital, while a few wards at the GMC have been earmarked for Covid patients. About 25 new patients get hospitalised everyday even as new infections have reduced, and the case positivity rate has ranged between 2.5% and 3% this month. Some centres, both in North and South Goa have zero cases. Since December, it has been observed that people have become very lax and almost forgotten about Covid and no social distancing measures are followed. The festive season and New Year celebrations saw hundreds of visitors from other states entering Goa and letting their guard down. The Carnival weekend also saw many throw caution to the wind with revelry in full swing. “Our cases are on a downturn presently. Our flu season starts in March, so we will be closely observing the numbers. We can’t stop taking precautions in any way,” Betodkar said. “This is the right time to do vaccination drives as infections have reduced. This way, we can be ready for any probable spike so that we are not affected much,” he said. He said though presently Goa has fewer infections, it is difficult to say what’s in the store. “What we are asking people is to follow the precautions strictly. Some say these are simple precautions, but it is these small measures which will help us,” he said. Even those who have taken vaccines, including the second dose will have to follow measures, Betodkar said. “I’ll get my second dose next week, but I can’t go out without wearing a mask or give a miss to the other measures,” he said. Those who have suffered from Covid should also take the vaccination, the state epidemiologist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doctors-urge-citizens-not-to-drop-guard-although-covid-cases-reduce/articleshow/81099445.cms||Bindiya Chari
February 19, 2021||Vijayawada||Jagan honours veterans as part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations||Vijayawada: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy felicitated retired Major General C Venugopal (95) at his residence in Tirupati n on Thursday. As part of the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ Golden Jubilee celebrations of the 1971 Indo-Pak war, the CM handed over a bouquet and memento to Venugopal and interacted with him. The CM then announced a ten-fold hike in cash rewards from the state government for winners of gallantry medals from the state. Later at the Police Parade Grounds, the chief minister felicitated J Chinatalli, widow of Naik J Sanyasi for her husband’s exemplary role in the 1971 war. As part of the new reward system, winners of Param Vir and Ashok Chakras who till now were getting Rs 10 lakh, will get Rs 1 crore. Similarly, Mahavir Chakra and Keerti Chakra awardees will now get Rs 80 lakh while winners of Veer and Shaurya Chakras will get Rs 60 lakh. Families of officers martyred in the line of duty will be given Rs 50 lakh, the CM said. The victory flame that was brought from Hyderabad to Tirupati, was handed over to the chief minister at the parade grounds. After February 20, the Victory Flame will be taken to Bengaluru. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-honours-veterans-as-part-of-swarnim-vijay-varsh-celebrations/articleshow/81096693.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Vijayawada||SEC mulls restarting ZPTC and MPTC election process||Vijayawada: The state election commission (SEC) on Thursday announced it was contemplating continuing the adjourned election process for MPTCs and ZPTCS which was postponed on March 15 due to the outbreak of Covid-19. The SEC directed district collectors to look into complaints raised by opposition parties on forceful unanimous seats and pass speaking orders reviving candidatures. The SEC in an official statement said it had received representations and complaints with regard to aspiring contestants being prevented from filing nominations or compelled to withdraw candidature. The commission said it had also received complaints from major political parties on poll aberration who sought intervention of the commission on the process. The SEC said that it had sought legal opinion and decided to redress the flaws in the election process. The affected parties can now approach collectors and district election authorities with evidence. The commission has empowered collectors to issue speaking orders to revive candidature in the interest of fair elections. The commission directed the district collectors to complete the process by March 20 and submit a report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-mulls-restarting-zptc-and-mptc-election-process/articleshow/81097173.cms||Venu Lanka
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||More defaulters under RERA watchlist||Jaipur: After witnessing inordinate delays in the project completion, the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Rajasthan-RERA) gears up to issue more notices developers and builders and promoters.In the span of one month, the (Rajasthan-RERA) has already slapped notices to nearly 312 developers and new list of over 75 developers has been prepared who have failed to adhere to the self-set deadlines.An official at RERA said, “The process to examine the reply of the developers who were issued notices before has started. Meanwhile, more notices have been issued to projects where deadline is lapsed. The action against all the developers will be taken all together,” he said.The notices talk of imposing penalties on the guilty builders and for the RERA to arrange completion of remaining works with assistance from third parties.An official said, “Directions were also issued to the developers to stop further bookings or sale of any apartment, plot or building in the lapsed projects. Also, the promoter could be penalised under Section 61 of the Act if this requirement is not met. Under this section, the promoter shall be liable to a penalty which may extend up to 5% of the estimated cost of the real estate project,” said the official.As per the rule, the builder and promoters are required to submit a completion report with RERA before the final date of project completion, declared by them during registration. In case of any delay in project completion, the developers are required to apply with the regulatory authority for an extension to complete the remaining work. These builders and promoters have not fulfilled any of the two conditions. Notices have been issued to them seeking a response in one month. Penalty will also be imposed on them if they fail to respond.”Sources at RERA said, “RERA in Rajasthan came into force from June 1, 2017 and total of 1457 projects have been registered so far across the state. Nearly 400 developers defaulting is not a good sign,” sources said.This year in May, on the ground of force majeure, extension of 12 months was granted to the real estate projects expiring on or after March 19. “Notices are being issued to projects, which failed to complete before the given deadline,” said source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-defaulters-under-rera-watchlist/articleshow/81097924.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Costly accessories for cochlear implants leave poor kids in lurch||CHENNAI: “It’s been almost a year since he stopped responding and speaking the way he used to. And every time I look at him I get anxious, I worry about his future, because my son can no longer hear anything,” says G Bhuvaneshwari, a domestic worker from Ennore and mother of eight-year-old Ashwin. Ashwin was diagnosed with bilateral profound hearing loss and received a free cochlear implant from an empanelled private hospital, five years ago, under the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Cochlear Implant Scheme. He gained hearing ability and slowly began speaking, with the help of therapy. Over a year ago, his machine got damaged in a road accident, and the hospital demanded Rs 40,000 for a replacement. “They said repairs and replacements are not covered under the scheme,” she said. Parents of several children who received cochlear implants under the government scheme say they cannot afford spare parts. “Repairing one coil cable costs Rs 2,800, and the battery is about Rs 9,000,” said B Radhakrishnan, whose 13-year-old received the implant five years ago. “Many families hesitate to get implants for their children because they cannot afford to pay for the spare parts. There is no insurance to cover this,” he said. Around 6,000 children have received cochlear implantations under the scheme, launched in 2012 mainly for children under six. State health officials say they evolved a mechanism over two years ago for beneficiaries to access spare parts free of charge. An official said the beneficiaries should first get the implants examined by the hospital, following which they will receive an invoice from the vendor company. The hospital will send the invoice to the Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project. After verification by United India Insurance, the hospital can provide the spare part. “The insurance firm will check the device and reimburse the hospital,” he said. “I was asked by the hospital to write to the directorate of medical services and the department for the disabled, and I did, five months ago. I’m yet to get a reply,” said Radhakrishnan. He has asked for two batteries, a mic lock loop, and a coil cable. “My daughter is struggling, she's becoming anxious and losing focus in studies,” he added. S Namburajan, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers, said authorities must issue a written order to all empanelled hospitals to provide the accessories. “It is the children who end up suffering,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/costly-accessories-for-cochlear-implants-leave-poor-kids-in-lurch/articleshow/81097938.cms||Aditi R
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: As Covid cases rise, more HCWs and FLWs rush to vaccination centres||NAGPUR: The news about the novel coronavirus mutating in two districts of Vidarbha and community spread had a deep impact on healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) who were reluctant to get vaccinated against Covid-19. On Thursday, they turned up in large numbers at all the inoculation centres. The region recorded a whopping 10,436 inoculations in Nagpur and Amravati divisions. The achievement touched 86.2% in Nagpur district with 909 HCWs coming for the first dose. This was nearly 50% more than a day before when 550 HCWs came for the first dose. Similarly, 1,698 FLWs, as against 954 a day before, took the jab in the district on Thursday. The impact of Nagpur, Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola bearing the brunt of rising cases was seen in Bhandara, where the cases are not going north, reporting 81% vaccination. Nagpur division’s achievement rose to 64% as against 45.8% of the state. Two cases of adverse effect following immunization were recorded in the division. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said an ultimatum was issued to HCWs that it was the last chance for them to get inoculated at the state’s expense. “Among the FLWs, policemen, civic staff and airport security personnel took the jab. As the number of positive cases are increasing, the number beneficiaries lining up for the jab is also going up. So, it was result of both the ultimatum and the spread of the disease,” he said. The achievement could have been even better but for the glitches in Co-WIN app. Some private doctors complained that their names were still missing from the list. “Some problems occurred because of technical issues. Names of private doctors are missing as they had not given their name earlier. Now, the government has stated that new names would be added once the round for registered ones is over,” he said. Meanwhile, two NMC doctors working on contract, who had received their first dose on January 18 and 19, tested positive on January 22 and 23. “The doctors are working at Indira Gandhi Rugnalay (IGR) at Gandhi Nagar. One is in home isolation and other had to be admitted to IGR. They have to test negative in RT-PCR to get the second shot,” said Dr Chilkar. He clarified that the doctors testing positive shouldn’t be linked to vaccination. “It takes time to develop antibodies and if distancing, mask and sanitizers are not used, there are chances of catching the infection,” he said. The number of first dose recipients rose significantly in Amravati division. On Thursday, 1,073 HCWs and 2,499 FLWs took the jab. Surprisingly, the number of HCWs lined up for second dose fell to 581 after touching 838 a day before. Total 4,153 were inoculated in the division. Now, 51,559 have taken first dose in region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/as-covid-cases-rise-more-hcws-and-flws-rush-to-vax-centres/articleshow/81096680.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 19, 2021||Vijayawada||YSRC storms Naidu bastion Kuppam, sweeps 83% seats||Amaravati: TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu is on a sticky wicket after YSRC supporters won nearly 83% seats in Kuppam, his stronghold. While YSRC’s impressive show in panchayat elections across state has shaken the morale of TDP cadres, the party leadership had not anticipated such a humiliating defeat in Naidu’s hometown. Despite sensing that YSRC is making all-out attempts to seize Kuppam, the party was confident of warding off such attempts till the results were declared late on Wednesday night. Naidu is a seven-time MLA from Kuppam and is undefeated since he started contesting from the constituency in 1989. The locals have always backed Naidu notwithstanding his rare visits to the constituency. He had a firm grip over the constituency after becoming chief minister in 1995. TDP won 82 out of 94 village panchayats in 2013 even when Naidu was out of power. The newly-formed YSRC had 12 panchayats. YSRC won 74 village panchayats out of the total 89 which went to polls on Wednesday. “Naidu is now required to search for a safe location to contest the next election. We leave it to his wisdom whether to quit to assembly or not own moral responsibility for TDP’s defeat in his own constituency,” panchayat raj minister, Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy. Interestingly, all the 74 sarpanch candidates backed by YSRC together got a majority of nearly 31,149 votes over their rivals while the 14 TDP sarpanches got narrow majority of 1,872 votes. This means YSRC’s total majority in 89 panchayats would be 29,277 votes. Naidu’s majority in 2019 assembly elections was 30,722. Naidu’s margin of victory had dipped by over 7% during the last election when he polled 55.18% of the total votes, the lowest in his history of victories in the constituency. Naidu had always secured over 60 to 65 per cent votes in the constituency during his long stint. Elections to another four villages and Kuppam Nagar panchayat in Kuppam assembly constituency limits are pending due to court cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-storms-naidu-bastion-kuppam-sweeps-83-seats/articleshow/81097002.cms||Samdani MN
February 19, 2021||Vijayawada||YSRC strengthens Palnadu hold with spate of panchayat victories||Guntur: The YSRC has further consolidated its strength in the Palnadu region with party-backed candidates bagging as many as 129 panchayats out of a possible 134 villages in the two assembly segments of Gurazala and Macherla. Palnadu region which has been notorious for election-related violence, has remained peaceful since the beginning of the election process last year. “The election results have only confirmed our belief that chief minister YS Jagan is in the hearts of the people. His welfare programmes were chiefly responsible for the party supporters’ victories in the constituency,” said Gurazala legislator, Kasu Mahesh Reddy. He claimed that TDP’s allegations of threats to their cadres was only an excuse for their defeat. YSRC supporters won 53 out of 57 villages in Gurazala assembly constituency leaving the opposition TDP with just four. While the elections in 24 villages turned unanimous, polling was held for 33 village panchayats in the constituency. “Our supporters won 29 villages of the 33 that went to polls taking the tally to 53 out of 57. TDP is nowhere in the contest,” said Mahesh Reddy. He said the chief minister had fulfilled his promises to the constituency within two years of coming to power by sanctioning the government medical college and a comprehensive drinking water scheme. The legislator said they would work with more dedication to serve the people in the coming days as they feel that their responsibility has increased with the victory. YSRC supporters won in all nine villages under Gurazala mandal and five villages in Piduguralla mandal. Similarly, YSRC supporters won seven and Jana Sena bagged one in Dachepalle mandal. YSRC supporters won nine and TDP won two villages out of 11 in Machavaram mandal. The YSRC grabbed almost all panchayats in neighbouring Macherla constituency unanimously as just three villages out of 77 went for polling. YSRC supporters won all seats in the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-strengthens-palnadu-hold-with-spate-of-panchayat-victories/articleshow/81096776.cms||Samdani MN
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||IAS officer lodges bank fraud complaint in Kolkata||KOLKATA: An IAS officer has alleged that Rs 18,000 was withdrawn from his private bank account using his debit card details when he was in his office in January. The complaint received by the Shakespeare Sarani police is likely to be transferred to the anti-bank fraud section of the detective department. It is being ascertained if he had mistakenly shared any information with the accused. Prima facie it seems that he was a victim of shoulder surfing. The culprits might have laid their hands on his debit card after getting the details. Meanwhile, almost three months after the first cases of fraud involving debit cards were reported from ATM kiosks and shops, the police have got leads from a few establishments in and around the Dhakuria-Lake-Golpark area after studying hours of CCTV footage. The fraudsters replaced the original debit card of their target with a fake one after reading its PIN. The police said the gang is now active in another town in south Bengal and that the accused are targeting mostly senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ias-officer-lodges-bank-fraud-plaint/articleshow/81099506.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Higher education department of Uttarakhand to conduct surveys in degree colleges||DEHRADUN: The higher education department of Uttarakhand has decided to conduct surveys in the state to check the state of affairs in the degree colleges. The first phase of the drive aims to cover at least 11 degree colleges. The survey will be conducted on several parameters, including students’ strength in the college, number of computers available, availability of books for students, quality of other facilities for students and staff. The first phase, meant for degree colleges of two districts, namely Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar, is scheduled to end by February 24. Meanwhile, the department has decided to put a cap on the number of teachers appointed in the government-aided schools in the state. The decision has been taken after it was reported that several government-aided schools are losing students rapidly. Now, the government-aided schools will appoint teachers based on the number of students. The department has decided to keep the student-teacher ratio at 50:1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/higher-edu-dept-to-conduct-surveys-in-degree-colleges/articleshow/81096691.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 19, 2021||Amaravati||AP: Money won, democracy lost in Kuppam, says N Chandrababu Naidu||AMARAVATI: TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday alleged that candidates supported by the ruling party won the panchayat elections in Kuppam by spending a large amount of money. Naidu said YSRC should feel ashamed for resorting to such unethical practices in village panchayat elections. “The YSRC leadership spent Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 to buy each vote. It is not TDP that got defeated in Kuppam, but democracy itself,” alleged Naidu. Naidu said that the ruling party deployed outsiders in Kuppam to defeat democracy. “Kuppam is known for its credibility, peace-loving people and ethical values but now the the atmosphere has got polluted,” he said. Naidu further alleged that people have started revolting against the implementation of the oppressive, faction-ridden politics being played by ruling party leaders. “I will continue the fight against mind games, atrocities and unchecked violations of YSRC in ongoing panchayat elections. He claimed that despite the threats, TDP and its allies won 41.4%seats. s in the third phase. “TDP-backed candidates won over 1,093 panchayats. They won 38.7% seats in the first phase and 39.5% seats in second phase,” Naidu said, and alleged that counting was deliberately delayed and results were tampered with to declare YSRC candidates as winners. The police also colluded and helped the ruling party manipulate the results, he claimed. Naidu said the SEC could not implement its orders to set up cameras or give video coverage of poll and counting centres. “The SEC’s failure allowed anti-social elements to manipulate results to their advantage,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/money-won-democracy-lost-in-kuppam-naidu/articleshow/81097053.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: 67 new Covid cases, one death||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 67 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,89,077. The toll increased to 7,166 as one more patient succumbed to the novel coronavirus. The lone death was reported from Visakhapatnam district. As many as 54 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state. There are currently 619 active Covid-19 cases with 8,81,292 cumulative recoveries and 7,166 fatalities in the state. Chittoor district reported 17 new cases, followed by Guntur (12 cases). Ten cases each were reported from Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts. Kurnool and Srikakulam districts did not report any new cases. The number of cases in the remaining seven districts in the state was limited to single digit. AP tested 29,239 Covid-19 samples on Thursday to detect the 67 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.22 per cent. The state has so far tested 1,36,44,086 samples and detected 8,89,077 cases for an overall positivity rate of 6.52%. The active caseload in less than 100 in all 13 districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/67-new-covid-cases-1-death/articleshow/81097231.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Hoardings hide children’s tribute to army||VADODARA: Two years ago, 34 children put in their best efforts to create ‘Viranajl,’ a 25 foot artwork, which was later installed on RC Dutt Road as a tribute to the Indian army. However, in the heat of campaigning for municipal corporation polls, this touching tribute has been literally shadowed by hoardings of netas who want their faces and party seen more prominently. The artist community is furious over such ‘belittling’ of public artworks. “This sculpture was made by children aged between 10 years and 14 years from our hobby centre with a lot of hard work and patience to honour the Indian army. I am pained to see the hoardings around it and Vadodara Municipal Corporation’s (VMC) casual attitude towards our public artworks,” said artist Hitesh Rana. “In the past too, many such public artworks made by famed artists were encroached upon hoardings. I am going to meet VMC officials on Friday and raise this issue,” Rana told TOI.  Over the last two years, hoardings carrying photographs of politicians were also raised around Vad Circle in Chhani, Kala Ghoda circle and Abacus sculpture on the Sama Road. Vrushin Mankodi one of the students involved in making the sculpture, said, “We dedicated the sculpture to the city and our soldiers. It is sad to see our work being covered by hoardings. Vinod Daroz, a ceramic artist, added, “There is so much space to put up posters and hoardings across the city. I don’t understand why the beautiful public artworks aren’t spared.” Mayank Patel from Vadodara Navratri Festival said, "We had asked Team Vadodara members to place some hoardings near my bungalow. I am not aware of the exact spots where they erected them. I will immediately ask them to remove the hoardings placed next to the public artwork." Director, encroachment removal and security, VMC, Mangesh Jaiswal said, “We don’t give permissions to raise hoardings next to public artworks. These hoardings must have come up without permissions and we will ensure that they are removed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hoardings-hide-childrens-tribute-to-army/articleshow/81096038.cms||Tushar Tere
February 19, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||CM launches ‘Keystone’ incubation facility for startups||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said that the arrival of Boston based Taurus Investment Holdings in Technopark as part of their business expansion plans has given a major boost to the IT business in the state. He was speaking while inaugurating Keystone, the incubation facility for startup centres, which is the first project to start rolling in the Technopark Downtown Project implemented by Taurus Investment Holdings India in association with prominent realtor, Embassy Group. Keystone has 62,500 square feet prefabricated office facility for incubation. The incubation space has a seat capacity of 800. Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor, tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran and city corporation mayor Arya S Rajendran also attended the event. While delivering the welcome address, Taurus Investment Holdings India MD Ajay Prasad said that the Niagara office building, which houses the incubation facility, will open its doors to over 10,000 technology professionals next year. “The Taurus Downtown Trivandrum Project will act as the nucleus of Technopark and a new city centre for the capital city and help to power the growth of the city as we recover from the effects of the pandemic,” Ajay Prasad said. During the event, minister Kadakampally Surendran also inaugurated the EarthCam monitoring system, a first of its kind facility used in the country. It will enable tracking and closer monitoring of the construction activities on-site for all concerned stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-launches-keystone-incubation-facility-for-startups/articleshow/81100063.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Goa||Planning dept completes census of govt employees||Panaji: The long overdue exercise to update the exact strength of government employees, which has not been done since 2015, has finally been completed. The directorate of planning, statistics and evaluation has completed the census of government employees and submitted the data to the state government for approval. The census identifies the distribution of regular as well as ad hoc employees in state government departments, grants-in-aid institutions and with government-run corporations. “The census data is ready and has been submitted 15 days earlier. It has gone for government approval,” said director for planning, statistics and evaluation Y Durga Prasad. The last census of government employees showed that as on January 1, 2015, the state government was paying salaries to 61,256 employees, which included 51,628 regular workers and 9,628 contractual staff. The employee figures for 2015 had shown an increase of 5.6% over the 2013 census. Incidentally, sources said that this is the longest gap since the census survey has been conducted and published. Prior to this, the government employee census was conducted in 2017, 2015, 2013 and 2010. In the previous iteration of the census, Goa Police accounted for the highest numbers of employees at 7,399 followed by the electricity department, PWD, education department, health department and water resources department. These departments accounted for 65.8% of the total number of government employees. The number of government employees is likely to have risen further due to the incremental recruitments conducted since 2015. Chief minister Pramod Sawant has also announced that the state government will recruit 10,000 more workers by the end of 2021, a move that has raised eyebrows in several quarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/planning-dept-completes-census-of-govt-employees/articleshow/81099405.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Geological board approves 42 exploration plans||Jaipur: In a bid to accelerate geological exploration, the state mines and petroleum department has approved 46 programmes during 2021-22. At a meeting of the state geological programming board on Thursday, plans for geological survey and mapping of various regions have also been approved. “We have lot of resources both in minor and major mineral categories. Along with the mines department, coordination with agencies like Geological Survey of India, Mining Exploration Corporation of India, ONGC, and Hindustan Copper will be made to explore minerals like zinc, copper, lead, limestone, dolomite,and lignite among others,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, mines and petroleum, at the board meeting.He said the state will also focus auction process so thatalong with exploration, the mineral blocks will be also auctioned to attract new investment in the sector.He said any agency willing to take minerals for sampling from any area will be permitted now. “They can pay the royalty and take the mineral for sampling now,” added Sharma.Currently, sampling facility is now allowed in Rajasthan,while Odisha has opened it. He also urged the GSI to put out mineral resources data onits website so that investors from across the country and the world can access them and make investment decisions.The department is expected to announce its new mining policy. Officials at the meeting said that the draft document has been preparedand the chief minister will unveil it soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/geological-board-approves-42-exploration-plans/articleshow/81097934.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vote for BJP, urges CM from hospital||Ahmedabad: Chief minister Vijay Rupani, who is recuperating in a city hospital after being diagnosed Covid-19 positive, appealed to people of six cities to come out and vote in large numbers for the municipal corporation elections on February 21. “For many years, people of cities have reposed their faith in the BJP. I am certain that this time too, people will repose their faith in the BJP. I appeal to everyone to come out in large numbers and vote for the BJP,” Rupani said in a video message broadcast on a social media platform. He said that his health is improving and thanked people for wishing him a speedy recovery. “I had been addressing rallies in cities, but my campaign had to be halted after I tested positive for Covid-19. The BJP and development have become synonymous over the years,” the CM said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vote-for-bjp-urges-cm-from-hospital/articleshow/81099475.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Vijayawada||YSRC, TDP lock horns over development in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: The key  agenda in Vijayawada is development. While YSRC is promising to complete construction of houses for one lakh poor families in the city, TDP is asking the ruling party to allot houses to 25,000 beneficiaries who paid advances for AP TIDCO houses. TDP is showcasing various projects done by their council between 2014-19 in the city. Projects like shifting the dumping yard from Ajith Singh Nagar to Pathapadu, bio mining of garbage at dumping yard, door-to-door segregation of garbage, CC roads and completion of inner ring road are the highlights of the TDP and campaign. “We completed many projects like Benz Circle flyover, Kanaka Durga flyover although they were inaugurated by YSRC. The city won India’s cleanest big city award in Swachh Survekshan for the first time during our tenure and we have developed greenery everywhere,” said Kesineni Swetha, TDP’s mayor candidate. She said YSRC has done nothing for Vijaywada in the last two years but cancelled prestigious projects like Amaravati and Metro rail. YSRC leaders said that former mayor and TDP corporators ignored development and revenue. “TDP focused on destruction rather than construction during their tenure. They tried to demolish VMC head office and shift it to Gunadala for the sake of promoting a corporate company in the name of river front development. Many people lost their houses in the name of development activity. We are committed to welfare and development and projects like the largest theme park at Ajith Singh Nagar shows our commitment,” said Bulla Vijaya Kumar, a corporator candidate from YSRC. Jana Sena and the Left parties are focusing on the new taxation policy brought in by the state government and asking voters to give a chance to stall the new policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-tdp-lock-horns-over-development-in-vij/articleshow/81096913.cms||Venu Lanka
February 19, 2021||Vijayawada||Develop model colonies in villages: YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to officials||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at a review meeting on construction of houses and provision of infrastructure, told the officials to develop YSR Jagananna colonies as model colonies across the state. The CM instructed officials to prepare an action plan for timely release of funds for the construction of houses at a brisk pace. The officials said over 15 lakh houses will be constructed in the first phase and 83 per cent of the beneficiaries have so far opted from the three given options. The chief minister directed the officials to complete receiving options from the remaining beneficiaries and said steel and cement should be supplied to them as stocks are available at a lower price than in the open market. The CM said construction material should be made available to all, so that whoever chooses the option of building their own houses would also be benefit and added that it is the responsibility of officials to ensure that the material is available at affordable prices. The officials said they have been geotagging all the houses. The chief minister said the YSR Jagananna colonies should be model colonies and they should not be turned into slums under any circumstances. He said there should be focus on beautification and directed the officials to revisit every layout and ensure they look beautiful and pleasant. He directed officials to complete the construction of houses as soon as possible and said the people in the colonies should have high living standards. He said underground drainage should be setup and construction of roads should be commensurate with population. Jagan also told them to make available one Anganwadi center for every 2,000 households in the newly-constructed colonies. He told them to establish a library for every 1500 to 5,000 households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/develop-model-colonies-in-villages-jagan-to-officials/articleshow/81096631.cms||Gopi Dara
February 19, 2021||Goa||52 new Covid cases, active tally at 509||Panaji: On Thursday, Goa reported 52 new Covid-19 infections and 51 recoveries, taking the count of active cases to 509. No mortalities have been reported in the past 24 hours. With 1,466 swab tests done, the case positivity rate was at 3.5 % and recovery rate at 97.62%. Since March last year, 53,125 people have been cured out of 54,421 cases reported. 25 patients were hospitalised during the day and 38 home isolated. The only centres in North Goa that had more than 20 cases were Mapusa, Panaji, Chimbel and Porvorim. The caseload of Porvorim was 35 and that of Panaji was 40 on Thursday. Casarvarnem primary health centre had nil cases. In South Goa, centres at Curchorem, Margao, Cansaulim, Curtorim, Ponda and Quepem had cases between 20 to 40. The highest tally was that of Margao with 38 cases, followed by Ponda which had 37 cases. Shiroda Primary health had nil cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/52-new-covid-cases-active-tally-at-509/articleshow/81099480.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan sees dip of over 4,000 active Covid cases in one month||JAIPUR: Over the past month (Jan 17 to Feb 17), the number of active cases in the state have reduced significantly. On January 17, the state had 5,286 active cases, but a month later on February17, active cases reduced to 1,257. In a significant development, almost all the states and UTs have reported a decline in active cases in the last 30 days. Maharashtra has shown a substantial decline in active cases from 53,163 on January 17 to 38,307 on February 17. In terms of reduction in active cases in past one month, Rajasthan is at the sixth place after Maharashtra, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Even though the number of cases have reduced in the state over the past two months, deaths due to Covid are still being reported. In February, 17 persons have died of Covid in the state so far. The mortality rate is 0.8%. State’s cumulative recoveries show a progressive increment on a daily basis. It stands at 3,15,212 with a recovery rate of 98.7%. It is slightly higher than the national average of 97.3%. Rising recoveries alongwith contained daily deaths have ensured a sustained fall in the active caseload. State’s current active cases are 1275 constitute just 0.4%besides the current active case load is 1.25% of the total positive cases. From across the state, 77 patients have recovered and discharged in the last 24hours. Jaipur has the highest number of active cases at 276, followed by Kota (233), Jodhpur (137) and Udaipur (109).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-witnesses-dip-of-over-4000-active-cases-in-one-month/articleshow/81101719.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Chennai||Nod sought to vaccinate elderly, media, politicians, judiciary: Health secretary||Chennai: Tamil Nadu vaccinated 20,440 people on Thursday, including 6,086 healthcare workers who returned for the second dose. This took the vaccine recipient tally in the state to 3,29,583. Meanwhile, public health authorities added 457 fresh cases and discharged 470 patients from the Covid registry. At the end of the day, there were 4,173 people still under treatment. The case tally moved to 8,46,937 and the death toll reached 12,444.  From the 662 vaccination centres, the state had the capacity to vaccinate 90,759 people. The state vaccinated 14,813 healthcare providers, 3,500 frontline workers and 2,127 police. According to the directorate of public health, 2.6 lakh healthcare providers out of 5.20 lakh people registered with Cowin portal have received the vaccine so far. Beside this, 36,914 frontline workers and 24,766 policemen are registered with the portal. “Tamil Nadu made a slow start but we are vaccinating close to 20,000 every day now,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “We have sought permission to start vaccinations for the elderly as early as possible, along with politicians irrespective of parties, press/media and judiciary as they come under risk category,” he said. Earlier, former health minister Dr H V Hande took the second dose of the vaccine. In the last few days, the state has been seeing an isolated cluster of cases from different parts of the state, most of which are from gatherings such as marriage or funerals, he said. “We don’t want to see a repeat of what is happening in countries like Brazil. There has been an increase in cases in Maharashtra. Kerala is still reporting a high number of cases. We can’t afford to ignore masks or social distancing,” he added. The state was screening passengers from the UK, South Africa or Brazil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nod-sought-to-vaccinate-elderly-media-politicians-judiciary-health-secretary/articleshow/81097979.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||50-yr-old driver found dead||Hyderabad: A 50-year-old driver was found dead in Punjagutta on Thursday. The victim, M Narsimhulu, 50, was a resident of Kummaribasti. Narasimhulu was addicted to liquor and was unemployed for the past few months. Locals informed police about Narasimhulu lying unconscious on the footpath near an eatery in Punjagutta and after examination, 108 ambulance staff declared him dead. There were no external injuries and police registered a case under section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-yr-old-driver-found-dead/articleshow/81097988.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Civic bodies to identify land for new cow shelter in Jaipur||JAIPUR: As state-owned cow shelter Hingonia gaushala is running packed, the civic agencies will start an exercise to identify new land to establish one more cow shelter in the city to accommodate more bovine. The existing cow shelter is presently housing nearly 20,000 animals that is nearly 250% of its capacity of 8,000. The issue has been long pending and now plans are afoot to establish new cow shelter. In a recent meeting of senior officials of Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) and (Jaipur Municipal Corporation), it was decided that the civic authorities will soon identify a suitable land parcel available near the existing cow shelter “The JDA will allot land to the JMC in city periphery to develop the shelter. The land will be identified in same area as both the shelters could co-exist and infrastructure can be utilised in appropriate manner,” said an official following the meeting. The issue of overcrowding at the cow shelter was previously also raised by the private contractor managing the existing shelter, however, the procedure had been on slow progress. The situation has adversely impacted the condition of the bovine animals housed at the shelter and also created challenges for management. This also impacted the administrative measures to deal with menace of stray cattle in the city. On its saturation the Hingonia gaushala was unable to accommodate for new stray cows detained by the authorities. An extension of the cow shelter is expected to offer a solution to the issue. “It is also being contemplated that since the Jaipur city is now divided in two municipal zones of Heritage and Greater, the extension may also help assign one cow shelter to each of these municipal corporations,” said an official. Interestingly, the Hingonia gaushala is also claimed as the largest cow shelter in the state. Yet, it is on saturation as stray cow population continues to register a steep rise. The shelter had little more than 6,000 cows in 2016 when it was handed over to a non-government organisation for management. The population has increased nearly three folds in four years. “The issue of cow welfare is also of significance as a majority of the local population hold the cows revered and an incident of mass casualties of the cows at the shelter previously had drawn criticism for the state government,” added Shakti Singh, an animal activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-bodies-to-identify-land-for-new-cow-shelter-in-city/articleshow/81097965.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Goa||CM, speaker must clarify on MLAs’ merger claims: GFP||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant and speaker of Goa legislative assembly Rajesh Patnekar should clarify if they agree with the claim that the Congress party ceased to exist after the merger of 10 Congress MLAs into BJP, said Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai on Thursday. The claims made by the MLAs in the affidavit filed before the Supreme Court have wide ranging implications and could make Goa Forward Party the single largest party in the 40-member house, said Sardesai. He also called for a review of the anti-defection law so that loopholes that permit defections can be plugged. BJP MLAs Clafasio Dias and Wilfred D’Sa, who claimed in a counter affidavit in the Supreme Court that the Congress party does not exist in Goa, which both Sardesai and GFP working president Kiran Kandolkar said that they don’t agree with. “If this is the case, then the composition of the house also changes. Then the question comes up, which is the opposition party and who is the opposition leader. The chief minister should speak up and say if he is in agreement with the affidavit of his MLAs,” said Sardesai. Describing the affidavit as a “loaded statement”, Sardesai said that it would imply that Goa Forward becomes the opposition party. “The 10th Schedule of the constitution, which is the anti-defection law, has been molested, raped. It has to be reviewed and amended by Parliament. It is made to prevent defection and not to facilitate defections,” said Sardesai. In July 2019, 10 Congress legislators led by then opposition leader Chandrakant Kavalekar joined BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-speaker-must-clarify-on-mlas-merger-claims-gfp/articleshow/81099504.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Dehradun: Harrawala locals claim wrong design of slip road causing accidents||DEHRADUN: Residents of Harrawala claim that a ‘wrongly-designed’ slip road has become a cause for several accidents in the area as the wall constructed along the road has blocked the passage meant for the movement of more than 15 families residing here. Locals said that several complaints to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and other officials concerned, including the district magistrate, have fallen on deaf ears. “The slope of the road has been designed in such a manner that there is a sharp turn and motorists don't see what is coming from the other side,” said Ram Prasad, a local resident. Vinay Chauhan, a resident of the area, said, “According to the original plan of the national highway, a slip road was to be built for which the structures coming in between were to be removed. Compensation was also paid but these structures still remain, and residents are forced to suffer.” During rainy season, the uneven slopes also cause waterlogging. Sanjay Singh, another resident, said, “We have taken the matter up with officials of NHAI but nothing has been done so far. Sometimes, motorists are forced to drive on the wrong side to reach their destination, or the nearby petrol pump, to avoid taking a long drive to take a U-turn because of the glitch in the design.” The locals had informed the officials about the structures that were marked to be removed for paving the way for the slip road. Even after the highway was constructed, the structures, including some shops, were not removed, they said. Attempts to get a response from NHAI project officer Pankaj Kumar Maurya regarding the matter proved futile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/harrawala-locals-claim-wrong-design-of-slip-road-causing-accidents/articleshow/81096696.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan sees dip of over 4,000 active Covid cases in one month||JAIPUR: Over the past month (Jan 17 to Feb 17), the number of active cases in the state have reduced significantly. On January 17, the state had 5,286 active cases, but a month later on February17, active cases reduced to 1,257. In a significant development, almost all the states and UTs have reported a decline in active cases in the last 30 days. Maharashtra has shown a substantial decline in active cases from 53,163 on January 17 to 38,307 on February 17. In terms of reduction in active cases in past one month, Rajasthan is at the sixth place after Maharashtra, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Even though the number of cases have reduced in the state over the past two months, deaths due to Covid are still being reported. In February, 17 persons have died of Covid in the state so far. The mortality rate is 0.8%. State’s cumulative recoveries show a progressive increment on a daily basis. It stands at 3,15,212 with a recovery rate of 98.7%. It is slightly higher than the national average of 97.3%. Rising recoveries alongwith contained daily deaths have ensured a sustained fall in the active caseload. State’s current active cases are 1275 constitute just 0.4%besides the current active case load is 1.25% of the total positive cases. From across the state, 77 patients have recovered and discharged in the last 24hours. Jaipur has the highest number of active cases at 276, followed by Kota (233), Jodhpur (137) and Udaipur (109).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-witnesses-dip-of-over-4000-active-cases-in-one-month/articleshow/81101722.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan sees dip of over 4,000 active Covid cases in one month||JAIPUR: Over the past month (Jan 17 to Feb 17), the number of active cases in the state have reduced significantly. On January 17, the state had 5,286 active cases, but a month later on February17, active cases reduced to 1,257. In a significant development, almost all the states and UTs have reported a decline in active cases in the last 30 days. Maharashtra has shown a substantial decline in active cases from 53,163 on January 17 to 38,307 on February 17. In terms of reduction in active cases in past one month, Rajasthan is at the sixth place after Maharashtra, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Even though the number of cases have reduced in the state over the past two months, deaths due to Covid are still being reported. In February, 17 persons have died of Covid in the state so far. The mortality rate is 0.8%. State’s cumulative recoveries show a progressive increment on a daily basis. It stands at 3,15,212 with a recovery rate of 98.7%. It is slightly higher than the national average of 97.3%. Rising recoveries alongwith contained daily deaths have ensured a sustained fall in the active caseload. State’s current active cases are 1275 constitute just 0.4%besides the current active case load is 1.25% of the total positive cases. From across the state, 77 patients have recovered and discharged in the last 24hours. Jaipur has the highest number of active cases at 276, followed by Kota (233), Jodhpur (137) and Udaipur (109).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-witnesses-dip-of-over-4000-active-cases-in-one-month/articleshow/81101721.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Subsidies helping households save Rs 2,464/Month, finds Delhi govt study||NEW DELHI: A study commissioned by Delhi government’s planning department has found that various subsidies save a city household an average of Rs2,464 per month. Each month, there’s an average saving of Rs 715 in the electricity bill, Rs 693 in free or reduced medical treatment in government hospitals, Rs554 in public education, Rs255 in water bill, and Rs247 in bus rides for women. A survey reached out in March last year to 3,450 households availing the subsidies in Delhi’s 11 districts in unauthorised colonies, slum clusters, re-settlement colonies, planned colonies and planned housing societies with a minimum of 300 households from each district. Among those who availed of the different subsidies, more households benefited from the reduced or zero electricity costs than other rebates, though the highest amount saved was in free public education by households that sent their children to government schools and those who availed of medical treatment provided by Delhi government hospitals. Saying that the household beneficiaries felt there was nothing inherently bad in availing government subsidies, the study suggested that these subsidies may be continued for the socio-economic development of the people living at the bottom of the economic pyramid. Aam Aadmi Party came to power in Delhi in 2015 having promised free water and cheaper electricity besides subsidies in other areas. The AAP government provided 50% subsidy on electricity before making electricity consumption up to 200 units free along with free bus rides for women prior to the 2020 assembly polls. While reports suggested the subsidies had a positive impact on the equality of life in Delhi, there was no consolidated data on the actual socio-economic impact of these schemes. Delhi government intended to study the cumulative effect of its subsidies on the lives of the citizens and on the local economy. It assigned such a study to the Centre for Market Research & Social Development, a research and consulting organisation. The study took a random sampling on the basis of zero-electricity bills generated by the discoms in all the 11 districts. The rationale behind sampling on the basis of the zero bill was that a household that availed less than 200 units of electricity would either be a small household or with moderate income, and thus one that availed most of the subsidies provided by the state government. A questionnaire-based, door-to-door survey was carried out with queries on the spending and saving habits of the working men, working women and the household. The largest group of respondents belonged to the 31-40 year age group, followed by those in the 18-25 year group. With 390, the highest number of households were surveyed in South district, followed by South-West district, where 325 households were surveyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/subsidies-helping-households-save-rs-2464/month-finds-delhi-govt-study/articleshow/81098000.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 19, 2021||Aurangabad||Three booked for forgery in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: City police have booked three people, including two women, on charges of obtaining financial assistance from the Vasantrao Naik VJNT Development Corporation Ltd by submitting forged documents. As per complaint lodged by 46-year-old Ramdas Dongre, a professor with an engineering college, the alleged cheating took place in May and June 2011. Kranti Chowk police inspector Ganpat Darade, citing contents of the complaint said that the woman named as the key suspect is complainant’s wife, while the other two are said to be her close friends. “The complaint did not mention the exact amount of monetary loss caused to the corporation. However, it has been alleged that in an attempt to clean up the evidences, the bank account in which the money was received from the corporation has been closed,” said Darade. Investigation officer and API Shantilal Rathod said,“The offence has been registered on the basis of court directives issued under sections 156 (3) of the CrPC.” The complainant has also alleged that using the same modus operandi, the suspects not only obtained financial assistance for them, but also helped others to do the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-booked-for-forgery-in-aurangabad/articleshow/81095796.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan sees dip of over 4,000 active Covid cases in one month||JAIPUR: Over the past month (Jan 17 to Feb 17), the number of active cases in the state have reduced significantly. On January 17, the state had 5,286 active cases, but a month later on February17, active cases reduced to 1,257. In a significant development, almost all the states and UTs have reported a decline in active cases in the last 30 days. Maharashtra has shown a substantial decline in active cases from 53,163 on January 17 to 38,307 on February 17. In terms of reduction in active cases in past one month, Rajasthan is at the sixth place after Maharashtra, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Even though the number of cases have reduced in the state over the past two months, deaths due to Covid are still being reported. In February, 17 persons have died of Covid in the state so far. The mortality rate is 0.8%. State’s cumulative recoveries show a progressive increment on a daily basis. It stands at 3,15,212 with a recovery rate of 98.7%. It is slightly higher than the national average of 97.3%. Rising recoveries alongwith contained daily deaths have ensured a sustained fall in the active caseload. State’s current active cases are 1275 constitute just 0.4%besides the current active case load is 1.25% of the total positive cases. From across the state, 77 patients have recovered and discharged in the last 24hours. Jaipur has the highest number of active cases at 276, followed by Kota (233), Jodhpur (137) and Udaipur (109).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-witnesses-dip-of-over-4000-active-cases-in-one-month/articleshow/81097951.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Centre hails Rajasthan for vaccinating 78% frontline workers||JAIPUR: Covid vaccination efforts of the state government were praised by the Centre on Thursday as it achieved 78% target of inoculating frontline workers (FLWs). “We have achieved 78.4% target of vaccinating FLWs. The state stood at the first place. Besides, in terms of total percentage achieved, we are at the top. But, in vaccinating healthcare workers (HCWs), some states have done better than us,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health). According to the Centre, 15 states have registered more than 40% coverage for the first dose among FLWs including Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Tripura,Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, J& K, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The state is among the 11 states and UTs, which have vaccinated more than 75% of the registered HCWs for 1st dose. Among these 11 states are Bihar, Tripura, Odisha, Lakshadweep, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh,Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. After the video conferencing with the Centre, health minister Raghu Sharma congratulated all those who have vaccinated and praised efforts of Mahajan and his team. Continuing the inoculation drive, the health department will organise mop-up round for those HCWs and FLWs who were left out from being vaccinated. “A mop up round will be organised for them on Wednesday across the state. The HCWs and FLWs can go to any session site and get the jab,” said Sharma, health minister. He said that arrangement of mop up round has been made to give another chances to HCWs and FLWs to get the first and second dose as per their eligibility. The health department has achieved 71% of the target set for vaccination. Till Wednesday night, more than 7,44 lakh HCWs and FLWs have already received the first dose of vaccine and 15,334 got the second jab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-praises-state-for-vaccinating-78-frontline-workers/articleshow/81097956.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Aurangabad||Authorities warn of strict action if cases keep rising||Aurangabad: The police, the district administration and the Aurangabad civic administration have warned of taking stringent steps to ensure that coronavirus spread is curtailed.The district has reported over 100 daily cases for the past three consecutive days.To make an appeal to the citizens and also to warn the violators of strict action, Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta, additional collector Anant Gavhane, civic body administrator Astik Kumar Pandey and Aurangabad rural superintendent of police Mokshada Patil held a joint news conference on Thursday evening.Gupta said, “If the number of cases continue to surge, we will be compelled to impose night curfew and section 144 of criminal procedure code,” he said.The officer said that permission would not be granted for more than 50 people to gather for marriages or any social or political events.Pandey said that though schools have started, the students till standard IX will be exempted from attending schools and classes till February 28. At the same time, the educational institutes, including coaching classes, have been asked not to force students to attend the classes. However, no exemption has been granted to the students studying in standard X and XII.Pandey said that it has been made mandatory for marriage and function halls, educational institutes and coaching classes to not only sanitise their premises, but also ensure that the students, teachers as well non-teaching staff wear masks. Authorities warned that they are also open to slapping of Rs 50,000 fine on the institutes and marriage halls found violating the laid norms.“The halls, lawns or even hotels and restaurants witnessing gathering of over 50 people will face action,” warned Pandey.He said that those found moving without masks will be fined Rs 500, while the halls found violating the norms will be sealed for a period of 15 days. He also said that the commuters without mask will not be allowed to board city buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/authorities-warn-of-strict-action-if-cases-keep-rising/articleshow/81095803.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Goa||Govt auctions fruit-bearing trees at farms||Panaji: The directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services will hold the seasonal auction of its fruit-bearing trees located at Fodder Seeds Production Farm, Sanguem and at Government Livestock Farm, Mollem. Successful bidders will get the usufructuary rights of Mango and coconut produce for the season.  “We have to auction these trees as the yield is below expectation. We concentrate more on livestock at these farms as they are dairy units,” an AHVS officer said. “Also, no agriculture officer has been appointed to look after the fruit-bearing trees there.” “Mango trees, especially, require a lot of attention to ensure that fruit flies are not formed. In the past, when the trees have borne fruit, there have been complaints of the mangoes being infested with worms,” the officer said. At the Sanguem farm, there are 20 mango and 65 coconut trees. A the Mollem farm, there are 30 mango and 65 other fruit-bearing trees. Those interested can inspect the trees on any working day from 9am to 11am and 2.30pm to 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-auctions-fruit-bearing-trees-at-farms/articleshow/81099523.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Goa||Vax drive held in Dharbandora taluka||Ponda: A total of 120 frontline workers in Dharbandora and 280 in Ponda were administered the Covid vaccine, while around 200 staffers of the Ponda sub district hospital have been inoculated for Covid 19 till Thursday. Dharbandora taluka has a total of 166 frontline workers, Ponda has 250 frontline workers and the sub-district hospital has a total 300 staffers. Dr Vikas Kuwelkar, medical superintendent of the sub district hospital said the remaining members of the hospital would be given the vaccine dose on Friday. Collem PI Prajyot S Fadte, Dharbandora deputy collector and Mamlatdar office staff were administered the vaccine dose at the Dharbandora Primary Health Centre at Piliyem on Wednesday. Dharbandora deputy Collector Kedar Naik said around 120 workers have so far received the vaccine and the remaining would get it soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vax-drive-held-in-dharbandora-taluka/articleshow/81099511.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Basant utsav celebrated in Ajmer dargah||Ajmer: After a long time, Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty Basant Utsav was celebrated with yearly Urs. Shahi Qawals Asrar Husain and his group sang songs of famous poet Amir Khusro and yellow flowers of mustard was offered inside the crypt with prayers of good harvest in the country. This ritual of offering flowers is about 800 years old.The celebration started in the morning when Shahi Qawal with his group gathered at the Nizam gate and sang songs of Amir Khusro. “This ritual is known as Basant Utsav in the dargah,” said a khadim. He added that this is a Sufi custom to offer yellow flowers and to celebrate the harvest and offer prayers for good crops.The procession of yellow flowers of mustard started from the main gate with Qawallis and songs in which khadims participated. It is said the famous poet Amir Khusro himself came to the dargah and offered Basant flowers here and Sufi songs. Basant Utsav is a Hindu custom which celebrated to worship on Basant Panchami and also celebrated in the Sufi dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty. But this time because of guidelines of Covid, the celebration was kept simple.Photo Shaukat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/basant-utsav-celebrated-in-ajmer-dargah/articleshow/81097991.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan CM offers chadar on behalf of Sonia Gandhi at Ajmer dargah||AJMER: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday offered chadar on behalf of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi at the Ajmer dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti on the occasion of the 809th Urs of the Sufi saint. After offering the chadar, Gehlot read out the signed message of Sonia Gandhi in which she said that like every year she got the opportunity to offer chadar on the occasion of 809 Urs. “This chadar is the symbol of Ganga-Jamuna culture of the country and also a sign of brotherhood and harmony of the country. This chadar is the sign of our country of unity in diversity and it is our duty to safeguard the beauty of this country. The tradition of such offering the chadar of love and brotherhood is continued from long centuries.” The message said that at present the country is going through a difficult time. On one hand there is Corona. Besides, there are some forces working in the country and making efforts to disturb peace, harmony and brotherhood. At present people of this country as well as farmers are fighting for their rights because these forces are trying to make the democracy weak in the country, the message read. The message said that therefore everyone should offer prayer to maintain brotherhood, prosperity and peace and to fight against such conspiracy of such forces that are working against. Like hands of everyone came up for prayers and she is confident that the prayers will be accepted in the darbar of Khwaja, it read. Chief minister Gehlot was accompanied by PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra and president of congress minority wing Nadeem Javed. He reached Kishangarh airport and from there he went straight to dargah and offered chadar. Khadim of Gandhi family Sayed Gani Gurdeji told media that the chadar is hand work from Hyderabad in multi-colour and Kalma is written in Urdu. There was heavy security when Gehlot came to dargah region and entry of devotees was stopped but Congress workers and media went inside for which they have to struggle with the local police. Before this, chadar of governor Kalraj Mishra was offered on Thursday by his secretary Subir Kumar and Harshwardhan Agarwal and read the message of prosperity and harmony. There were thousands of chadars offered on Thursday by devotees coming from different parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cm-offers-chadar-on-behalf-of-sonia-raga-at-ajmer-dargah/articleshow/81097993.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Kumbh to be held for 28 days starting April 1, says CM Rawat||Dehradun: In an interaction with mediapersons, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday said that Kumbh Mela at Haridwar will be held for 28 days and would commence on April 1. "After a wide range of discussions, we have taken the decision. The SOPs issued by the Centre and state will be strictly followed," CM Rawat said. A notification in this regard will be issued by the state government in the next few days, he added.The mela’s original duration was four months. It will have four “shahi snans” — March 11 (Mahashivratri), April 12 (Somwati Amavasya), April 14 (Baisakhi Kumbh) and April 27 (Chaitra Poornima).Besides, there are six “parv snan”, which commenced with Makar Sankranti (January 14). The other “parv snan” dates are — Feb 11 (Mauni Amawasya), Feb 16 (Basant Panchami), Feb 27 (Magh Poornima), April 13 (Navsamvratsar) and April 21 (Ramnavmi). For the security arrangements, a total of 1,411 police personnel, one team of NSG, 12 companies of paramilitary force, four companies of PAC, three teams of ATS, two bomb-disposal squads and a dog squad will be deployed on Kumbh duty. In addition, nine police lines have been set up and parking arrangements have been made at six locations for inter-state vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-to-be-held-for-28-days-starting-april-1-says-cm-rawat/articleshow/81096730.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 19, 2021||Jaipur||Security breach at Barmer airbase, vehicles seized||Jaisalmer: The transport department on Thursday seized two vehicles after a case of security breach came to light at Uttarlai airbase, Barmer, in which private vehicle operators used fake number plates and ferried officers. Vehicles were hired on contract from private vendors to ferry officers to the air force station.A driver Peeru Khan said that Gafoor Khan had called them and hired vehicles on contract. Gafoor had told him to change the number plate and drive and he has been doing this. The transport department got information after which inspector Meghraj reached the air force station and seized two vehicles, he said.Meghraj said two vehicles were seized on which fake number plates were put and during the action few vehicle drivers removed the fake plates stickers and threw it. They do not have permission to go into the air force. Therefore, the transport inspector does not know about it. The air force authorities have been informed about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/security-breach-at-barmer-airbase-vehicles-seized/articleshow/81097996.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Lawyer couple’s murder was carefully planned, say police||HYDERABAD: Advocate couple, Gattu Vaman Rao and Nagamani, were followed by the assailants’ henchman for nearly three hours before they were hacked to death in Peddapalli district on Wednesday afternoon. “This clearly shows that it was a pre-determined murder,” Ramagundam police commissioner V Satyanarayana told TOI even as three of the accused were arrested on Thursday. Among those nabbed was Kunta Srinivas, local TRS leader and alleged mastermind of the murders. “The killers used a car with a temporary registration number. They also acquired hunting sickles to commit the crime,” inspector general of police Y Nagi Reddy said. “The conspiracy was well-planned and executed.” Nagi Reddy told reporters on Thursday night that they had arrested the two assailants – Kunta Srinvas and Chiranjeevi. The other accused who was arrested, Akkapaka Kumar, recced the couple ahead of the attack and made four telephone calls to Kunta Srinivas, constantly updating him about their whereabouts. When couple left court, accused followedDuring investigation, Ramagundam police learnt that the couple had breakfast at Siddipet around 8.30am. They reached Manthani in Peddapalli where they met Vaman Rao’s brother Gattu Indrasekhar Rao at a local court at around 12.30 pm. Kumar was waiting for the couple at the court and started tailing them from that moment. At 1pm, he made a call to Srinivas and gave the first update. When the couple left the court and headed towards Peddapalli, Srinivas and the other assailant followed them and then waylaid their SUV at around 2.30 pm. The couple’s driver Satish told investigators that a panic-stricken Vaman Rao, on seeing the accused with a sickle, started arguing with him. “Hey Kunta Srinu, what are you doing? Why are you using a knife? Be careful,’’ the lawyer warned. Srinivas broke the window pane of the car and attacked Vaman Rao. When Nagamani intervened, she too was attacked. Vaman Rao came out of the car and tried to flee but fell down. He was repeatedly attacked by the two assailants. “When the assailants were hacking the couple, Kumar was near the crime scene. This also shows that it was a predetermined murder,” a senior police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lawyer-couples-murder-was-carefully-planned-say-police/articleshow/81100098.cms||Srinath Vudali
February 19, 2021||Bhopal||Fresh faces at Khajuraho fest this year||Bhopal: The countdown has already begun to one the most acclaimed classical dance festivals in the country and abroad. The stage is set, the performers are gearing up to put their best foot forward with Khajuraho Dance Festival set to commence from February 20. The land of erotic temples will see thousands of dance and music lovers attend the illustrious event, organised by department of tourism and culture. Culture minister Usha Thakur would be the chief guest and minister Tulsiram Silawat would be the guest of honour at the opening ceremony. IThere is a barrage of fresh talent at the festival this time,t, said principal secretary culture, Sheo Shekhar Shukla. “With majority of fresh talent, Khajuraho Dance Festival would be a treat for all senses. We have so much of talent, which deserves platforms like Khajuraho to showcase their art,” he added. Bharatanatyam danseuse Geeta Chandran and her troupe will get the honour of opening the fest. Deepak Maharaj’s kathak and Meera Das’ Odissi dance performance will be the other highlights of the day. Aishwarya Warrier, Aruna Mohanty, Sourav-Gaurav Mishra, Piyal Bhattacharya, Anita Sharma, Priya Shrivastav, Purnashree Raut, Avijit Das, Bharati Shivaji, Maitreyi Pahadi, Satyanarayana Raju, Ayana Mukherjee, Arya Nande and Poornima Ashok are some of the dancers who would regale the audience with their classical nuances. There will over 100 artistes, including dancers, musicians, singers, at this weeklong event, shared Rahul Rastogi, director of Ustad Allauddin Khan Sangeet Evam Kala Academy, one of the main organisers of the event. “After a few decades, the event would be again organised on temple premises. Principal secretary culture spoke to seniormost police officials and finally this permission was granted,” said Rahul and added, “it would an ethereal experience for everyone in the audience.” In Covid times, the organisers took extra pains to ensure that Khajuraho fest was promoted well, cutting across geographical boundaries. Sheo Shekhar Shukla said, “The event was marketed for weeks on various platforms across the country. It would be a holistic event offering something to every age group. We have also paid special attention to the food stalls. Right from Patalkot ki rasoi to special Bundelkhandi delicacies created by our food craft institute in Khajuraho, we want to cater to the palates of all the guests. Then there are multiple activities, including nepathya, kala varta, hunar, art mart, lokotsav, chalchitra, samashti etc. to keep the guests entertained throughout the day.” To ensure that the event remains Covid-safe, there are testing points set up at various strategic locations. “There are many ever clinics in Khajuraho, which are equipped to handle anything, in case anyone has any symptoms. At all the hotels and fest venue, Covid norms will strictly be adhered to,” said cultural secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fresh-faces-at-khajuraho-fest-this-year/articleshow/81096741.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
February 19, 2021||Aurangabad||VBA, NGO members booked for holding event sans permission||Aurangabad: The city police have booked the office bearers of Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) and members of an NGO under relevant sections of Disaster Management Act for organising a seminar on tribals even after police had denied them permission.Police said that they did not take any legal action against VBA chief Prakash Ambedkar because he may have been kept in the dark about permission not having been granted. Ambedkar was the chief guest at the function.Inspector Madhukar Sawant of MIDC Waluj police said permission for the public gathering was denied in view of the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases.“The VBA and Mahayodha Eklavya Group on February 3 had submitted an application with the commissioner of police’s office, from where it was forwarded to the special branch,” said the officer.Police refused permission on February 9 after scrutinising the application and communicated about it to the organisers in writing two days later. “They were told that it was not advisable to hold large gathering due to a surge in Covid-19 cases in the city and rural areas of Aurangbad,” said an officer.However, a large number of people gathered for the seminar on Wednesday evening. A police team, along with a cameraman, went to the venue — Bhodhistav meditation centre — in Teesgaon of neighbouring Khavda Dongar. One of the organisers and VBA’s district vice-president Anjan Salve said, “We had made all the arrangements and even the VBA chief had given us an appointment to attend it, and so we did not cancel the event.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/vba-ngo-members-booked-for-holding-event-sans-permission/articleshow/81095809.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 19, 2021||Goa||Panaji, Mormugao experience light showers||Panaji: Parts of Goa experienced rain on Thursday owing to a trough in the Arabian Sea that is running from North Kerala to central Maharashtra. The India meteorological department (IMD) had earlier forecast cloud formation and accompanied rainfall with lighting and thunder from February 17 to 19. “Besides the trough there is a circulation of 1.5km above mean sea level over Madhya Maharashtra. These systems are causing moisture incursion over Goa, therefore bringing in the rain. The condition will persist for a few more days so we can expect cloud formation and light rain activity at one of two places over Goa,” IMD scientist, Rahul M told TOI. On Thursday, the IMD reported rainfall at its rain gauge stations at Mormugao and Panaji. Dabolim, Bambolim and surrounding areas also experienced the showers. IMD had earlier said that the easterly winds are stronger this season. As a result, there are troughs getting generated in the Arabian Sea. Due to this, there was some rain in the first week of January and a similar situation has been building up in February. Former NIO scientist and meteorologist, M R Ramesh Kumar said that it has been “quite unusual” to have rainfall in the month of February, this year. However, this phenomenon is not exclusive to Goa. “The all India spatial distribution of rainfall shows that the west coast of India, including our Konkan and Goa meteorological subdivision, has excess rainfall from January 1 to February 17. The Tamil Nadu subdivision has the largest excess rainfall of 22.7% and both the island groups, Andaman and Nicobar, have an excess of 66.7% and Laccadives has an excess of 20.2%,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-mormugao-experience-light-showers/articleshow/81099527.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Cases of hospitalisation go up; most patients were at events||MUMBAI/NAGPUR: Covid-19 cases in Mumbai went past 700 for the second day running on Thursday. Dr Gautam Bhansali, a physician from Bombay Hospital, said Covid admissions have doubled since last week. “We have 30-35 patients now compared to a dozen-odd we had in the last couple of weeks. Most have a history of attending a wedding or some social gathering,” he said. Mumbai’s doubling rate dropped to 417 days with the jump in cases, while the growth rate of cases is now up to 0.17%. With the spurt in Covid-19 cases in the state, especially in various districts of Vidarbha, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Thursday that the state government has given powers to the district collectors to impose restrictions, and they can even impose a ‘lockdown’ if required. Imposition of a complete lockdown requires the Centre’s permission, so the local administrations in three districts of Vidarbha -- Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola – have been told to impose major restrictions which are lockdown-like but fall just short of the definition of total lockdown. For instance, the authorities said they would not like to curb essential commute, which too stands barred in a complete lockdown. So all 11 districts of Vidarbha will have curbs in place this weekend, with mostly essential services remaining operational. The main objective is to stop crowding and ban super-spreader events like marriage functions, processions and public gatherings, officials said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, an advisor to the Maharashtra government who has been touring Amravati and Akola, called the viral activity there “unusual.”According to him, the virus seemed more transmissible as entire families are infected. The daily positivity rate of Akola district is 32%, while weekly positivity rate is 24%. Amravati has a daily positivity rate of 48% and weekly positivity rate of 35%, while Yavatmal district has reported a daily and weekly positivity rate of 15%. The daily positivity rate of the state is 8.8%. Even after the weekend, establishments in these districts would stay open till 8 pm only. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation has not announced any night curfew or weekend shutdown so far, but strict restrictions have imposed on marriage functions, processions and community gatherings. It has been made mandatory for marriage hall and lawn owners to get prior permission from assistant commissioner-level officers before hosting any marriage functions or public gatherings. In Akola, schools and colleges will stay closed. In Yavatmal, fine on those who don’t wear masks or fail to maintain distancing has been hiked to Rs 1,000. The administration has denied permission to the ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ scheduled to be held in Yavatmal next week. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait was to address it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cases-of-hospitalisation-go-up-most-patients-were-at-events/articleshow/81098027.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Whistleblower’s statement in fake ‘golden cards’ case recorded||DEHRADUN: An activist, Rajesh Dwivedi, had alleged that hundreds of fake golden cards under Ayushman Bharat scheme have been distributed at a special camp held at the Doiwala government hospital. Dwivedi said that these cards were being issued for Rs 70 each which gives access to free healthcare up to Rs 5 lakh under the scheme. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had ordered a probe in the matter on Tuesday. Dwivedi had claimed that all the golden cards made in Doiwala CHC were issued considering Aadhaar cards as identity proofs while it’s mandatory to have a ration card to avail the scheme. Talking to TOI, Dwivedi, who along with his wife and two sons had visited the Doiwala CHC in 2019 to get a golden card made, said that the card was issued to each of them for Rs 70 and he received the same within a few days after visiting the hospital. “I didn’t use the card for over a year, but on January 14, my son met with an accident and I had to take him to hospital. Though my son needed an OPD facility, I saw many patients fighting with hospital authorities to get patients admitted under the Atal Ayushman scheme, but their cards were not working. On checking my card status at the Centre’s website, I found out that there was no data available about me or any of my family members. I decided to approach the health department as this looked like a scam — over 50% of card holders, who didn’t use the card even once, were facing the same problem,” Dwivedi said.According to the complainant, he tried to approach the local administration and health department initially, but when no one paid heed, he wrote to the PMO. “I have heard that the PMO has approached the chief secretary of Uttarakhand to look into the matter, and only then, the CM has ordered a probe,” said Dwivedi. “I was lucky that I didn’t have to use it, but those who might be in dire need will be in trouble,” the activist added. ADM Beer Singh Budiyal, who recorded the statements of a third party agent — the one issuing Ayushman cards at Doiwala CHC — told TOI, “The matter is being probed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/whistleblowers-statement-in-fake-golden-cards-case-recorded/articleshow/81096746.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 19, 2021||Goa||Goa: With over 30 bullfights in six weeks, welfare org seeks action||COLVA/PANAJI: With a sharp rise in cases of bullfights (dhirios) more than 30 incidents are reported to have taken place within the jurisdiction of Colva police station itself since the beginning of 2021 – in less than six weeks – at an average of more than five bullfights per week. People for Animals (PFA) - Goa, an animal welfare organisation has stepped in asking the Colva police to register a first information report (FIR) and investigate a specific bullfight in the fields of Benaulim on February 16. “This is both an alarming and an unprecedented trend. The practice of dhirio is illegal as per the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 (PCA). Moreover, the practice was banned by the high court of Bombay at Goa in 1997,” the complaint signed by PFA president and advocate Norma Alvares reads. It also states that despite more than 20 years of the court order, the illegal practice of dhirio continues openly across Goa. The complaint has also been addressed to the director general of Goa Police (DGP), Mukesh Kumar Meena, the director of animal husbandry and veterinary services, Kuldeep Singh Gangar and the district collector, South Goa - Ruchika Katyal, asking for immediate steps to ban all types of animal fights, including dhirios. “At no other police station in Goa are so many dhirio cases being reported. Even we are getting several complaints from residents of Colva besides Benaulim and Varca of such incidents taking place frequently,” said Alok Hisarwala Gupta, a legal associate with PFA. The complaint points to the Benaulim bullfight asking the police to investigate “a violent and near-fatal dhirio incident” on February 16. Calling it a “criminal incident involving animal cruelty,” Alvares wrote that “one of the bulls was brutally attacked and almost killed,” during the bullfight. The bull survived in the end. “To put an end to this menace it is critical that cases of bullfights or dhirios are investigated on a war-footing. Bullfights that lead to killing or maiming of animals is a criminal offence both under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 (PCA) and the Indian Penal Code, 1860,” Alvares stated. PI Anand Shirodkar who took charge of the Colva police station on Wednesday said that he is yet to receive the hard copy, but is aware of the incidents through social media post. “I have yet to study the matter. But we will book cases against the violators.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-over-30-bullfights-in-six-weeks-welfare-org-seeks-action/articleshow/81099529.cms||Nisser Dias
February 19, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||PM Narendra Modi to launch 2 power projects, water plant||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate two power projects, one water treatment plant and launch the work of three other urban infrastructure projects on Friday, through a videoconferencing from New Delhi. The projects to be inaugurated by the Prime Minister are: Pugalur-Thrissur power transmission project, Kasaragod solar power project and water treatment plant at Aruvikkara. The project works to be launched are that of integrated command and control centre and smart road projects, both in Thiruvananthapuram. All the projects are funded by the Union government and are developed with the assistance of the state government. The 320KV Pugalur (Tamil Nadu)-Thrissur power transmission project is a Voltage Source Convertor (VSC)-based High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) Project. It uses India’s first HVDC link featuring state-of-the-art VSC technology. Built at a cost of Rs 5,070 crore, it would facilitate transfer of 2,000 MW power from the western region and help meet the growth in load in Kerala. The 50MW Kasaragod solar power project has been developed under the National Solar Energy Mission. Set up over 250 acres of land spread across Paivalike, Meenja and Chippar villages of Kasaragod district, it has been built with central government’s investment of around Rs 280 crore. The Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of the integrated command and control centre at Thiruvananthapuram. Projected to be built at a cost of Rs 94 crore, it is being set up to host smart solutions for Thiruvananthapuram municipal corporation, and will act as a common point of action during emergency situations to facilitate coordinated action among police, fire and rescue, revenue, health and health departments. The Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of the Smart Roads Project in Thiruvananthapuram. The project, to be undertaken at an estimated cost of Rs 427 crore, envisages converting 37km of existing roads in Thiruvananthapuram to world class smart roads by bringing all overhead utilities underneath and undertaking road and junction improvements. The 75MLD (million litres per day) water treatment plant at Aruvikkara, built under the AMRUT Mission, will boost supply of drinking water to people of Thiruvananthapuram . The function would start at 4.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pm-to-inaugurate-projects-under-smart-city-amrut-today/articleshow/81100103.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Agra||Centre indulging in caste politics to divide farmers, says Jayant||Agra: Former MP and RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary has accused the BJP of indulging in caste politics by organising meetings as part of its outreach programmes to target members of the Jat community and caste councils (khaps) in a bid to break the farmers’ unity and build a counter narrative on the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. Addressing farmers at a 'kisan mahapanchayat' in Mathura on Thursday, the RLD leader, said that they are following a strategy of "divide and rule" and there is a need to remain united. “I am alerting you to prepare for it and don’t get distracted by such issues,” he said, adding that instead of resolving the farmers’ issues, the government is focussing on “caste” in order to create fissures and divert attention. Chaudhary, who has been addressing a series of 'mahapanchayats' across western UP in the past 15 days, said that it was not the protest of one caste, but a farmers' movement. “I have been told that their party leaders have been scolded in Delhi for not managing Jat leaders, as they feel that Jats are running the farmers’ protest and they have to be set right,” he said. He further said that they will use all tactics whenever they need your support, but when farmers need them they will not show their faces. “They will emphasise on caste and religion whenever they need your assistance, but don’t fall into that trap,” he said, appealing all to maintain unity, as this was their real strength. “This movement should continue,” he said, adding that there was no need to bend. Chaudhary said that this panchayat opposes and condemns the decision of the government to book people who are supporting farmers’ movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/centre-indulging-in-caste-politics-to-divide-farmers-says-jayant/articleshow/81096733.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||ID Hosp principal’s health improves||Kolkata: ID Hospital principal Anima Haldar’s health improved on Thursday. The 65-year-old felt unwell after taking the second dose of Covishield on Monday morning and has been undergoing treatment at the hospital’s critical care unit since Tuesday morning. According to sources, Haldar was taken to NRS Medical College on Thursday where she underwent a series of investigative tests, including MRI, USG and endoscopy. The reports are normal, sources said. “Her sodium-potassium level continues to be low and the pain in the limbs persists. But her overall condition is better,” said a source at ID Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/id-hosp-principals-health-improves/articleshow/81099524.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Top flight caterer shuts shop at Delhi & Mumbai airports||NEW DELHI: In what could be a likely fallout of the pandemic’s devastating impact on the aviation industry, one of India’s biggest flight caterers, SkyGourmet, has shut its huge kitchens at Delhi and Mumbai airports. The two units together had about 1,300 employees. Now both the airports have three flight caterers — Tata Group’s TajSats, Oberoi Flight Services and Ambassador’s Sky Chef. Detailed queries sent to SkyGourmet, its parent company GateGourmet, and Mumbai airport on the closure of the units remained unanswered for over two days. When the pandemic began, the SkyGourmet unit at Ahmedabad airport shut down. Currently, the only operational unit is at Hyderabad airport. A spokesperson for Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) confirmed that operations at IGI Airport were stopped on January 31. Asked if the closure was the result of business being hit by Covid-19 or other reasons like lease not being extended, DIAL said the “view on this can be taken from SkyGourmet.” However, employees said they were told the Delhi unit was being shut due to non-extension of lease. “When operations resumed post the lockdown, we catered to the largest number of flights since last October in Delhi at nearly 200 daily. IndiGo was our biggest customer and we handled about 100 of their flights, followed by others like Air India, SpiceJet and AirAsia India. The Delhi unit had about 800 employees, some of whom were contractual,” said a stunned employee. Now, the kitchen at IGIA is being demolished to return the leased land to the airport operator. DIAL said it was “yet to finalise the use of the vacated land”. The Mumbai unit had about 500 employees and handled about 100 flights daily. The resumption of services had given staffers hope that like all other flight kitchens, they too would somehow survive the downturn. Flight catering business has suffered a severe blow as many passengers, especially on the majority of short domestic flights, still prefer to remain firmly masked up and opt not to eat onboard. The impact on flight catering has been such that India’s biggest player, TajSats, recently ventured into non-aviation space, like starting home delivery of meals and launching their own brand of sweets and chocolates. While domestic flights are now allowed at 80% of pre-Covid levels, international flights under air bubbles and Vande Bharat schemes are nowhere close to the levels seen before February 2020. Global air traffic is expected to return to pre-Covid levels only by 2024-25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/top-flight-caterer-shuts-shop-at-delhi-mumbai-airports/articleshow/81098004.cms||Saurabh Sinha
February 19, 2021||Agra||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s Mathura kisan mahapanchayat postponed to Feb 23||AGRA: All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has postponed her plan to address a kisan mahapanchayat in Mathura on Friday to February 23, after the demise of veteran party leader Captain Satish Sharma. A letter to the effect issued by Vadra’s office stated her programme has been postponed due to the untimely demise of Captain Sharma. “Sharma was a dear friend who stood by the family through thick and thin. People of Amethi and Raebareli will always remember him as a people’s person, who stood by them during difficult times,” she said, adding she and her family has lost a true friend. Congress district president Deepak Chaudhary told TOI Vadra will now address the meeting in Mathura’s Palikhera, where over 20,000 people are expected to join the gathering. On being asked about the aggressive involvement of political parties in the ongoing nationwide farmers’ agitation, by organising kisan mahapanchayats across west UP, former Congress MLA Pradeep Mathur said, “Congress is working hard in support of the farmers’ protest which began from Punjab and continues till date.” He added his party will continue supporting farmers till they get justice. Vadra, who handles Uttar Pradesh affairs for the party, has already addressed three farmers’ meetings in Rampur, Saharanpur and Bijnor, under the ‘Jai Jawan-Jai Kisan’ campaign. She began this campaign earlier this month from Rampur, where, before addressing the gathering, she paid respects to the farmer who died in the fracas during the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/priyanka-gandhi-vadras-mathura-kisan-mahapanchayat-postponed-to-feb-23/articleshow/81096744.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||26 rushed to hosp with fever symptoms||Hyderabad: Around 26 patients from the Telangana Social Welfare Residential Hostel near Journalist Colony, Gowlidoddi were rushed to a private hospital with symptoms of fever and loose motions. “We received a call on our emergency hotline by the hostel pricipal requesting for urgent medical support for assessing and evaluating a group of their residents who reported sick. Immediately our advanced life support ambulance was dispatched with medical team comprising of emergency consultant and two nurses. All the residents were assessed and given primary treatment and asked for a follow up at the hospital,” said Dr Riyaj Khan, CEO, Continental Hospitals. Subsequently at around 10 pm, a batch of 26 residents in the adolescent age group both males and females reached the hospital. On assessment their vital parameters were found to be stable and were only mildly dehydrated. Immediately they were admitted in infectious diseases wing. They are being treated on lines of mild to moderate acute gastroenteritis. “At this stage we are waiting for the results of the report and are unable to ascertain the cause,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/26-rushed-to-hosp-with-fever-symptoms/articleshow/81098012.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Air pollution behind at least 11,000 deaths in Hyderabad last year: Report||HYDERABAD: The city recorded an estimated 11,000 avoidable deaths and suffered economic loss worth Rs 11,637 crore due to air pollution in 2020, reveals the Greenpeace Southeast Asia Analysis of IQAir data, released on Thursday. The report titled ‘Cost to economy due to air pollution 2021’ analysed impact of particulate matter 2.5 (PM 2.5) on deaths and economy in major cities across the world. PM 2.5 is referred to as particulate matter that is found in smoke and haze and has different diameters. It severely impacts heart and respiratory system, and increases the likelihood of deaths due to cancer and stroke, spike in asthma attacks. It also worsens severity of Covid-19 symptoms. The global action advisory group used a cost estimator, an online tool developed by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, to track real-time health impact and economic costs of PM 2.5 in six Indian cities – Hyderabad, Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai and Lucknow. Despite a temporary reprieve in air quality owing to the nationwide lockdown, figures released by Greenpeace underscore the need to act immediately. Experts have attributed vehicular pollution as the single biggest reason for deteriorating air quality in Hyderabad in addition to fossil fuel burning, construction, opening landfill burning, landfill fires of solid waste. “Hyderabad is a part of the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). However, just having a concept note on NCAP will not help. The government needs to have specific targets for pollution emitting sources and control them within a time-frame,” said Avinash Chanchal, climate campaigner, Greenpeace, India. The damage is equally worrying in other Indian cities with Delhi recording the highest number of avoidable deaths (54,000) followed by 25,000 in Mumbai, 12,000 in Bengaluru, 11,000 in Chennai and 6,700 in Lucknow. Experts have called for a need to promote low cost, active and carbon neutral transport options, increased use of clean energy and clean transport. “The fact that poor air quality claimed an estimated 1,60,000 lives in the five largest cities alone should give us pause, especially in a year when many cities saw lower air pollution levels due to less economic activity. Governments, corporations and individuals must do more to eliminate the sources of air pollution and make our cities better places to live,” said Frank Hammes, chief executive officer of IQAir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/air-pollution-behind-at-least-11000-deaths-in-hyd-last-yr-report/articleshow/81100143.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Agra||UP Special Task Force takes PFI leader Rauf Shareef to Noida from Mathura jail||AGRA: Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) has taken Popular Front of India’s student wing leader Rauf Shareef to Noida from a temporary jail in Mathura on Thursday after a court granted them a 5-day police custody in a case of alleged funding and stirring unrest in wake of gangrape and murder of Hathras girl. The STF officials told TOI that he will be sent back to jail on February 23 and during this period the police personnel will interrogate him. Though the STF had sought a 10-day remand of Shareef, the court of additional district and sessions judge Anil Kumar Pandey granted them five days only. Shareef had been brought from Ernakulam jail in Kerala where he was lodged after being arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in December last year in a money laundering case. Defence council Madhuvan Dutt Chaturvedi told TOI that though he opposed the remand plea in the court as the STF had not specified the reason for seeking his custodial interrogation, the court granted a 5-day police custody. “I urged the court to provide a translator for Shareef during the interrogation as he only understands Malayalam and a video recording of the process to ensure no third degree was applied on the accused,” said Chaturvedi, adding that the court, however, rejected his applications. He added, the court order of granting police custody remand will be challenged in the Allahabad high court on Friday. According to information, ED had alleged that Shareef had funded the trip of Siddique Kappan, a Delhi-based Kerala journalist and three others alleged PFI activists to Hathras, where a 19-year-old girl was allegedly raped and murdered. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-stf-takes-pfi-leader-rauf-shareef-to-noida-from-mathura-jail/articleshow/81096754.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad panel to take call on fee for amenities||HUDERABAD: Two days after UoH students questioned the administration about need to pay fee for amenities such as lab, sports, internet, varsity constituted an internal committee to look into the issue. A decision to this effect was taken during a meeting convened by UoH vice-chancellor prof Appa Rao Podile. “Panel will submit a report to VC in few days. Until then, semester registrations shall commence and departments have flexibility to decide on the same,” UoH spokesperson Vinod Pavarala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-panel-to-take-call-on-fee-for-amenities/articleshow/81098030.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Govt disburses Rs 3.2cr to 488 construction workers||New Delhi: Delhi government expedited the process of disbursing claims to 488 construction workers on Thursday, granting Rs 3.2 crore under various schemes. Deputy chief minister and labour minister Manish Sisodia handed over cheques to workers present at an event held at Delhi Secretariat on Thursday. “The labour department has streamlined the way funds are disbursed. Disbursement and aid used to get stuck in pipelines, but Delhi government has expedited this entire process for the benefit of its people,” Sisodia said. The AAP-led government said in a statement that Sisodia has reviewed and eased the grant-giving process for construction workers registered under the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. While 181 beneficiaries received claims under the maternity scheme, 131 workers got funds under the education scheme, 53 under the death and funeral scheme and 51 beneficiaries under the pension scheme. “Every construction worker of Delhi should have the confidence that the government stands with them in times of need. People of Delhi should have that level of trust in the government,” he said. Sisodia said that applicants do not have to stand in long queues in government offices and can just call 1076 and a person from the department will pay a home visit to finalise the documentation process. Once the filing is complete, the applicant will receive a message that their registration is completed. Urging workers to disseminate information on this scheme, Sisodia said “It is the key focus of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to extend help and hope to those who are not privileged. The politics of Delhi government is the politics of work. We have made schools; schools that have been constructed by all of you.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-disburses-rs-3-2cr-to-488-construction-workers/articleshow/81098103.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Bhopal||Dekho Apna Desh: State’s cultural potpourri to strengthen tourism route||Bhopal: In a unique endeavour, Madhya Pradesh is set to promote culture along with tourism as the state gears up to showcases the ‘medieval splendour' of Bundelkhand through Dhubela fort, Orchha, Khajuraho and Panna's wildlife circuit during weeklong Khajuraho dance festival starting from February 20.Despite connectivity issues and absence of foreign tourists, there is an increase in the footfall of domestic tourists. With a tag line ‘Dekho Apna Desh’, the MP Tourism development corporation (MPTDC) has been promoting the dance festival across the country, but connectivity is proving to be a major hurdle to this campaign. Trains are not fully operational yet, and there are only two trains to Khajuraho as of now — one each from Indore and Delhi, while there are no flights operating in this sector. “ Flights stopped operating to Khajuraho in March last year after the outbreak of coronavirus . They are yet to begin, affecting tourism here,” said a Khajurao hotel operator.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has also written a letter to the Union railway minister to start operating trains to Khajuraho. “ We are expecting some good news soon”, a government official said.MPTDC has already developed an interesting tourist circuit around Khajuraho, where a medieval-era fort of Dhubela built by Maharaja Chatrasal is being promoted.Principal secretary tourism department Sheo Shekhar Shukla said, “ There is a lot to be seen around Khajuraho. Tourists are yet to explore the grandeur of Dhubela . Besides, there are water sports waiting for them at Kutni dam near Khajuraho. Wildlife of Panna always attracts people.”He went on to add, “Many activities will also be organised within Khajuraho to keep the tourists engaged before they enjoy the Indian classical dance in the evening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dekho-apna-desh-states-cultural-potpourri-to-strengthen-tourism-route/articleshow/81096757.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||TCS signs MoU to set up facility at Technocity||Thiruvananthapuram: Global IT major Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) on Thursday signed a memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the state for leasing 97 acres at the Technocity campus at Pallipuram here, which is expected to bring a hefty investment of Rs 1200-1500 crore to the state. Engineering, product development and information technology services in manufacturing, defence, aerospace sectors will be the focus of the new TCS facility to come up at Technocity. The agreement was signed by Technopark CEO Sasi Pilacheri Meethal and TCS vice-president and operations head (Kerala) Dinesh P Thampi at Technopark here. The MoU was signed in the presence of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The CM said that the agreement as a major stride in the state’s quest to become a knowledge economy. He also appreciated TCS for coming forward to establish one of its major facilities in Kerala at a time when many companies have shelved their expansion plans due to crisis triggered by Covid-19 pandemic. “This simple ceremony marks the beginning of a major step forward. A highly reputed company, TCS will be bringing an investment of Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,500 crore to the state. The project will provide over 20,000 direct jobs. This has happened when major efforts are on at different levels to transform Kerala into a knowledge economy,” said the chief minister. “The setting up of the proposed startup incubator within the TCS campus will help to strengthen the startup ecosystem in Kerala,” the chief minister said. Chief secretary Vishwas Mehta and IT secretary K Mohammed Y Safirulla also attended the MoU signing apart from TCS executive director and chief operating officer N G Subramaniam, Tata Group advisor Madhavan Nambiar and TCS senior executive Alok Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tcs-signs-mou-to-set-up-facility-at-technocity/articleshow/81100132.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Sitting pretty: Telangana gets $1,500 million FDI||HYDERABAD: Despite Covid-19 induced lockdown and lockdown guidelines were eased months later, Telangana continued to attract foreign direct investment (FDI). The state came eighth in the FDI charts by getting $1,516 million FDI between October 2019 and November 2020. Another redeeming feature was some companies into electronic manufacturing shifting their base from China to India, a fact often stressed by industries minister KT Rama Rao. He said Telangana had been focused on tapping companies which are likely to move out of China in the aftermath of the pandemic. The neighbouring Andhra Pradesh was at the 13th slot with $265 million, while Maharashtra topped the charts at $19,865 million followed by Karnataka at $9,706 million FDI. A total of Rs 67,386 crore FDI flown into the country during this period. According to the data of the Union ministry of commerce and industry, apart from Delhi and Gujarat, Jharkhand also joined the league in attracting $2,643 million FDI. Tamil Nadu and Haryana also fared well in attracting the FDI. Union minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash said several steps like production-linked incentive schemes, GIS mapping of available land banks and issuance of quality control order to cut down cheap imports have been put in place to attract further investments into the country. “Around 14 companies in the electronic system design manufacturing sector have diversified their manufacturing base from China to India. However, there are several companies which have indicated their plans and shown an interest to relocate. Employment for 31,509 people is likely to be generated,” Som Parkash said. The government of India has set up a high-level empowered group of secretaries and a project development cell in ministries and departments with a view to providing support and facilitation to investors for investing in India. Experts said that both Telangana and AP governments should boost the foreign investor confidence by emulating Karnataka. Officials said efforts were being made to attract companies from the textiles, electronics and life sciences in China so as to generate employment. An expert in international trade, Suresh Reddy said Telangana is doing well as far as information technology sector, pharma companies and SEZs are concerned. “Visakhapatnam SEZ and Sri City SEZ are turning out to be good destinations. The government should take measures to promote FDI,” he said. Efforts by TOI to contact Telangana industries secretary Jayesh Ranjan and AP industries minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy proved futile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sitting-pretty-telangana-gets-1500-million-fdi/articleshow/81098007.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Dehradun: Residents, local bus service unions protest at Lachhiwala toll plaza||DEHRADUN: Residents along with local bus service unions protested at the Lachhiwala toll plaza in Dehradun which became operational on Thursday. They said that the plaza is charging money from locals who travel between their home and city on a daily basis. Before the toll plaza became operational, the locals had requested the officials to exempt them from paying the fee. On the other hand, the bus service union claimed that despite being in the radius of 25 km from the city, the toll is being charged which will also have an impact on fare charged from passengers. Dehradun Mahanagar City Bus Sewa president Vijay Dandriyal said, “From Jogiwala to Lachhiwala, the buses cover a distance of 12 km. Just 500 metre ahead of the toll plaza, the buses turn towards Doiwala and Jolly Grant. Paying a toll for only 12 km is going to affect the passengers as the ticket prices will increase. The authorities must look into the matter and take a call in the interest of the people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-local-bus-service-unions-protest-at-lachhiwala-toll-plaza/articleshow/81096764.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Green honour for Hyderabad: Only city in India to get ‘Tree City’ tag||Hyderabad: Greater Hyderabad has been recognised as 2020 ‘Tree City’ of the world by the Arbor Day Foundation and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations. It is the only city from India to have been recognised as a tree city. The city was chosen for this recognition for its commitment towards growing and maintaining its urban forests. Through this recognition, Hyderabad will join a network of like-minded cities which recognise the importance of trees in building healthy, resilient and happy cities. “Hyderabad has earned this recognition in the foundation’s second year of programme along with 51 other cities across the world (during 2020 & cumulative 120 cities from 63 countries). Most of these cities are in US, UK, Canada, Australia,” officials said. MA&UD applied this recognition based on an online submission done on Jan 31, 2021. The state government has been implementing Haritha Haram programme since 2015. Apart from that, urban forest blocks are also being developed in identified pockets. TRS working president and municipal minister KT Rama Rao tweeted ‘Happy to share that @arbordav foundation has recognized Hyderabad as tree city of the world. The only Indian city to be included in this list. This is an acknowledgement of our efforts to improve green cover as part of #HarithaHaram programme.” Congratulating Hyderabad on earning 2020 tree city of the world recognition alongside 120 cities from 63 countries, Dan Lambe, president, Arbor Day Foundation said “Hyderabad is part of an important global network leading the way in urban and community forestry. To further celebrate this distinction, we will recognise Hyderabad in a global press release on or around March 1, 2021”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/green-honour-for-hyderabad-only-city-in-india-to-get-tree-city-tag/articleshow/81098054.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||T reports 160 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||Hyderabad: Telangana on Thursday recorded 163 new cases of Covid-19 and 2 deaths, taking the total count of cases so far in the state to 2,96,113. So far 1,622 people have died while 2,93,791 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection. Of the total number of patients who have succumbed to the virus, 55 percent had comorbidities while the remaining 45 percent deaths could be directly linked to Covid-19.  The number of active cases in the state has now dropped to 1,700 of which only 658 are under hospitalized treatment. The recovery rate in the state is currently 98.88 percent as against the country average recovery rate of 97.3 percent. The CFR is currently stable at 0.54 percent. This is better than the average CFR in the country which is 1.4 percent, indicating more number of deaths per 100 patients.  Telangana has now completed testing 83.8 lakh samples and has reached 2.25 lakh sample testing per million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-160-new-covid-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/81098040.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Attagirl! A village in Telangana turns birth of girls into a celebration||HYDERABAD: When a girl is born in this village, the entire village gathers at the local panchayat office, sweets are distributed and parents of the newborn made to feel special. No one goes around to inform about the birth of a girl — word spreads as soon as the panchayat office is lighted up specially for the occasion. This is Haridaspur village, located 80 km from Hyderabad with a population of 816, in Sangareddy’s Kondapur mandal. Though the tradition started only last year, the villagers have warmed up to the idea. It all began on January 1, 2020, when a family had a girl born and a health worker dissuaded the panchayat secretary from going there to congratulate the parents as it was their third girl child. But the panchayat secretary, Rohit Kulkarni, had no second thoughts. He went to the family and told the parents how blessed they were. It did not end there. Village sarpanch Mohammed Shafi agreed to celebrate the birth of a girl child, a function was duly organised and sweets distributed to everyone in the village. Since that day, at least three more such celebrations have been held. Fifty girls enrolled in Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana“When lights are glowing at the panchayat building, it means it is time for celebration. Everyone participates in congratulating the parents of the baby girl,” Kulkarni told TOI. Aware of anxiety among parents on how to raise the girl child, Shafi, Kulkarni and other panchayat officials went about trying to stitch a secure financial path. They explained to families about ‘Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana’ for girls up to 10 years that’s locked up till they turn 21, with one withdrawal of 50% for higher education when the girl turns 18. To encourage parents, the sarpanch and panchayat secretary even made personal contributions of Rs 1,000 to enrol all the four girls born in 2020 in the scheme. Not stopping at that, villagers were encouraged to donate and now 50 girls below 10 years have been enrolled in the scheme. A youth committee was formed with the responsibility of seeing that parents make their deposits every month. “Now, no one feels sad if a baby girl is born. There are only celebrations in the village,” Kulkarni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/attagirl-a-village-in-t-turns-birth-of-girls-into-a-celebration/articleshow/81100162.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 19, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||District gets two new police subdivisions||Thiruvananthapuram: Being the largest police district in the state, the addition of two new police subdivisions is expected to improve the efficacy of policing in Thiruvananthapuram rural police district. Varkala and Kattakkada are the new police subdivisions. The two new subdivisions were inaugurated by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday along with the 23 other new police subdivisions across the state. N Babukuttan has been appointed as the deputy superintendent of Varkala subdivision and S Shaji has been appointed as the DSP of Kattakkada subdivision. With the addition of the two new police subdivisions, the total number of police subdivisions under rural district police have become five. The three police subdivisions that existed before were Attingal, Nedumangad and Neyyatinkara. While the Neyyatinkara subdivision had only eight police stations under its limits, Attingal and Nedumangad subdivisions were overburdened with 17 and 14 stations each. “With the new subdivisions coming into existence, substantial amount of work could be taken away from the deputy superintendents of Attingal and Nedumangad,’’ said rural district police chief P K Madhu. It will also improve the efficiency of policing as the DSPs can give their individual attention to more cases. The area to be covered by each DSP has also been reduced, the Rural SP said. The police stations coming under the Varkala police subdisvion are Varkala, Ayiroor, Kallambalam, Anchuthengu, Anchuthengu Coastal, Kadakkavoor and Pallickal. The remaining stations under the limits of Attingal subdivision are Attingal, Chirayinkeezhu, Nagaroor, Mangalapuram, Kadinamkulam, Kilimanoor, Venjarammood and Pangode. The stations under Kattakkada subdivision are Kattakkada, Malayinkeezhu, Neyyar Dam, Maranalloor, Vilappilsala, Aryancode, Naruvamood and Aryanad. Nedumangad subdivision now has Nedumangad, Pothencode, Aruvikkara, Valiyamala, Vattappara, Ponmudi, Palode and Vithura. Among these, Pothencode and Vattappara stations earlier belonged to Attingal subdivision and they were recently attached to Nedumangad subdisvion. Neyyatinkara subdivision remains unchanged with Neyyatinkara, Parassala, Marayamuttom, Balaramapuram, Poovar, Pozhiyoor, Kanjiramkulam and Vellarada stations. Thiruvananthapuram rural police district is the largest police district in the state with 38 local police stations and one coastal police station. Hence, it also consistently features on top of lists of crime and road accident figures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/district-gets-two-new-police-subdivisions/articleshow/81100161.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra finds mutations in 8 random samples from Amravati, Yavatmal||MUMBAI: Dr Subhash Salunkhe, an advisor to the Maharashtra government, has termed the ongoing viral activity in Amravati and Akola districts “extremely unusual” and the rise in cases “exponential”. The only upside till now, said Dr Salunkhe, is the spread appears to be in “isolated small pockets”. State government health officials said genomic sequencing of four patients from Amravati showed “unique mutations”, including E484Q, which is similar to a mutation (E484K) found in South African and Brazilian variants. Four samples from Yavatmal, too, showed unique mutations, including the N440K that first emerged in the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. State health officials played down the Amravati findings. A senior goverment official said the mutations found in the samples are not new to India. “There are over 240 mutations found so far in India. We don’t need to panic about this. Contact tracing and other public health measures will be taken,” he said. State public health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said viruses mutate. “Over 5,000 types of mutations have been recorded worldwide,” he said. Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the epidemiology division of ICMR, said it is closely watching the developments in Maharashtra. “There have been reports of lavish marriage parties and gatherings. The government needs to dissuade people from attending mass gatherings even while encouraging people to observe preventive measures,” added Dr Panda. After a sudden surge in cases, health authorities from Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola were asked to send random samples for testing to Pune. Experts at B J Medical confirmed they have found the E484Q mutation (although TOI has a copy of the report that states E484K, officials changed the nomenclature late on Thursday) in the strain isolated from the swab samples of four randomly selected patients in Amravati. “These mutations should not be confused with mutations seen in the UK strain or the South African strain,” said senior microbiologist Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, professor and head of the microbiology department at B J Medical College in Pune. The mutation located in the spike protein region helps the strain escape the existing neutralizing antibodies. This means the existing virus-specific antibodies seen in recovered patients cannot neutralize the strain with the E484K mutation. The mutation, experts say, is seen in various other countries. Dr Rajkumar Chavan, divisional deputy director (health) for Akola division, which includes both Amravati and Yavatmal, said they have not officially received any such report about the new mutated strain so far. “We had been asked to send some random samples for genome sequencing to Pune after a sudden surge in Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola. Reports are yet to be received,” he said.  Most patients in Amravati and Yavatmal are being kept in institutional quarantine and those with very mild symptoms are being monitored strictly. There were some travellers in Amravati with a history of South Africa visits. Civil surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam said they were contacted, tested, and close contacts are being traced. In Yavatmal, civil surgeon Dr Tarangtushar Ware said the official report of genome sequencing has not been received yet. “Tracing and testing has been increased in Yavatmal.” Experts have found N440K mutation in four Covid patients randomly selected from Yavatmal and it is being studied. “The strain found with E484Q mutation and N440K belongs to the Clade A2 lineage of SARS-CoV-2, prevalent in India and Brazil,” said senior microbiologist Dr Karyakarte. (With inputs from Umesh Ishalkar in Pune & Chaitanya Deshpande in Nagpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-finds-mutations-in-8-random-samples-from-amravati-yavatmal/articleshow/81098115.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Kejriwal meets kin of two Covid warriors, hands over cheques of Rs 1 crore each||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday met family members of corona warriors Om Pal Singh and Raj Kumar and handed over cheques of Rs 1 crore each as financial assistance. Kejriwal visited the family of Singh, who was the principal of government boys senior secondary school, Kalyanpuri. “You all know that during the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown Delhi government was running various hunger relief centres where Singh was working. Unfortunately during the work, he got affected by Covid and then lost his life,” he said. “Today I also visited the family of Kumar, who was working at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in northeast Delhi’s Tahirpur, which was a designated Covid centre. He was a frontline worker and lost his life to Covid,” he added. “The past one year has been very tough for all of us. But during this one year amid the pandemic, the Covid warriors of Delhi fought this battle from the front,” he said. The CM expressed his gratitude for the sacrifice made by Singh and Kumar. “The pain these families have faced is irreplaceable but I am hopeful that with this financial assistance these families will get some relief,” Kejriwal said. “Today I want to salute all the Covid warriors of Delhi. During the Covid-19 pandemic, they have worked relentlessly for the citizens of Delhi. Delhi government has already announced Rs 1 crore assistance to the families of these warriors,” he said. Kumar, who hailed from Unnao in Uttar Pradesh, succumbed to Covid-19 on May 28, 2020. He is survived by his mother, wife Kusma, who is an anganwadi worker, and four children. His eldest daughter is preparing for UPSC, elder son is pursuing MBBS, younger son is in class XI and younger daughter is in class IX. Meanwhile, Singh was responsible for overall supervision of his school, which was designated as a hunger relief centre and night shelter. He is survived by his wife Santosh Kumari and two children. He was admitted to GTB hospital on June 5, 2020 and succumbed to Covid-19 six days later. A native of Modinagar, Singh was serving as principal for 10 years and was due to retire in two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-meets-kin-of-two-covid-warriors-hands-over-cheques-of-rs-1-crore-each/articleshow/81098304.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Trichy||Teachers use online radio broadcast to connect to students||Trichy: A group of government school teachers in the state are making use of online radio service to effectively connect to their students in primary and middle schools. By utilising a centralised cloud-based audio playing platform, the teachers have made their students listen to audio classes of their curriculum. Started by A Karthick Raja, a teacher of a government school in Cuddalore district, the online radio platform named ‘Kalvi Radio’ has achieved 1 lakh views within a month after it started operations. Teachers can simply record a half-an-hour audio of the textbook curriculum and upload it on the ‘Kalvi Radio’ platform. The content can be slotted for a particular time and the students can tune into the website with bare minimum data consumption. The Kalvi station is functioning round-the-clock by airing audio classes for class 1-8. Karthick said that he was running a school website for the last five years. While a section of the school students could be connected through audio visual classes all these years, it could achieve 10 lakh views in a matter of just eight months during the lockdown. It has limitations such as it consume enormous data and connectivity issues. “As a solution, I decided to utilise radio service to send audio content to students. Availing radio service was unimaginable as it involved a lot of process and money,” he said. Then, I came across a centralized cloud-based audio play out platform. I could set up an online radio station where I could feed the textbook curriculum in the form of audio content and make students listen to it at a stipulated time, he said.Now 44 teachers across 10 districts are using the platform by sharing their audio content, which are aired online. Teachers said that the web radio had been effective for primary and middle school students for whom physical classes are yet to be reopened. Here students need not strain their eyes as they must only listen to the content said R K Uma Devi, a bachelor teacher for English language at a government school in Erode district. Assistant teacher H Pushpalatha from corporation primary school in Edaimalaipattipudur in Trichy has made students record activities like Thirukkural and other songs, which are being aired through the radio station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/teachers-use-online-radio-broadcast-to-connect-to-students/articleshow/81099600.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Serene County residents protest again, Transco says following orders||Hyderabad: Residents of Serene County, Gachibowli, protested against Transmission Corporation of Telangana officials and rued that officials have started digging the land inside their housing society and blasted rocks without furnishing court orders. “We got the order on Thursday evening,” said Rama Raju, president of Serene County. The works are being executed to overlay 440 KV high voltage lines along the two towers in the society. Residents want officials to opt for underground cabling. “We are following court orders and work is being executed as per electricity act,” said Raghava Reddy, TSTransco executive engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/serene-county-residents-protest-again-transco-says-following-orders/articleshow/81098126.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Wild boar killing not trophy hunting, says wildlife chief||HYDERABAD: Principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) and chief wildlife warden R Sobha has issued orders to forest staff, sarpanches and panchayat officers stating that “culling is not trophy hunting”. Quoting a report in these columns ‘Activists cry cruelty over shooters snap with wild boars culled after Govt Order’ on February 17, PCCF R Sobha listed additional guidelines for culling wild boars in a circular titled ‘Unethical practice of shooters getting photographed with wild pigs carcasses’. “The news article has a photo showing two of the shooters along with sarpanch and local villagers standing behind carcasses of wild pigs shot dead. This practice of taking photographs with dead wild pigs is bad for several reasons,” Sobha said. Wild pigs are scheduled animals and are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, and have not been declared as vermin. “Detailed instructions have been issued by the chief wildlife warden and gram panchayat sarpanches and forest officials for proper disposal of the carcasses. No person shall use or consume any part of the wild pig killed as it is the property of state government. It is ethically binding on every citizen to treat every animal, wild or domestic or dead or alive, with compassion and dignity,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wild-boar-killing-not-trophy-hunting-says-wildlife-chief/articleshow/81098082.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Mohali cliff-hanger ends with Congress win||MOHALI: The Mohali municipal corporation, which witnessed high-voltage campaigning and political storms in the run-up to the polls, swimmingly slipped into the Congress lap on Thursday, when the much-awaited results were declared. The party registered a stupendous win on 37 of 50 seats and is all set to have its first mayor. For a majority, a party requires 26 seats. While 13 seats went to Independents, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) failed to win even a single seat. Out of the 13 Independents, Azad group claimed that they had 10 candidates and three were Independents. In the municipal council results declared a day before, the Congress had won six out of seven councils, but got majority in five. So, now Congress will be in power in five councils and the Mohali municipal corporation. Here, the Congress contested on all 50 seats, BJP on 46, SAD on 43, BSP on four and Azad group-AAP alliance on 48.  Congress candidates have won 37 wards. Of wards 1 to 25, it clinched 22 seats and three went to Independents. From ward 26 to 50, Congress won 15 seats and 10 went to Independents. Congress won on ward 1, 3 to 14, 16, 18 to 25, 27, 30 to 32, 36, 40 to 49. Rest of the wards, 2, 15, 17, 28, 29, 31 to 35, 37 to 39 and 50 went to Independents. Health and labour minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “Witnessing Punjab's progress and development, the voters have shown confidence in the Congress.” He said voters have clearly rejected the AAP, SAD and BJP. Expressing gratitude towards the voters of Mohali, he said the Punjab government has remained committed to development of Mohali and work would continue in future too. Winners organised victory shows in the respective wards and a collective major road show. People danced to the beats of dhols and garlanded winning candidates with currency notes. The first election to Mohali MC was held in 2015, in which the SAD-BJP had won 23 seats, the Congress got 14, Azad group led by Kulwant Singh 10 and Independents two. The Azad group, with the support of the Congress, had then elected Kulwant Singh as mayor, but after one year the group snapped ties with the Congress and all their councillors joined the SAD to form a majority in the house, which continued for another four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-cliff-hanger-ends-with-cong-win/articleshow/81098068.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Hsg societies, clubs rush to rework GST dues over retro amendment||Mumbai: Several clubs and large cooperative housing societies (CHS) that relied on the ‘principle of mutuality’ and did not levy and collect the goods and services tax (GST) on the subscription or maintenance fees collected from their members are now worried as they will have to recompute their tax liabilities, dating back a few years. The basic foundation of GST is that it is a tax on the ‘supply’ of goods or services and the scope of this term has been widened in the Budget 2021 provisions. The explanatory memorandum states that the objective of the amendment is “to ensure levy of tax on activities or transactions involving ‘supply’ of goods or services by an association to its members for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration.” Further, the amendment proposed is retrospective and dates back to July 1, 2017, when GST was introduced. The tenet that an association and its members are one and the same governs the ‘principle of mutuality’. GST laws did not contain any specific provision which set down that an association and its members were distinct entities. Banking on this principle, which had been upheld by various courts, including the Supreme Court, several large CHS or various clubs took the view that they did not ‘supply’ services to members, as the members are not distinct entities. Thus, they did not levy and collect GST against the fees from their members. In addition to widening the scope of the term ‘supply’, Budget 2021 provisions also provide that an association and its members will be deemed to be two separate entities. As TOI reported on November 15, 2020, a prominent Nariman Point-based CHS had filed an appeal against an earlier order issued by the Maharashtra bench of the GST Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR). It had relied on a Supreme Court order passed in 2009, in the case of Calcutta Club, which dealt with the ‘principle of mutuality’. It had argued that as the housing society and its members are not distinct entities, the activities of the CHS—such as upkeep of the society’s premises for which the members paid a maintenance fee did not constitute a taxable ‘supply’. It had lost its appeal as the bench held the SC order related to a sales-tax regime, when the concept of ‘supply’ did not exist. “Once the amendment is notified, the tax as well as interest become due. There is a very strong case to say that no penalties are payable since the society could not have visualised a retrospective amendment and, as such, it has never defaulted on its obligations,” says Sunil Gabhawalla, a CA and indirect tax specialist. He adds, “Some societies that took the position of mutuality had built-in reserves for an eventuality of retrospective amendment. They may dip into those reserves. If they have not created such reserves, they may need to collect GST from members now. Things may become complicated if, in the interim, some members have sold their flats. For example, if someone sold a flat in 2020, the incoming member may raise disputes on reimbursing GST relating to the earlier period.” According to a government circular, a CHS has to levy and collect GST at 18% on the entire maintenance charges, if these exceed Rs 7,500 per month per member. Smaller CHS with an annual turnover of Rs 20 lakh or less do not have to register under GST. Thus, they do not have any GST obligation. Budget 2021 has not amended this criteria. Government officials say they went strictly by this circular. “We took action against defaulting societies but often this led to litigation. The budget proposal, which in effect also overturns the SC order, settles the issue once and for all,” said an official. A broad overview provided by government officials is that a significant share of CHS in Mumbai and Pune took a conservative view and collected GST. Some newer luxury societies where maintenance charges were steep, though, were taking an aggressive tax stand. Several tax practitioners are of the view that the amendment should not have been retrospective. “While we will now have to pay GST dues dating back to several years, we will not be able to claim input tax credit (ITC),” said a finance professional handling the portfolio of a few associations. ITC enables a taxpayer to reduce from the GST liability the GST already paid on inputs used in the production or service chain. Even clubs following the principle of mutuality will be impacted. AAR in the case of rulings sought by a few Mumbai-based Rotary clubs had held GST is applicable on fees from members, even though these clubs did not provide facilities by way of pools or recreation rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hsg-societies-clubs-rush-to-rework-gst-dues-over-retro-amendment/articleshow/81096788.cms||Lubna Kably
February 19, 2021||Aurangabad||AMC set to rearrange 90,000 domestic water connections||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), which has begun the work of laying a new water supply scheme for Aurangabad, has decided to rearrange 90,000 residential water connections in different parts of the city. The proposed move, which aims to make the existing water distribution system compatible with the new scheme, is likely to expose illegal water connections that are allegedly rampant in Aurangabad. An official survey carried out by the AMC in the past showed 1.24 lakh illegal connections existed within the municipal limits, which are nearly equal to legal connections. Barring sporadic actions against such connections in the past that were drawing water from the only main pipeline, no major crackdown has been initiated. Kiran Dhande, the head of AMC’s water supply, said 90,000 was a conservative estimate and more water connections need to be realigned if the need arises.“As part of the new water supply scheme, a pipeline of 110-200 mm in diameter will be laid. The network of such new pipeline will be 1727.49 km long, covering different parts of Aurangabad and some of the fringe areas. The majority of existing water connections, including residential category, need to be readjusted to connect with the new waters supply scheme,” he said. On illegal water connections getting exposed, Dhande said the civic administration will decide the future course of action. AMC in past had carried out an amnesty scheme to regularise illegal water connections, but it had evoked poor public response. In the new water supply, the city is slated to get 43 new elevated water reservoirs and four groundwater reservoirs with a cumulative storage capacity of 104 million cubic litre. The scheme has a financial outlay of Rs 1680.5 crore and aims to supply per capita 135 litre water per day. The work of raising elevated water reservoirs at Shivaji ground, Garware stadium, TV Centre, Delhi Gate and Harsidhhi Society is proposed during the first phase of works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-set-to-rearrange-90000-domestic-water-connections/articleshow/81095851.cms||Prasad Joshi
February 19, 2021||Aurangabad||State govt to bear 50% cost of Shivajinagar road underbridge||Aurangabad: Amid long pending demand of building a road underbridge (RuB) at Shivajinagar, the state government has agreed to bear 50% of the cost for the desired facility. The Public Works Department (PWD) has issued a letter to this effect to Nanded division of South Central Railway (SCR), rekindling hopes for getting the underpass constructed in near future. The letter states that the 50% component work of state will be executed by the Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (MRILDCL), a joint venture of Govt. of Maharashtra and the railway ministry.In earlier reports, TOI had highlighted the need for RuB at Shivajinagar level crossing gate, which witnesses heavy traffic due to closure of the gate during the good and passenger trains pass. Railway activist Anant Borkar said, “The desired underpass was mooted almost a decade ago, but failed to materialise till date. The facility is important from the safety as well as for the convenience of the residents,” he said. The manual railway crossing gate at Shivajinagar is operated almost 40 to 50 time every day for the passing of express, passenger and goods trains, causing inconvenience to motorists. Babasaheb Sonawane, a resident of Satara area, said public representatives must follow up with the demand for speedy completion of the RuB. College students are creating awareness about the traffic safety norms like wearing helmets and using seat belts at the traffic junction in College Road area of the city on Thursday“The irony is the manual level crossing gate still exists in a metro city like Aurangabad and citizens have to wait for trains to pass. The political leadership show the proper will to execute the project, which is pending for years now,” he said. Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel, who in recent past had taken up the demand of constructing the RuB with senior railway officials, could not be reached for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-govt-to-bear-50-cost-of-shivajinagar-road-underbridge/articleshow/81095840.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Chandigarh||UT cops bring man accused of Rs 3 lakh robbery on production warrant||CHANDIGARH: The UT police brought an accused on production warrant from Panchkula police for allegedly robbing Rs 3 lakhs at gunpoint from the owner of Western Union, Tour and Travel at Sector 27. The police produced the accused before a local court, which sent him in police remand for further interrogation. The accused has been identified as Inderjit Singh, a resident of Budhanpur village in Panchkula. Sector 26 police have formally arrested him in a case and claimed to have solved it. The police said his accomplice Rakesh, a resident of Baltana, is already in the custody of the Haryana police and would also be brought on production warrant in the case. Sector 26 police had also called complainant Sanjeev Kalia for identification of the accused, but he did not recognise him. Both the accused Rakesh and Inderjit entered the departmental store at Sector 21 of Panchkula and robbed the owner of Rs 50,000 at gunpoint on January 27, 2021. However, people chased and caught Rakesh from the spot and handed him to the cops. Later, Panchkula police arrested Inderjit and recovered country-made pistol used in the crime. During the police interrogation, both the accused confessed to have robbed Sanjeev Kalia of Rs 3 lakh at gunpoint at his office in Sector 27. Sanjeev had reported that two masked men robbed him of Rs 3 lakh at gunpoint from his office on July 27, 2020. On this revelation, the Panchkula police informed the UT police about them. The UT cops filed an application for the production warrant of the accused and brought him for interrogation from Ambala jail on Thursday. The cops said both the accused had criminal past and were involved in four cases of robbery and Arms Act in Haryana and Chandigarh. ——————————— BOX | Case history Complainant Sanjeev Kalia said he returned from PNB after withdrawing Rs 2 lakh for business around 2 pm. As soon as he entered his office, he added Rs 1 lakh and placed the money in the cash box, after which he went to the market toilet. When he returned to his office at 2.30pm, he found that two masked men were standing inside the office. Kalia thought they were his clients. The accused suddenly pointed a pistol at him, demanding the cash. The accused pointed a pistol at Kalia’s head and used abusive language and asked him to give the money. Kalia complied and handed over Rs 3 lakh. They asked him to crouch under his office table and not come out for 15 minutes. The owner of a shop adjacent to the victim’s office said the accused fled on a motorbike parked in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-cops-bring-man-accused-of-rs-3l-robbery-on-production-warrant/articleshow/81098088.cms||Pawan Tiwari
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Terai farmers protesting against agriculture laws occupy toll plaza, railway tracks||RUDRAPUR: Stepping up their protests for the repeal of Centre’s agriculture laws, hundreds of Terai farmers affiliated to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and Terai Kisan Mahasabha (TKM) on Thursday staged a dharna at a toll plaza located near Deoria village on National Highway-74 in Udham Singh Nagar district, and stopped the authorities from collecting fees from commuters. The farmers also occupied railway tracks in various towns of the region as announced by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitations. At around 11am the agitating farmers squatted on the road at toll plaza and shouted slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre, accusing it of implementing “anti-farmer” policies. “Farmers are staging dharna at almost all the toll plazas across the country. Hundreds of farmers have gathered at the toll plaza on Kichha road and we are not letting authorities collect any fees from commuters. We are staging this protest for one day. If they continue to collect fees from tractors or the vehicles bearing farmer unions' flags, we will be squatting with ‘pucca morcha’ (permanent protest site) on all toll plazas,” said TKM’s president Tejender Singh Virk. Meanwhile, under the ‘rail roko’ protest announced by the SKM, groups of farmers in various towns of the district organised a four-hour long rail blockade. At Bazpur, farmers led by Karam Singh Padda, BKU’s state president, said that the Centre has strangulated democracy by passing these laws, but the people of the country will not let the NDA government go ahead with this. "The farmers are feeling betrayed with the government’s move as their future is at stake and we will be intensifying our protest with new strategies until our demand of repealing these laws is met,” Padda added. Similarly, in Khatima, Sitarganj and Kashipur towns, the farmers sat at the railway tracks and staged protests. The protest which started at 12 noon ended at 4 pm. In a bid to ensure law and order situation, a large number of police personnel were deployed at the toll plaza and railway tracks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/terai-farmers-protesting-against-agri-laws-occupy-toll-plaza-railway-tracks/articleshow/81096781.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 19, 2021||Delhi||At 24k, Delhi sees highest single-day C-vax turnout||New Delhi: Delhi witnessed the highest turnout for Covid vaccination on Thursday with 24,417 individuals turning out at vaccination centres in government and private hospitals. A total of 9,080 additional beneficiaries, including both healthcare workers and frontline workers, were vaccinated as against previous day’s 15,337 vaccinated beneficiaries. The turnout percentage was 80.8% as compared to 51.1% the day before.Across the city’s 11 districts, only 13 adverse events were reported. Authorities said all of them were of minor nature. No adverse event was reported among those who got the second dose of vaccine.The highest number of individuals turning out for vaccination was frontline workers. A total of 15,662 frontline workers got the shot as compared to 10,632 the day before. 5,218 healthcare workers got the first dose while 3,537 healthcare workers got the second dose. On Wednesday, only 1,072 healthcare workers had taken the second dose of Covid vaccine.The administration of the second dose of Covid vaccine is being given to healthcare workers only because it is given with the gap of at least 28 days.The total number of vaccinated persons touched 2,40,022 and the number of those receiving the second dose 7,931. Two more vaccination centres were added to the existing network and now, Delhi has 302 vaccination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-24k-delhi-sees-highest-single-day-c-vax-turnout/articleshow/81098128.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||BJP goes to CAG on BMC’s Covid spend||BJP has filed a complaint with the government auditor — Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) — against BMC’s spending of over Rs 2,000 crore to fight the Covid pandemic. BJP has also demanded an audit into BMC’s bid to buy freebies in Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav’s constituency in Byculla. Jadhav has maintained that BJP was making “baseless” allegations. BJP corporator Vinod Mishra filed the complaint, with MLA Mihir Kotecha and corporator Makarand Narwekar, alleging that purchases flouted norms. It says there is “discrimination” in alloting finds... and that it metes out stepmotherly treatment to some localities. —Chaitanya.Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-goes-to-cag-on-bmcs-covid-spend/articleshow/81098151.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Rail roko’ protest peaceful||Chandigarh: No untoward incident was reported during the farmers’ “rail roko” protest, which had negligible or minimum impact on running of trains in Ambala division on Thursday. Majority of the stations in the division reported not a single case of stoppage of trains by the agitators.A few trains were regulated at some stations of the division, but now the railway operation is normal. Meanwhile, the Northern Railways will start a weekly Indore-Chandigarh-Indore special express train from February 25, said its spokesperson. The train (09307/09308) will depart from Indore at 5.30pm every Thursday and arrive in Chandigarh at 5.05am on Friday. It will depart from Chandigarh at 4.30pm on Friday and reach Indore at 3.10am on Saturday. On the way, the train will stop at Dewas, Ujjain, Maksi, Shajapur, Pichore Road, Byawra Rajgarh, Ruthiaye, Guna, Shivpuri, Gwalior, Muraina, Agar, Mathura, Faridabad, Hazarat Nizzamuddin, Meerut, Saharanpur, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, Ambala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rail-roko-protest-peaceful/articleshow/81098131.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
February 19, 2021||Trichy||‘NEP’s regulatory mechanism stresses on transparency’||Trichy: Saying that accreditation process will be the route to regulation and governance, Anurag Behar, one of the members of the New Education Policy 2020 drafting committee, said the new policy is designed with a view to streamlining the regulatory system to achieve excellence. The CEO of Azim Premji Foundation was part of a webinar on National Education Policy organised by National Institute of Technology Trichy on Wednesday. The new regulatory mechanisms will lay greater emphasis on transparency. He explained various aspects of NEP 2020 with respect to higher education such as re-architecting the undergraduate education system. “This will make all the undergraduate programmes interdisciplinary, and it will integrate vocational education with mainstream education,” he said. NEP-2020 also envisages large re-architecting of higher education institutions by way of consolidation of fragmented smaller institutes into larger holistic multidisciplinary universities. He said education is a social process and it involves a healthy relation between teacher and student. Good researcher becomes a good teacher and equity in all aspects will lead to quality.In the current scenario, institutes exist as islands of excellence and will be converted to excellence of the system. When equity leads quality, it is bound to eventually result in all round excellence and not islands of excellence, he said. Inaugurating the webinar, Bhaskar Bhat, chairperson, board of governors, NIT Trichy, said the NEP has redefined education as a means to empowerment and entrepreneurship rather than employment alone. Mini Shaji Thomas, director, NIT Trichy, stated that NIT Trichy is always focusing on all-round development of students and it is already a multi-disciplinary institution with departments comprising engineering, science and humanities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/neps-regulatory-mechanism-stresses-on-transparency/articleshow/81099604.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Signs of a win, but Delhi can’t let its guard down||NEW DELHI: The rise in coronavirus cases in Maharashtra and Kerala, which reported 5,427 and 4,584 new cases, respectively, on Thursday have led to serious concerns about the possibility of a similar increase in cases in other states, including Delhi. Since February 1, there has been a relaxation in social, religious, sports, entertainment and educational gatherings in the national capital. Schools have resumed for classes IX-XII from February 5. Also, many offices have reopened, leading to increased public movement. TimesViewThe low positivity rate is good news for Delhi. It means that the outbreak is under control. But that does not mean the epidemic is over. New virus strains are in the air in the country. Safe health practices must continue.Dr Lalit Kant, the former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), was worried that fewer people were following Covid appropriate behaviour, that is, wearing masks, maintaining hand hygiene and keeping a physical distance from others. Kant added, “A significant percentage of our population remains vulnerable to the infection. Also, we have new strains in circulation. So, if we let our guards down, there is still a possibility of a rise in infection once again.” He stressed on the need to continue with an adequate number of daily tests to ensure early identification and isolation of positive cases. In November last year, the average number of Covid-19 tests carried out in the capital, both the gold standard RT-PCR and the rapid antigen test was 53,579. It increased to 76,508 in December, but dropped significantly to 67,148 in January 2021. In February so far, the average number of tests carried out has declined further to 57,989, as per the latest government data. “We need to go back to where we began. The daily testing has to be ramped up,” reiterated Dr S K Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. “Contact tracing and containment of areas most affected by the viral outbreak have to be pursued effectively. There is no scope at all to become complacent because the pandemic hasn’t ended yet.” Sarin opined that March was going to be very important in the fight against Covid-19. A recent serological survey carried out in Delhi showed that more than 50% people had developed antibodies against the novel coronavirus. However, only 25% of them had high levels of antibodies. The experts warn that antibodies developed through natural infection can protect people from infection or severe symptoms only for a limited period. The emergence of newer strains of the novel coronavirus is another concern. “We need to speed up immunisation against Covid,” urged Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals. “It will offer protection to the most vulnerable individuals and help save a lot of lives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/signs-of-a-win-but-delhi-cant-let-its-guard-down/articleshow/81098138.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Private schools, parents at odds over offline exams||NEW DELHI: The Central Board of Secondary Education’s instructions that exams should be held offline has put many private schools in a quandary. More than 100 parents of Class IX students in one Delhi institution wrote in to express their opposition to the classroom examinations. In another, the older schedule for the exams had to be withdrawn and a new one, with dates for both online and offline exams, is being worked out. Madhulika Sen, senior advisor at Tagore International School, Vasant Vihar, said 10 principals met on Thursday to discuss the issue. “We spoke with CBSE and were told we would have to abide by the examination by laws. The CBSE official was also clear that no other agency had a say on the board’s examination rules,” said Sen. “However, in the meeting, the principles agreed that parents were up in arms. So, we are figuring out what to do.” Sanyam Bhardwaj, controller of examinations, CBSE, responded, “All students of classes IX and XI are attending offline classes. The schools too have taken all precautions against Covid. Some people have brought to my notice the problem of school conveyance and generally, that is the problem, not offline examinations.” At Springdales, Dhaula Kuan, around 105 parents of Class IX students wrote to say they didn’t want to send their children to school for exams. A parent grumbled, “Children are stressed about suddenly going for physical exams after a year of online classes. There’s no school transport either. Should I go to work or drop the children at 8.30 am and pick them up at 12.30 pm?” While The Indian School is yet to decide on the mode of its examinations, a branch of Bal Bharati School is reworking the examination date sheet after parents objected to the offline tests. A school official said, “Many Class XI parents said that they wanted an online examination. We had prepared question papers only for the offline mode.” Many institutions have, however, decided to go ahead with offline exams. At Springdales School, Pusa Road, the practical exams will begin on Monday. Principal Ameeta Mulla Wattal said, “I am only following the orders of the government. The director of education tweeted that students in government schools are writing the exams — so are we to say that the life of a government school student is less important than that of a private school student? There’s 90% attendance in regular classes despite their being optional, so why not exams?” Some schools had already conducted online exams and are now calling the students back for classroom exams as directed by CBSE. But Mount Abu Public School, Rohini, received no feedback from the parents even after the date sheets for offline exams were released. Such principals will consult the directorate of education about what to do. The situation is different in government schools. A K Jha, principal, Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Sector 8, Rohini, said, “The fear of parents and students has vanished. When we held exams for classes X and XII, almost 99%of the students wrote the papers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pvt-schools-parents-at-odds-over-offline-exams/articleshow/81102270.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 19, 2021||Chandigarh||SAD, BJP: From hero to zero||Mohali: In a major embarrassment, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), despite high-octane campaigns, failed to win even a single seat in Mohali municipal corporation. The SAD had fielded 43 candidates and the BJP 46 for the 50 wards. It was being said that the SAD lost as it was an erstwhile BJP ally, while the saffron party was trounced due to farmers’ agitation. The SAD-BJP alliance had the majority in the last house after Azad group candidates joined hands with the SAD. Three factors for SAD’s drubbing were its snapping ties with the BJP prior to polls, Azad group parting ways and infighting among Akali councillors on constituting a core committee of outsiders to conduct Mohali elections. Many SAD candidates polled as low as 16, 17 and 22 votes. Aditi Sharma from ward 7 polled 16 votes, Amit Chopra from ward 10 secured 17 votes, Paramjeet Kaur from ward 11 got 17 votes, Kulwant Kaur from ward 16 managed 22 votes, Gurbinder Kaur from ward 21 bagged 14 votes. Health and labour minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, taking a dig at SAD, said, “The farmers’ appeal to repeal agriculture laws is not being taken seriously by the BJP government and the Akali Dal had firmly supported these laws before breaking the alliance with the NDA. Therefore, people of Punjab wiped out these parties.”Such had been the anger against the BJP that during electioneering, its candidates were attacked and bullied and their party offices were either gheraoed or ransacked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-bjp-from-hero-to-zero/articleshow/81098140.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
February 19, 2021||Trichy||DMK, AIADMK MLAs distribute welfare scheme||Trichy: DMK and AIADMK legislators from Pudukottai district came together to distribute welfare scheme to people in their constituency on Thursday. AIADMK, Aranthangi legislator E Rathinasabapathy and Alangudi DMK MLA Siva V Meyyanathan shared the stage during an event organised by the social welfare department to distribute cash and gold under marriage assistance scheme for beneficiaries from Aranthangi, Avudaiyarkoil and Manamelkudi unions. Addressing the gathering, Meyyanathan said that it was former DMK president M Karunanidhi, who increased the marriage assistance from Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000 during his tenure as chief minister. He said the AIADMK leaders are now speaking about Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river linking project, but it was Karunanidhi, who initiated the project by allocating Rs 380 crore for the project in 2008. An allocationfor the project was announced by the AIADMK government but it was not made yet, he said. Later speaking at the event, Rathinasabapathy said AIADMK not just announces a project but also completes it successfully. The CM will definitely implement the river linking project, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-aiadmk-mlas-distribute-welfare-scheme/articleshow/81099602.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||Roorkee: Three members of ATM gang arrested, kingpin & another still at large||ROORKEE: Police on Wednesday arrested three absconding men suspected of being part of an inter-state gang, who had attempted to break a local ATM to rob it last month. Police had nabbed one of miscreants during their act from the spot, while six others had escaped. There are two more miscreants, including the gang kingpin, who are yet to be arrested. Police also recovered a luxury car from the accused. According to reports, in the early hours of January 16, a police team on routine patrol spotted a car near an SBI ATM at SDM chowk. Hearing voices from within the kiosk, police raided it and found some people trying to break the ATM with a gas cutter and other tools. Though most of the miscreants managed to escape in their car, police nabbed Tafeem Mehmood, a resident of Shikarpur village in Haryana’s Nuh district from the spot. During interrogation, he revealed there were six members in the gang involved. Police on Wednesday arrested three of them from their villages after conducting several raids. They were identified as Hameed from Shikarpur in Haryana, Hemant Chauhan of Bhorgarh in North Delhi and Inderjeet of Sonipat in Haryana. The kingpin, Pawan of Narela in Delhi, and another unnamed member, also of Nuh, are still at large. Police said all miscreants were in their late twenties and from well-to-do families. “Their modus operandi was to drive down to their target city and stay at a hotel a day before executing the crime, to do recce of an ATM where security guards were not posted. At night, they would park their car outside the ATM and break into the kiosk. They would then spray black paint on CCTV cameras inside the cabin, uproot the ATM and carry it away,” said Rajesh Sah, in-charge of Civil Lines police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-members-of-atm-gang-arrested-kingpin-another-still-at-large/articleshow/81096791.cms||Tapan Susheel
February 19, 2021||Trichy||Man gets triple death for sodomy, murder of boy||Pudukottai: A mahila court in Pudukottai district has awarded triple death sentence to a 34-year-old man for sodomising a 17-year-old mentally ill boy in Keeranur in Pudukottai district in December 2019. The convict, Danish Patel, was a native of Gujarat who was working as a daily wager in a stone crusher unit. Danish was residing in a village close to the stone crusher. According to police, the man took the victim, who was his neighbour, to an isolated location on his motorcycle on the fateful day. He sodomised him and inserted plant stems into his anus resulting in internal injuries. The boy was admitted to Pudukottai government medical college hospital after the assault. However, his condition worsened due to the injuries and he died 18 days after the incident of multiple organ failure. The accused was arrested the same day and was detained under Goondas act. The police filed chargesheet in February last year after which the trial began at the mahila court. The accused was booked under section 5(k), 5(i) and 5(j) of protection of children from sexual offences (Pocso) (amendment) act 2019 for taking advantage of a child’s mental disability, and penetrative sexual assault causing internal injuries. He was also booked under sections 363 (abduction) and 302 (murder) of IPC. Pronouncing the verdict on Thursday, district judge R Sathya awarded triple death sentence in all the three sections of the Pocso act besides imposing a fine of Rs 30,000 under the IPC sections. While a compensation of Rs 6 lakh was announced for the victim’s family, the court directed the state government to give Rs 3 lakh additionally. In a similar conviction on December 29 last year, the court had awarded triple death sentence to a 25-year-old man for rape and murder of a seven-year-old girl. The verdict came within six months after the incident shook the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-gets-triple-death-for-sodomy-murder-of-boy/articleshow/81099605.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Trichy||4 booked for cheating 43 job aspirants of Rs 11.5 lakh||Trichy. The city police have registered a case against four people, including a woman for cheating 43 job aspirants of Rs 11.45 lakh on the promise of getting them jobs abroad. The accused are yet to be arrested. The Edamalaipattipudhur police booked B Bruce Lee, 38 of Kumbakonam, M Khaja Mohideen, 41, of Kumbakonam, Latha Petchimuthu of Vellore and Ravindran Petchimuthu of Vellore on charges of cheating and impersonation, following.The case was registered following a complaint from S John Jerald, 54, of Nagercoil and 42 others. Bruce Lee, who was the manager-cum-partner of Gulf Petrotech at Crawford area in Trichy, was accused of giving false promise to job aspirants from Nagercoil, Tuticorin, Nanguneri and Vriddachalam areas. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-booked-for-cheating-43-job-aspirants-of-rs-11-5-lakh/articleshow/81099609.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Attukal temple fest to begin today||Thiruvananthapuram: Pongala Festival at Attukal Devi Temple will begin on Friday amid strict adherence to Covid -19 protocol. The trust authorities said that all rituals like ‘kappukettu’, ‘pongala’ and procession will be conducted by avoiding public gathering. Pongala will be held on February 27 at 10.50am. The trust has arranged facilities for the darshan for 5,000 devotees on a day in compliance with social distancing norms. Pongala will be held only in the main hearth. Holy water will be sprinkled at 3.40pm.  Devotees have been asked to offer ‘pongala’ in their houses this year. In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the state, Attukal Temple trust committee had earlier decided to offer ‘pongala’ in main hearth (pandara aduppu) alone. Mass ‘pongala’ on temple premises will not be conducted this year. Earlier in a meeting convened by minister Kadakampally Surendran, it was decided that ‘pongala’ shall be confined to temple premises and no ‘pongala’ shall be allowed on streets to prevent gathering of people. The city police too are prepared to ensure safety of devotees during the festival. Police will be deploying a force of 1,500 personnel on the streets in and around the temple. Besides preventing crimes, the main focus of police will be to ensure that social distancing is maintained among devotees who visit the temple during the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/attukal-temple-fest-to-begin-today/articleshow/81100164.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Dwarka And VK Flats Most Sought After In DDA Scheme||New Delhi: Two-bedroom and three-bedroom flats in Dwarka and Vasant Kunj have emerged the most sought among the 1,354 offered by Delhi Development Authority in its Housing Scheme 2021. Tuesday was the last day to apply to buy the flats and till midnight, DDA received 22,551 complete applications with security deposits. The draw of lots is expected to be held in the first week of March and will be live streamed to ensure transparency in the process.Applicants can choose flats of any category in any particular location as their first choice and then have a second, third or fourth choice. Successful applicants can get a flat of their choice. If all available flats in the location of their choice have already been allotted, they get the flat marked as their second, third or lower priority depending on availability.The flats marked as first choice by the largest number of applicants are two-bedroom middle income group (MIG) flats in Dwarka’s Sector 16, priced at Rs1.2 crore each. Sources said that the flats in that location are of premium quality and are well-located close to the Delhi Metro’s Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City). Another reason for their popularity is the availability of 348 flats there, which makes the chances of a successful appliction higher.The second most sought after flats are three-bedroom higher income group (HIG) flats in Vasant Kunj’s Blocks F and A priced at Rs1.4-1.7 crore. In this case, however, the location seems to be the clincher as the total number of flats is just 13, for which 2,060 people have applied. Third on the list are the Rs1.2 crore MIG flats in Dwarka, but in Sector 19, for which 2,035 people have applied. In fact, the 352 flats on offer there along with the 348 in Sector 16 saw every fifth applicant selecting them as the first choice.The 215 HIG flats at Jasola’s Pocket 9B were the costliest ever for a DDA housing scheme with a price tag of Rs. 1.9-2.1 crore and saw 1,677 applicants opting for them as the flat of choice. HIG flats at Dwarka’s Sector 18B, at Rs 1.1-1.2 crore, were the first choice of 1,064 applicants even though there were just six of these flats.The only lower income group (LIG) flats that were the first choice of 1,743 applicants were the 25 one-bedroom flats in Dwarka’s Sector-23B, priced between Rs22.3 lakh and Rs22.7 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dwarka-and-vk-flats-most-sought-after-in-dda-scheme/articleshow/81098161.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Kharghar golf course to turn 18-hole international facility at Rs 50 crore||NAVI MUMBAI: Cidco plans to expand the Kharghar Valley Golf Course (KVGC), built on 52 hectares of land along the picturesque Kharghar hills at a cost of Rs 50 crore, from the existing 9-hole set-up to 18-hole modern facility, conforming to international standards. Cidco also plans to develop a country club with modern facilities. A proposal for the same is being prepared. This will enable the course to host international golf tournaments in the city. Meanwhile, ‘Cidco Masters Cup-2021’ will be held at the golf course on February 20. Golfers associated with golf clubs from Mumbai and Pune are expected to take part in the tournament. According to Cidco officials, tenders for the project will be floated shortly. “We are delighted about the first edition of the Cidco Masters Cup.The event will unveil the expansion plan of a full-fledged 18-hole course with modern amenities to hold commercial tournaments and boost international tourism,” said Cidco MD Dr Sanjay Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/18-holes-golf-course-in-kharghar-soon/articleshow/81100163.cms||B B Nayak
February 19, 2021||Aurangabad||Heavy rains, hail lash parts of Maharashtra's Jalna district; farmer killed by lightning||AURANGABAD: A farmer was killed by lightning while standing rabi crops suffered damage due to heavy rains accompanied by a hailstorm in parts of neighbouring Jalna district, including a few villages in Bhokardan taluka, on Thursday afternoon. Jalna district disaster management officer Deepak Kajalkar identified the farmer as Rahul Sundarde from Tadegaowadi village in Bhokardan. “As per preliminary information, Ibrahimpur, Malkheda, Avhana, Thalewadi, Bhivpur and Subhanpur villages in Bhokardan taluka received hail and rain. We are seeking further details of crop damage from the revenue officials,” Kajalkar said. Earlier, isolated areas in Khuldabad taluka of Aurangabad district reported a light hailstorm on Wednwesday night. An official weather forecast said Aurangabad and parts of the region may witness partly cloudy skies with the possibility of thunder and lightning over the next 24 hours at least. An advisory issued by the Parbhani-based Vasantrao Naik Agriculture University said Parbhani, Jalna, Hingoli, Nanded and Beed districts are also expected to witness extreme weather conditions over the next 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/heavy-rains-hail-lash-parts-of-jalna-district-farmer-killed-by-lightning/articleshow/81095878.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Man arrested for raping minor girl||KOLLAM: Eroor police here have arrested a 24-year-old man on charges of raping a 16-year-old girl. The victim in the case is a relative of the accused. The police said that the girl had stayed in the residence of the accused for a few months last year. It is during this period that she was sexually abused by the accused. Recently her parents took her to a doctor after she complained of severe stomach pain and during the medical examination it was revealed that she was pregnant. Following this, the doctor informed the local police. The accused was arrested by Eroor station house officer inspector S Sreejith. The accused was booked under relevant sections of Pocso Act. He was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-arrested-for-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/81100194.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Trichy||316 children rescued under Operation Smile in 15 days||Trichy: The 15-day-long ‘Operation Smile’ 2021-led to the rescue of 92 children combined from Trichy city and Trichy rural besides 224 children being rescued by government railway police (GRP) of Trichy division.The operation carried out from February 1-15 was aimed at rescuing missing children, children subjected to child labour and bonded labour and also those being trafficked from other states.Going by the data from the anti-child trafficking unit (ACTU), Trichy district, led by inspector T Parimannan, the stakeholders including national child labour project (NCLP), Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA), Childline, district child protection unit (DCPU) and child welfare committee (CWC) rescued 47 children in Trichy rural area.The rescued children included 36 child labourers, five children involved in begging, four children with mothers involved in begging and two missing children. They were rescued from mechanic shops, hollow block units, brick kilns, textile units and restaurants.Parimannan said on Thursday that the employers warned of severe action if the same offences are repeated. The children were produced before the CWC and handed over to their guardians.In Trichy city, ACTU-led by inspector R Sindhunathi said that the team comprising all the stakeholders rescued 45 children including 38 child labourers, three involved in begging and six minor bonded labourers.Sindhunathi said on Thursday that the child labourers were employed in two wheeler mechanic shops, automobile showrooms and optical shops in the city. The Palakkarai police and the Cantonment police registered four cases against the employers. She also said that the labour department has been asked to initiate action to get them compensation.Meanwhile, Trichy railway comprising 24 stations from Villupuram to Nagercoil rescued 224children including 183 boys and 41 girls in total in the operation-led by its superintendent of police T Senthilkumar.BBA state coordinator H Natharsha Malim, who was part of the operation in Trichy, too, insisted on the need for filing FIR under child and adolescent labour (prohibition and regulation) Act and juvenile justice (care and protection) Act so that the compensation to the victims can be given at the right time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/316-children-rescued-under-operation-smile-in-15-days/articleshow/81099617.cms||Gokul Rajendran
February 19, 2021||Madurai||Restore pre-lockdown timings of libraries: HC||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday directed the state government to open all the public libraries, which are now functioning partially, to their normal timings like in the pre-Covid-19 times. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi also directed the government to pass appropriate orders within four weeks. The court was hearing a public interest litigation which was filed by M Soundarya, a law graduate from Madurai district. The petitioner stated that owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, all public libraries in the state were closed. While the state government had given relaxations for the functioning of schools, colleges and cinema theatres, public libraries are functioning only till noon now. She stated that several students from the rural areas used to prepare for competitive exams only using the libraries and due to their partial functioning, they are facing difficulties in preparing for the exam. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench seeking to open all the public libraries in a full-fledged manner on condition to strictly adhere to guidelines of social distancing. During the course of hearing, the special government pleader informed the court that all the public libraries in the cities are functioning as usual but the libraries in the rural areas are only functioning till 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/restore-pre-lockdown-timings-of-libraries-hc/articleshow/81099622.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Row over DoE director’s speech at school||New Delhi: A video of Directorate of Education (DoE) director Udit Prakash Rai talking to students of a Delhi government school triggered a controversy on Thursday. He allegedly asked the students “not to leave the question blank and answer with anything they know as he has had a word with CBSE and they will be awarded marks”.However, a statement from the Delhi government stated, “The part of the DoE director’s speech is out of context.”Rai didn’t respond to calls and texts.On contacting CBSE, an official said, “The DoE can give specific context to the video and clarification. CBSE exams have not started.” Earlier, All India Parents’ Association president Ashok Agarwal tweeted that deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia must take cognisance and issue a public statement.Some even called the statement misleading and said it would create a wrong impression on the children.Delhi Congress tweeted the video, saying, “What kind of education model do you have Kejriwalji. Stop playing with the future of the children.”In the purported video, Rai is seen walking to a classroom with students and later talking to them as part of his routine inspection. He is also seen instructing teachers to encourage students to not leave any questions unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/row-over-doe-directors-speech-at-school/articleshow/81098168.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Dehradun||'Rail roko' protest: Farmers lay siege to tracks in parts of west UP, Uttarakhand||MEERUT/DEHRADUN: Farmers led by members of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) held sit-in protests on railway tracks in several districts of western Uttar Pradesh and the Terai belt of Uttarakhand for around four hours on Thursday as part of their 'rail roko' stir against the Centre's three farm laws. The stir passed off peacefully without any untoward incident, Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range) said. The protests brought rail traffic to a halt on certain routes forcing diversions and delays. According to sources, Utkal Express that runs from Odisha's Puri to Uttarakhand's Haridwar was stopped at Ghaziabad railway station after farmers blocked tracks at Modinagar railway station. Heavy police and paramilitary forces were deployed at railways stations in almost all west UP districts as a precautionary measure. In the afternoon, hundreds of farmers led by BKU leaders in respective areas began assembling near the railway stations. There was a minor confrontation between police and agitators at Garhmukteshwar railway station in Hapur where BKU activists tried to forcibly make their way inside the police station. In Meerut, protestors managed to enter the city railway station and sat on tracks. Similar scenes were witnessed at Muzzampur Narayan Junction railway station in Bijnor. In Muzaffarnagar, hundreds of protesters, defying elaborate security arrangements, blocked the Delhi-Saharanpur route. In Uttarakhand's Terai belt, farmers occupied toll plaza and railway tracks. Hundreds of farmers affiliated to BKU and Terai Kisan Mahasabha (TKM) staged a dharna at a toll plaza near Deoria village on National Highway-74 in Udham Singh Nagar district. The farmers also occupied railway tracks in various towns of the region. “Hundreds of farmers gathered at the toll plaza on Kichha Road. We are staging this protest for a day,” TKM’s president Tejender Singh Virk said. At Bazpur, a group of farmers led by Karam Singh Padda, BKU’s state president, said, "The farmers are feeling betrayed with the government’s move as their future is at stake. We will intensify our protest with new strategies until our demand of repealing these laws is met.” Similarly, in Khatima, Sitarganj and Kashipur towns, the farmers staged sit-in protests on the rail tracks. Around 120 farmers assembled in Roorkee and blocked the tracks as well. "The protest was peaceful and no untoward incident was reported in Haridwar district," SP (GRP) Manoj Katyal said. The farmer's four-hour 'rail roko' protest started at 12pm and concluded at 4pm. (with inputs from Aakash Ahuja and Tapan Susheel)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rail-roko-protest-farmers-lay-siege-to-tracks-in-parts-of-west-up-ukhand/articleshow/81096819.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Trichy||Supporters seek ticket for DMK leader K N Nehru’s son Arun||Trichy: While the battleground for the assembly elections is ready, the supporters of heirs of senior political leaders are also making efforts to prop up the scions. For instance, some supporters of Arun Nehru, the son of DMK principal secretary and Trichy west MLA K N Nehru, have submitted an application seeking a ticket for Arun in the upcoming elections. The constituency they have chosen for him is Lalgudi. P Senthilkumar, a DMK cadre from T Valavanur in Lalgudi union, led a small group of supporters to submitting the application. “We are keen to see Arun Nehru contest from Lalgudi constituency. We hope the party high command will take the right decision,” said Senthilkumar. Arun Nehru holds no party post as of now. One of the nine assembly constituencies in Trichy district, Lalgudi has remained a stronghold of DMK since 2006. A Soundara Pandian of the party continued to be MLA of the constituency for three consecutive terms from 2006. Sources close to Arun, a civil engineer by profession, told TOI that he was not fully prepared to enter full-time politics. A functionary said Arun took care to attend the functions of party functionaries and cadres in Trichy in the absence of his father who used to be in Chennai after being elevated to post of principal secretary of the party. In the wake of his promotion to the higher post, Trichy district of DMK was trifurcated and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Kaduvetti Thiagarajan and Vairamani were made district secretaries of south, north and central district of Trichy respectively. A source said that one of the 3 district secretaries is tipped to be candidate in Lalgudi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/supporters-seek-ticket-for-dmk-leader-k-n-nehrus-son-arun/articleshow/81099625.cms||Gokul Rajendran
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Nephew held for killing YouTuber||New Delhi: Two days after a 34-year-old man, who ran a local YouTube channel, was shot dead outside his residence in Dwarka, his nephew was arrested for killing him.An investigation revealed that the victim, Dalbir Singh, had bought a gun for his nephew to be used on his wedding on February 28. In the wee hours on Wednesday, the duo was standing outside the house, when the accused, Gurmeet, was examining the weapon when it went off.Police said Singh had gone outside his house when the incident happened. His wife, who saw him lying in a pool of blood, rushed him to a hospital. It was only later when doctors revealed a gunshot wound, that police were informed.The cops scanned the CCTV footage, and in one of them, Singh was seen sitting on a scooter from where he suddenly fell. The cops said no other person could be seen in the footage, but it came across as someone who was known to him was also present there. Singh’s call records were scanned and it came to fore that he had spoken to Gurmeet just before the incident. The accused was traced and taken to custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nephew-held-for-killing-youtuber/articleshow/81098190.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Trichy||Septic tank waste dumped into stormwater drain in Trichy||Trichy: In an unprecedented incident, Trichy Corporation on Thursday caught a desludging operator red-handed for draining faecal waste into a stormwater drain, which is flowing into the Uyyakondan Canal passing through the city. Even as three decanting stations are there for the safe disposal of faecal waste, desludging operators clandestinely discharge sewage in public places.Corporation sources said that they received information that a desludging truck is dumping faecal waste into a stormwater drain on Reynolds Road in the Cantonment area. The stormwater drain that carries wastewater from commercial establishments flows into the Uyyakondan Canal near the Ayyappan temple on Lawsons Road. Following the inputs, sanitation officials with Trichy Corporation inspected the locality and caught the desludging operator who was discharging the faecal matter into the stormwater drain. “A fine of Rs 5,000 was slapped on him for the offence. We have never encountered such an act in the city,” V Tirupati, sanitation inspector with Trichy Corporation, said. The civic body plans to ask the regional transport department to cancel the licence of such offenders. Although the city has three decanting stations where the faecal waste can be discharged safely for retreatment at a cost of Rs 30 per trip, a section of desludging operators are not dangerously polluting the land and water.“We have conducted several awareness meetings with desludging operators asking them to use only the decanting station. The infrastructure available for them is top class and affordable but still, they lack the motive,” Yohananthan S, senior associate (practice), Indian Institute of Human Settlements (IIHS), said. Sources said that such clandestine activities are going on at Crawford and Panjappur localities as well. As the decanting stations stop functioning by 6 pm, the desludging operators cleaning septic tanks during night hours are either dumping waste in UGD manholes or at public spots. While septic tank cleaning during night is banned, the activity is continuing, said residents urging the local body to take stern action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/septic-tank-waste-dumped-into-stormwater-drain-in-trichy/articleshow/81099639.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: RT-PCR test now must for flyers from Gulf region||KOLKATA: From Tuesday, flyers arriving from cities in the Gulf region will have to undergo RT-PCR tests both before boarding the flight and on arrival. The state government has asked two private laboratories — Dr Lal's Pathlab and Suraksha — to collect swab samples on days when flights arrive from Dubai, Doha and Sharjah. Those arriving by flights from Dhaka will be exempt from undergoing Covid test on arrival but will have to furnish the RT-PCR negative report before boarding the flight to Kolkata. The test has to be done within 72 hours prior to boarding. Swab collection had last been carried out at the airport on December 22 for passengers who had arrived by the Air India flight from Heathrow in the UK without Covid test. Thereafter, the facility was withdrawn as flights from the UK to Kolkata were suspended by the civil aviation ministry in the wake of the new mutant virus that was considered more infectious. Back in December, one flyer who was travelling back from the UK was detected with the mutant virus. However, unlike then, passengers will not have to wait at the old domestic terminal lounge for six to eight hours for the report to arrive. All passengers who do not display symptoms of Covid will be allowed to go home after the swab collection. But if passengers have a transit flight to catch, they will have to wait for the Covid test result before being allowed to board the subsequent flight. Passengers who test positive at the airport will be taken to a hospital for treatment. In case a passenger displays symptoms during the 14 days of health monitoring at home post arrival, the concerned person has to report to the designated surveillance officer. “State health department officials will continue to monitor the temperature of all arriving international passengers. Flyers who arrive by Emirates, Fly Dubai or Qatar will be asked to undergo swab test after clearing immigration and Customs. Passengers will have to pay for the facility and be charged as per the rate fixed by the state government,” an airport official said. At present, four flights arrive from Dubai and two from Doha in a week. Sometimes, chartered flights also operate from Sharjah. Repatriation flights used to operate from Kuwait City and Abu Dhabi last year but no longer do so. According to airport officials, the additional emphasis on flights from the Middle East is because airports in the region are a hub for international travel and transit points for passengers from the UK, Brazil and South Africa where mutant variants are driving the pandemic. While the UK variant has been detected in 86 countries so far, the South Africa variant has been found in 44 countries and Brazil variant in 15 countries thus far. All three variants have displayed increased transmissibility as reported by the World Health Organisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rt-pcr-test-now-must-for-flyers-from-gulf-region/articleshow/81096830.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Now, passport applicants can use DigiLocker||HYDERABAD: Henceforth, new passport applicants can carry Aadhaar cards, driving licenses, voter ID cards, through DigiLocker account and do not need to carry these documents physically to the passport office on the day of appointment, according to Regional Passport Office, Hyderabad. In the existing system, applicants had to bring original documents along with self-attested copies, which were then physically verified by the passport officials in the designated Passport Seva Kendras (PSKs), now the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has made this facility for the passport applicants and acceptance of e-Documents stored in the DigiLocker is enabled at the time of filing passport applications and applications for other related services, the RPO release said. These digital documents are a legally valid document under the Indian IT Act 2000. “Applicants can register an account on DigiLocker before submitting an application if they don’t have it already. Now, at the time of filling the passport application, a button ‘fetch from DigiLocker’ will be displayed, through which the selected documents can be shared via DigiLocker,” according to Dasari Balaiah, regional passport officer, Hyderabad. As of now, there is no move to completely switch over to the online mode. Either of the modes — physical proof of documents as well as DigLocker mode — is being accepted, clarified the RPO. “The DigiLocker is currently accepting documents including Aadhar card, Pan card, driving license and newly issued SSC certificate,” Balaiah told TOI. The new system will have two-fold advantage, that the applicants will not have to physically carry documents and time needed for verifying documents will reduce,” according to RPO. Now, with this DigiLocker facility, applicants are freed from all those efforts, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-passport-applicants-can-use-digilocker/articleshow/81098246.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Clear skies make this February one of the warmest of late||NEW DELHI: The capital could see its warmest February in the past few years due to high day temperatures, according to scientists at India Meteorological Department (IMD). The mean maximum temperature till Thursday was 26.3 degrees Celsius, while normally the average maximum temperature for February is 23.9° Celsius. IMD has predicted that day temperatures may rise significantly over the next three days. Experts said the average mean temperature for the month could rise to around 27° Celsius. No cold day or cold wave have been recorded this February. Though the minimum temperature was normal on most of the days, the maximum was largely recorded higher than normal with the departure range being from 4° to 7° Celsius. “This February could be among the warmest. Unlike last year when six western disturbances impacted the region, only one has passed this month. As a result, very light rain was recorded only on one day, on February 4. Under the influence of a western disturbance, cloud cover is formed, which screens out sunlight and helps decrease the day temperature,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. He said that as it was not cloudy and the sky was clear on most of the days, it was making the maximum temperature rise. Met officials said the maximum temperature touches 30° C usually during the last week of February, but Delhi recorded this temperature, which is seven degrees above normal, on February 11. The highest day temperature had not reached 30 degrees Celsius in the last two years. IMD data showed that the highest single-day maximum temperature settled at 27.8° Celsius in February 2020. In 2019, the highest maximum temperature was reported on February 22 at 28.1 degrees Celsius. Cold day or cold wave conditions are usually reported in the first 10 days of February. As of now, there is no prediction for them in the remaining days of this month. IMD forecast said the maximum and minimum temperatures were likely to rise from February 22. The maximum would hover around 30-31° C, while the minimum was predicted to be around 12-13° Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/clear-skies-make-this-feb-one-of-the-warmest-of-late/articleshow/81098239.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana HC seeks status report on lawyer couple’s murder by March 1||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Thursday sought a status report by March 1 on the investigation into the brutal murder of the lawyer couple. The judges sent notices to the home secretary, DGP, Ramagundam police commissioner and station house officer of Peddapalli, asking them to file counters on the killings. Taking a suo motu note of the killing of Gattu Vaman Rao and Nagamani in Peddapalli, the bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said they were shocked by the brazen manner in which the murderous attack was carried out. “You (the state government) have to explain a lot of things in the days to come,” the judges said while addressing advocate general BS Prasad. Stating that the situation was grim, the judges demanded immediate action. “Nothing should be missed by police. The probe should be done with complete promptitude,” they said. Vaman Rao and Nagamani, both practising advocates, were hacked to death near Peddapalli under Ramagundam police commissionerate on Wednesday afternoon.The judges said: “We are ruled by law. Nobody should be allowed to take the law into their hands. The credibility of the state government now rests at the way it deals with the case.” Referring to videos in which Rao, before succumbing to his injuries, named his killers, the judges said: “Needless to mention, collect all relevant evidence from the scene of the offence. We do not want to hear about any lapses on the part of investigators.”Referring to the presence of two RTC buses with passengers at the scene, the judges suggested the investigators could take some of them as witnesses. When advocate Shravanth Shankar sought a thorough probe, the judges told him they know which way to go. Letting authorities know they did come across the video of Rao wherein he named the man who killed him, judges said they want all such evidence to go through process of authentication and made ready for speedy trial. AG assured court that the government is viewing the case seriously and said assailants would be brought to justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-status-report-on-lawyer-couples-murder-by-mar-1/articleshow/81098244.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Police intensifies mask-up campaign, penalizes 400 in 4 days||KOLKATA: The city cops have stepped up their ‘Mask Up’ campaign again, with officers penalizing over 400 people in the past four days during special morning drives. Cops say that with Kerala and Maharashtra still registering several cases every day, the danger is not over. The aim, they said, is to cover areas around schools and cinema halls, or any enclosed space. A look at the recent statistics points to how the police have been active from the weekend that saw both Valentine’s Day and Saraswati Puja. “It is this set of youngsters — mostly in college, university and newly employed — who are the biggest violators. The vaccination may have started, but there is still some time till a considerable section of the population gets vaccinated. Most of our drives are taking place from 10am to 8pm,” said an officer. Between February 14 and 18 (till noon), cops have prosecuted 433 people for not wearing masks. On February 14, the number was 75, which went up to 105 on February 15, followed by 114 on February 16 and 125 on February 17. In comparison, there were 94, 63, 69 and 97 prosecutions between February 10 and 14. The police measures came after at least 30% of those fined were found to be wearing the mask merely as an accessory. About 70% were not wearing masks. “Last year, initially, we repeatedly found people were not wearing masks properly. But now a section is not even pretending to wear one. At the Alipore Zoo and Burrabazar, we had people charging at us when we asked them to wear masks,” said an officer. At least three divisions held special sensitization drives and distributed masks. “Ever since the arrival of vaccines, the ground report is that there is a section which has almost forgotten that we are amidst a pandemic. There is a social responsibility, too, that several people, especially the youngsters, are forgetting,” said a joint commissioner. “We are not relaxing now. We are telling people they need to stick to Covid protocols,” said a welfare cell officer. The total prosecutions for protocol violation stand at over 3,000 since the New Year. “The vaccination has not yet taken off for the elderly. The Covid numbers now resemble that in the initial April weeks of last year. We all know about the spike that followed. If we are not careful, a resurgence is possible. Moreover, many people are thinking that once they get vaccinated, they’re not going to have to wear masks any more. They forget that a huge section of the population is yet to be covered in the vaccine plans. It is critical that people know they have to keep wearing masks,” said Amitabha Sengupta, a child specialist in Santoshpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-police-intensifies-mask-up-campaign-penalizes-400-in-4-days/articleshow/81096852.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 19, 2021||Aurangabad||Bamu to conduct PET as planned||Aurangabad: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) will continue to conduct its PhD Entrance Test (PET) with the legal hurdles being cleared on Thursday. Advocate Sidheshwar Thombre, who appeared on behalf of Bamu in a writ petition challenging the PET, said the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court has refused to intervene in the university’s affairs. “The petition was filed with a demand to conduct the second paper of PET on the lines of the first paper. The court, however, refused to intervene in the matter and disposed of the petition,” he said. Mohammed Isa from Aurangabad and Atul Kamble from Jalna had filed the petition, which prayed for allowing students to take the second paper of PET from their homes like in the case of the first paper due to the current situation. Sanjay Shinde, the public relation office of Bamu, said the second paper of PET will be held on February 21 as per the earlier announced schedule. “The test for the second paper of PET will be held online, but the examination will be conducted at designated examination centres. The list of examination centres for the second paper will be declared shortly,” he said. The Bamu, which is conducting PET after four years, has received over 10,000 applications for the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-to-conduct-pet-as-planned/articleshow/81095907.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Trichy||Thiruverumbur residents pool funds to repair damaged road||Trichy: Frustrated over the delay in relaying the roads dug up for underground drainage project and damaged in the recent monsoons, residents of Thiruverumbur overhauled the roads on their own through crowdfunding Rs 35,000. Falling under ward number 63 in Ponmalai zone of the Trichy corporation, residents of New Town Muthu Nagar and SAS Nagar in Thiruverumbur were struggling to reach the Trichy-Thanjavur national highway due to potholes and craters in the 1.50km-long road. Since the locality is a developing neighbourhood with a lot of new residential construction projects under way, trucks and other load carriers often get stuck in the potholes. Representations to the corporation to relay the road did not yield any results. With no support from the civic body, the New Town Muthu Nagar integrated residents welfare association (RWA) mobilised Rs 35,000 for repairing the road that serves as their only connectivity. With each of the houses and shops in the locality paying Rs 500 to Rs 1,000, the RWA procured red soil and used heavy machinery to level the surface. “Even after the monsoon had ceased, the civic body was hesitant in temporarily repairing the bumpy road surface. With no other go, we spent our own money and made the road motorable,” R Venkataraman, secretary of the RWA said. Since the refurbishment by the residents was a temporary move, the RWA said that the civic body will be urged to permanently relay the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thiruverumbur-residents-pool-funds-to-repair-damaged-road/articleshow/81099654.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 19, 2021||Madurai||HC dismisses plea seeking to close Tasmac outlet near temple||Madurai: The Madras high court has dismissed a plea seeking to close a Tasmac shop situated in close proximity to the Ponnar Shankar temple at Nallampillai village at Manapparai taluk in Trichy district.The court was hearing the petition filed by P Ramasamy. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that the Tasmac outlet is situated within 50m of the famous temple.The Tasmac district manager in the counter had submitted that the shop was established at the area by following Rule 8(1) of Tamilnadu Liquor Vending (Bars and Shops) Rules 2003 and also the guidelines issued from time to time by the Supreme Court as well as the Madras high court.The Ponnar Shankar temple is situated at 168.43m distance from the Tasmac outlet. No school, hospital, religious place of worship is situated within 100m of the Tasmac outlet and hence there is no statutory violations in locating the said outlet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-to-close-tasmac-outlet-near-temple/articleshow/81099649.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Pollution in Delhi cost 54,000 lives, Rs 58,000 crore in monetary losses: Study||NEW DELHI: A high amount of PM2.5 in the air was responsible for 54,000 deaths in Delhi last year, while pollution-related economic losses were estimated at Rs 58,895 crore. This was revealed by Greenpeace Southeast Asia on Thursday after analysing IQAir data and an online cost estimator. The capital saw 1,800 deaths per million in 2020. Among the cities covered by the Greenpeace survey, Delhi reported the highest pollution-related deaths. An estimated 25,000 avoidable deaths in Mumbai in 2020 were attributed to air pollution. Bengaluru, Chennai, Lucknow and Hyderabad had approximately 12,000, 11,000, 6,700 and 11,000 avoidable deaths, respectively. Globally, about 1.6 lakh deaths have been attributed to PM2.5 air pollution in the five most populous cities. The cost percentage of GDP for Delhi was estimated at 13%, while it was 14% for Lucknow, 9% for Mumbai, 8% for Hyderabad and 6.8% each for Bengaluru and Chennai. The estimated air pollution-related economic losses were Rs 80,009 crore for Lucknow, Rs 26,912 crore for Mumbai, Rs 12,365 crore for Bengaluru, Rs 11,637 crore for Hyderabad and Rs 10,910 crore for Chennai. Avinash Chanchal, climate campaigner, Greenpeace India, said, “Despite recording relatively better air quality last year due to the strict lockdown, air pollution continues to be a serious public health hazard that also drastically impacts our economy. For the governments, it is crucial that investments are made towards green and sustainable solutions. When we choose fossil fuel over clean energy, our health is put at stake. Polluted air increases the likelihood of deaths due to cancer and stroke, spike in asthma attacks and worsens severity of Covid-19 symptoms.” “We need to ensure that our growth demand is fuelled by sustainable and cleaner sources of energy and cities should promote low-cost, active and carbon-neutral transport options that prioritise walking, cycling and public transport. The increased use of clean energy and transport will not only improve public health, but also strengthen the economy,” added Chanchal. Commenting on the revelations, CEO of IQAir Frank Hammes said, “Breathing should not be deadly. The fact that poor air quality claimed an estimated 1,60,000 lives in the five largest cities alone should give us pause, especially in a year when many cities were seeing lower air pollution levels due to less economic activity. Governments, corporations and individuals must do more to eliminate the sources of air pollution and make our cities better places to live.” A cost estimator is a tool that tracks the real-time health impact and economic costs of air pollution in major cities across the world. To show the impact of pollution-related deaths on the economy, Greenpeace uses the approach called “willingness to pay”, the amount people are willing to pay to avoid negative outcomes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pollution-in-delhi-cost-54000-lives-rs-58k-cr-in-monetary-losses-study/articleshow/81098205.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Business||Social media companies may get just 36 hours to junk ‘unlawful’ posts||NEW DELHI: Social media companies may soon be required to take down ‘unlawful’ content in 36 hours, against the 72 hours stipulated now, on the request of government or court orders while also being mandated to be more responsive to citizens/user requests regarding handling of their personal data, according to changes in the IT rules that governs the operations of intermediaries such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Google.  The new rules may mandate a company with over 50 lakh users need to have an office in India and also appoint a nodal officer for liaising with law-enforcement agencies. According to the proposed amendments to the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011, that are notified under Section 79 of the IT Act, the government wants the social media companies to be more responsive in handling requests regarding the removal of unlawful content. The amendments, which would come into force as soon as they are notified, would make it contingent upon IT intermediaries to remove malicious content within 36 hours of receiving a court order, or when notified by the government, top sources told TOI.  Sources said the new rules would supersede the 2011 rules, and would put an obligation on intermediaries to periodically inform their users for compliance of rules and regulations, and also for following users’ agreement and privacy policy. Also, the amended rules would seek deployment of technology-based automated tools or appropriate mechanisms for proactively identifying and removing or disabling public access to unlawful information or content. Sources said that the government may touch upon the contentious issue of asking companies to identify the source of unlawful content so that action can be taken against offenders. Currently, companies such as WhatsApp have steadfastly refused to provide any such information, saying all communication on the platform is end-to-end encrypted and thus they cannot identify the origins of unlawful content. Legal consultants said that the provision of 36 hours for removal of unlawful content is in line with international practices and rules prevalent in many western countries. The guidelines for intermediaries under Section 79 of the IT Act are being amended at a time when there are concerns within the government about the carriage of unlawful content on social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/social-media-companies-may-get-just-36-hours-to-junk-unlawful-posts/articleshow/81100874.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Kolkata||Doms cremating Cov victims start getting the jab, to reunite with kin||Kolkata: Doms cremating bodies of Covid victims started receiving vaccines on Thursday, more than a month after the inoculation drive was flagged off with frontline healthworkers. Cut off from their families and shunned by society for the risk of transmission that persists even today, they had been forced to live in isolation — most had been residing at various Covid crematoria till last month — for six months. Vaccination holds out hope for these hapless workers who have been toiling silently as an important cog in the Covid-prevention wheel without recognition. Arijit Bose (35) and his associate Pinku Das (37) have been handling Covid bodies at Birjunala burning ghat in Garden Reach since July. They received the vaccine shot on Thursday at the 133 ward office under Borough XV. Their counterparts from Dhapa and Nimtolla crematoria are still awaiting their jabs due next week. Birjunala became the city’s third Covid-designated crematorium and started functioning from July 15, 2020, cremating Covid victims from private hospitals of Salt Lake and Barasat. Since then, Bose and Das have cremated 1,558 Covid bodies. They are now hopeful of being able to return to their homes and reunite with family members once the second shot is given to them after 28 days. Bose recalled how the Birjunala burning ghat was mobbed by a 700-strong crowd after the first Covid victims’ bodies were brought in. “There were no policemen and almost all the window panes of the crematorium were broken. We tried to pacify the mob but we were beaten up,” said Bose. When Das tried returning to his home at Badartalla the next morning, he was stopped by locals. The duo was unaware that the incident had gone viral on social media and they had been identified as Covid doms. Bose faced similar harassment after he tried to enter his residence in Garden Reach. It was not until mid-January when Covid cases started sliding sharply that the two were able to return home. Financially, however, the period has been rewarding for them. While prior to the pandemic they would earn Rs 7,300 a month as contractual workers, they are now paid Rs 2,500 per cremation. Unlike some healthworkers who have skipped the vaccine, doms are eager to get the shot. “Vaccines will give us a final protective shield against the deadly virus and I can’t wait to take it,” said Sunny Mullick, a dom at Nimtolla crematorium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doms-cremating-cov-victims-start-getting-the-jab-to-reunite-with-kin/articleshow/81096867.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||No mutated strain in Nagpur, so far||NAGPUR: Despite reporting highest 644 cases in all 11 districts of Vidarbha on Thursday, no lockdown-like strict restrictions or weekend shutdown has been imposed in Nagpur city and district. Even marriage functions, public events and gatherings are allowed, though with restricted attendance. Markets are also allowed to function in their regular timings. Nagpur is getting these relaxations because no sample from the city or district, sent to Pune for genome sequencing, has tested positive for the mutated strain of the virus like Yavatmal and Amravati. Some 80 samples from Nagpur, 20 each month from September to December, were sent for genome sequencing in December-end to NIV Pune, through Indira Gandhi Government Medical College & Hospital. Sources here informed that none of the samples tested positive for the new strain. These samples were tested especially for the UK strain. However, no sample from the February spike has been sent from Nagpur. This could be because the situation in city is under control as compared to Amravati and Yavatmal. On Thursday, though 644 new cases were detected, these were out of 6,775 tests done in the last 24 hours. This means, the sample positivity rate was still under 10%. This rate is more than 30% in Amravati and Yavatmal. For Nagpur, conducting more tests, 20+ contact tracing of a positive patient and strict imposition of Covid behaviour are the best ways to prevent the worst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-mutated-strain-nagpur-so-far/articleshow/81096872.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: DMRC seeks forest dept’s go-ahead to enter ridge areas for Phase-IV project||NEW DELHI: After largely navigating through the capital without entering the ridge, Delhi Metro may finally undertake construction in the green areas. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has applied for permission from the forest and wildlife department to construct a portion of the Phase-IV project in areas falling in the southern, south central and morphological ridge. The corporation had first applied for permission to use 50,875 sqm of forest land in 2019 for a 5.5km stretch of the Aerocity-Tughlaqabad corridor. In a fresh proposal sent on March 16, 2020, DMRC revised the total land requirement to 82,426 sqm, stating that 68,102 sqm of this was required for “temporary” usage. An RTI reply, a copy of which is with TOI, mentions that DMRC had applied for permission before the member secretary of the Ridge Management Board (RMB) for 20,083 sqm of the ridge near Mahipalpur. Another 16,992 sqm was needed near Ignou, which forms a part of the morphological ridge. In all, 31,551 sqm land was needed in Kishangarh, which is a part of the south central and morphological ridge. The remaining 13,800 sqm is along Ma Anandmayee Marg, a part of the southern ridge. “The total area required for construction of stations at Mahipalpur, Kishangarh, Ignou and Ma Anandmayee Marg is 82,426 square metres. Of this, only 14,324 square metres is required on a permanent basis for entry/exit, ancillary building, shaft, etc, while the remaining 68,102 sqm is needed on a temporary basis, which will be restored after completion of the project,” DMRC stated in its letter. The Aerocity-Tughlaqabad corridor will pass through Mahipalpur (along Mahipalpur-Mehrauli road), Chhatarpur, Ignou, Saket (Mehrauli-Badarpur road) and Anandmayee Marg T-Junction. In its reply to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on August 27, 2020, the forest department asked the agency to identify a parcel of non-forest land where compensatory plantation could take place. It further stated that the proposal was expected to be put up for the consideration of the RMB in its next meeting. “As the proposed site for construction is falling in the notified southern/south central ridge, you are requested to identify an equivalent parcel of non-forest land that can be earmarked for creation of compensatory afforestation as per norms of Forest Conservation Act, 1980,” it said. The forest department did not respond to TOI’s queries. DMRC said that it had received no permission so far. However, it added that it had already identified alternate land for compensatory plantation. A DMRC spokesperson said, “We have made all possible efforts to use only a bare minimum portion of the ridge. The alignment passes along the Mahipalpur-Mehrauli and Mehrauli-Badarpur roads, which also mostly pass through the ridge. DMRC is extremely conscious of its responsibilities and has taken a number of measures to preserve the environment. However, as the ridge covers vast areas of south Delhi, it will be impossible to cater to the large population there without passing through the ridge areas.” Earlier, TOI had reported while quoting an RTI reply that over 11,000 trees could be felled to construct the Phase-IV project, but DMRC had said the final figure was yet to be finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dmrc-seeks-forest-depts-go-ahead-to-enter-ridge-areas-for-phase-iv-project/articleshow/81098264.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 19, 2021||Trichy||Farmers advised to promote traditional paddy breeds through organic farming||Trichy: The Nel Jayaraman Centre for traditional paddy, based at Thiruthuraipoondi in Tiruvarur district, on Thursday conducted a training programme for farmers on cultivation of traditional paddy breeds. Noted organic farmers participating in the programme stressed on cultivating traditional paddy breeds through organic method for sustaining the rare breeds.The resource persons at the event said that consumption of traditional paddy cultivated without the using chemical fertilisers and pesticides would pave way for a healthier life. They sensitised the farmers about the benefits of traditional paddy breeds. “As the organic farmer Nammalvar had said, farmers should not stop at harvesting their crops. They should also consider marketing their products directly to the consumers by highlighting the benefits of eating healthy organic food,” C Karikalan, a leading organic farmer said.Stating that more than 80 per cent of the people in Tamil Nadu consume rice, the resource persons from the centre said that farmers should master the marketing strategy to revive traditional paddy breeds. Techniques to grow traditional paddy breeds such as Kaatuyanam, Kullakar and Karudan Samba were shared with the participants by the organic farmers growing traditional breeds. The duration of traditional paddy breeds varies between 140 and 180 days. “Even during the recent heavy rainfall, traditional paddy cultivated by us remain unaffected. The breeds can also withstand drought,” S Rajiv, a coordinator of the centre said. The farmers were also taken for a field visit in Adirengam village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-advised-to-promote-traditional-paddy-breeds-through-organic-farming/articleshow/81099658.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||HC wraps up hearing on pleas over mask challans||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Thursday wrapped up hearings on a batch of petitions challenging police’s decision to challan people for not wearing masks while driving alone in their car.Justice Prathiba M Singh heard arguments on behalf of the Centre, Delhi government and the petitioners, who were challaned for not wearing a mask while driving alone in their respective vehicles.Earlier, the Centre, through the Union health ministry, had submitted that it had not issued any direction asking people to wear masks in their cars when alone. It said health was a state subject and Delhi government had to take a decision.Delhi government had told the court that wearing masks while driving an official or personal vehicle was made compulsory by way of an office order in April last year, and remained in force. It added that a private vehicle was held to be a public place by the Supreme Court.One of the petitioners, advocate Saurabh Sharma, has claimed that on September 9, 2020, while driving to work, he was stopped by Delhi Police officers and challaned Rs 500 for not wearing a mask, though he was alone in his car. Another petitioner Sudesh Kumar told HC that he was challaned despite having wrapped his mouth and nose with a scarf.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-wraps-up-hearing-on-pleas-over-mask-challans/articleshow/81098278.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||In sickness & (not) health: Court marriages courting infection at Nagpur registrar office||NAGPUR: Covid times have seen a spike in court registered marriages. If marriage functions may be a cause for spreading infections these days, there has also been a sudden increase in the no-frills registered marriages. The crowds gathering at the registrar’s office face a similar risk. Couples prefer registered marriage either to save money or if there is opposition from the families. The office of marriage registrar in the collectorate is the only place in the district where couples can tie the knot officially. The number of registered marriages had gone up in 2020 itself. As against 2,389 registered marriages in 2019, over 2,500 weddings were registered there in 2020. There has been sharp increase in 2021, however. In the first two months, 650 marriages have been registered in the district. With February yet to end, the numbers are expected to cross 700 easily. Each day, more than 30 couples turn up for getting their marriage registered, said sources. The score so far is 26% of the total marriages registered in 2020. Sources in the registrar’s office and those waiting there said the increase is due to Covid. Families are avoiding get-together and want to save money also. If marriage functions are being turning out to be virus spreading grounds, even the area near the registration office appears to have similar potential. The barely 20-metre lane where couples wait for their turn is clogged with people. With or without mask, people are seen jostling against each other. Distancing is a far cry. There is little space inside the office, where registration is done too. Not more than five persons are required for marriage registration. These include the couple and three witnesses. However, families come in large groups increasing the crowds, said sources. Even property documents are registered at the same office, which further adds to the crowd. Couples waiting there complained of the process taking too long. This increases their risk of getting infected due to the crowd, they said. “We are here since 10 in the morning and still waiting for our turn at 2pm,” said Mithilesh Ramteke, who had come for a relative’s wedding. “The papers have to be submitted a month before. A token with the date is handed over at that time. But despite the system, the wait is too long. We had come yesterday also, but could not get a slot,” said one the witnesses accompanying a couple. Apart from the token system, marriages can be registered on first-come-first basis too. This also increases the crowding, said a photographer, who is there to help couples get their photos clicked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-sickness-not-health-court-marriages-courting-infection-at-nagpur-registrar-office/articleshow/81096865.cms||Shishir Arya
February 19, 2021||Trichy||Trichy corpn’s poultry waste mgmt plan falls flat||Trichy: The delay in implementing the new poultry waste management proposal is making the vacant plots and banks of water bodies in Trichy city to bear the brunt. With over 1,200 chicken and meat stalls in the city, the civic body last year had invited interested organizations to collect the poultry waste from the shops at the doorstep for recycling. The poultry waste will be processed for being reused as feed in fish farms without collecting any additional fee from the meat stalls. By doing so, the local body had planned to prevent the rampant disposal of poultry waste at the banks of water bodies. However, with the proposal existing only on paper, the water bodies including the banks of Uyyakondan canal in Puthur and Vayalur road is being polluted by unidentified elements. “We are unable to manage the foul smell emanating from the waste throughout the day. Mini trucks are dumping the waste when there is minimal public movement,” D Ramakrishnan, a resident of Puthur said. Locals say that the poultry waste is mostly dumped on Sundays as the sanitary workers will not be present. Poor enforcement is cited as the major reason. “We have compiled the list of meat stalls in the city. Soon the poultry waste management proposal will be launched,” an official with Trichy corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpns-poultry-waste-mgmt-plan-falls-flat/articleshow/81099660.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 19, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Tourism Village 2nd phase projects inaugurated||Thiruvananthapuram: Tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran inaugurated the second phase development projects at Akkulam Tourist Village here on Thursday. The projects were completed at a cost of Rs 9.34 crore. The minister also inaugurated works of the Rs 185.23-crore Akkulam Lake conservation project, which is being funded by Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The project aims at scientifically preserving the lake with the active participation of the local community. Surendran said that with the completion of all the projects Akkulam would become a major sought-after tourist destination in the city. “For Akkulam, the development project is a long-cherished dream. The children’s park and other facilities have been designed and executed attractively. The next stage is the completion of Akkulam Lake preservation works,” the minister added. Tourism director P Bala Kiran said that Akkulam has immense possibility for tourism development and the department is aiming at implementing an overall development plan for the area in various phases. The projects, which were inaugurated on Thursday, included musical fountain, artificial waterfall, bicycle track, cafeteria, office room and renovated swimming pool. Being the major attraction at the Tourism Village, the musical fountain, which offers a spectacular experience to the viewers, is one of the best in India considering the technology and aesthetic design. Executed by the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS) Ltd., the musical fountain provides a breath taking visual experience about the rich and diverse culture of Kerala focusing on the theme ‘unity in diversity’. Its stunning effect is created by the application of DMX technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tourism-village-2nd-phase-projects-inaugurated/articleshow/81100229.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Rain with strong wind in parts of Mumbai||Mumbai: Several parts of Mumbai, including Andheri, Bandra, Dahisar, Malad and adjoining Vashi and Kamothe witnessed rain accompanied by strong wind on Thursday evening. Weathermen said the thunder and showers was due to a trough in low level easterlies which had shifted westwards, and warnings for such weather were in place. IMD forecast cloudy skies for the next 24 hours. “The trough in low level easterlies now runs from north Kerala coast to the cyclonic circulation over south Madhya Maharashtra across interior Karnataka. This caused cloud development and moisture incursion,” said Shubhangi Bhute, scientist, IMD, Mumbai. Maximum temperature recorded on Thursday by at Colaba and Santacruz was 30.8 degrees and 32.7 degrees respectively. Following rain, train services came to a standstill for an hour on Harbour line, near Mansarovar station, after power supply tripped at 8.10pm. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rain-with-strong-wind-in-parts-of-mumbai/articleshow/81098639.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Coimbatore||Campaign against domestic violence begins today||Coimbatore: Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH) will conduct a campaign from February 19 to 28 to create awareness about domestic violence and prevent harassment of women by building strong family values.Through ‘Strong Family – Strong Society’, JIH will conduct programmes such as public meetings, press meets, symposiums, cultural programme, essay and poetry competitions, story competition, social media posters, premarital counselling, interfaith discussions, online meetings and street meetings, state president Khadija Khaja said.“The importance of building strong family structure and creating awareness on various destructive ideas will be the focus of this campaign. We are aiming to spread the message to about 50,000 families in Coimbatore,” said N Zaheena Ahmed, president of ladies wing of JIH.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/campaign-against-domestic-violence-begins-today/articleshow/81098299.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Sagar bypoll: BJP goes all out to maintain its winning streak||HYDERABAD: The BJP is keen to maintain its winning streak in Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll as well. Though the party has negligible presence in the assembly constituency, the party is going all out to beat both the TRS and Congress and bag the seat. With Congress deciding to field seven-time MLA K Jana Reddy, the BJP is considering various names to take on the veteran leader. After considering Jana Reddy’s son K Raghuveer and actress Vijayashanti, the saffron party is now trying to lure Congress MLA Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy, who has been openly criticising the TPCC leadership and hinting at switching over to the BJP. The BJP is even trying to get T Chinnappa Reddy, who is an aspirant from the ruling TRS. K Sucharita Reddy, who contested in 2018 elections on a BJP ticket, is again pursuing with the party to give her the ticket. Sources said an NRI from the area is also keen to get the saffron party ticket. Sources said the TRS, Congress and BJP are taking the bypolls seriously and viewing the contest as a semifinal to the assembly elections in 2023. Apart from facing a formidable candidate like Jana Reddy, the BJP does not want to fritter away the gains made in Dubbak and GHMC polls by coming third behind the Congress, party insiders said. “If Congress performs better than us, our claims to project as the main opposition will be questioned. That is why we are taking a lot of time to select the candidate to take on Jana Reddy and TRS nominee,” a BJP leader told TOI. The recent public meeting addressed by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao in Haliya where he announced several sops for Nalgonda is also weighing on the BJP, which wants to call the bluff of the CM for failing to deliver the promises he had made in Huzurnagar after his party won the seat in a bypoll. Sources said the party will select the candidate only after the graduates MLC polls are over. The party is planning to get national leaders to campaign in Nagarjuna Sagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sagar-bypoll-bjp-goes-all-out-to-maintain-its-winning-streak/articleshow/81098300.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Over 23k sq yards govt land saved by GHMC||Hyderabad: The extent of land saved from encroachers by the Assets Protection Cell (APC) has revealed large-scale encroachment in the city. Since the launch of the APC in July 2020, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), with the help of residents who tipped officials, was able to save 23,340 square yards of government property from land grabbers. The total value of the properties that were eyed by the land sharks and later protected by the APC, runs into crores of rupees. Most of the land saved till date is lung spaces marked as parks and open spaces in layouts. The biggest pieces of land that have been protected so far are 4,400 square yards of open space at Housing Board Colony, Bahadurpura followed by 2,006 square yards of open land in Father Balaiah Nagar in Alwal. As per GHMC records, on an average, the cell receives atleast 15 calls per day. “All callers do not report encroachments, some of them are enquiry calls too,” said a GHMC official. The APC’s investigation also found that most land grabbers encroach upon land with political support. In several cases, before occupying land, the land grabbers had approached people in construction business, local leaders and residents from the same locality. “In several cases, huts surfaced overnight on the pieces of land that were sold for a premium. The probe also revealed that raising temporary structures and huts was a part of the encroachers’ plan,” said a GHMC official. Residents can report cases of land encroachment on the toll free number 1800-599-0099, between 10 am and 6 pm on all working days. “Citizens can either provide their details or can lodge the complaint anonymously. The details of the complainant will not be revealed,” said Viswajit Kampati, director, GHMC Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management (EVDM) wing. According to EVDM officials, every complaint is assigned a unique complaint number and the complaint is forwarded to the assistant enforcement officer (AEO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-23k-sq-yards-govt-land-saved-by-ghmc/articleshow/81098286.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Bad to worse: First 2,000+ spike in a day in Vidarbha after October 13||NAGPUR: The Covid-19 conditions in Vidarbha turned more serious on Thursday when the region reported its first 2,000+ spike in daily new cases after October 13, 2020. This took Vidarbha’s total caseload to 2.91 lakh now. The region has reported 6,627 new cases in last 5 days, which means more than a 1,000 cases per day. Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola are still the three worst-hit districts in the region. Number of tests have also gone up significantly in these three districts, but the sample positivity rate is still very high. In Amravati, 1,799 tests were done in last 24 hours and 597 of them tested positive for sample positivity rate of over 33% here. In Yavatmal, 277 out of 620 samples tested positive, which means 38% samples were positive. In Akola, this rate was 30% while in Buldhana it’s 26%. The news of mutated strain of virus being found in Yavatmal and Amravati created panic among people on Thursday. Social media was full of posts about severe infectious nature of new strains and possibility of another deadly peak of Covid-19 in the region. Later in the day, experts also made it clear that the new strain is more contagious, and only strict restrictions and distancing can prevent a second wave. Total 15 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the region on Thursday. They include Nagpur (6), Amravati (4), Buldhana (2), Gondia (1), Chandrapur (1), and Yavatmal (1). With this, total death toll reached 7,165 and case fatality rate reduced to 2.47%. Thursday’s 2,052 cases came from Nagpur (644), Amravati (597), Akola (259), Yavatmal (237), Buldhana (134), Wardha (89), Washim (41), Bhandara (19), Chandrapur (16), Gadchiroli (9), and Gondia (7). Recoveries came from Nagpur (250), Amravati (165), Yavatmal (66), Buldhana (66), Akola (46), Wardha (15), Chandrapur (12), Bhandara (11), Gondia (5) Washim (5), and Gadchiroli (1). Nagpur: The district reported 644 new cases out of 6775 tests done in last 24 hours. Out of six deaths reported in Nagpur district, 3 were of the patients referred from other states/districts in critical condition, 2 deaths were of the city-based patients and 1 from Nagpur rural. Wardha: The district crossed 11,000 mark as 89 patients infected with the virus were detected on Thursday. Now, caseload is 11,005 while recoveries are 10,001. Chandrapur: With 16 new detections and 12 recoveries on Thursday, Chandrapur now has 108 patients under treatment. One more death was reported during the day taking the toll to 395. Bhandara: Total 19 new cases and 11 recoveries were reported from Bhandara district on Thursday. Now, the district has 13438 total cases, 12992 recoveries, and 326 deaths reported till date. Gondia: The district has reported 7 new patients and 5 recoveries on Thursday. An under-treatment patient died in a day taking death toll of Gondia to 184. The district now has 14314 total cases of Covid-19, including 14054 recoveries and 76 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: Nine new patients were detected on Thursday while 1 patient recovered from the Covid-19. This took total number of cases in Gadchiroli to 9436 and recoveries to 9285. Total 105 deaths due to Covid-19 have been reported here till date. Now, 46 patients are under treatment. Akola: The district has reported 259 new cases in a day which is record for the new year. This took Akola’s total cases above 13k mark and reached 13137. Total 46 patients recovered in a day. No death was reported. Now, with 11384 recoveries and 346 deaths, total 1407 patients are under treatment in Akola. Amravati: An all time high spike of 597 for the district coupled with four deaths today has forced the administration here to declare weekend lockdown from ensuing Saturday. The spike took the caseload to 27323 and toll past 450 to 452. Yavatmal: The district conducted 620 tests in a day, and 237 of them tested positive. A 71-yr-old man, from Yavatmal city died during treatment. This took Covid-19 death toll of the district to 443. Buldhana: The district conducted 649 tests in last 24 hours and 134 of them tested positive. This took total number of Covid-19 cases in Buldhana to 15,359. Washim: The district reported 41 new cases and 05 recoveries in a day on Thursday. This took total cases in Washim to 7457, which is lowest in Vidarbha region. Out of them, 7,086 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bad-to-worse-first-2000-spike-in-a-day-after-oct-13/articleshow/81096876.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 19, 2021||Coimbatore||Debt-ridden young farmer ends life in Tamil Nadu's Thondamuthur||COIMBATORE: Unable to endure the constant humiliation from a private financial company for not repaying the housing loan, a 29-year-old farmer committed suicide by hanging at his residence at Dheenampalayam village near Thondamuthur on Wednesday night. S Anandan had left two notes for the Madras high court chief justice and the Coimbatore collector urging them to act against the financial company. He had said in the note that he took the extreme step as he was not able to repay the amount due to the pandemic. Staff from the company had abused him using bad words and humiliated him constantly, he said. He had also requested them to take necessary steps to handover the house documents currently with the company to his family members. According to Anandan’s wife A Gokila, 24, her husband had taken an agriculture field under lease at Uliyampalayam and was engaged in agriculture. He had built a house at Simson Nagar at Dheenampalayam by taking loan from the private financial company. Anandan had failed to pay EMI for the loan and the finance company had repeatedly called him to repay the loan. He was humiliated by the officials from the finance company, she said in her complaint to the Thondamuthur police. Two days ago, Gokila went to her parents’ house at Saravanampatti. Meanwhile, Anandan had expressed his frustration to his elder brother over the phone around 6.30pm on Wednesday, who in turn informed their sister Eswari. Eswari immediately rushed to Anandan’s house where she found him hanging from the ceiling of the house. Later, Gokila and her family members came to the house. Based on the complaint, the Thondamuthur police registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC. Police found two notes at the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/debt-ridden-young-farmer-ends-life-in-thondamuthur/articleshow/81098306.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Cycle Of Change: Ph-II Of NDMC Plan On Track, Likely To Span 10km Stretch||New Delhi: After the success of cycling project Cycle4Change on a 5-km stretch in Lutyens’ Delhi, New Delhi Municipal Council has decided to launch its second phase and engaged the School of Planning and Architect (SPA) to carry out a feasibility study and work out implementation modalities.The 10-km Phase 2 stretch will connect government housing/residential areas with offices around North Block, South Block, Nirman Bhawan, Central Secretariat and New Moti Bagh. A link route between the proposed two-way cycling corridor and the Phase I corridor is also planned to help users access institutions on Lodhi Road, Jorbagh and Lodhi Colony. “We have prepared a draft report and shared the same with SPA,” disclosed an NDMC official. “Since there are many roundabouts and intersections on the proposed corridor, SPA has been asked to design the route map to make it safe for cyclists.” The official added, “The purpose of the project is to connect all borders of NDMC areas with the upcoming Central Vista Project.”There will be two-way cycling lanes and alternative route options will be provided at some places, depending on availability of space. NDMC has also proposed to beautify the corridor, put up cycle signs and install safety devices, including temporary/permanent retro-reflective markings, at the roundabouts and intersections. “If required, we may initially use bollards and speed calming strips. However, such decisions will be taken on the basis of SPA’s study,” said the official. Under Phase I of the project, launched in October 2020, NDMC developed 5km from Bikaner House at India Gate to Jorbagh Delhi Metro station via Lodhi Garden. It also organised a promotional event. The NDMC official said, “We had a 10-day cycling festival last October during which we organised cycling tours for interested people in the morning and evening hours with the help of traffic police.”The civic body official added, “However, we realised that even after the festival came to an end, people were still using the corridor for cycling. This motivated us to go for the second phase of the project. We also decided to open up the stretch passing through Lodhi Garden for cyclists on weekends, while they could use Amrita Shergil Marg during rest of the week.” NDMC has also submitted details of Phase I of the project to the Union ministry for housing and urban affairs and qualified for the first stage of a competition for good cycling projects by getting nominated among the final 24 from the 41 entries received.The official said, “We will make our presentation for the final round on March 2 and hopefully make it to the top 11 projects in the country. However, whatever the result, we are keen to work on Phase 2 of Cycle4Change because even Delhi Metro encourages cycles for last-mile connectivity. We already have various stations where smart bikes are available for hire.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cycle-of-change-ph-ii-of-ndmc-plan-on-track-likely-to-span-10km-stretch/articleshow/81098292.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 19, 2021||Trichy||Mins rush to launch schemes as election declaration looms||Trichy/Coimbatore/Chennai: Following in the footsteps of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who inaugurated and laid foundation stone for various government programmes at the Secretariat, ahead of the announcement of election date, the ministers of his cabinet are scrambling to inaugurate projects and extend government assistance to beneficiaries in the districts. Health minister C Vijayabaskar launched schemes worth at least Rs five crore daily in the last three days in Pudukottai district, including Amma clinics, hospitals and new buildings. On Thursday, schemes worth Rs 7.56 crore were unveiled such as a building for a primary health centre in Ponnamaravathi union, buildings in a government school in Melasivapuri and a high school at Karuppakudipatti. Schemes costing Rs 5.37 crore were inaugurated in his home constituency of Viralimalai on Wednesday. “The minister has asked officials to expedite the developmental work in the final stage of completion,” said a source.A mega job fair is planned on Friday in Vijayabaskar’s native Illupur where more than a 100 private companies are expected to offer jobs for graduates. For his part, local administration minister S P Velumani has been inaugurating projects under Smart City Mission in Coimbatore. On Thursday, the minister extended benefits to eligible women under gold for marriage scheme and handed over keys of subsidized scooters in Pollachi. The local AIADMK partymen as well as officials say that more projects like the Trichy Road Flyover, Vellalore town bus stand, multi-level car parking in R S Puram, model road projects in RS Puram and Race Course are being expedited.“Time is running out for the ministers. Since they cannot do the launches after the announcement of poll date, they use every opportunity to reach out to the electorate,” said a senior AIADMK leader. Senior minister K A Sengottaiyan handed over free milch cows to 400 beneficiaries under a government scheme. Minister D Jayakumar opened Amma clinics in his constituency and handed over Rs 5 lakh each to 33 mechanised boat owners who suffered losses during cyclone Nivar, and Rs 2 lakh to boat owners who suffered losses. Minister K Pandiarajan has been opening new buildings and distributing government welfare measures to beneficiaries in his home constituency, Avadi and Chengalpet district, where he is zonal in charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mins-rush-to-launch-schemes-as-election-declaration-looms/articleshow/81099664.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||‘Yoga practitioners had lower stress during lockdown’||New Delhi: Yoga practitioners had lower stress, anxiety and depression, higher well-being and a higher peace of mind during 4-10 weeks of lockdown due to Covid-19 outbreak last year, a study by IIT Delhi researchers has shown. The study titled ‘Yoga an effective strategy for self-management of stress-related problems and well-being during Covid-19 lockdown: A cross-sectional study’ was recently published in the journal, PLOS ONE.The research study was carried out by a team of scientists from National Resource Centre for Value Education in Engineering (NRCVEE), an academic centre at IIT Delhi, which promotes interdisciplinary research in various areas of inner sciences and aims at cultivating a strong value culture among the students and faculty members. The researchers led by Pooja Sahni carried out the study on 668 adults between April 26 and June 8, 2020.The participants were grouped as; yoga practitioners, other spiritual practitioners and non-practitioners based on their responses to daily practices that they follow. “Long-term practitioners reported higher personal control and lower illness concern in contracting Covid-19 than the midterm or beginner group. The long-term and midterm practitioners also reported perceiving lower emotional impact of Covid-19 and lower risk in contracting Covid-19 than the beginners,” the study found.The general well-being was reported higher by the long-term and midterm practitioners. Further, the long-term practitioners were found to have highest peace of mind, lowest depression and anxiety.“While yoga has been recommended as one of the ways to manage stress during Covid-19, there was a lack of empirical evidence to support the claims. Our study has mapped the effect of yoga on the cognitive and emotional problems of Covid, besides showing beneficial effects of yoga on general well-being during adversity,” said Sahni.Kamlesh Singh, associate professor at IIT Delhi and one of the authors of the study, feels that evidences from this research can be used by healthcare practitioners to include yoga as an alternative therapy for self-management of stress-related problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/yoga-practitioners-had-lower-stress-during-lockdown/articleshow/81098307.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Coimbatore||City under thick security blanket ahead of Prime Minister’s visit||Coimbatore: Police have tightened security ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the city on February 25.Deputy commissioner of police G Stalin convened a meeting with the owners of lodges, printing presses, marriage halls and auto rickshaws at Tatabad on Thursday to sensitise them about preparedness measures. “Lodge operators should collect Aadhaar card and driving licence details of all guests and send them to the respective police station,” he said. “Lodge staff should be on alert and inform police if they notice any guest acting suspiciously.”Stalin instructed press owners not to print objectionable, controversial or communally sensitive materials. “If anyone approaches you to print such materials, you should inform police.”Autorickshaw drivers, who criss-cross the city roads, should inform police of any suspicious activity. Marriage hall owners should install CCTV cameras. “The PM’s meeting venue at Codissia ground in Peelamedu has been brought under city police control. City armed reserve police personnel have been deployed there. Bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS) and sniffer dogs are frequently inspecting the venue. Night patrolling has been intensified across the city,” Stalin said. “The railway protection police and government railway police will check commuters at the Coimbatore Railway Junction.”Armed police personnel deployed at check posts will check all vehicles entering the city. BDDS teams have been instructed to check public places.As many as 100 people attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-under-thick-security-blanket-ahead-of-prime-ministers-visit/articleshow/81098287.cms||A Subburaj
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Squads to rein in illegal structures||Hyderabad: The municipal administration & urban development (MAUD) department is constituting district-wise enforcement squads to stop illegal constructions and layouts. The squads will be pressed into service to identify and take action against people resorting to illegal constructions and initiate action against illegal layouts. The squads will have officials from police, revenue, and roads and buildings departments. “District collectors have been instructed to constitute the squads ahead of the demolitions. They have also been asked to hire officials on contract basis if needed,” said a MAUD official. The squads are being formed as per the provisions of the Telangana State Building Permission Approval and Self Certification System (TS-bPASS) Act. As per the Act, the squads need to attend to the complaints reported on TS-bPASS portal, online and manually. “We will first probe the complaint, if the building is illegal a notice will be issued to the owner, following which the building is razed,” said a Directorate of Town and Country Planning official. “The complete process will be videographed and a copy of the panchnama will be handed over to the property owner,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/squads-to-rein-in-illegal-structures/articleshow/81098305.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||BMC to inspect packed wedding halls, eateries; slap penalty, file police cases||MUMBAI: In a bid to crack down on large gatherings in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the city, BMC has directed its ward-level officials to immediately undertake inspection of restaurants, marriage halls, offices and auditoriums in their respective localities. Any marriage hall occupied by more than 50 persons, a restaurant filled beyond 50% of its capacity and a corporate office beyond 30% will face action in the form of a penalty for the first offence; if found flouting the rules again or repeatedly, a police complaint could be filed against it too. Times ViewWhile it is the BMC's duty to enforce rules, it is also the responsibility of citizens to follow Covid-19 norms scrupulously so that their carelessness and neglect does not result in further spread of the virus. This is a phase which the city can certainly overcome, but it requires the citizens’ full participation. That way, it will also be easier to pin responsibility on civic authorities.In a meeting held on Thursday morning, ward officials were directed to undertake immediate inspection of places where large gatherings of people are seen. “Large crowds are especially seen in marriage halls. Therefore, first and foremost, we plan to form squads for inspection and to take action against the owners of such establishments. If required, action will also be taken against those found without face masks at these venues,” said a senior civic official. Another official said though the rules specify eateries in the city will not be allowed to operate with more than 50% capacity, many have been found even filled to the brim. “This will not be tolerated and action will be taken against these premises immediately. Restaurant owners need to understand they are being allowed to operate so that their business is not affected due to the pandemic. If they continue to not follow the rules, action will be initiated against them,” said the official. A civic official from a western suburb said several pubs and discotheques in his ward host many patrons in the night hours. “While our teams will take action against persons gathering here as well as the establishments, our staff will also need police protection, which must be provided promptly,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-inspect-packed-wedding-halls-eateries-slap-penalty-file-police-cases/articleshow/81096881.cms||Richa Pinto
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Advocates murder: Two assailants held in Maha||Hyderabad: Less than 24 hours after the murder of high court advocate couple — Gattu Vaman Rao and his wife PV Nagamani — Ramagundam police have arrested three persons, including prime accused Kunta Srinivas, TRS Manthani mandal president. At a press meet, inspector-general of police (North Zone) Y Nagi Reddy said they arrested two assailants Kunta Srinivas and Chiranjeevi, along with another accused Akkapaka Kumar. Vaman Rao’s father Kishan Rao, while seeking CBI probe, raised doubts politically influential persons were behind the murders. IG Nagi Reddy said during their investigation they did not come across any political motive. Srinivas and Chiranjeevi were nabbed en route to Mumbai between Wankedi and Chandrapur in Maharashtra on Thursday morning. Police seized a car. “Kunta Srinivas said he has had disputes with Vaman Rao for the last five years. The motive behind the murder is Vaman Rao’s legal fight with the accused in connection with issues related to Sri Ramaswamy and Gopalaswamy devasthanam managing committee, taking objection to construction of another temple and a house by Srinivas,’’ Reddy said. Srinivas reportedly requested one Butta Srinivas to bring an SUV in which both Chiranjeevi and he could intercept victims. After the murder, the accused fled and reached Sundilla barrage, where they changed their blood-soaked clothes and dumped murder weapons into irrigation project. Police are examining another key accused, Vasantha Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/advocates-murder-two-assailants-held-in-maha/articleshow/81098313.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Specially-abled served food to fight Covid||Hyderabad: After organising a dinner for specially-abled children of Residential School for Hearing Impaired in Malakpet, Old City on Wednesday, a few techies decided to provide immunity-boosting food to children amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “After seeing the determination of students and their will to learn, Evoke Technologies decided to stand by them and provide them snacks as well as immunity boosting food for a month,” said Harish Daga, an activist from the city, who participated in the event. AV Abhishek, a software engineer, said that the children’s willpower is an inspiration to all youngsters. The programme was initially planned along with GHMC officials, but due to the model code of conduct ahead of the MLC polls and some top officials being appointed as nodal officers, the civic officials could not participate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/specially-abled-served-food-to-fight-covid/articleshow/81098311.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Ludhiana||MC likely to move resolution on shifting dairy complexes||Ludhiana: In what could bring about a huge change in the working of dairies in Ludhiana, the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, has made up its mind to shift the existing dairy complexes to Gorsian Kadar Baksh near Sidhwan Bet. But the consent of the civic body house needs to be taken for the same and therefore, MC officials have decided to move a resolution in the next house meeting for approval for the same. A meeting in this regard was held under the chairmanship of MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal on Wednesday. Presently, there are two dairy complexes, one on Hambran road and the other on Tajpur road and for past sometime there have been talks of shifting these from the present location to tackle the problem of dumping of the waste from dairies into the Buddah Nullah. Already, a special committee has been formed by the local bodies government led by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu to sort out this problem and this committee too had opined that shifting these dairies out of Ludhiana to Gorsian Kadar Baksh was the best option. The last meeting of this committee was held in December 2020. During Wednesday’s meeting, the MC commissioner also instructed the officials, including panchayat officers and members of the special committee, to visit the spot where the dairies were proposed to be shifted. Meanwhile, some of the dairy farmers are of the view that the process of shifting should be expedited and project should be completed keeping in mind all proper infrastructure. Speaking to TOI, Satinder Singh, a dairy farmer from Hambran road, said, “We are in the favour of shifting of dairy complex to Gorsian Kadar Baksh as right now we are in a congested place and facing a lot of other problems like disposal of waste, lack of proper infrastructure. We are hopeful that the new spot identified for relocating the dairies will have all modern infrastructure and will also come up in record time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-likely-to-move-resolution-on-shifting-dairy-complexes/articleshow/81096883.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Get jabs at the earliest: Top cop to personnel||New Delhi: Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava on Thursday asked cops to get Covid-19 vaccine jabs at the earliest, saying there has been no instance of any side effect so far. In a circular, he noted that “Covid-19 vaccination is essential for our health” and priority is being given to Delhi Police personnel till March 1. Shrivastava said there are 308 vaccination centres in Delhi and asked the officers to get vaccine shots at any centre without waiting for the SMS. “If there is any problem at the centre, then you can contact joint commissioner of police (operations) or special commissioner of police (operations) on 23469599 or 23469510,” he added. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/get-jabs-at-the-earliest-top-cop-to-personnel/articleshow/81098347.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Man booked for torturing wife||Hyderabad: LB Nagar police booked a harassment case against an auto driver for torturing a transwoman whom he married. The 29-year-old victim from LB Nagar lodged a complaint alleging that from 2018 she has been acquainted with K Taraka Mahesh (24), an auto driver from West Godavari district through Facebook. For the past one month, Mahesh has been demanding dowry from the victim. Despite knowing that the victim does not have money, Mahesh and his family members harassed her. Based on the complaint, a case was registered against Mahesh and his family members under relevant sections of the IPC and DP Act-1961. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-torturing-wife/articleshow/81098314.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Digital survey of farm land soon: Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: In yet another initiative to overcome glitches in maintenance of agriculture land records, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said the government will soon take up digital survey of all farm lands in the state and provide coordinates. The CM directed the officials to make arrangements for floating tenders in this regard. At a review meeting with senior officials at Pragathi Bhavan on Thursday, the CM said the digital survey should have taken place by now and added it was stopped due to the pandemic. “We will give coordinates for each land parcel. Nobody can alter these coordinates nor tamper or create confusion with the records any more,” he asserted. He said several issues on agriculture lands have been solved thanks to the comprehensive land records survey, issue of new passbooks, Dharani web portal and other reforms. “The remaining few problems will also be solved with the digital survey.” Once the survey is done, there will be clarity and boundary disputes of farmers’ lands, between government and forest lands and between forest lands and private lands would be finalised. He said they will find a permanent solution on podu lands also. “In the next three to four months, all these issues will be resolved. Since the coordinates will not change, there will not be any boundary disputes in future. In the countries where the land records are proper, 3-4% GDP growth was achieved. The government is ready to have such a revolutionary change,” the CM said. Expressing happiness over the functioning of the Dharani portal, he said it is working cent per cent successfully. After the new Revenue Act was unveiled, a lot of changes were visible in the revenue department. “Due to stringent methods put in place by government, no one can manipulate records and make any changes. Everything is done on a system-driven method and without any human interface, registrations are being done,” KCR said. Revenue dept name to be changedThe CM said in the changed scenario, the revenue department’s functioning has completely changed. “Changes came in the revenue department’s duties and responsibilities. In the past, the term revenue was used because it was collecting the taxes. Now, there is no collection of tax. Hence, the name revenue has no meaning now. We will change the name,” the CM said. A job card will be prepared shortly on who should do what job in the department, specifying duties of a revenue inspector, tahsildar and revenue divisional officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/digital-survey-of-farm-land-soon-cm/articleshow/81098318.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 19, 2021||Ludhiana||CP issues directives to gold loan companies||LUDHIANA: Commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal on Thursday issued various directives to gold loan companies and other financial institutions for maintenance of law and order within the jurisdiction of the commisssionerate of police. Exercising the powers vested under Section 144 of the CrPC-1973, Aggarwal ordered the installation of high quality day-night CCTV cameras at various points inside and outside the branches with superior DVR/NVT (net vision technologies) having remote control recording and storage facilities. Further, he told them to install burglary alarms in the branches linked to head offices, wherein call message can be immediately dispatched to Ludhiana police commissionerate control room (Phone no. 78370-18500, 0161-2414932 and 0161-2414933) and text messages can be automatically sent to the SHO concerned, ACP, ADCP, joint commissioner of police and CP in case of any emergency for immediate necessary counter-action. Moreover, the alarm must be connected to a BSNL landline phone with an auto-dialler in the branch he said and added that as soon as the alarm would go off, a teleprompter would automatically inform the police control room (Phone no. 78370-18500, 0161-2414932 and 0161-2414933) regarding some suspicious activity in a branch in a pre-recorded message. Commissioner of police also added that the system must be able to give out a loud sound alarm/hooter which should be audible to neighbouring areas up to 100m and operate automatically in case of forceful opening or any damage to vault/strong room/currency chest. He said that the security staff must be deployed through police verification and they must not be utilised for any other duty. Besides, the management must ensure that the main entrance had shutter gates/collapsible gate/steel barricades with chain and locking arrangements. The CP also ordered that important phone numbers of police control room, 112, local SHO, ACP and ADCP must be displayed in the branches. The orders will remain in force for the next two months, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cp-issues-directives-to-gold-loan-companies/articleshow/81096887.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Pune||93-year-old woman relocates in search of safe street for a stroll||Pune: Ninety-three-year-old Mangala Ukidve’s story can be an eye opener for the city planners as to how policies promoting densification affect the lives of senior citizens. Ukidve’s family owns two flats in an apartment adjacent to Grahak Peth on Tilak Road. Yet, she chose to shift to Kalpataru Sahaniwas, an assisted senior living facility along lane number 12 of Bhandarkar Road, in search of a street where she could walk without the fear of being knocked down by a vehicle.The facility has 35 senior citizens, all aged above 85 years, who have left behind their homes in other parts of Pune to relocate there. Their personal stories differ, but they have in common a love for a peaceful stroll.Every morning and evening, accompanied by attendants, these seniors take a stroll along the 150m small lane meeting the dead end just ahead of Beverly Estate, a five-storey building that houses the facility off Bhandarkar road and the Kamla Nehru Park road intersection.It is this small lane, an access to barely six plots, which has been shortlisted for widening to nine metres by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The PMC had, through a notice dated December 29, 2020, sought citizens’ views within a month about widening of 335 six-metre roads to nine metres. Residents of five of the six properties along the lane and even from the neighbourhood have submitted their official objections to the PMC’s road widening proposal, accusing the civic body of violating pedestrians’ rights.Madhavi Potdar, founder of Kalpataru Sahaniwas Foundation, said, “Ours is a non-profit organisation. We have started this facility with the cause of supporting very elderly citizens, who either stay alone or who have families but want to spend peaceful time with people of their age.”“There is hardly any space for widening the internal lanes in the area. After the widening of the roads, I fear that the vehicles will be parked on the widened street and block the pedestrians’ way,” said Uma Hiremath, who helps Potdar in running the facility.“Walking is the only exercise for me at this age. I shifted here (Kalpataru Sahaniwas) as it was not possible for me to even step out of my house on Tilak Road. The lanes there are ever busy with traffic,” said Ukidve, who had graduated from SP College and was principal of MES boys’ school.Ukidve knows all the lanes and bylanes in Sadashiv Peth like the palm of her hand and recollects how these once peaceful streets turned into an urban chaos after the old wadas crumbled to pave the way for highrises. “Even confining oneself inside the Tilak Road flat is not easy. There is a constant noise of vehicles travelling at high speed and the honking,” she told TOI.“My children had even put thick glass doors to make our flats soundproof. But the honking is so deafening that the noise penetrates the flat even if one window is kept open for ventilation. During festivals and processions, the noise is unbearable,” Ukidve said.“You will find many senior citizens from Tilak Road moving out and relocating to other places during the festival period. At this age, all I want is peace and a safe stretch to walk,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/93-year-old-woman-relocates-in-search-of-safe-street-for-a-stroll/articleshow/81098326.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 19, 2021||Coimbatore||Groundwater table rises across dist||Coimbatore: Groundwater level in all the 12 blocks in the district has increased, thanks to the three years of successful southwest and northeast monsoons and the various rainwater harvesting techniques that were adopted by the Public Works Department (PWD).As per the data available with the PWD, which had assessed the groundwater level in all the 12 blocks in the district between 2018 and 2021, Madukkarai registered the highest increase by 8.03m, while Periyanaickenpalayam block recorded the lowest (increase) by 0.6m. In Madukkarai, groundwater is available at a depth of 5.47m now, compared to 13.50m in 2018. The PWD has around 39 wells across the district to monitor groundwater level.In January, Anamalai and Pollachi South had the highest groundwater tables, which had risen by 3.24m and 6.09m, respectively, followed by Madukkarai. While groundwater was available at Anamalai at a depth of 3.50m, against 6.74m in January 2018, in Pollachi South the same was available at a depth of 5.12m, compared to 11.21m in January 2018.“The increase could be attributed to the various macro irrigation projects. Farmers were encouraged to come together and create ponds by offering them subsidies for the same. Many private firms also created ponds as part of their corporate social responsibility activities,” said an agriculture officer at Pollachi.While the rainfall plays the biggest role in rejuvenating groundwater level, PWD officials said other factors such as water usage of people in an area, topography and rainwater harvesting methods were also important. “Groundwater table is usually better in areas where water is drawn only for domestic purposes, compared to the areas that house agricultural lands, where water is drawn more,” said a senior PWD engineer.Activists said in places such as Periyanaickenpalayam, which lacks any rainwater harvesting systems, the groundwater level had hardly increased by 0.6m. “Kausika river, which passes through the area, has gone dry. The panchayat does not seem to have set up any major groundwater recharge wells. Some farmers have also been exploiting groundwater,” said Vetrivel, treasurer, Athikadavu Kausika River Development Organization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/groundwater-table-rises-across-dist/articleshow/81098316.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Aurangabad||Airport gets advanced radar system||Aurangabad: A monopulse secondary surveillance radar (MSSR) has been installed at the Aurangabad airport to ensure effective air traffic management. Airport director D G Salve said on Thursday the advanced system would facilitate smooth controlling of inbound and overflying air traffic. “In the event of several aircraft coming into proximity or flying in the same direction, their transponder replies can overlap. In another set of conditions, air traffic may give a false indication of an aircraft which does not exist. All these possible technical issues will be addressed using the MSSR,” he said.  Salve said the commissioning of MSSR in a full-fledged manner is expected to take place over the next few months. Afterwards, radio detection and ranging (Radar) data from Aurangabad airport will be transferred to Communications, Navigation and Surveillance Systems for air traffic management in other cities. Aurangabad airport is currently witnessing a total of 10 to 12 arrivals and departures of flights per day. As per the official data, the footfall at the airport has increased from 3,499 in July to 18,640 in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/airport-gets-advanced-radar-system/articleshow/81095944.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Kunta Srinivas has several cases against him||HYDERABAD: The prime accused Kunta Srinivas, who is involved in the double murder of Gattu Vamana Rao and his wife PV Nagamani was involved in several criminal cases in the past. Ramagundam police said that the 44-year-old was a member of Sikasa, an affiliated organization of CPI(Maoist), in 1997. “He was an active member of Sikasa and on one occasion he was arrested and sent to judicial remand for being involved in setting ablaze a bus. Later, he surrendered before police and joined mainstream politics,’’ Telangana police said in a press note. According to police, Srinivas was later accused in few other criminal cases and faced charges like extortion and other charges. His wife also filed a case against him, accusing him of harassment and indulging in domestic violence. Police said that the other alleged assailant Chiranjeevi, has no criminal record till now. But he was loyal to Srinivas, since the TRS leader helped him when he and his family members contracted coronavirus by giving him Rs 50,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kunta-has-several-cases-against-him/articleshow/81098321.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Coimbatore||Easy to find water in city than in rural areas: Borewell players||Coimbatore: Borewell players said groundwater was available at a lower depth in urban areas, compared to rural areas in the district.S K Shreedharan, proprietor of City Borewells, said they could find water at a depth of 60ft this year, compared to 90ft in 2017. “But 60ft is adequate only in places such as Ganapathy, Peelamedu, Avarampalayam and Podanur. As we move south to places such as Chettipalayam and Eachanari, we have to drill up to 400ft deep to find water and 300ft near agricultural lands at Sulur and Periyanaickenpalayam and 1,300ft at Pappampatti,” he said.According to the borewell players, topography makes a difference, because the harder the rock formations below the soil, the deeper they have to drill for water. “In the heart of the city, rock formations are softer and buried deep. As we move south, they are harder and spotted at a lower depth,” Shreedharan said.Public Works Department officials said the indiscriminate water usage by farmers was a concern and cause for groundwater depletion in rural areas.Expressing a similar view, R Manikandan, of Kovai Kuzhangal Paadhukappu Amaipu, said many farmers, who enjoy free electricity, had been drawing a large quantity of water and practicing flood (surface) irrigation. Environmentalists, meanwhile, attributed the city’s higher water table to the presence of major water tanks. “Almost 20 of the large water tanks, including Perur Periyakulam, Vellalore tank, Ukkadam Periyakulam and Valankulam, are in the city limits. Waterbodies in the rural areas are not maintained well enough to receive and store rainwater, especially in northern parts of the district,” Manikandan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/easy-to-find-water-in-city-than-in-rural-areas-borewell-players/articleshow/81098333.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Vadodara||Man forges papers to appoint himself as cattle shelter’s head, booked||Vadodara: A member of a panjrapole (cattle shelter) in Dabhoi was booked for forging a resolution appointing him the president of the cattle shelter. The current president Rakesh Jain told police that the accused Mehul Shah had forged a resolution of the cattle shelter in October last year and appointed himself as the president and other members as vice-president and secretary. Shah allegedly used the forged resolution to become the signatory authority of the cattle shelter’s bank accounts. Since Shah had posted about his appointment on social media, Jain and other office-bearers learnt about it and slapped a notice to him. Before Shah could siphon money from the bank accounts, they alerted the banks and reversed the decision. Meanwhile, Shah was given an opportunity to apologize to the office-bearers, but since he refused and did not return the forged resolution documents, Jain approached the police. An offence of forgery and defamation was registered at Dabhoi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-forges-papers-to-appoint-himself-as-cattle-shelters-head-booked/articleshow/81096496.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Pune||Actor Jaishankar Danve’s memorabilia with NFAI||Pune: The National Film Archive of India (NFAI) announced on Thursday that late actor and filmmaker Jaishankar Danve’s family has donated his personal collection of rare books, handbills, other non-film material to the archive for preservation. The collection from Danve’s Kolhapur-based family includes handwritten manuscripts, some literary works by Danve, including more than a dozen novels, eight plays, and five novels. Despite being born in Pune, Danve began his film career, and made his name in the then burgeoning Marathi film industry in Kolhapur, working with many filmmakers. He worked as an assistant director to Bhalji Pendharkar at Jayaprabha Studios. He also worked with Baburao Painter’s Maharashtra Film Company in Savkari Pash. The collection handed over to the NFAI includes wigs and a stick-on moustache from the 1933 production of Hamlet he acted in. “It is significant that the Danve family preserved his memories all these years. The collection takes us back to the golden era of Marathi films and theatre through rare literary works,” said Prakash Magdum, NFAI director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/actor-jaishankar-danves-memorabilia-with-nfai/articleshow/81098397.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ ‘rail roko’ remains peaceful in Punjab, Haryana||During Thursday’s four-hour ‘rail roko’ agitation in several states on the call of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmers occupied the tracks at 60 places in Punjab and several other spots in Haryana and Rajasthan. Farmers, who are protesting against the farm-marketing laws, stopped some trains from noon to 4pm. The train disruptions happened in Bathinda, Mansa, Barnala, Rampura, Maur, Moga, Nabha, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Phagwara, Pathankot, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, and Handiaya in Punjab, besides Ambala, Gurgaon, Panipat, Jind, Rohtak, Gohana, Kurukshetra, Rewari, and Palwal in Haryana. The 30 farm unions engineered 40 rail blockades in Punjab. The BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) single-handedly organised 22 of those in 14 districts. SKM’s Darshan Pal said ‘rail roko’ call had received a tremendous response across India, apart from Punjab and Haryana. “We have reports coming in from Behrampur, Parlekhamundi, and Cuttack in Odisha, Ranchi in Jharkhand, Patna and Shekhupura in Bihar, East Midnapore in West Bengal, Modinagar and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, Vijaypura and Tumkur in Karnataka, Jaipur and Ajarka in Rajasthan, Aurangabad in Maharashtra, and Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh,” he claimed. BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said, “We want the Narendra Modi government to repeal three contentious farm laws.” BKU (Dakaunda) vice-president Manjit Singh Dhaner and Kirti Kisan Union vice-president Rajinder Singh also claimed a good response to the ‘rail roko’. According to reports from Karnal, the SKM activists blocked the tracks at Gharaunda near the TDI Bridge in Panipat district, where women burnt the effigy of the Union government and raised slogans against it. The farmers were served langar on the tracks and motivated with folk songs. After the protest, they cleaned up the railway station and the tracks, amid a heavy police presence. The protest upset the schedule of six trains on the Delhi-Ambala section. The 25 trains that cross Panipat and Karnal every day haul 30,000-odd passengers. In Hisar, Fatehabad and Sirsa, protesters forced the cancellation of the Rewari-Shri Ganganagar special train. Kisan Sabha press secretary Sube Singh Boora told TOI, “Even the freight trains were not allowed to run. We jammed the Rajgarh railway line at Chirod and the lines going from Hisar to Bhiwani, Sirsa, and Jakhal.” In Sirsa, the railway tracks were blocked at four places while Fatehabad was cut off from Delhi. In Rohtak district, dharnas were staged at Ismaila and Lakhanmajra. Janwadi Mahila Samiti national vice-president Jagmati Sangwan said, “The ‘Kisan Andolan’ has become ‘Jan Andolan’. Every section of society has joined it.” Stone pelter caught in JindJind farmers occupied the tracks at Barsola village with women, led by Krishana Devi (70), in the forefront. The farmers caught someone who tried to pelt a train with stones just before the agitation began at noon. Sound systems were installed on train tracks and “ragini” was staged. The farmers were seen playing cards and smoking hukkah on the tracks. After the blockade, a team of five went to the railway station in-charge at Barsola, 3km from Khatkar toll plaza, to tell him that rail tracks had been cleared. The Barsola villagers maintained a steady supply of tea, food and water to the protesters. The women reached the site in 50 tractor-trailers and cited the civic election results in Punjab as the BJP’s impending fate in Haryana. Back from Tihar, Karnal farmer joins ‘rail roko’Arrested in Delhi for his alleged role in the Republic Day violence at the Red Fort, farmer Devender Singh of Karnal’s Peont village, joined the blockade at Gharaunda railway on Thursday. He reached the protest spot straight after his release on bail from the Tihar Jail and was given a warm welcome by the SKM activists. He told the media that he was just a gurdwara sewadar in Delhi’s Rohini area and that the Delhi Police had linked him with the Red Fort incident. Farm unionist Jagdeep Singh Aulakh of the BKU (Charuni) said, “Many farmers, such as Devender, were implicated. The truth will come out. We have trust in the Indian judiciary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-block-tracks-but-protests-remain-peaceful/articleshow/81098362.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Erode||Erode: Turmeric turns gold after low arrivals, high demand||ERODE: Turmeric farmers hope for a brighter future with prices of the yellow spice increasing steadily after a gap of nine years. Prices have gone up from Rs 5,500 to Rs 8,000 per quintal since the first week of February due to low arrivals, farmers said. They hope it will cross Rs 12,000 on account of growing demand. The usual business was delayed due to unexpected rain during the Pongal festival, said M Sathyamurthy, secretary of the Erode Turmeric Merchants and Godown Owners Association. “Due to rain, harvesting was delayed. Farmers started harvesting only in the third week of January,” he told TOI. “We started business from February first week and are expecting good business in the coming months.” Erode is well known for turmeric. Buyers from across south India throng the auction markets. According to Turmeric Farmers Association sources, the area under cultivation has been reduced by half. Of the 2.5 lakh acres under turmeric cultivation in Tamil Nadu, one lakh acres was in Erode. “Now, it is planted on 50,000 acres in the state and 15,000 acres in Erode,” said V Rajamanickam, a turmeric farmer. “Virali manjal, known for medicinal values, was sold for 8,414 per quintal while kizhangu manjal was sold for 7,699 per quintal,” said an official at the Erode regulatory sales depot. While turmeric farmers are reaping rich dividends, merchants are pleasantly surprised by the export market. There is a 40% increase in export compared to the previous years. “While 14,000 tonnes of turmeric was exported last December, 18,000 tonnes was exported this January,” said M Sathyamurthy, secretary of the Erode Turmeric Merchants and Godown Owners Association. There’s a huge demand for Erode turmeric from Bangladesh, Singapore, Malaysia, US, UK and the Gulf countries, Sathyamurthy said. “We have been exporting our turmeric to Bangladesh on Kisan Rail. Erode-based merchants will transport products to Nizamabad in Telangana, from where it would be transported to Bangladesh. The railway is charging only 50% of the regular freight charge. It is cheap compared to other transportation modes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/turmeric-turns-gold-due-to-low-arrivals/articleshow/81098369.cms||Senthil Kumaran
February 19, 2021||Coimbatore||CM to inaugurate Asia’s biggest Rs 1,022-crore cattle park on Feb 22||Salem: Animal husbandry minister Udumalai Radhakrishnan on Thursday said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami would inaugurate the cattle park at Thalaivasal in Salem district on February 22.Touted to be the Asia’s biggest cattle park, the chief minister had laid foundation stone for the Rs 1,022-crore project on February 9, 2020. “The work is completed in a year and the CM himself is all set to inaugurate the park. It’s historical,” the minister, who inspected the park on the day, said.Spread across 3.72 lakh sqft area, the park houses 20 buildings, including a veterinary hospital, and a purified water plant that was set up a cost of Rs 260.16 crore. This is the fifth cattle park to come up in the state. The minister lauded the state government for setting up the park on par with international standards. ‘We hope the facility would attract foreign researchers.”He said the AIADMK had provided a good regime to the public. “The public could approach the chief minister with personal grievances. DMK members can’t digest this and are trying their best to tarnish the CM’s name. The DMK don’t have any rights to talk about scams, as its government was dismissed for corruption charges in 1976.”Radhakrishnan also appealed the farmers to contact the toll-free number 1962 for their cattle related issues. “Veterinary doctors will attend to the issues at their doorstep.” He said the veterinary hospitals in the state were equipped with all facilities. “The government veterinary hospital in Namakkal district has CT scan facility. Similarly, the CM has dedicated a poultry research centre at Palladam in Tirupur district at a cost of Rs 15 crore.”The minister was accompanied by state cooperative bank chairman Elangovan, district collector S A Raman and animal husbandry department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cm-to-inaugurate-asias-biggest-rs-1022-crore-cattle-park-on-feb-22/articleshow/81098357.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||SCB to convert Cantt area into garbage-free zone||Secunderabad: Buoyed after receiving the ODF-plus certification in 2020 by the Swachh Bharat Mission, the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) aims to convert the area into a garbage-free zone by the end of the year. To realise this objective the health and sanitation wing picked Circle-I, Bowenpally and started segregating the garbage into dry and wet by using the two-bin system. SCB chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy has allocated the segregation and disposal to a city-based firm. “According to the house-numbering project data, there are 6,800 houses in Circle-I. Earlier, we used to collect the garbage through the bin system. Residents would dump garbage in the bins placed at several locations. But now sanitation workers will visit each house to collect the garbage. The residents should segregate the garbage into dry and wet,” said SCB superintendent (solid waste management) M Devender, adding that the residents must procure two bins. “The residents should procure two bins to segregate the waste. We have already educated them about this system. Even shops and other commercial establishments should follow this. After a few days, we will implement this system in the other four circles,” added the official. SCB residents welcomed the initiative taken up by the officials. “We welcome this move. It will help us to keep our premises clean and healthy,” said R Sunitha, a homemaker of Uma Nagar in Bowenpally. Another resident of Ayyappa Society, B Mahidhar, said, “During this pandemic time SCB’s initiative is quite laudable. The officials should continue in the same spirit and achieve the goal of making this area garbage-free.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-to-convert-cantt-area-into-garbage-free-zone/articleshow/81098359.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Plea to stall movie, book on Kamathipura rejected||Mumbai: A civil court on Wednesday dismissed a plea against actor Alia Bhatt, producer and director Sanjay Leela Bhansali and author Hussain Zaidi. It sought an order against airing of ‘Gangubai Kathiawadi’, an upcoming movie directed by Bhansali, has Bhatt essaying the title role and is based on Zaidi’s book ‘Mafia Queens of Mumbai’. Kamathipura-based Kathiawadi had allegedly owned a brothel in the city during her lifetime. In the suit filed through advocate Narendra Dubey, Babuji Shah (74), who claimed to be the adopted son of Kathiawadi, sought to restrain them from publishing or selling the books or creating third-party rights. He wanted a chapter relating to his mother to be deleted too. Shah’s plea sought an order against producing, directing or airing any promo of the movie on social media or in theatres. The plea said the chapter was defamatory and tarnished Kathiawadi’s image. Shah claimed Kathiawadi had adopted four children, including him. He said his “mother” worked towards upliftment of sex workers in the area and prevention of human-trafficking. DSK Legal, which represented Bhatt, Bhansali and his production company, Bhansali Productions Pvt Ltd, moved court seeking rejection of the plaint submitted in December last year, as the suit was barred by limitation since the novel was published in 2011. The defendants questioned Shah’s locus to file a suit, and said he not adduced proof of adoption. They said Bhatt was only an artist and had no role in the movie’s production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/plea-to-stall-movie-book-on-kamathipura-rejected/articleshow/81098627.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Coimbatore||Timber merchant held for Rs 7.7cr GST fraud||Coimbatore: The goods and services tax and central excise department arrested a timber merchant from Pollachi on Tuesday for committing GST fraud amounting to Rs 7.69 crore.The accused, Ramesh Kumar Patel, is associated with the five timber units in various capacities such as proprietor, partner and director, said K Vijayakrishnavelan, joint commissioner of central GST and central excise. “Patel had floated Thrisul Timber Traders, Sree Ashapura Impex, Ambika Timber Depot, Lakshmi Narayana Timbers Pvt Ltd and Sree Ashapura Saw Mills in Pollachi to commit GST credit fraud. These units indulged in bill trading by way of receiving invoices without supply of goods. He admitted receiving invoices without supply of goods from units and committed GST fraud,” the official said.The total tax evasion worked out to Rs 7.69 crore, of which Rs 1.16 crore has been realised. Under the GST law, supply of goods without invoice or issue of invoice without goods or availment of credit against the invoices issued without supply of goods is a serious offence attracting arrest if the amount of tax evaded exceeds Rs 2 crore. Since the evasion is worth more than Rs 5 crore, Patel has committed offence under Section 132 (1) (c ) of the CGST Act, 2017 that is punishable under Section 131 (1) (i) of the act. Patel was remanded in judicial custody till March 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/timber-merchant-held-for-rs-7-7cr-gst-fraud/articleshow/81098354.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Cantonment gets ODF Plus status||Secunderabad: The Secunderabad Cantonment has achieved the ‘Open Defecation Plus’ status. Earlier in December 2017, SCB was declared as ODF urban local body under the Swacch Bharat Mission. “The SCB has taken several measures to secure the ODF Plus status. We educated the general public and had built public toilets to discourage the practice of open defecation. Our efforts to improve sanitation are being rewarded,” said SCB senior superintendent M Devender, adding that an inspection was carried out in December. “Schools were not inspected as they were closed due to the pandemic. We have also uploaded necessary reports and photos to achieve a better ‘Swachh Survekshan’ rank among the Cantonments,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cantonment-gets-odf-plus-status/articleshow/81098371.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||People now want AAP to run corpns: Sisodia||New Delhi: Ahead of municipal byelection in five wards, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday canvassed in Shalimar Bagh in support of party candidate Sunita Mishra and also held a public meeting with AAP workers. Sisodia slammed BJP on performance in the corporations and said that in the last 15 years, it had failed miserably. People now want AAP to run the corporations, stated Sisodia. Meanwhile, BJP district general secretary Shravan Dixit and sitting councillor from Anarkali ward — Rekha Dixit — joined AAP along with supporters inspired by the Delhi government’s work. Sisodia appealed to the local people to vote in support of AAP. “The people are very happy, and they have made up their mind to elect AAP in the upcoming polls. Since BJP has failed, people believe that AAP can transform the municipal corporations,” AAP said in a statement. AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak said people were joining AAP due to the work being done in the areas of education, health and other sectors. All the new members were welcomed by Pathak. Krishna Nagar MLA SK Bagga said the Dixits would be working to strengthen the party. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said those who knew that their performance was below standard and BJP would not re-field them were quitting the party to join AAP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/people-now-want-aap-to-run-corpns-sisodia/articleshow/81098405.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||I saw the culprits drive past in a black car, says father||Gunjapadugu (Manthani): The grief in retired school teacher, Gattu Kishan Rao’s house, on Thursday, is palpable. While he looks stoic, his wife Indrasena is inconsolable. It’s been just about 24 hours since his son, advocate Gattu Vaman Rao, and daughter-in-law, Nagamani, were brutally killed. “I saw the culprits. I saw their black car drive past in the opposite direction,” a distraught Kishan Rao told TOI. “It was the same vehicle which followed my son's car and hacked them,” he added. While fighting back his tears, the father said that his son called him from Hyderabad, at 5am on Wednesday, asking him to come to Manthani to sign some documents regarding a complaint to be filed. “I returned home after meeting him, when I got a call from his driver Sathish,” Kishan Rao said, adding, “I was aghast when he told me of the attack. He told me he was hacked,” the father said. He took an auto-rickshaw to Manthani. “That's when I saw the black vehicle going in the opposite direction...The police should not just go by what I am saying, they must do their own investigation and bring out the truth,” he said. Asked if it was a dispute with suspect Kunta Srinivas led to the murders, Rao said: “If anyone is saying that then they are trying to project it as a local issue and enmity. My son was killed as part of a larger political conspiracy.” The father demanded that the police investigate TRS leaders, including former MLA Putta Madhu. Rao said he got his son to attend tuition in English in class 10. “Once, he got a grasp over the language, he decided to become an advocate.My son felt that was the only profession that would give him the freedom to serve people,” he said. “What wrong did my son do? Was taking up people's issues a crime?” Rao's mother asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/i-saw-the-culprits-drive-past-in-a-black-car-says-father/articleshow/81098366.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Lockdown-like restrictions in Vidarbha districts after ‘exponential’ rise in Covid-19 cases||NAGPUR: Due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha, district collectors in all 11 districts of the region imposed lockdown-like restrictions on Thursday, valid at least till this weekend. As the local administration cannot impose complete lockdown without central government permission; they are calling the restrictions as regulations, or night curfew etc. The main objective is to stop crowding and ban superspreader events like marriages, processions, and public gatherings. The worst-hit Amravati district, where 597 of total 1,799 samples tested positive in a day, the district administration has announced weekend lockdown from 8pm of Saturday to 7am of Monday. Even after the weekend, all establishments, including hotels and restaurants, would stay open till 8pm only. “To avoid any stricter lockdown in future, I appeal to people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour,” said district collector Shailesh Naval. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, an adviser to the Maharashtra government, said the ongoing viral activity in Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal is “extremely unusual” and called the rise “exponential”. “The virus is definitely more transmissible. Importantly, it appears that the pneumonia is setting in early, which can lead to more deaths if cases rise rapidly,” he said. The only upside till now, he said, was that the spread appeared to be in “isolated small pockets”. Salunkhe has been visiting some of the districts in Vidarbha currently witnessing a surge since the past few days. “In some of the houses we visited, every family member was infected. What we are seeing in Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal is something unusual. If we fail to contain it in the next fortnight, the spread will be rapid in the state and across the country,” he said. Salunkhe cited the example of a testing centre at Amravati, where 350 out of 700 tested positive. According to him, the spread is likely from Nagpur all the way till Aurangabad. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has not announced any night curfew or weekend shut down so far. But strict restrictions have been imposed on marriage functions, processions and community gatherings. On Thursday, NMC made it mandatory for the hall and lawn owners to get prior permission from an assistant commissioner before hosting any marriage function or public gathering at their venue. In Akola, collector Jitendra Papalkar imposed night curfew and weekend shutdown from the coming weekend until next announcement. In Akola too, marriage hall owners need to inform local police about marriage function and give undertaking that only 50 guests will attend the event. No processions are allowed in Akola. School, colleges, coaching centres will also remain closed. Barring emergency services, all commercial activities will close by 8pm daily. In Yavatmal, collector M Devender Singh revised the restriction norms issued on February 16 and ordered shops to shut at 8pm instead of 10pm. The fine on those not wearing masks, or failing to maintain physical distancing has been increased to Rs1,000. The administration also refused permission to the ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ scheduled in Yavatmal next week. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait was to address this conference. In Washim, collector Shanmugarajan S declared ban on social gatherings, cultural and religious events and processions until next orders. Temples and other religious centres will continue their routine with restricted attendance. In Bhandara, collector Sandip Kadam has it mandatory to get prior permission of police department for organizing any public event or a function like marriage where people gather. He also ordered preparations at Covid Care Centers (CCCs) in district. Wardha district collector Prerna Deshbhratar ordered markets to close by 7pm and eateries by 9pm. Gondia and Gadchiroli districts are not experiencing any major spike in new cases, still administrations there have issued similar restrictions on public movement. Chandrapur district administration is on alert following rising number of patients in neighbouring Nagpur, Wardha and Yavatmal districts. Collector Ajay Gulhane has ordered a second sero survey by testing over 5,000 people across the district for Covid antibodies. He also held a virtual meeting with officials, political parties, medical and social organizations, and directed them to take up awareness regarding preventive measures. He directed testing of potential super spreaders like newspaper distributors, vegetable vendors, grocers, barbers etc and keeping Covid facilities ready to deal with sudden spurt in cases. Micro containment, he said, was one of the immediate solutions. “The rural pockets are hit as much as urban,” Salunkhe said. He also cited the example of Murtizapur in Amravati, where the local MLA has taken steps to ensure quality home isolation. “That will certainly be a model to follow. Local leaders must see that people stay home and follow quarantine,” he said. About reports of mutations, Salunkhe said he will wait for the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune’s report to confirm things.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-like-restrictions-in-vidarbha-districts-after-exponential-rise-in-cases/articleshow/81098421.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Rs 14 crore cash seized in income tax searches on chit fund firm||HYDERABAD: An Eluru-based chit fund firm, which was also into film distribution, aqua culture and real estate business, has come under the income tax department radar. During searches carried out on Usha Bala Chits Private Ltd in 21 different locations across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, IT sleuths recovered Rs 14 crore cash and gold jewellery worth Rs 3.4 crore. IT officials said the 34-year-old firm was lending huge amounts in cash and collecting interest for the same in cash, which was undisclosed. “It is observed that entries to the tune of Rs 13 crore were deleted from the cloud data, but were recovered later. A major suppression of income from distribution of films and running theatres was also observed,” the officials said. The IT department said Usha Bala group was also accepting cash over and above the registration value in sale of plots. The highlight of the search was the seizure of huge amount of cash and gold in Eluru and Rajahmundry towns The IT sleuths also seized handwritten books, agreements and some sheets depicting undisclosed cash transactions during the searches. The search has also resulted in detecting incriminating evidence relating to undisclosed financial transactions of Rs 161 crore from financial year 2016-17 to 2019-20. On February 5, an accountant S Harinath Babu, who was working with Usha Bala group for the last 30 years, was found dead in a well in Denduluru in suspicious circumstances. Police said Babu might have taken the extreme step following IT searches. Another accountant Marella Satyanarayana has gone missing and a complaint was filed in Eluru III Town PS. Usha Krishna’s Chits Pvt Ltd, Usha Bala Real Estates Pvt Ltd, Vignesh Projects, UBK Chits, Usha Bala Agro Farms, VBK Exim Pvt Ltd and UBK Hotels and Resorts are some companies linked to the group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-14cr-cash-seized-in-i-t-searches-on-chit-fund-firm/articleshow/81098389.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||City docs perform complicated surgery||Hyderabad: A 22-year-old youth, Shyam Ganesh, from West Godavari in Andhra Pradesh, who was suffering from a rare facial nerve tumour was successfully operated upon by doctors at Prasad Hospitals in the city. The patient had been suffering from the condition for the last two years. “After a marathon 9 hour surgery, the tumour was removed completely through a lateral skull base exploration and excision surgery,” said Dr S Nishanth, consultant ENT surgeon and otorhinolaryngologist at Prasad Hospitals, who performed the first lateral skull base exploration and excision. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-docs-perform-complicated-surgery/articleshow/81098415.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||South Africa woman held with 3kg heroin worth Rs 9 crore at Mumbai airport||MUMBAI: A 22-year-old woman from South Africa who arrived from Johannesburg via Qatar, concealing around three kg of heroin worth Rs 9 crore and 10,000 rands (SA currency), was apprehended by the Narcotics Control Bureau on Thursday morning. Khanyisile Promise Khalishwayo, a single mother of two, is the youngest woman to be arrested for drug-peddling in the recent past. The team led by the NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, superintendent V V S Singh and other officers intercepted Khanyisile at the international airport in the city. Around 2.9 kg heroin and SA currency worth Rs 50,000 were recovered. The drugs were concealed in the false cavity of her trolley bag. During interrogation she revealed that she knowingly carried the drugs. She has been booked under the NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sa-woman-held-with-3kg-heroin-worth-rs-9cr-at-airport/articleshow/81098459.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Bandh in Manthani, cops deployed||Gunjapadugu (Manthani): Manthani observed a bandh on Thursday following a call given by the Congress and BJP. Shops, eateries and other establishments remained closed. Policemen were deployed at several places. Congress MLA from Manthani Duddilla Sridhar Babu said, “Even if cops arrest the assailants, only a CBI inquiry can bring out the bigger conspiracy.” The MLA visited Gunjapadugu village where Vamana Rao’s family resides. “Rao was failed by the system that was supposed to protect him,” he said. “I have a fair knowledge that culprits took advantage of the support they received from some sections of police,” he said. Babu was also surprised police mentioned Kunta Srinivas as A2 in FIR. “Why only three names? What about other leaders?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandh-in-manthani-cops-deployed/articleshow/81098382.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 19, 2021||Coimbatore||Can’t make teachers appointed by PTA permanent: Minister||Erode: School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Thursday said making temporary teachers, who were appointed by parent-teacher association (PTA), permanent was not possible. “Aspirants who have completed the teachers’ eligibility test will surely move the court against such a step and we are already facing several cases in courts,” he said after inspecting the Rs 1.87-crore development work at Kunderipallam dam.Talking to the media, the minister said his department was discussing whether to promote all the students of classes I to VIII in the state. “We have not taken any decision on this and discussion is going on to take a call on whether to conduct examination for these classes or give all-pass.” Sengottaiyan said a decision would be taken soon.He said the school education department would announce the number of Class XII students appearing for boards examinations only after February 24. “I have ordered the officials to increase the examination centres based on the student strength.”When asked about the Class X board examination dates, the minister replied that officials were discussing whether to conduct the exam before or after the state assembly election. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cant-make-teachers-appointed-by-pta-permanent-minister/articleshow/81098424.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||ED seeks extension of bizman’s custody as phone content deleted||Mumbai: Seeking an extension of businessman and actor-producer Sachin Joshi’s custody in an alleged money-laundering case involving Omkar Group, Enforcement Directorate (ED) told the special court on Thursday that on scrutinising his mobile phone it was found that he had deleted his recent activity, which raised suspicion that incriminating content may have been deleted by him. Joshi was arrested on Sunday. ED said it had reason to believe the phone was useful for further investigations, and once the material is recovered, he needs to be confronted with it. The court extended his custody till Monday. ED alleged that Omkar Realtors and Developers has an outstanding loan of more than Rs 2,000 crore with Yes Bank. It said the loan was not used for intended purposes but was diverted and subsequently laundered. ED alleged it was established that Joshi helped promoters of Omkar Group to divert at least Rs 87 crore. Joshi’s lawyers, Abad Ponda, Subodh Desai and Subhash Jadhav, opposed the plea for ED custody, and said the remand plea had not mentioned new substantial grounds for extension. ED, in its remand plea submitted through special public prosecutors Hiten Venegaonkar and Kavita Patil, alleged that during investigations it was observed that Joshi received approximately Rs 37 crore in his personal account from companies of Omkar Group, which was claimed to be towards services rendered by him. ED, however, said the amount did not tally with invoices, debit notes and other particulars submitted by Joshi’s office. “The documents need to be scrutinized to find reasons for differences, which will be confronted to the accused, thus his custody is very crucial,” the remand plea said. ED stated Joshi’s office had been told to furnish details of utilization of funds, which he claimed had been received for facilitating settlement of non-eligible tenants, possession of constructed rehabilitation units, help in getting consent from slum-dwellers, committee members and brokerage towards land deal. “The actual utilization will throw light on the real nature of transactions, and will help in tracing proceeds of crime,” ED said. It alleged that Joshi had not cooperated with investigations or provided information on laundering of proceeds of crime. “Sustained interrogation under custody is required to unearth the trail of funds, for corroboration and confrontation with others involved,” ED said. On January 28, ED had arrested Omkar group chairman Kamal Kishor Gupta and managing director Babulal Varma in a Rs 410-crore money-laundering case connected with the Wadala SRA fraud case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-seeks-extension-of-bizmans-custody-as-phone-content-deleted/articleshow/81098635.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||2 held with 1.4 kg gold at RGI Airport||Hyderabad: Customs sleuths at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) on Thursday arrested two passengers trying to smuggle out gold and seized 1.4 kilo gold from their possession. Customs sleuths intercepted two passengers who arrived from Dubai by Fly Dubai flight (FZ-8779) on Wednesday. When subjected to frisking, the customs officials found that the accused had concealed gold paste in the waistband of their jeans and gold biscuits inside a torch. The weight of the seized gold was 1.4 kilos and its value is Rs 69.6 lakh. The two accused have been booked under the Customs Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-held-with-1-4-kg-gold-at-rgi-airport/articleshow/81098376.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Coimbatore||Fire at e-waste warehouse destroys scrap worth lakhs||Coimbatore: A major fire broke out at a scrap and electronic waste warehouse in the city on Thursday. Goods worth several lakhs is suspected to have been derstroyed in the fire. Police said Selvin, a native of Tirunelveli, was running a metal scrap and e-waste business in Coimbatore for the past two years. He had set up a warehouse to store the products on Sanganur–Nallampalayam road, where he had also made a provision for the employees to stay. Around 9am on Thursday, a fire broke out in one portion of the warehouse which soon spread all over the place razing down the mounds of e-waste stored there. The employees informed the fire and rescue personnel who rushed to the spot and put off the flames after struggling for several hours. Fire service personnel said that the reason for the fire was yet to be found. The extent of loss due to the fire is also yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fire-at-e-waste-warehouse-destroys-scrap-worth-lakhs/articleshow/81098373.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Manthani, once a Naxal den, is now a political cauldron||HYDERABAD: Manthani assembly constituency, which was once a stronghold of naxalites in 1990s, has been in the news following the murder of the lawyer couple G Vaman Rao and Nagamani. Politicians and residents say the murder is a fallout of political bickering and the presence of the sand mafia. The lawyer couple was fighting some politicians and had filed cases against them. A audio clip of a local leader talking about eliminating his rival just before 2018 elections was only the tip of the iceberg, believe locals. Political volatility in the assembly segment — with just two lakh voters — reminds one of Rayalaseema factionism. “Manthani has always been politically active and people have immense political awareness. But, gruesome murders were never seen before,” Avadhanula Nikhil of Manthani town told TOI. Former PM PV Narasimha Rao had represented the constituency thrice in 1950s and 1960s. Comprising dense forests, on the banks of Godavari with Chhattisgarh on the other side of the river, its topography made Manthani suited to the Naxal movement, which peaked here in 1990s. Former AP assembly speaker D Sripada Rao, who is father of present Congress MLA D Sridhar Babu, was killed by Naxals in 1999 at Annaram. There were several attacks on police by Naxals in those days. Constituency was represented by TRS party’s Putta Madhu between 2014-18. Madhu is now Peddapalli zilla parishad chairman and aide Kunta Srinivas is prime suspect in the double murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/manthani-once-a-naxal-den-is-now-a-political-cauldron/articleshow/81098430.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 19, 2021||Chandigarh||If need be, farmers will destroy standing crop: Rakesh Tikait||HISAR: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait attended two kisan mahapanchayats in Khark Poonia and Balsamand villages of Hisar district on Thursday and said farmers would even destroy the standing crops to continue the protest and make the government understand the resolve of the farmers. Stating that the government is hoping that the farmers’ movement will come to an end in two months because the farmers will have to go to the village for harvesting, Tikait said, “So, we have to raise our hands and say if need be, we will also set fire to the standing crop. Because by sacrificing one crop, the farmers will ensure their livelihood for the next 20 years.” He also gave a call for a ‘hal kranti (plough revolution)’ — he urged farmers to bring their ploughs used in the fields with them to symbolically show the struggles that farmers have to undergo. In kisan mahapanchayat of Kharak Poonia village, BKU state president Gurnam Singh Chaduni was also present, while in the mahapanchayat of Balsamand, members of United Kisan Morcha and president of Nyay Manch, Randeep Lohachab were present. Ajay Hooda, against whom the Delhi Police have registered a case, performed a ragini. Tikait also said, “Now our next target is gathering 40 lakh tractors in Delhi.” He urged the farmers to keep their tractors prepared as the morcha will call any time to come to Delhi. “Farmers will not go home without repealing three agri-laws. Today, the farmers of Assam are also looking towards the farmers of NCR, so we have more responsibility,” he added. Don’t leave with Delhi Police: ChaduniBKU state president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said as Delhi Police is sending notices to farmers and arresting them, he told the farmers not to go to police stations as mentioned in notices. He said if in case Delhi Police come to them to arrest, farmers should not leave with them but inform the district collector. Chaduni also said, “Do not allow Bharatiya Janata Party workers to enter our villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/if-need-be-farmers-will-even-destroy-standing-crop-to-continue-to-protest-tikait/articleshow/81098443.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Fatal road accidents see 19% decline||New Delhi: Fatal accidents saw a decline of 19% last year in comparison to 2019. In 2020, a total of 1,163 accidents were reported while in 2019, 1,433 accidents were reported. Traffic officials attributed this to better deployment, road engineering solutions and road safety awareness campaigns. Traffic police officials had last year put their focus on enforcement of discipline by the road users through quality prosecution. In 2020, around 2.8 lakh compounding challans, 8.2 lakh court challans and over a crore notices (1,27,03,559) were issued under Section 133 of the Motor Vehicles Act. Notices of violation captured by cameras are served through messages to the violators. From May 2019 to August 2019, about 49% notices were served through text messages. The traffic police in coordination with Delhi government and the ministry of road transport and highways later ensured that mobile numbers were linked while issuing pollution and registration certificates. Now, 65% notices are sent through text messages. “Speeding on Delhi roads was effectively checked through cameras, interceptors and radar speed guns, which are deployed at strategic locations. In 2020, a total of 8,043 motorists were prosecuted through interceptors for speeding before the lockdown. Similarly, a total of 82,18,680 notices were also issued for violations of speed limits detected through cameras and radar guns,” said Taj Hassan, Special Commissioner of Police, Traffic. Drunken driving checking was, however, adversely affected due to the pandemic. Before its spread, 3,986 motorists were prosecuted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fatal-road-accidents-see-19-decline/articleshow/81117538.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Kochi||UDF trying to instigate riots: LDF||Thiruvananthapuram: The ruling LDF and the CPM state secretariat levelled serious allegations against opposition Congress for trying to trigger law-and-order issues in the state by using PSC rank holders’ protest as an opportunity. “The UDF is trying to create a riot in the state. The effort of the UDF leaders is to prevent people from knowing about the development activities launched by the LDF government,” said LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan. The LDF has called for protest demonstrations in district centres on Friday to expose UDF’s ‘dangerous agenda’. “A section of rank holders is staging protest, seeking to revive a lapsed rank list. That is legally not possible,” he said. In a statement, the CPM state secretariat alleged that UDF was trying to instigate riots and trigger a misinformation campaign to block the development activities of the LDF government from public attention. “After the CM explained the legal difficulties in recruiting candidates from the lapsed rank lists, a section of rank holders wound up protest and left. The remaining protesters should introspect whether they need to be pawns in UDF’s political game,” the statement said. On Thursday, hours before KSU’s secretariat march, DYFI state secretariat A A Rahim had alleged an attempt by Congress to create violence at the protest venue. He alleged that criminal gangs from different parts of the state had reached the capital to unleash violence. “KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and other Congress leaders are responsible for what happened in front of the secretariat. The intention of the KSU was to provoke police and get them attack the peacefully protesting rank holders. The plan was foiled as the police showed restraint,” Rahim said. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy criticised the police action against KSU workers. “The attempt by the government is to murder student protest by drowning it in a sea of blood. The government will have to surrender before the wave of protests soon,” Chandy said. Meanwhile, the protest by last grade service rank holders in front of the secretariat completed 24 days on Thursday. The representatives of the protesters started indefinite hunger strike as the government refused to initiate mediation talks. Riju, one of the protestors, said that they were ready to hold talks with anyone, including the officials who can offer a solution to their problem. They said that even though they had spoken to the personal staff members of industries minister E P Jayarajan, they were yet to receive any further communication from the government. KSU workers lock Palakkad PSC office KSU workers on Thursday barged into the Palakkad civil station office complex and locked the district office of the Public Service Commission with nearly 25 staff, including women, inside. They sat on a dharna in front of the office and the police arrested them after some time and released the office staff.  The KSU workers were protesting against the alleged backdoor appointments in government services overlooking PSC rank lists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/udf-trying-to-instigate-riots-ldf/articleshow/81096925.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||‘K Chandrasekhar Rao part of PM Modi’s plan on farm laws’||HYDERABAD: Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka on Thursday said that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is very much part of the design of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on new farm laws. Speaking to farmers during his tour in Nagarjuna Sagar, he said unless KCR joins hands with PM, he would not be ready to implement new farm laws in the state. He said that TRS regime has completely ignored implementing the loan waiver scheme, and has done away with paddy procurement centers. “There is lot of stress among the farmers as they are not getting loan linkage,” he said. There are no loans for self help group women, he pointed out. “The new farm laws don’t guarantee MSP for farmers but they will benefit big companies,” he said. He called upon the farmers to support Congress for Nagarjuna Sagar byelection. “Congress will ensure a lesson to TRS regime,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-part-of-pms-plan-on-farm-laws/articleshow/81098438.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cabbies protest, want fare hiked, drivers reinstated||HYDERABAD: In view of the rise in fuel prices, scores of cab drivers took over the protest site at Indira Park on Thursday urging cab aggregators to hike fare, reinstatement of off-boarded drivers, minimum business guarantee among other demands. The Telangana State Taxi and Drivers Joint Action Committee which represents thousands of drivers in the state said that despite the drastic increase in fuel rates, the cab aggregators aren’t increasing the rate per km for cabs in Hyderabad. “Even with the petrol and diesel prices hitting the roof, cab aggregators aren’t increasing the rate per km for cabs in Hyderabad. It continues to be Rs 10- per km, whereas in other cities like Bengaluru it is Rs 17 to Rs 18 per km. This situation is forcing many cab drivers to either run into losses or quit the profession to survive,” said Shaik Salauddin, chairman, Telangana State Taxi and Drivers JAC. Stating that only 56,000 cabs are running in the state out of 1,25,000 which used ply before the pandemic, the protesting cab drivers said they are facing difficulty in paying EMIs to the financers of their vehicles. “Nearly 40% of the cabs have gone off road because the financers took their vehicles back for not being able to pay EMIs. The financer from whom I took the vehicle has been calling me constantly to pay for the EMIs. I have been telling him that I will pay back the money. But it looks like the chances of business improving under such circumstances are bleak,” said K Narayana, a cab driver. The cab drivers also claimed that the number of vehicles plying from the city to the airport and vice-versa has also decreased drastically. Requesting the state government to step in to ensure cabbies’ welfare and regulate their working conditions due to the alleged exploitation by cab aggregators, chairman of Telangana State Taxi Drivers JAC said, The drivers also demanded constitution of Taxi Driver Welfare and Administration Board for drivers’ welfare and safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cabbies-protest-want-fare-hiked-drivers-reinstated/articleshow/81098435.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||In his village, locals tight-lipped about Srinu||Gunjapadugu (Mathani): Nobody in his village wants to talk about Kunta Srinivas. Most even shy away from giving directions to his house. “No one is there in the house. Why do you want to go there?” a youth, living on the lane leading to Gunti Srinivas' house, shoots back. Srinivas was the name advocate, Gattu Vaman Rao, took after the attack on him and his wife. Srinu has been named in the FIR based on a complaint lodged by Rao's father. It is said he was building a house in the village without permission from the panchayat. “From what we know of Srinu, he cannot be a person with a violent nature. But a thorough investigation should be done,” said a neighbour. On Thursday, his house wore a deserted look. “All of them have been taken to the police station,” a neighbour said. Locals confess they are still shocked about what happened. “I cannot still believe what has happened,” said a relative of Vamana Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-his-village-locals-tight-lipped-about-srinu/articleshow/81098462.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||BMC cuts netas’ fund by Rs 100cr due to ‘misuse’?||Mumbai: Amid a row over alleged misuse of funds by corporators, the BMC administration on Thursday slashed the standing committee’s amendment fund in this year’s budget by Rs 100 crore. This year, the standing committee has been allocated around Rs 650 crore as against last year’s Rs 750 crore. The standing committee passed the budget and accepted the Rs 650 crore on Thursday despite it being an election year. A senior civic official said that chairman of the committee, corporator Yashwant Jadhav who is from Shiv Sena, had asked for around Rs 1,000 crore this year in the wake of the 2022 BMC polls. “However, given the current financial crisis that BMC is facing, we decided to curtail the spending,” a senior civic official said. Earlier this month, municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal had announced a budget of Rs 39,038 crore. Despite falling revenues and a drop in income amid the pandemic, this budget was up by 16.74% as against last year;s outlay of Rs 33,441 crore. Once the budget is laid out, the committee amends it and earmarks funds to be allocated to corporators for works in their constituencies. It is part of the corporator’s development fund. “Being an election year, we were expecting more, but due to reports of misuse of funds and arbitrary spending, the funds seem to have been curtailed,” said Congress corporator Ravi Raja, who is the opposition leader in the BMC. “The concept of area development funds must be re-examined. Not more than 2% of the total budget must be given for such unplanned funds... Their use must be strictly regulated and monitored,” said Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party MLA and Corporator. BJP had hit out at Jadhav over distribution of freebies, using these funds. BMC had bought 84,000 jute bags for around Rs 1.4 croreto be distributed in Jadhav’s constituency in Byculla. Tenders were also floated to buy 30 food and vegetable trucks for Rs 5 crore, as also buy gym equipment worth Rs 2 crore, CCTV cameras in ward no 209 worth Rs 1 crore besides other such expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-cuts-netas-fund-by-rs-100cr-due-to-misuse/articleshow/81099706.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 19, 2021||Pune||Molestation complaint against two men in Pune||PUNE: The Chikhali police on Wednesday registered a case against two men on the charge of outraging the modesty of a woman who works with the duo’s agency. The police said, the duo had told her to come to their office on Tuesday afternoon for making payments to the housekeeping staff that she had supplied to their agency. “When the woman came out of her house, she saw the duo waiting there on a motorcycle. They offered her a lift. The trio then headed to the office, riding triple-seat,” the officer said. The woman alleged in her complaint, the suspect, seated between the driver and her, touched he inappropriately. “On reaching Talawade, the woman decided to get down. The suspect, who was misbehaving with her, took her to the side on the pretext of discussing something important and touched her inappropriately again,” the officer said. The motorcycle driver rescued the woman on her request and dropped her back home. “However, the driver later contacted the woman and threatened her that he had recorded her video and told her not to disclose anything to anyone,” the officer said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/molestation-plaint-against-two-men/articleshow/81098499.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops foil hunger strike by ABVP at Kakatiya University||Warangal: Kakatiya University police foiled a hunger strike by ABVP on Thursday. About hundred ABVP members sat for a hunger strike demanding the government appoint regular vice chancellors for all the universities in the state. Noticing the hunger strike, the administration called the police. Inspector Janardhan Reddy and others rushed to the hunger strike spot and forcibly foiled the agitation by arresting the students. The inspector stated that in view of the MLC elections, code of conduct is in force and no agitations, rallies and meetings are permitted. ABVP state secretary Ambala Kiran, speaking at the gathering, criticised the CM’s promises.“The ruling party’s attitude on universities has fallen to a skeleton position. There are no research works due to lack of teaching staff,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-foil-hunger-strike-by-abvp-at-kakatiya-university/articleshow/81098463.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Kochi||Ordinance will help smoothen strained relations in edu sector||Thiruvananthapuram: The draft ordinance on higher education, approved by the state cabinet on Wednesday seeks to smoothen the strained relationship between state universities and autonomous institutions, and establish a harmonious atmosphere beneficial to students and the academic community. The primary purpose of the universities act amendment is to amend its provisions to suit the changes in University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations regarding autonomous institutions. However, it also seeks to exploit the ‘grey areas’ in certain provisions of the latest UGC regulations that significantly whittled down the role of universities and state government in the setting up and functioning of autonomous institutions. Besides the mandatory requirements by UGC regulations 2018, the strained relationship between autonomous institutions and affiliating universities and complaints of autonomous institutions functioning in autocratic ways prompted the government to think of making changes in the universities act. Most provisions included in the draft ordinance, awaiting the governor’s assent, are analogous to the recommendations submitted by the state higher education council. These include setting up of internal quality-assurance cell, expert academic committee, grievance-redressal cell and anti-ragging committee. With the new changes adopted by UGC regulations, the state government and universities concerned can do very little to effectively resist a meritorious institute from earning academic autonomy. Even if they oppose, UGC can grant autonomy to institutions that fulfil the criteria as per UGC regulations. Universities act, presently, do not have clear cut provisions on how to deal with academic autonomy and autonomous institutions. The ordinance is expected to fill this void. Before preparing the draft of the ordinance, the state government had held discussions with autonomous college managements. The ordinance is expected to make provisions that would make separate bodies at the university level that would process various applications of autonomous institutions in a time-bound manner. The major complaint raised by college managements was the delay by universities in processing their applications regarding new courses. Presently, there are 22 autonomous colleges in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ordinance-will-help-smoothen-strained-relations-in-edu-sector/articleshow/81096931.cms||B S Anilkumar
February 19, 2021||Chandigarh||Farm protest: 7 more got bail in case registered on Jan 26||Bathinda: The seven more arrested protesters in the aftermath of happenings on Republic Day at Delhi got bail on Thursday. However, they could not come out of jail and it may take a day before they step out. Earlier, 10 persons had got bails from out of total 122 persons arrested in 14 FIRs. With the seven now the number of those getting bails will swell to 17. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa told TOI that these seven were booked in the same FIR wherein two older persons Gurmukh Singh and Jet Singh had earlier got bails. The seven who got bail on Thursday are: Pargat Singh, Swarn Singh, Joginder Singh, Balwinder Singh, Gurdial Singh, Paramjeet Singh and Kulwinder Singh. They are expected to be released soon. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha legal committee members said we are looking into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-protest-7-more-got-bail-in-case-registered-on-jan-26/articleshow/81098457.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Trichy||Rape & murder of boy, 17, in Tamil Nadu: Man gets triple death sentence||TRICHY: A mahila court in Pudukottai district has awarded triple death sentence to a 34-year-old man for raping and murdering a 17-year-old boy with learning disabilities at Keeranur in Pudukottai district in December 2019. The convict, Danish Patel, was a native of Gujarat and was a daily-wager at a stone crusher unit. Danish Patel was living in a village close to the stone crusher. According to police, the man took the victim, who was his neighbour, to an isolated location on his motorcycle on the fateful day. After the rape, he inserted plant stems into his anus resulting in internal injuries. The boy was admitted to Pudukottai government medical college hospital after the assault. However, his condition worsened due to the injuries and he died 18 days after the incident due to multiple organ failure. The accused was arrested the same day and was detained under the Goondas Act. The police filed chargesheet in February last year after which the trial began in the mahila court. The accused was booked under sections 5(k), 5(i) and 5(j) of protection of children from sexual offences (Pocso) (amendment) act 2019 for taking advantage of a child’s mental disability, and penetrative sexual assault causing internal injuries. He was also booked under sections 363 (abduction) and 302 (murder) of IPC. Pronouncing the verdict on Thursday, district judge R Sathya awarded triple death sentence under all the three sections of the Pocso act besides imposing a fine of Rs 30,000 on Danish Patel under the IPC sections. While a compensation of Rs 6 lakh was announced for the victim’s family, the court directed the state government to give an additional Rs 3 lakh. In a similar conviction on December 29 last year, the court had awarded triple death sentence to a 25-year-old man for rape and murder of a seven-year-old girl. The verdict came within six months after the incident shook the state. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rape-murder-of-boy-17-in-tn-man-gets-triple-death-sentence/articleshow/81099702.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro shuts entry-exit at Tikri border, three other stations||NEW DELHI: Entry and exit at four metro stations, including at Tikri border, one of the epicentres of the farmers’ agitation, were shut on Thursday by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation in view of the security situation. The Tikri border metro station is near the farmers’ protest site. A Metro tweet on Thursday said, “Security Update Entry/exit for Tikri Border, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Bahadurgarh City, and Brig. Hoshiar Singh have been closed.” Meanwhile, Delhi Police on Thursday tightened security in several parts of the national capital, especially near railway tracks, in view of the “rail roko” (rail blockade) called by the farmers’ groups protesting against the Centre’s new agri laws, officials said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the protest, last week had announced the rail blockade to press for its demand of repealing the legislations. The farmers’ body had said the blockade will be held across the country from 12pm to 4pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-metro-shuts-entry-exit-at-tikri-border-3-other-stns/articleshow/81098502.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||NT Rama Rao never got the due he deserved: Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu||HYDERABAD: Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu said due recognition was not accorded to former AP chief minister NT Rama Rao. Addressing during the launch of a book ‘Maverick Messiah’ on NTR here on Thursday, Naidu said NTR had become a pioneer of alternative politics at the national level within a few years of launching the Telugu Desam Party. Speaking about NTR’s ‘Telugu atma gouravam’ (self-pride), the Vice-President said what stood out of NTR’s identity politics was that he never tried to impose it and avoided clash with other identities. He had always tried to make Telugus feel at home with their own identity, Naidu said. Naidu recalled that there was not a single Telugu household which did not have a calendar with NTR’s photo as Lord Rama or Lord Krishna. “People adored him and he loved them back. He introduced one-kg rice scheme at Rs 2 and soon several governments followed suit,” he said. He termed NTR as a ‘true legend’ and hoped many more books on his life will be written in future. Sanjay Baru, former media advisor to ex-PM Manmohan Singh, said NTR represented the true power of a linguistic state at the central level despite presence of Congress. The author of the book, Ramesh Kandula, said NTR was a true secularist unlike the assumption of many that he was a Hindu icon. “There are many facets of NTR which were either ignored or which were never projeted in pubic domain properly,” he told TOI. Ramesh said NTR was a pioneer of coalition politics in the country. “Even when the BJP was trying to gain a foothold, NTR was in the forefront of cobbling coalition regimes,” he recalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ntr-never-got-the-due-he-deserved-vice-president/articleshow/81098507.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Protesting lawyers bring courts to standstill||Hyderabad: An enraged advocate community on Thursday brought functioning of courts to a near standstill in the state. In tune with the resolution of the high court advocates association, its president, T Surakaran Reddy conveyed the boycott message to Chief Justice Hima Kohli and other judges in the high court on Thursday morning. All courts remained non-functional at the high court on account of the non-appearance of advocates. The judges too did not pass any adverse orders and adjourned all such cases to a future date. Ranga Reddy district court advocates blocked the national highway near their court a dharna on the highway. Advocates from Nampally criminal courts, Secunderabad courts, and district courts all over the state hit the roads seeking justice. Some advocates were detained by police when they were proceeding to Raj Bhavan seeking action against Ramagundam CP. Bar Council of India chairman Mannan Kumar Mishra warned if the Centre and states do not come out with a policy to protect advocates, they would resort to a nationwide agitation. Litigants, whose cases were listed for hearing on February 18, were adjourned after all the lawyers took to the streets to register their protest. The hearing of bail petitions, civil suits, criminal appeals, and several proceedings of trials could not be taken up after the lawyers did not appare before the concerned courts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protesting-lawyers-bring-courts-to-standstill/articleshow/81098484.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Clues team mark eight spots at murder site||Kalwacharla (Manthani): An inspection of the spot where the double murder took place does not indicate any special reason for the accused choosing this particular place on the road from Manthani to Hyderabad for the crime. There is a bridge at Kalwacharla and the road continues with a couple of bends. In the chase that happened, it was at this point that the culprits were able to overtake the car of Vaman Rao. Motorists on Thursday slowed down to have a glimpse of the scene of offence as the double murders created a sensation across the state. On Thursday, a posse of policemen were guarding the scene of offence. A yellow tape prevented passersby from entering into the crime scene. The clues team identified eight spots at the place marking them by number as part of the investigation. However, on the day of the crime, that is on February 17, some bushes were placed at the scene of offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/clues-team-mark-eight-spots-at-murder-site/articleshow/81098466.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 19, 2021||Kochi||Pugalur-Thrissur project to reduce state’s power woes||Thrissur: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 320kV Pugalur (Tamil Nadu) - Thrissur power transmission project on Friday. Power Grid Corporation of India executed the project built at a cost of Rs 5,070 crore and can facilitate transfer of 2,000MW power from the western region to Kerala. When contacted, a Power Grid official said this is a huge amount of power, considering Kerala’s total demand is around 3,800MW. The power will be sourced from various coal stations in the private and public sectors in Raigarh in Chhattisgarh and it will be brought to Kerala through Pugalur in Tamil Nadu. The 1,800km-long Chhattisgarh-Pugalur transmission project, built at a cost of Rs 22,000 crore, was commissioned in October 2020, the Power Grid official said. The length of the Pugalur-Thrissur line is 175km. This is a voltage source converter (VSC)-based high voltage direct current (HVDC) project and has India’s first HVDC link featuring state-of-the-art VSC technology, according to an official release. This technology first converts alternating current (AC) electricity into direct current (DC) during transmission from Chhattisgarh to Thrissur, and from here it will again be converted into AC. This technology reduces transmission losses significantly and ensures the controllability of power, the Power Grid official said. KSEB recently commissioned the Thrissur-Areekode 400kV line meant for drawing power from the end station of the Pugalur-Thrissur transmission project at Madakkathara, said KSEB officials. “We will have the capacity to draw the entire 2000MW, when needed. However, we won’t be needing that much power on a regular basis,” said KSEB spokesman. According to an official release, Kerala government and KSEB provided all support to Power Grid to execute the project. Kerala Agricultural University’s land was allocated for the construction of the end station. KSEB had formed a special task force under an executive engineer to speed up the project. The KSEB official said that with the commissioning of this project , Kerala would not face a power crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pugalur-thrissur-project-to-reduce-states-power-woes/articleshow/81096956.cms||T Ramavarman
February 19, 2021||Pune||Board’s PT evaluation idea stumps schools||Pune: The compulsory physical education subjects for board students has been given a miss in the pandemic. The subject carries grades in the secondary and higher secondary board examination and will be evaluated by calling students in batches to schools as per the instructions from the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. However, school representatives and students said it will be unfair to evaluate them on a day's performance. Chairman of the state board Dinkar Patil said the exam is always held at the school and junior college levels. “They can take the exam by calling students in small batches. They should keep all safety norms in mind and evaluate them. The evaluation could be completed before the theory exams. The schools or junior colleges need not take any permission from us for this evaluation,” he said. Apart from physical education, environment science is also graded as a subject. Principal Sudhir Mote of Vidya Mandir English Medium School in Rasta Peth said students can be called for the PT examination but it will not do them any justice if they are evaluated on the performance of a few hours. “The board must find a neutral solution,” he added. The higher secondary certificate exams start from April 23. The Maharashtra secondary and higher secondary physical education teachers’ association has also submitted a letter to the board seeking clarity on the evaluation. The letter said, “The classes for Stds from IX to XII have begun but there is still no permission regarding sports activities. Instructions are expected from the board and it should be issued at the earliest."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/boards-pt-evaluation-idea-stumps-schools/articleshow/81098519.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 19, 2021||Hyderabad||Court boycott affects normal courts functioning||Hyderabad: The lawyer’s protest on Thursday against the killing of the Advocate couple badly affected the normal functioning of physical as well as virtual courts across the state. Reacting to the brutal murder of Advocate Vaman Rao and his wife Nagamani at Pedapally, several association of lawyers including the Telangana State Bar council have boycotted the court proceedings on Thursday. Later the lawyers have also decided to boycott the courts on Friday too. Many lawyers at High court, Nampally Metropolitan courts, City civil courts and Ranga Reddy courts at LB Nagar desisted from attending the courts. The litigants, whose cases were listed for hearing on February 18, were adjourned after all the lawyers took to the streets to register their protest. The hearing of bail petitions, civil suits, criminal appeals, and several proceedings of trials could not be taken up after the lawyers did not represent before the concerned courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/court-boycott-affects-normal-courts-functioning/articleshow/81098511.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Thane||Man hammers wife to death in Thane chawl, hangs himself||THANE: A 29-year-old man hammered his wife to death and later hanged himself at their house in a slum near Wagle Estate. The incident happened on Tuesday night. The deceased, Akash Sammukhrao (30) and his wife Ashwini (28) were staying with Akash’s parents at the chawl in Rupadevi Pada number 2. They would often fight over Akash’s parents staying with them, the police said. Many times the couple would go to the vacant room next to their tenement to sleep at night. On Tuesday night also they both went to the vacant room but ended up fighting. The fight turned ugly and Akash repeatedly hit Ashwini with a hammer, killing her. Later, Akash committed suicide by hanging himself. On Wednesday morning, when the couple did not open the door Akash's father broke the roof of the house and found the lifeless bodies and blood spilled all over the floor, said a police officer. The Shringar police was alerted who rushed to the spot and carried out panchnama. No suicide note was found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/man-hammers-wife-to-death-in-thane-chawl-hangs-himself/articleshow/81098573.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Pre-arrest bail for lawyer in parking dispute||Mumbai: A South Mumbai lawyer, among those booked by police on charges of using criminal force to deter a public servant from performing their duty after a parking row with authorities earlier this month, was granted anticipatory bail by the sessions court. “Looking at the nature of offence and as per submission, the incident happened on the spur of the moment on account of a heated argument. Custodial interrogation of the applicant, a practicing advocate, is not required,” the court said. While it accepted that the traffic woes worsen due to water and electricity-related digging, it observed that it did not mean residents should park vehicles in no-parking zones or disobey traffic rules. “It is the duty of every citizen to obey rules and cooperate with public authorities for smooth functioning of a city like Mumbai,” the court said. The lawyer, Saurabh Nagarsheth, was accused of confronting the authorities who were cracking down on illegal parking near Marine Drive on February 4 and allegedly refused to pay a fine. Nagarsheth submitted that the road adjacent to his building had been dug up by BMC and residents were forced to park on the road. He submitted that when police took action against illegal parking, he helped a person get his bike unclamped on humanitarian grounds as he had to rush for a medical emergency. Nagarsheth alleged that the authorities snatched his phone, which led to an argument and he was assaulted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pre-arrest-bail-for-lawyer-in-parking-dispute/articleshow/81098643.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai ranks 5th in annual deaths due to air pollution: Global study||MUMBAI: Despite the geographic advantage of being a wind-swept coastal city and improvement in air quality due to an economic lockdown, Mumbai recorded 25,000 deaths in 2020 which can be attributed to air pollution, according to Greenpeace Southeast Asia’s latest analysis released on Thursday. Deteriorating air quality cost the city $3.7 billion ( 26,912 crore) in economic productivity, it said. Track the pollution level in your cityMumbai is second in the country only to Delhi, where deaths attributable to air pollution were 54,000, highest in the world, revealed the analysis. In all, across six big cities – New Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai and Lucknow, an estimated 1.2 lakh deaths were seen to have been caused by air pollution. Total cost of foul air has been $17.7billion for the country. To measure real-time health impact and economic costs of air pollution, Greenpeace used live ground-level air quality data from IQAir (a Swiss air quality technology firm). For impact of air pollution-related deaths on the economy, a lost life year or a year lived with disability was converted to money by amounts that people were willing to pay to avoid this negative outcome. Among 28 global cities included in the analysis, Mumbai was fifth in respect of absolute deaths. At 1,200 deaths per million,it ranked fourth along with Moscow in Russia and Guangzhou in China. “In Mumbai, multiple combustion processes contribute to particulate matter in air, like the thermal power plant, open burning and landfill fires of municipal solid waste, commercial food sector and road transport. To reduce pollution, government needs to address major sources of pollution that are emitters round the year,” said Avinash Kumar Chanchal, Climate Campaigner, Greenpeace India. Earlier, a study by the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay in 2017 had estimated the city’s annual premature deaths attributed to air pollution to be 32,014. Greenpeace’s number is 20% lower for a year in which the economic engine ground to a halt for months, taking traffic off the roads and reducing generation of waste. “The city’s clean air action plan which is a government document has pegged industrial emissions at 33%. Most of the industrial air pollution through furnaces and chimneys include volatile organic compounds which are carcinogenic. The government takes cognisance of the industrial emissions but hasn’t taken action. Only if we set a target to reduce the city’s pollution levels by 60% by 2024, would we be able to bring down the deaths attributed to it,” said Bhagwan Kesbhat, founder, Waatavaran Foundation, a city based non-profit. During the April-Maylockdown, the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), reported that there was a 76% decline in NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) level concentration in Mumbai, while PM 2.5 (fine particulate matter) was down 54% against the same period in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mum-ranks-5th-in-annual-deaths-due-to-air-pollution-global-study/articleshow/81099733.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 19, 2021||Pune||Nine booked on charge of attempt to kill youth in Maharashtra||PUNE: Nine men were booked on Wednesday night on the charges of rioting and attempting to kill a 20-year-old youth and his two friends by assaulting them with sharp weapons inside an ATM kiosk at Bhekrainagar in Phursungi around 5pm. Inspector (crime) Raju Adagale of the Hadapsar police said on Thursday, “Victim Rohan Ingle (20) and the assailants knew each other and resided in the same locality. Ingle was earlier involved in two criminal cases, including a body offence when he was a minor in 2018. He was arrested under the Arms Act in 2019. Two out of the nine assailants are criminals on record.” Adagale cited preliminary investigation and said, “Ingle was brutally assaulted over the issue of gaining supremacy in the Phursungi area. We recorded his complaint soon after the incident. We have sent two police teams to arrest the assailants.” Ingle sustained multiple serious injuries to his head and left leg, he fractured his right hand as well and is under treatment at a private hospital in Hadapsar. His condition is critical but his friends escaped with minor injuries. In the FIR, Ingle said, “I visited the ATM to withdraw cash and my two friends were waiting outside. Two assailants were waiting outside on a bike while seven of them entered the kiosk and started assaulting me with sharp weapons. They dragged me out of the kiosk and continued attacking my friends and I.” Police said the assailants created a ruckus and terrorized people in the vicinity. Ingle’s friends rushed him to a private hospital for treatment. The bank has shut the ATM kiosk since the incident. A security guard posted at the kiosk said he did not see the assailants because he was busy inside the bank. Ingle’s cousin, Pavan Waghmare, said, “Ingle is a school dropout and his parents sell footwear in Hadapsar. His friends also run the same business. I don’t know the motive behind the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nine-booked-on-charge-of-attempt-to-kill-youth/articleshow/81098555.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 19, 2021||Madurai||Don’t lease sand quarries sans mineral content report: HC||Madurai: Madras high court has directed the state government not to grant quarry lease without ascertaining the composition of minerals and obtaining a report from a lab. The court also directed the department of geology and mining to establish its own lab or authorise any lab in this regard. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigations seeking to prevent illegal and rampant sand quarrying under the guise of savudu quarrying.Additional advocate general Narmadha Sampath submitted that ‘savudu’ is a local term used in Tamil Nadu to define loam soil, which falls within the category of earth. Savudu can never be equated to sand, which is used for construction of buildings and it cannot be used as normal sand. The state submitted that savudu is ordinary earth consisting of 40% sand, 40% silt and 20% clay. A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and B Pugalendhi observed that as per literature, silt and clay are further formation of sand and therefore, the possibility of more than 50% of sand in savudu cannot be ruled out. The presence of sand is not identified from the river beds alone, it is also available in the adjacent agricultural fields / patta lands.The judges observed that excessive sand extraction in river beds or near them will directly impact ecological equilibrium and adversely impact instream biota and riparian habitats. Hence, it is imperative to study replenishment of river bed sand. The judges said that all savudu quarries in the state have been permitted without any lease agreement or ascertaining the composition of the mineral, without mining plan and environmental clearance against the relevant provisions of law.Hence, the court directed the government to constitute a high-level committee comprising geologists, experts, eminent officers from WRO and PWD to conduct a detailed study or survey on the possibility or availability of river sand on the adjacent patta lands to the rivers. Where sand is available, the places have to be notified and declared as protected zones where there cannot be any quarry operation other than by the government in notified areas. The department of geology and mining shall furnish details of all savudu quarries granted to the committee which should inspect them to ascertain sand availability.Availability of sand, if any, in these quarries should be reported to the commissioner of geology and mining, with a copy marked to the court. The commissioner shall take necessary action against officials who granted quarry permits without ascertaining the composition of minerals. The judges directed that there shall not be any quarry operation in the name of colloquial or local terms and any lease should be in accordance with minerals notified under Section 3 of Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. The judges further directed that any quarry operations shall be permitted only by way of lease agreement as per Article 299 (I) of the Constitution. The judges also directed the government to adapt the Mineral Conservation Rules, 2017, framed by the central government or frame separate rules, as directed by the Supreme Court within six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dont-lease-sand-quarries-sans-mineral-content-report-hc/articleshow/81099730.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 19, 2021||Pune||Ela founder felicitated for work on owl conservation||Pune: Satish Pande, the founder of the bird and nature conservation organisation, Ela Foundation, has been recognized as part of the World Owl Hall of Fame through a special achievement award.The award is given away by two organisations in the United States, engaged in owl research and conservation. Pande will be recognized through an online ceremony by the International Owl Centre and Global Owl Project on Sunday. Pande is also to deliver a lecture about his organisation’s owl conservation measures, besides the status of owls in India.According to several reports by government and non-government researchers, the owl population in India has seen an alarming fall over a number of years owing to habitat destruction, as well as their smuggling for a variety of reasons — such as their body parts being used in traditional medicine, for superstitious practices in both urban and rural areas and more.“This is indeed a huge recognition for the work that the Ela Foundation has been doing at both the Ela Habitat and beyond, in owl conservation and research. And this is also a big recognition for some of the work that students and locals have done over the years with us,” Pande told TOI.The Ela Foundation has a specialised facility to treat injured birds like owls, after which they are released back into the wild. It also organizes the Indian Owl Festival in the end of each year, which attract more than 15,000 attendees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ela-founder-felicitated-for-work-on-owl-conservation/articleshow/81098595.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Rail Roko: Operations see minimal disruption in Delhi||NEW DELHI: There was ‘minimal’ disruption to train operations in and around Delhi during the four-hour ‘rail roko’ by farmers on Thursday. Northern Railway stated that only 20 out of around 650 trains were impacted due to the agitation. These trains were impacted primarily due to blockades in Haryana or Uttar Pradesh as locations like Palwal and Sonipat recorded protest on the tracks. Railways said for those trains running at a delay due to the protest, passengers were being alerted via SMSes as usual. “Out of around 650 trains, only around 20 were impacted. Hence, the impact was minimal. We were monitoring the situation closely and the four-hour duration was navigated peacefully,” said Deepak Kumar, CPRO, Northern Railway. Officials said trains were made to wait at stations in case a blockade was reported up ahead, with operations normalising soon after 4pm. The ‘rail roko’ was observed nationwide from 12 noon onwards. Farmers had recently announced the nationwide rail blockade against the Centre’s three new agri laws. Images surfaced on Thursday of protesters squatting on the tracks in parts of Haryana, Punjab, Bihar, UP, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha among others. However, no violence was reported in and around NCR. “The rail roko agitation passed off without any untoward incident. There was negligible, or minimal impact on running of trains across the country. Train movement in all the zones is normal now,” said a statement issued by Indian Railways on Thursday evening. “Majority of the zones have not reported even a single case of any stoppage of train by the agitators. Few trains were stopped in some areas of some railway zones, but now, train operations are normal and are operating smoothly. While dealing with the rail-roko agitation, utmost patience was exercised by all concerned,” the railways added. On Wednesday, while additional security had been deployed in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, no such deployment was done for Delhi. However, officials said both Delhi Police and Railway Protection Force had been asked to monitor locations where conflict was possible. Northern Railway had earlier announced 35 unreserved mail and express special trains to run with effect from February 22, 2021 onwards. For unreserved trains or coaches, one does not need prior reservation, but can purchase a ticket for the destination from the source railway station itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rail-roko-operations-see-minimal-disruption/articleshow/81098580.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||HC asks engg college to deposit Rs5 cr towards staffers dues||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday directed the Manoharbhai Patel Institute of Engineering and Technology (MPIET) in Gondia to deposit Rs5 crore with its registry towards payment of salaries to its staff which was pending since the last couple of years. While adjourning the hearing of a bunch of petitions filed by Barun Kumar Chaudhary and others through counsel Ram Parsodkar against the MPIET management, a division bench comprising justices Nitin Jamdar and Anil Kilor told the respondent college to complete formalities by March 1.The petitioners contended that the MPIET failed to release their salaries since the last two to three years after it was closed down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-asks-engg-college-to-deposit-rs5-cr-towards-staffers-dues/articleshow/81127471.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Pune||No outbreak yet of Brazil, SA variants: Niti Aayog member||Pune: There have been no “signals of concern” so far from any state following the detection of the Brazil and South African variants of the coronavirus in the country, Dr Vinod Paul, Niti Aayog member (health), told TOI on Thursday. “India is having sporadic cases connected with the variants, and not clusters or outbreaks, which is reassuring,” he said. As for the rise in cases in Maharashtra and Kerala, he added, “At the moment, the surge in these states is not being attributed to the new variants. Analysis is on.” Dr Paul said surveillance is in place to spot the variants in samples that have tested positive. “States have been sending 5% of their positive samples to 10 regional labs for genome sequencing. We are also tracking close contacts of those found with the variants. As of now, there is no situation of concern in this regard,” he said. On the vaccination front, Dr Paul, who is also the chairman of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19, said the Centre aims to vaccinate the 30 crore prioritized population by August-September this year. “The vaccination exercise over the past few weeks has demonstrated the system is streamlining. All states have been told to speed up the process. States will continue vaccinating the first two priority groups (healthcare and frontline workers) in the coming months. But they will be simultaneously focusing on the main target group, that is people over 50.” The ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday announced India is now third, globally, with the highest cumulative vaccination numbers — after the US and the UK. However, in some states less than 50% of the registered healthcare workers have received their first dose. Dr Paul said the government is trying to allay vaccine hesitancy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-outbreak-yet-of-brazil-sa-variants-niti-aayog-member/articleshow/81098603.cms||Neha Madaan
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Four samples in Yavatmal, Amravati have mutated strain of Covid, but not the UK or African version||NAGPUR: Genome sequencing of randomly selected confirmed positive Covid-19 samples from Yavatmal and Amravati have shown four samples with mutated strain of virus, which can bypass antibodies. After sudden surge in new patients of Covid-19, health authorities from Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola had sent some of the newly detected positive samples for testing to Pune. They were tested at the BJ Government Medical College and Sassoon Hospital lab. Experts at BJ Medical confirmed they have found E484K mutation in the SARS-CoV-2 strain from samples of four Covid patients in Amravati. “These mutations should not be confused with mutations seen in UK strain or South African strain,” said senior microbiologist Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, professor and head of the microbiology department at BJ Medical, Pune. The mutation located in the spike protein region helps the strain escape existing neutralizing antibody. This means that the existing virus-specific antibodies seen in recovered patients cannot neutralize the strain with E484K mutation. The mutation, experts say, is not unique and has been seen in various other countries. Dr Rajkumar Chavan, divisional deputy director (health) for Akola division, which includes both Amravati and Yavatmal, said they have not officially received any such report about the new mutated strain so far. “We had been asked to send some random samples for genome sequencing to Pune after sudden surge in Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola. Respective civil surgeons sent the samples last week. Reports are yet to be received,” he said. The administration, though, has started taking additional precautions. Most patients in Amravati and Yavatmal are being kept in institutional quarantine and those having very mild symptoms are also being monitored strictly. Sources also said the same mutation was found in one-third of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh’s coronavirus samples. As Yavatmal district shares boarders with Telangana, the new mutation could have its source in nearby border districts. Experts say this mutant is more infectious but severity of disease is very less as compared to others. There were some travellers in Amravati with history of South Africa visits, said civil surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam, adding they have been already contacted, tested, and people in their close contact are now being traced. “We have sent five more samples for genome sequencing on February 17 and are awaiting their results,” Nikam said, adding that most patients admitted in Amravati have mild to moderate kind of infection. “Out of 1,860 patients under treatment, only two have severe level of infection and were given oxygen support, while 776 are admitted in institutional facilities and rest 1,082 are in home isolation,” he said. In Yavatmal, civil surgeon Dr Tarangtushar Ware also asserted that official report of the genome sequencing has not been received yet. Out of 620 tests done in last 24 hours, 237 have tested positive in Yavatmal on Thursday. Here also, authorities have made it a point to hospitalize most of the positive cases. Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the epidemiology division of the ICMR, said that the ICMR is closely watching the developments in Maharashtra. “There have been reports of lavish marriage parties and gatherings. The government needs to dissuade people from attending mass gatherings and observe all preventive measures,” added Dr Panda. A senior Maharashtra government official said the mutations found in the samples are not new to India. “There are over 200 mutations found so far in India. We don’t need to panic about this. Contact tracing and other public health measures will be taken to check the spread of cases,” he said. State public health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said that SARS-CoV-2 is a virus and viruses mutate. “Over 5,000 types of mutations have been recorded worldwide,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-samples-in-ytl-amt-have-mutated-strain-of-virus-but-not-the-uk-or-african-version/articleshow/81098793.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 19, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: Transgender artist forced to remove clothes on road||RAJKOT: A 21-year-old transperson working as an artist was subjected to brutal humiliation in public view y a group of eunuchs who stripped her naked on a public road, alleging that she was faking eunuchs and seeking money from people. The transperson, Payal Rathwa, was so traumatized that she had locked herself inside her house since Monday night. The eunuchs forced her to expose her private genitals in public view, thrashed her and recorded a video of the humiliating act. After the video was shared in some groups, LGBTQ activists in Maharashtra initited a social media campaign #justiceforpayalrathwa on Facebook and Instagram. Another eunuch is heard in the video saying that Payal is opposing Kinnar Akhada which is the traditional set up of the community. They even forced Payal to admit that she is a ‘fake’ eunuch. Payal is actively associated with local voluntary organization, Chitranagri, which promotes art in public places by engaging budding painters and artists. She has gained expertise in Varli paintings of tribal communities. Talking to TOI, Payal said, “I am an independent transperson running a group of LGBTQ people. The eunuchs are unhappy as many from their community are impressed with our activities and willing to join.” Narrating her ordeal, she alleged: “They came in a rickshaw and kidnapped me from my house. They were armed with weapons. They took me near a famous hotel on Gondal Road and forced me to undress. They also thrashed some of the workers of my group.” Payal then called the police control room and a PCR van of A-division police station helped her reach home. On Wednesday, she approached the police station to register an FIR, but was directed to Malaviyanagar police station as she was kidnapped from its jurisdiction. Damini Sinha, an LGBTQ activist in Pune said, “Payal is an independent individually identified transgender woman. We have initiated a campaign to ensure justice for her.” Sumedh Dixit who works for this community in Maharashtra said, “Earlier Payal was a part of the eunuch group, but she did not like begging. So, she left them and started earning money using her skill, which riled them. When members of the eunuch community joined Payal, they got violent with her. She had planned an art exhibition but could not out of fear of vandalism.” Jitendra Gotecha, who runs Chitrangari, added, “Her name was Mehul when she came to use before three years. But thereafter, she became a transwoman. She is actively involved in beautifying public places and walls with paintings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/transgender-artist-forced-to-remove-clothes-on-road/articleshow/81096082.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Three from Neeraj Bawania gang held for extortion||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has arrested three members of Neeraj Bawania gang who had allegedly demanded Rs 1 crore as protection money from a businessman in Jaffarpur Kalan area earlier this month. One of the accused, police said, was also involved in shooting two men in Begumpur in December, one of whom had died. The three accused have been identified as 23-year-old Vivek Dabas alias Rahul, Himanshu Singh (20) and Ravi Dalala (25). On December 4, two men were shot in Rohini and one of them had died. On February 2 this year, two men had opened fire in front of a spare parts shop in Jaffarpur Kalan. The owner of the shop, Tarun, had told police that the two men also assaulted him demanding protection money of Rs 1 crore. Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said while probing both the cases separately, an information was received on Tuesday that Vivek alias Rahul, involved in the murder, would come with his associates to Najafgarh on a stolen motorcycle. “A trap was laid and three men were caught. The other two were identified as Ravi and Himashu. Two pistols were recovered from them,” the DCP said. Meena said, they disclosed during interrogation that they were planning a double murder. “They said they were members of Neeraj Bawania gang. Vivek has confessed that he along with his two other associates had carried out the murder in December last year in Begumpur on the directions of Neeraj Bawania and Naveen Bali. While Vivek is a sharp shooter of Neeraj Bawania gang, the other two arrested accused provided logistical and other support to the gang,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-from-bawania-gang-held-for-extortion/articleshow/81098664.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Pune||Residents seek answers to shortlisting of bylanes||Pune: Residents of Bhandarkar Road are mobilizing support to their campaign against the civic body’s proposed widening of the bylanes in the area on the ground that most of these are internal access roads and even “cul-de-sac”. The shortlisting of lane number 12, which houses assisted senior living facility Kalpataru Sahaniwas, along Bhandarkar Road has triggered the opposition. Deepak Karandikar, vice-president of the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture, has held meetings with like-minded property owners from Bhandarkar Road and also from the lanes near Kamala Nehru Park and accused the civic body of “mindlessly shortlisting the lanes” for the road widening project. “Lane number 12 is very small in length. It has just three properties and culminates into a dead end. Widening it serves no purpose, other than facilitating highrises of some developers. We will oppose the proposal at every forum and the citizens will take a legal recourse,” he told TOI. Karandikar and four property owners from the lane have jointly filed an objection to the widening move with the civic body. When pointed out that the move will help utilise the Transfer of Development Rights to construct a highrise in place of his bungalow, Karandikar said, “The PMC must first decide for what purpose it plans to widen a road. Is it to facilitate traffic or help construct a highrise?” In his objection, senior architect Keshav Desai said even the small bylanes, less than 40ft long and meant for providing access to properties off Sathe Path (Lane 13 links Bhandarkar Road to BMCC college road), have been shortlisted for widening. He said this was against the basic principles of town planning “which stipulates the hierarchy of roads that need widening”. He said, “ I can understand if a street linking two major roads is to be widened to facilitate traffic. Unfortunately, the PMC has shortlisted internal access roads for widening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-seek-answers-to-shortlisting-of-bylanes/articleshow/81098645.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Collector takes Rs 5 lakh in cheque, denies firearm licence||AHMEDABAD: A collector from the Saurashtra region has been accused of taking a Rs 5 lakh though a cheque from a Ahmedabad businessman, allegedly in lieu of providing a firearms licence. It has been alleged that the collector neither issued the licence nor was the money returned. Aggrieved, the trader shot off a letter to Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja. Along with this, the complainant also approached the Gujarat anti-corruption bureau (ACB) to probe the issue. According to the letter sent by the businessman, he met the collector on January 25 with the help of a BJP leader. “We met the collector in person and told him that I wanted a licence for a firearm for self-protection. At that time, the collector told me to give a blank cheque without mentioning the date after which, he assured me, I would get the weapon licence,” reads the letter. Following his instructions, the trader along with his wife and a BJP leader went to meet the collector on January 27 and gave a cheque drawn on the KK Nagar branch of a nationalized bank. The collector filled in the amount of Rs 5 lakh on the cheque and deposited it in the account of the ‘Collector’s fund’. The money was deposited in the account as well. However, after around a fortnight, the trader found his application for a firearm licence was rejected by the collector only. “When my wife called the collector, he refused to talk on the phone and told her to meet in person. They met and as she said the money had been deposited in the collector’s account, he got furious and told her that the money was deposited in the government’s account and cannot be returned and her husband would not even get the licence,” reads the letter. As the trader’s wife insisted on either the licence or the money back, he threatened her saying that he is a collector and nobody can harm him. The trader pleaded in the letter to return his money and to initiate an inquiry against the collector under the Prevention of Corruption Act. As the letter was also marked to the director of the Gujarat anti-corruption bureau, the agency has begun an inquiry into the case. As of now, no FIR has been filed against the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/collector-takes-rs-5-lakh-in-cheque-denies-firearm-licence/articleshow/81096978.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Pune||Plans afoot to rope in private hospitals for mega vax drive||PUNE: Senior Union government health officials said they are considering involving more private hospitals for the mega vaccination drive that will cover 27 crore beneficiaries, aged 50 years and above. “The private sector has already shown willingness to support the programme,” stated an official. Sources said that the corporate sector may also help carry out the vaccination drive. With a month left for the vaccination of beneficiaries aged 50-plus, senior health officials from the union government accepted that this would be a huge number as everyone aged above 50 years would be able to register on the CoWin app. “While the government is yet to formally announce the process, officials are already reaching out to maximum private hospitals to increase vaccination sites and scale up the programme,” said the official. NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul told TOI that as of now 2,000 of 10,000 vaccination sites in the country are at private hospitals. “This will be scaled up so that the vaccination process can be simplified for beneficiaries aged 50-plus,” he said. Paul added that the plan would be to increase the number five times from the present sessions. He said that the protocol for the third phase of vaccination is ready to be announced soon. He however was non-committal about funding of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plans-afoot-to-rope-in-private-hospitals-for-mega-vax-drive/articleshow/81098660.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||5+ Covid cases in bldg to make it prohibited area||Nagpur: With over 500 new Covid-19 infection cases being detected every day in the city for the last few days, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has enforced stricter curbs on people’s movement as well as gatherings.The NMC has decided to notify entire flat scheme as prohibited area in case more than five Covid patients are found there. Similarly, on detection of more than 20 Covid cases in a particular area, the civic body will declare part of the lane/street as prohibited zone. People residing in prohibited zone will not be allowed to go outside and no one from other localities will be permitted to enter such area.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Friday issued an order to this effect as part of the measures to curb spread of the novel coronavirus infection.NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “The concerned flat scheme or part of the area, street or lane will not be barricaded, as was done earlier. Zone offices, in association with respective police stations, will notify and display banners highlighting it as prohibited area. The area will be sealed only if violation of the Covid rules is noticed.”In the early days of the pandemic, the civic body used to barricade entire area after declaring it as containment zone. After a series of unlocking orders, containment zones were restricted only up to the house in which Covid patient was in home isolation.The civic chief also re-introduced cap of 20 people attending funeral. In yet another major decision, the NMC has ordered all hotels, restaurants and other eateries to keep the number of patrons limited to 50% of total capacity at any given time.Radhakrishnan has warned that violators will be slapped with not just fine, but they will also face FIR under Disaster Management Act, 2005, IPC and Epidemic Act, 1897.The civic body has already capped the number of guests allowed in marriage ceremonies at 50 and other gatherings at 100 or 25% of the total capacity of the venue. The fine amount has been increased from Rs5,000 to Rs15,000 so as to deter people from violating the Covid curbs. The NMC’s nuisance detection squad (NDS) continued to keep close watch on lawns and hotels to nab violators. Till Friday, 267 lawns and hotels were inspected in the city. Fine ranging between Rs5,000 and Rs 25,000 each was levied on six lawns and hotels on Friday. Earlier, similar action was taken against 14 lawns and hotels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-covid-cases-in-bldg-to-make-it-prohibited-area/articleshow/81127492.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 19, 2021||Pune||Vaccination low, but none will be forced: Health secretary||PUNE: State government officials will reach out to health workers for first dose of Covid vaccine ahead of the Union government’s February 20. They, however, reiterated that beneficiaries would not be forced even if their names were registered in the CoWIN app. State principal health secretary Pradeep Vyas on Thursday told TOI that 55% registered healthcare beneficiaries had been administered the first dose of the vaccine so far. With just two days left to the Centre’s deadline, he said officials would reach out to the registered beneficiaries through SMSs and calls to cover as many healthcare workers as possible. “But nobody can be forced to take the vaccine. Already more than 85% of the vaccinations have been scheduled at least once. If they do not turn up, it is their choice as vaccination is voluntary,” he said. Vyas said they were focussing on completing the vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers according to the Union government schedule, but clear directions were still awaited for beneficiaries aged 50 and above. Deputy director of health services, Pune region, Sanjay Deshmukh said Pune region covering Pune, Satara and Solapur registered 62% coverage due to the mega-vaccination drives and increased site session. “Vaccine hesitancy is still a major issue,” he said. On rising cases, Vyas said they had directed collectors and commissioners to trace 20-30 contacts per case and increase testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccination-low-but-none-will-be-forced-health-secy/articleshow/81098641.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 19, 2021||Madurai||Must defeat BJP, prove this is land of Periyar, says Stalin||Madurai: Prime Minister Narendra Modi was holding the hands of corruption when he held the hands of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam in Chennai, opposition leader and DMK president M K Stalin said on Thursday. Speaking at the political uprising conference organized by the CPI in Madurai, Stalin said the BJP was using the AIADMK to enter the state and fulfil its agenda. Campaigning at Uthamapalayam in Trichy earlier in the day, Stalin announced that the DMK will hold its 11th state-level conference in Trichy on March 14. Thursday’s conference, touted to be first of its kind in the state, saw participation from all members of the DMK-led alliance. Stalin said the communist parties and the DMK were not just political allies but were united in their philosophy of socialism. Attacking the Centre, Stalin said, “Modi, who quoted Avaiyar and Bharathiar, is not listening to the voices of farmers protesting against the farm laws and the fishermen suffering at the hands of the forces of another nation. Instead, his government has launched an attack on its own people with soaring fuel and LPG prices.” “We have to prove that this is the land of Thanthai Periyar, Kalaignar, Anna and Tholar Jeeva and defeat the AIADMK and the BJP,” he said. CPI general secretary D Raja said Tamil Nadu’s election results should signal the downfall of the fascist BJP government at the Centre as should the elections in Kerala, West Bengal and Assam. “Modi refers to us as ‘andolan jeevi’ (someone who thrives on protests), and we are that because the working class is suffering due to privatisation of the public sector,” he said. While the BJP government was trying to destroy democracy, the AIADMK government was trying to help it, he said. CPI state secretary R Mutharasan, Kongu Nadu Makkal Desiya Katchi general secretary E R Easwaran, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M H Jawahirullah, VCK chief Thol Thirumavalavan, MDMK’s Vaiko, TNCC president K S Alagiri, CPM state secretary K Balakrishnan among others spoke. Veteran CPI leaders R Nallakannu and Tha Pandian were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/must-defeat-bjp-prove-this-is-land-of-periyar-says-stalin/articleshow/81099741.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Surat||Man kills self in Surat after wife’s suicide in UP||Surat: A 26-year-old employee at a sari shop was found dead at his residence in Pandesara on Thursday. The couple had got married on December 10 last year at their native village in Uttar Pradesh (UP). Police said that the deceased identified as Pradeep Pandey allegedly hanged himself to death within hours of his wife Ritu’s committing suicide in Allahabad, UP. Pandey was found hanging at his rented accommodation in Lakshmi Nagar. His wrist had injury marks and it seemed he had also suffered heavy blood.Pandey's family members told police that the deceased had talked to Ritu for around half an hour on Thursday morning over the phone. Later, he came to know through his family members that Ritu had hanged herself. Within minutes of receiving this message, Pandey too killed himself. The family members are not yet sure what had triggered the couple to such an extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-kills-self-in-surat-after-wifes-suicide-in-up/articleshow/81096119.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Madurai||Stalin’s petition box a staged event, 5L entries in it a lie: EPS||Tirunelveli: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has accused DMK president M K Stalin of stage-managing the petition box event at his interactions with the people. “They say there are two boxes at these events,” said the CM in Tirunelveli district on Thursday. He is on a three-day tour of the southern districts. Palaniswami alleged that the box from which Stalin picks petitions of 10 people is not the one in which the other petitions are deposited randomly. He said the petitions picked by Stalin and read on stage are prepared and have answers too. “He is not reading those petitions properly. He lies that he received 5 lakh petitions and they have been given tokens. How many can go and see him?” he asked. Continuing his attack on Stalin and dynasty politics in the DMK, he said despite having so many senior leaders in the party, none other than Stalin himself, Dayanidhi Maran, Kanimozhi and Udhayanidhi Stalin are allowed to campaign. “They are afraid that if anyone else is allowed to campaign, they may take over the party,” he said. Describing his government as an award-winning one, EPS pointed out that they had won many national awards for excellence in local administration, public works, water management system, education, social welfare and electricity. “What award has the DMK government won? Nothing,” he said. Palaniswami said the AIADMK has been in power for 30 years including 10.5 years with party founder M G Ramachandran as CM, followed by Jayalalithaa for 15.5 years and himself as CM for four years. He asked people to remember the welfare measures they enjoyed during the AIADMK regime and to compare it with the DMK government from 2006-11. After his campaigns and interactions with party cadres at Valliyoor, Thirukurungudi, Mavadi, Kalakkad, Ambasamudram and Tirunelveli city in the district, he campaigned at Alangulam and Pavoorchatram in Tenkasi district late in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stalins-petition-box-a-staged-event-5l-entries-in-it-a-lie-eps/articleshow/81099746.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Job scam: Man pays Rs 9k online, cyber police recover ‘fees’||Mumbai: A 40-year-old man was duped by a conman who called him up with a job offer and convinced him to deposit a ‘refundable’ security fee of Rs 8,740 via NEFT to a bank account. The victim has been using an online job site. The cyber police managed to recover the money.  The fraudster posed as a manager of Coca-Cola company, called up Ayub Rashid Sayed and interviewed him online. Sayed even received an offer letter for the post of a manager only to find out it was a fake letter later. He then complained to the cyber police a week back.  “We have recovered the money that Sayed had lost. During investigations, we came to know that many across the country are falling victims to online job fraud using the name of Coca-Cola Company. No company will take any fees to give offer letter,” deputy commissioner of police (Cyber-Mumbai) Rashmi Karandikar told TOI. The cyber police at Bandra-Kurla complex (BKC) on Thursday issued an advisory to online job hunters not to fall prey to such offers. The concerned company has already issued a disclaimer on its website about such online scams that demand ‘fees’, ‘security deposit’ or ‘travel cost’ with job offers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/job-scam-man-pays-rs-9k-online-cyber-police-recover-fees/articleshow/81098801.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 19, 2021||Pune||PMR records over 800 cases for second straight day, 9 more succumb to Covid||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) continued to record more than 800 cases for second straight day on Thursday, taking the tally above 3.95 lakh. A total of 841 people tested positive in PMR on Thursday as against 359 recoveries. Among the new cases, the PMC areas added 465, followed by the rural areas (196) and the PCMC limits (180). As for recoveries, 184 patients were discharges in the PMC limits, while 38 in the PCMC limits and 137 in the rural pockets. With this, the region’s recoveries now stand above 3.80 lakh. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, on Thursday stated that nine more fatalities were recorded in the region due to Covid-19, taking its total toll to 9,165. A total of 7,999 samples were tested for the infection in PMR in the last 24 hours, including 4,424 tests in the PMC limits, followed by the rural pockets (1,865) and the Pimpri Chinchwad areas (1,710). Tally of active cases further increased to 5,846 on Thursday evening. As many as 3,589 patients were in home isolation in the region, while 2,257 were admitted in various hospitals for further treatment. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas was at top with 2,454 active patients, highest in the region followed by the the Pune civic areas’ tally of 2,156 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-records-over-800-cases-for-second-straight-day-9-more-succumb-to-ncov/articleshow/81098671.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: From today, pay more for CNG, piped gas||AHMEDABAD: Adani Total Gas Limited has increased the retail prices of compressed natural gas and domestic piped natural gas in Ahmedabad. The company has raised CNG prices in Kheda, Surendranagar, Barwala and Navsari geographical areas as well. This is for the second time that the company has revised CNG and PNG prices in these regions over the past one month. For Ahmedabad, the CNG price has been increased by 95 paise per kg. So, it will now cost Rs 54.62/kg instead of Rs 53.67/kg. For Kheda, Surendranagar, Barwala and Navsari, the company has raised the CNG price to Rs 54.46 from Rs 53.51. These revised rates (inclusive of taxes) came into effect from February 17, according to the company’s website. ATGL has further revised PNG prices for its residential consumers in Ahmedabad from Rs 729.09 per metric million British thermal units (MMBTU) to Rs 762.95 per MMBTU. This tariff—exclusive of taxes—is applicable for the bi-monthly consumption upto 2.29 MMBTU. For the bi-monthly consumption above 2.29 MMBTU, the PNG price has been hiked to Rs 915.55 per MMBTU from Rs 874.91/MMBTU. The company, however, has kept CNG and PNG prices in Vadodara unchanged. Am emailed query sent to the company did not elicit any response. The industry sources, however, attributed the rise possibly to the increase in operational, manpower and fixed cost of the company due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/from-today-pay-more-for-cng-piped-gas/articleshow/81096994.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Pune||Two robbery case suspects escape from Bhor sub-jail||Pune: Two suspects allegedly involved in the robbery worth Rs17.4 lakh at a jewellery shop in Kapurhol near Khed Shivapur on August 6 last year escaped from Bhor sub-jail by bending open the iron bars of their room’s window on the first floor early on Wednesday. The incident came to light later in the morning during the inspection round by jail officials. Inspector Raju More of the Bhor police told TOI, “Chandrakant Lokhande and Pravin Raut were arrested by the Rajgad police on February 9 for their involvement in the robbery. Four men in police uniforms and a fifth person, who was under the guise of an arrested thief, had entered the jewellery shop on the pretext of inspecting and ascertaining the loot, and in turn robbed the shop of ornaments worth Rs17.4 lakh.”The suspects had opened fire in a bid to dissuade a crowd from apprehending them after the shop owner raised an alarm. Lokhande, who hails from Indapur in Pune district, and Raut, from Phaltan in Satara district, was lodged at the sub-jail under police custody,” he said. More said, “They bent the iron bars of the window and then jumped out,” More said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-robbery-case-suspects-escape-from-bhor-sub-jail/articleshow/81098708.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Pune||PCMC chief presents draft civic budget of Rs 7,112 crore||Pimpri Chinchwad: Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Rajesh Patil presented a draft budget of Rs 7,112 crore, including Rs 1,523.23 crore worth of funds from the Union government, before the standing committee for 2021-22. Patil said that considering the Covid-19 situation, it has been decided not to propose any tax hike for the new fiscal. Instead, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has decided to bank on income from unassessed properties to shore up revenue. Around 30,000 unassessed properties have so far been identified by the civic body via a survey done by a private firm, which has been given three months’ extension to complete the survey. The budget has proposed Rs101 crore for medical department and Rs107 crore for the health department, with focus on strengthening the existing municipal medical facilities. Addressing a news conference after presenting the budget, Patil said turning day-to-day work into a paperless system, strengthening financial management and addressing basic issues, such as drinking water, use of recycled water are on the agenda.“We will also focus on completion of ongoing projects to avoid cost escalation,” he said. Ajit Pawar, additional commissioner, said that several projects are underway to improve water supply in Pimpri Chinchwad. Construction of weirs at Shivane and Gamaje, increasing the height of weir at Ravet and some other projects will improve the water supply to around 540MLD from the current 480MLD, he said. This will enable the civic body to provide water on daily basis, unlike the existing alternate-day system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-chief-presents-draft-civic-budget-of-rs-7112-crore/articleshow/81096993.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Arms & the men: Six held with 4,500 cartridges in four states||NEW DELHI: In an operation spanning four states over five days, Special Cell of Delhi Police arrested six people and seized 4,500 cartridges from them. This huge recovery is significant because unlike weapons, cartridges can’t be manufactured locally and are always stolen or smuggled. The seized bullets were of .32 bore, which are used in 7.65mm calibre pistols, a weapon commonly used in street crimes in Delhi. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said the cartridges were sold in the grey market by the owners and employees of gun houses, who altered the books to manipulate the inventory. At least a dozen gun houses in Delhi, UP and Haryana were under the radar of police, confirmed sources. The management of the gun houses made entries of fewer cartridges than what was bought from the ordnance factory. Apart from this, false sale entries were made against licences registered with the gun houses. Another officer added that the probe suggests that ghost licencees were also created. The cartridges passed through middlemen ultimately landed in the hands of criminals and gangs of Delhi-NCR. The operation was conducted by the northern range of Special Cell comprising inspectors Vivekanand, Kuldeep and others. Two cars used to ferry the ammunition, mobile handsets and SIM cards used for communication were also seized. “Surveillance was mounted on illegal firearms and ammunition syndicates. A new syndicate was found selling cartridges in Delhi-NCR from the nearby areas of Haryana and UP, besides other states,” said Yadav. The first breakthrough came on January 14 when the team received a tip-off about the movement of members of this syndicate and a trap was laid near Mukundpur flyover, Outer Ring Road. “A suspect, later identified as Ramesh Kumar, was the first to arrive in a Hyundai car. He was followed by another suspect, Deepanshu Mishra, in a Tata Manza. When Kumar handed over a white plastic bag to Mishra, the team nabbed them and seized 2,000 cartridges from them,” said the DCP. On their disclosure, a raid was conducted in Jaipur and Amit Rao, one of the main sources of this syndicate, was arrested. Further raids in Haryana led to the arrest of two brothers, Ikram and Akram, and 500 cartridges were seized from them. Another raid in Panchkula led to the arrest of Manoj Kumar, another member of this syndicate. They were produced in court and taken on remand for interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/arms-the-men-6-held-with-4500-cartridges-in-4-states/articleshow/81098725.cms||Raj Shekhar
February 19, 2021||Pune||RT-PCR for passengers from Kerala a must: PMC||PUNE: The civic body on Thursday issued an order making it mandatory for all passengers reaching the city from Kerala to carry RT-PCR test reports for ascertaining if they are infected by Covid-19. “The decision has been taken to curb any spread of Covid-19. The passengers will have to follow other directives issued from time to time to control the virus from spread,” PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said in the order. The orders have been made effective from Thursday till the next directives. The orders have been issued in accordance with relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Civic officials said violation of the face mask and social distancing norms and hygiene practices would lead to Rs500 fine. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also issued directions putting restrictions on Friday’s Shiv Jayanti celebrations. The directives favoured use of online modes and cable TV networks, instead of public gatherings. Only 100 people would be allowed to garland a Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj statue at one time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rt-pcr-for-passengers-from-kerala-a-must-pmc/articleshow/81098707.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Cold spells in some parts may have boosted spread, say experts||PUNE: Recent cold spells in parts of Vidarbha, Marathwada and Madhya Maharashtra regions could have played an “important role” in SARS-CoV-2 transmission, state disease surveillance officer Pradeep Awate said on Thursday. “Cold weather changes transmission dynamics of airborne viruses, whether it is SARS-COV-2 or H1N1. Winter temperatures aid transmission,” said Awate. For several days, the minimum temperatures in these regions, especially Vidarbha, had dropped 4-5 degrees below normal, with a day-night temperature variation of over 19-20°C. Minimum temperatures in parts of Maharashtra were on the lower side since the first week of February, a trend which held for days. Vidarbha region had also recorded cold wave conditions, with lower than normal night temperatures in locations such as Amravati, Akola, Nagpur, Chandrapur, Gondia and Brahmapuri. As per state data, Amravati, Wardha, Akola , Yavatmal and Buldhana are now among districts registering Covid case spikes. Awate said gram panchayat elections in over 14,000 villages in the state (with an 80% voter turnout), marriages and some large social events may have also triggered surges. An expert team has now been deployed to these locations to review response and containment measures. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state government on Covid control and a member of the team deployed to some of the affected districts, including Akola, said, “Intensification of the surge is taking place in some areas, especially parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada. Environmental factors, including drop in night temperatures and higher diurnal temperature variation, do play a role. But a key reason for the surge has been the complete disregard of Covid-appropriate behaviour.” He added that control steps are in place to check the spread in these regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cold-spells-in-some-parts-may-have-boosted-spread-experts/articleshow/81098750.cms||Neha Madaan
February 19, 2021||Pune||Cyber police arrest man on debit cards swap charge||Pune: The cybercrime police have recovered 25 debit cards from a 33-year-old unemployed man from Nagpur.He was arrested on the charge of replacing the card of a furniture shop employee with an inoperative one and later using the active card to withdraw Rs74,760 from the victim’s bank account on January 21 and 22.The suspect was arrested from an ATM in Shivajinagar on February 9.Inspector Kumar Ghadge (cyber) said, “The suspect, Anoop Pajare, during questioning admitted to have committed five offences, including two at Kondhwa, two at Khadak, and one at Warje Malwadi. We have recovered cash Rs11,000 from Pajare and freezed his bank account containing Rs76,000.”Ghadge said, “Pajare is also wanted in seven cases in Nagpur and other places. The suspect committed the crime for earning fast money.”“We have communicated the message relating to his arrest to other police stations and requested them to take action against him after a court remanded him in magisterial custody and sent him to Yerawada central jail on February 15,” he added.Meanwhile, the Kondhwa police on Thursday arrested Pajare after seeking his custody from the jail in a similar offence registered with them.The furniture employee, Jaipalram Kala (42) from Rajasthan, currently residing at Tilekarnagar in Kondhwa visited a public sector bank’s ATM and tried to withdraw Rs 11,000. The machine did not dispense cash due to technical snag. Kala in his FIR said, “A man waiting behind me replaced my card with an inoperative one by diverting my attention and took to heels. I realised I had been tricked after I received text messages that Rs74,760 had been debited from my bank account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cyber-police-arrest-man-on-debit-cards-swap-charge/articleshow/81096996.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||PNB scam: ‘Case made out against bank official & wife’||Mumbai: A Special CBI-Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) court on Thursday took cognisance of a chargesheet in the disproportionate assets case against former Punjab National Bank (PNB) deputy manager, Gokulnath Shetty and his wife Ashalata Shetty and issues process against them. Gokulnath is one the main accused in the PNB scam case, involving absconding businessmen Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. The chargesheet said that the percentage of disproportionate assets is calculated at 590.83% as both the accused were found to be in possession of assets to the tune of Rs 4.28 crore against their known sources of income of Rs 72 lakh. “Keeping in view the contention in the chargesheet and evidence produced along with it, a prima facie case appears to have been made out against accused to proceed further for offences alleged against them,” special judge VC Barde said. The chargesheet was submitted against them under Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pnb-scam-case-made-out-against-bank-official-wife/articleshow/81099751.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Madurai||47 fresh cases in south TN, 34 in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state reported 47 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday. Total number of cases in the region has crossed 1.37 lakh. No deaths were recorded in the region, while the central TN recorded a death in Trichy. The central region also recorded 34 fresh cases taking the tally to 76,806, which include 366 active cases. All the districts in the southern region recorded less than ten cases each, with Theni (1) recording the lowest. It is followed by three each in Ramanathapuram and Tuticorin, four each in Dindigul, Virudhunagar and Tenkasi, five in Sivagangai, seven in Madurai and eight each in Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari. Kanyakumari with 17,004 total cases so far is the third district in the region to cross the 17,000-mark after Madurai (21,175) and Theni (17,138). Thanjavur and Trichy reported 10 fresh cases each. Rest of the districts registered cases in single digits only. Ariyalur and Perambalur recorded zero fresh cases. Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam recorded three cases each, while Pudukottai and Karur recorded three cases each. The death toll of the region has climbed to 952 with the death of a 40-year-old man from Trichy. He died due to Covid-19 pneumonia at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai on February 16. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/47-fresh-cases-in-south-tn-34-in-central-dists/articleshow/81099749.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Pune||Pune cops intensify drive against violators of mask rule||PUNE: The city police on Thursday intensified action against persons found venturing out without wearing masks, charging them Rs500 in fines.  Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “The number of Covid cases are rising in Pune city and its surrounding areas. On this backdrop, we have asked to intensify the action against the maskless persons moving on the city roads.” A senior officer said special drives were undertaken to fine maskless motorists during the lockdown period. “Police personnel will undertake such a special drive now too,”he said. Police teams, according to the officer, will remain present at different junctions to catch rule flouters. “Car occupants, if moving with family members, need not require to wear masks but if it is not a family, they need to abide by the mask rule,” he said. Gupta said by late evening, over 800 persons were fined. No permission for processionsThe city traffic police did not gave permission to the processions for celebrating Shiv Jayanti, the birth anniversary of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, owing to the increasing number of patients, said deputy commissioner of police (Traffic) Rahul Shrirame on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-intensify-drive-against-violators-of-mask-rule/articleshow/81098715.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Pune||Weather systems bring hail, heavy rain to parts of Pune||PUNE: Isolated trace to light rain, thunder, lightning and instances of hail were recorded in the city on Thursday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials told TOI that Shivajinagar and Lohegaon reported trace rainfall till 8.30pm on Thursday. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune, told TOI, “We had expected hail activity in South Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada, but parts of central Madhya Maharashtra also recorded hail on Thursday, including Pune. Pune meteogram on Thursday showed that the freezing level, or the zero degree isotherm representing the altitude in which the temperature is at 0 °C in a free atmosphere had lowered over Pune and the adjacent areas. This was the result of the prevailing weather conditions coupled with high day temperature in Pune.” On Thursday, the maximum temperature was 31.3 degrees celsius in Shivajinagar and 31.2 degrees celsius in Lohegaon. Kashyapi said several factors contributed to the weather activities on Thursday. “There is a strong wind discontinuity in the lower levels over central India with moisture inflow from Bay of Bengal. It is likely to move southwestward and persist till Friday. Apart from the cyclonic circulation over south Madhya Maharashtra and the neighbourhood, three kinds of wind regimes were interacting over Vidarbha, Marathwada, Chattisgarh and north Madhya Maharashtra,” he added On Thursday, southerly winds were penetrating from south peninsula, easterly winds from Chhattisgarh and Vidarbha, while there was also a partial northerly wind regime in North Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra. Moreover easterly and southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal had strengthened, causing the wind speed to increase. “All this combined with the triggering system, cyclonic circulation over south Madhya Maharashtra and its neighbourhood, resulted in trace to light rains, thunder, lightning and hail,” Kashyapi said. However, the rain activity will reduce on Friday, with IMD forecasting very light to light rain and thundery activity in Pune. No hail has been forecast on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/weather-systems-bring-hail-heavy-rain-to-parts-of-pune/articleshow/81097018.cms||Neha Madaan
February 19, 2021||Surat||Absconding constable in Rs 4.5L bribe case surrenders||Surat: Accused in Rs 4.5 lakh bribery case police head constable Dipesh Maisuriya, who was on the run since February 4, finally surrendered through this lawyer in the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Thursday. ACB sleuths had caught two other accused including ASI Mahadev Sevaikar of the now-dissolved Range Operation Group of Surat range, while accepting the bribe during a trap in Pipodra GIDC. Maisuriya was posted in the local crime branch (LCB) of Surat district police and was suspended after the ACB trap. “Maisuriya did not reveal where he was hiding. He will be produced in court on Friday and police will seek his custody for investigation,” said an ACB officer. The other accused, Vipul Balar, an oil businessman, was caught from his office in Pipodra GIDC. Balar had called the complainant in the graft case to come to his office with the money. Maisuriya was not present at the spot and later went underground after the other two were arrested. Of the Rs 4.5 lakh, Sevaikar and Maisuriya were to receive Rs 2 lakh each, while Balar was to get Rs 50,000. The accused cops had threatened a chemical and oil trader of legal actions if he does not pay the money. During investigation police found Sevaikar to be owning property worth crores. Maisuriya owns a shop in which his wife runs beauty parlour, said police. Police are investigating properties of Maisuriya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/absconding-constable-in-rs-4-5l-bribe-case-surrenders/articleshow/81096150.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||AAI told to pay for Rs 185 excess charge||Ahmedabad: A consumer court ordered the Airports Authority of India Ltd (AAI) to refund the extra money charged for parking at the city airport three years ago and pay Rs 3,500 as compensation to a retired Army officer. The amount overcharged was a meagre Rs 185, but the retired defence official put his foot down and decided to highlight the AAI’s arbitrary decision to levy parking charges. He fought the legal battle and presented his case before the consumer court even while undergoing cancer treatment. In this case, retired lieutenant colonel Shyamsundar Panigrahi kept his car in the parking area at SVP International Airport at Ahmedabad for 9 hours and 20 minutes on November 26, 2018 when he flew to Pune and returned. He was charged Rs 440 as parking fees. After he went home, he noticed the charge-rate on the AAI portal and found out that he was made to pay Rs 185 extra. He met the airport manager and presented his case and requested that he correct the system to charge parking fees, but did not get a positive response. Panigrahi sued the airports authority with the Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, Ahmedabad District (Rural) complaining that he was made to pay excess parking charges. The actual parking fee for nine hours should have been Rs 255, but he had to pay Rs 440. Moreover, the receipt did not mention any breakup of GST. The airport authority defended itself and maintained that the amount collected from the retired defence official was not more than the real charge. In fact, parking charges at airports are different in different cities and they depend on traffic. The authority submitted that the consumer was liable to pay Rs 480 for the time his vehicle remained parked in the airport’s parking area. However, during proceedings, Panigrahi placed another parking fee receipt for his trip to Delhi after this incident. He was charged Rs 255 for parking his vehicle for less than 24 hours. “The receipt mentioned the tax breakup as well. This put an end to the airport authority’s arguments,” he told TOI. After hearing the case, the consumer commission on Monday ordered AAI to return Rs 185, charged extra, with 8% interest along with Rs 3,500 as compensation for mental harassment and litigation expenditure within a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aai-told-to-pay-for-rs-185-excess-charge/articleshow/81097047.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Lure of money brings techie, MBA grad, guard together||NEW DELHI: From a software engineer to an MBA grad who had lost his job during the lockdown and a security guard, the players in the ammunition smuggling racket had different backgrounds. The greed to make big money within a short period was the common thread that tied them together. The profits were huge as criminals were ready to pay any amount for the ammunition. A cartridge that cost a middleman or a conduit Rs 125-200 was sold to criminals for up to Rs 1,000 a piece. “The urgency of the client decided the price. If a hitman needed to complete a job in the next two-three days, he would pay up to Rs 5,000 for a pack of six cartridges,” said an investigator. One of the arrested men, Ramesh Kumar, was working at Ambala Gun House since 2018. This was his second job at a gun house in the city. With sales witnessing a dip, Amit Rao, the owner of the gun house, and Kumar decided to sell cartridges illegally in the grey market. “Rao did not make proper entries in his record books after purchasing the cartridges from the ordnance firm. The duo sold these cartridges at much higher rates,” said DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav. Rao completed MBA from Kurukshetra University in Haryana and worked in sales at reputed hotels in different states. His maternal uncle was the owner of Ambala Gun House. After his death, Rao got the licence transferred in his name and started managing the gun house. He was also working as the administrative head with a company in Jaipur and had employed Kumar to manage the gun house. He disclosed to police that he used to buy cartridges at Rs 80 per piece from a manufacturing company in Pune, but never made proper entries in the record books. Instead, Kumar and he sold these cartridges illegally to different people at much higher rates. Another arrested man, Deepanshu Mishra, worked as a software engineer in Noida. His father had a gun house in Etawah in Uttar Pradesh, but it shut down after he passed away in 2015. On a visit to Karnal with his father for work, he met Kumar. During the lockdown, he was sacked from his job. He then contacted Kumar and started buying cartridges from him for Rs 125 per piece and supplied them to middlemen for around Rs 250 to be eventually sold to criminals at high rates. Brothers Ikram and Akram and natives of Muzaffarnagar in UP. They learnt to repair guns from their father and started working for gun houses. They sold the cartridges to criminals after buying them from Rao and Mishra. Even Manoj Chauhan, who worked at a transport firm as a security guard, did the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lure-of-money-brings-techie-mba-grad-guard-together/articleshow/81098818.cms||Raj Shekhar
February 19, 2021||Delhi||‘Out of danger zone, but all precautions needed’||New Delhi: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said Covid-19 was on the wane and the capital was out of the danger zone. The minister, who was attending a felicitation ceremony for frontline workers, said, “We still need to take all the precautions and maintain social distancing.” Jain chaired the ceremony organised for 76 frontline workers at Delhi Vidhan Sabha for their effort and undeterred spirit. He applauded them and said Lok Nayak Hospital had put up a brave fight against the virus. “I want to applaud every member of the staff, for putting the interest of public before their own. What they have done will act as an example for generations to come.” “I feel now that all the three waves of the coronavirus have hit the city, it’ll die down eventually. Now, it is no more a pandemic, but an endemic. The infection will not be eradicated, much like other diseases, but the surge is on the wane,” he said. “I hope we won’t see 8,600 cases in a day. I feel we are out of the danger zone, but we still need to take proper precautions, masks and social distancing need to be maintained,” he added. Praising the hospital, Jain said, “Lok Nayak Hospital has put up a tough fight during the war against the virus and successfully treated over 11,000 patients. When Delhi government introduced plasma therapy, the first trial was conducted at this hospital, while the first plasma bank also started here.” The minister added that in the initial days when the pandemic broke out, the government was reviewing the situation and heard the news from Italy. “Delhi hospitals had 1,500 patients who were suspected of the infection. However, only 300 were positive. Therefore, we made a calculated move after reviewing the situation and decided to introduce the world’s first home-isolation system,” he said. “It was ensured that both public and private hospitals had adequate bed capacity. We purchased Bipap and HFNC machines in June, when no one was considering it. We did not stress on using ventilators as the first resort,” he said, adding that, “We faced setbacks initially and faced criticism, too, but we took it all positively.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/out-of-danger-zone-but-all-precautions-needed/articleshow/81117750.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Pune||636 get 2nd shot, over 5.9k get first dose||Pune: A total of 636 healthcare workers (HCWs) turned up to take the second shot of the Covid vaccine in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, the highest so far. Besides, 5,920 beneficiaries were given the first dose of the vaccine at 79 vaccine sites in region, taking its turnout to 68%. Among the first dose receivers in PMR on Thursday, as many as 4,006 were frontliners and 1,914 healthcare workers. In the overall tally, rural parts of Pune registered maximum (82%) vaccination, followed by PMC limits (60%) and the Pimpri Chinchwad areas (47%). “This is the first time that the day’s immunization number stood at 5,920 in the PMR,” said district health officer Bhagwan Pawar. As many as 379 healthcare workers took the second shot in the rural areas on Thursday. Besides, 3,431 beneficiaries received the first dose. In the PMC areas, 95 first-timers got the second shot of the vaccine, while 1,735 beneficiaries got their first dose. In the PCMC areas, 162 healthcare workers took the second dose of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/636-get-2nd-shot-over-5-9k-get-first-dose/articleshow/81098766.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 19, 2021||Pune||Pune: Rs 310 deducted from man’s FASTag wallet; his car was at home||PUNE: 48-year-old Vinod Joshi, an IT employee, received three SMS alerts on Wednesday stating that Rs 310 in all was debited from his FASTag account. The only problem? His car was at home all day. A shocked Joshi has demanded an inquiry into the possibility of duplicate or cloned FASTags. “On Wednesday, I only took my car to drop my daughter at school on Senapati Bapat Road. I was nowhere near the Pune-Mumbai expressway — I have CCTV footage showing my car parked at home in Pashan the entire day,” Joshi said. Joshi said the first SMS stated Rs 40 was debited from his account at the Vashi toll plaza. “Before I could figure out how it happened, I got a second SMS, at 8.40am, stating Rs 203 was deducted at the Khalapur toll plaza. Again, around 12.40pm, I received a third alert that Rs 67 was debited at the Talegaon toll plaza,” Joshi said. Joshi’s attempts to speak to the issuing bank’s customer care were fruitless. “Had I kept a large sum in my FASTag wallet, I would have lost more money. I am worried and the authorities need to look into this,” he added. Joshi has lodged a complaint with the issuing back and would soon approach MSRDC, responsible for toll plazas on the expressway. “We will definitely look into this,” Kamlakar Phand, chief general manager (toll administration), MSRDC, said, adding, “There have been issues, such as money not getting debited from some FASTag wallets and some vehicles having two FASTags, after one got blacklisted. This is the first time we are hearing of such a case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-310-deducted-from-mans-fastag-wallet-his-car-was-at-home/articleshow/81097044.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 19, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Assembly poll likely to be held in last week of April||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is rushing against time to inaugurate some big-ticket projects as notification from the  Commission of India for the Tamil Nadu assembly poll is expected between February 28 and March 5. The election is likely to be held in the last week of April and all the 234 seats would go to polls on a single day. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation for renovation and modernisation of Lower Bhavani sub-basin project in Coimbatore on February 25 and Palaniswami will participate in the bhoomi puja for a flood carrier canal as part of the Cauvery-Gundar river interlinking project to benefit Karur and Pudukottai districts on February 21. He will also kickstart renovation and modernisation of Cauvery sub-basin. “The CM has decided to launch the river interlinking project himself. Earlier, the Prime Minister was expected to launch it during his recent visit to Chennai but it did not happen owing to non-receipt of clearance from the Union jal shakti ministry,” said an official. Palaniswami will also present the CM police medals to 218 policemen on February 27. Other scheduled programmes of Palaniswami include inauguration of a veterinary college and research institute at the upcoming Advanced Institute for Integrated Research on Livestock and Animal Sciences at Thalaivasal in Salem district, on February 22. Palaniswami had laid the foundation for the Rs 1,000 crore project, popularly known as Salem Integrated Livestock Park, in February 2020. “College and hostel buildings are ready. The CM will also distribute admission cards to students of the new veterinary colleges and research centre,” animal husbandry minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan told TOI. Meanwhile, the state government will present an interim budget on February 23 to keep the administration running till the new government assumes office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/assembly-poll-likely-to-be-held-in-last-week-of-april/articleshow/81106630.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Pre-arrest bail for lawyer in parking dispute||A South Mumbai-based lawyer, Saurabh Nagarsheth, who was booked for using ‘criminal force’ on a public servant over a parking row in Marine Drive on February 4 has been granted anticipatory bail by sessions court on Thursday. “The incident took place in the spur of a moment over a heated argument. Custodial interrogation of the applicant does not require in the offence,” the court said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pre-arrest-bail-for-lawyer-in-parking-dispute/articleshow/81099763.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||Over 24k take the jab for 2nd day in a row||New Delhi: The turnout for Covid vaccination continues to be high in Delhi with over 24,000 individuals getting inoculated for the second consecutive day on Friday. A total of 24,321 individuals turned out at vaccination centres in government and private hospitals to receive the vaccine. On Thursday, 24,217 individuals had been vaccinated. To encourage more healthcare workers to get inoculated, the health department of Delhi government on Friday issued an order that healthcare workers need not attend the office on the day they receive the shot. “The beneficiaries need some time to travel to designated vaccination centres and in a few cases, they may experience mild pain at the injection site besides mild body ache and fever. Hence, they have been allowed to take a day off,” said an official. “It has been decided that healthcare personnel working in Delhi government facilities need not attend the office on the day they are vaccinated and they may be treated as ‘on duty’ on submission of proof of vaccination to the parent department,” the government order stated. The confidence of people on the vaccine is growing fast with only a negligible number of beneficiaries reporting adverse events. Only 10 adverse events were reported on Friday, and authorities said all of them were of minor nature. Only one adverse event was reported among those who got the second dose of vaccine. The vaccination was carried out at 299 vaccination centres. The percentage turnout was 81.3% as compared to 80.8% a day before. The reason behind the turnout spike is cumulative efforts at the district level to encourage frontline workers in administration, police and other agencies to get vaccinated. Frontline workers formed the highest number of individuals turning out for the vaccination drive on Friday. A total of 17,290 frontline workers got vaccinated as compared to 15,662 frontline workers who were vaccinated the day before. Also, 5,241 healthcare workers were vaccinated with the first dose as compared to 5,218 who got it the day before. 1,790 healthcare workers got the second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-24k-take-the-jab-for-2nd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/81117801.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Assembly poll likely to be held in last week of April||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is rushing against time to inaugurate some big-ticket projects as notification from the  Commission of India for the Tamil Nadu assembly poll is expected between February 28 and March 5. The election is likely to be held in the last week of April and all the 234 seats would go to polls on a single day. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation for renovation and modernisation of Lower Bhavani sub-basin project in Coimbatore on February 25 and Palaniswami will participate in the bhoomi puja for a flood carrier canal as part of the Cauvery-Gundar river interlinking project to benefit Karur and Pudukottai districts on February 21. He will also kickstart renovation and modernisation of Cauvery sub-basin. “The CM has decided to launch the river interlinking project himself. Earlier, the Prime Minister was expected to launch it during his recent visit to Chennai but it did not happen owing to non-receipt of clearance from the Union jal shakti ministry,” said an official. Palaniswami will also present the CM police medals to 218 policemen on February 27. Other scheduled programmes of Palaniswami include inauguration of a veterinary college and research institute at the upcoming Advanced Institute for Integrated Research on Livestock and Animal Sciences at Thalaivasal in Salem district, on February 22. Palaniswami had laid the foundation for the Rs 1,000 crore project, popularly known as Salem Integrated Livestock Park, in February 2020. “College and hostel buildings are ready. The CM will also distribute admission cards to students of the new veterinary colleges and research centre,” animal husbandry minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan told TOI. Meanwhile, the state government will present an interim budget on February 23 to keep the administration running till the new government assumes office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/assembly-poll-likely-to-be-held-in-last-week-of-april/articleshow/81098821.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 19, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Uday Samant says hostels to open after talks with district admin||PUNE: The decision about reopening hostels will be taken by the respective educational institutes after getting approval from the local authorities, higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said in Pune on Thursday. “When the decision to reopen colleges was taken, the Covid-19 situation was different. The current status is different. Hence, it is better to start hostels after talking to the district administration, following all guidelines given by the UGC,” he said. From the go-ahead to the opening of the centre of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) in Qatar to opening a sub-centre of Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) at Balewadi, Samant made several announcements. He said 81% of grievances that came to him on Thursday were resolved. Samant held a forum at SPPU on Thursday as part of his initiative called ‘Ministry of Higher and Technical Education @ ...’ to resolve grievances of students-parents, teachers-non-teaching staff and educational institutions from Nashik, Pune and Ahmednagar. Of the 920 applications received on Thursday, Samant said 750 were disposed of. Apart from Pune, he has held such meets in Nagpur, Nanded, Kolhapur, Solapur and Gadchiroli where he claimed that of the 4,411 applications that came to him, 4,053 have been resolved. “We will be opening a YCMOU centre in Pune, Aurangabad, Ratnagiri and Nanded and for Pune centre, Rs 10 crore will be provided. Ramtek based Kavikulguru Kalidas Sanskrit University will also get four sub-centres at Pune, Aurangabad, Ratnagiri and Nanded,” Samant said. Samant also gave appointment orders to three persons, one from Pune and two from Nashik on compassionate grounds. He talked about opening more study centres for competitive examination coaching in the state. Teaching postsA group of candidates aspiring to become assistant professors also met the minister demanding lifting of the stay on the recruitment process. “We have been requesting the government to restart the recruitment process but nothing has happened so far. There are thousands of students who have passed their NET/SET examination and are waiting for the process to start.” Another candidate said they were demanding the abolition of clock-hour basis recruitment and urging them to instead recruit people on contract basis for 11 months as it happens in other states. “While following the reservation policy in recruitment, we want the university to be taken as a single unit instead of following the reservation policy per department,” they added. Samant said his department has told all universities to submit an updated list of vacancies in the institutes within 15 days and soon the recruitment process will restart. “While we will fully approve the principal recruitment, the decision regarding recruitment of professors will also be taken in the next one and a half months,” added Samant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/samant-says-hostels-to-open-after-talks-with-dist-admin/articleshow/81105207.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 19, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Uday Samant says hostels to open after talks with district admin||PUNE: The decision about reopening hostels will be taken by the respective educational institutes after getting approval from the local authorities, higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said in Pune on Thursday. “When the decision to reopen colleges was taken, the Covid-19 situation was different. The current status is different. Hence, it is better to start hostels after talking to the district administration, following all guidelines given by the UGC,” he said. From the go-ahead to the opening of the centre of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) in Qatar to opening a sub-centre of Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) at Balewadi, Samant made several announcements. He said 81% of grievances that came to him on Thursday were resolved. Samant held a forum at SPPU on Thursday as part of his initiative called ‘Ministry of Higher and Technical Education @ ...’ to resolve grievances of students-parents, teachers-non-teaching staff and educational institutions from Nashik, Pune and Ahmednagar. Of the 920 applications received on Thursday, Samant said 750 were disposed of. Apart from Pune, he has held such meets in Nagpur, Nanded, Kolhapur, Solapur and Gadchiroli where he claimed that of the 4,411 applications that came to him, 4,053 have been resolved. “We will be opening a YCMOU centre in Pune, Aurangabad, Ratnagiri and Nanded and for Pune centre, Rs 10 crore will be provided. Ramtek based Kavikulguru Kalidas Sanskrit University will also get four sub-centres at Pune, Aurangabad, Ratnagiri and Nanded,” Samant said. Samant also gave appointment orders to three persons, one from Pune and two from Nashik on compassionate grounds. He talked about opening more study centres for competitive examination coaching in the state. Teaching postsA group of candidates aspiring to become assistant professors also met the minister demanding lifting of the stay on the recruitment process. “We have been requesting the government to restart the recruitment process but nothing has happened so far. There are thousands of students who have passed their NET/SET examination and are waiting for the process to start.” Another candidate said they were demanding the abolition of clock-hour basis recruitment and urging them to instead recruit people on contract basis for 11 months as it happens in other states. “While following the reservation policy in recruitment, we want the university to be taken as a single unit instead of following the reservation policy per department,” they added. Samant said his department has told all universities to submit an updated list of vacancies in the institutes within 15 days and soon the recruitment process will restart. “While we will fully approve the principal recruitment, the decision regarding recruitment of professors will also be taken in the next one and a half months,” added Samant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/samant-says-hostels-to-open-after-talks-with-dist-admin/articleshow/81098826.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 19, 2021||Pune||Duo in net over Rs 70L hardware theft at IT firm||Pune: The Yerawada police on Wednesday evening arrested two men, including a Mumbai resident, on the charge of stealing hardware worth Rs70 lakh from the premises of a software firm on Monday. Police have recovered hardware, such as Wi-Fi access points, worth Rs50.50 lakh. Police have identified the arrested men as Ganesh Dhondiram Dolare (31) of Narhe and Kuldip Ramkaran Chouhan (33), a computer hardware trader from Bandra, Mumbai. “Dolare was hired to install the hardware in the software branch of a multinational bank’s Kalyaninagar branch. A study of the CCTV footage of the company premises helped us identify the suspects,” inspector Ajay Waghmare said. Waghmare said Dolare had access to where the hardware was stored on the premises. “On Monday, he stole the hardware, took it to Mumbai and handed it over to Chouhan,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-in-net-over-rs-70l-hardware-theft-at-it-firm/articleshow/81097056.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Partner of fireworks group held for Rs 22.5 crore GST and duty evasion||MADURAI: The managing partner of a major fireworks manufacturing group of companies in Sivakasi was arrested for evasion of goods and services tax (GST) and excise duty to the tune of about Rs 22.52 crore over five years. The arrest was made by officials from the directorate general of goods and services tax intelligence (DGGI), Madurai regional unit of Coimbatore zonal unit, following recovery of incriminating evidence for suppression of value and collection of cash through conduits located around Madurai. DGGI sources told TOI that search on the company’s premises were conducted in two phases based on a tip about the evasion. In the first phase, they searched the company last October and collected evidence and seized Rs 1.82 crore in cash. Earlier, investigation indicated that the “fireworks manufacturing firms had indulged in undervaluation and cleared/supplied their final products by issuing improper/invalid invoices by declaring arbitrary suppressed values as transaction value.” They collected a differential/suppressed value based on the invoices through electronic transaction in their bank accounts and the rest in cash from their dealers/customers. They were engaged in a ‘local hawala’ for collecting undervalued amount from the dealers (in Indian rupees) through their agents using specific codes/ tokens and handed over the cash to the manufacturer. On Tuesday, the DGGI team conducted a follow up search on the premises of the fireworks maker – four in Madurai and two in Sivakasi – and collected more supporting documents that revealed that the company had evaded excise duty to the tune of approximately Rs 2.52 crore from April 2016 to June 2017. This is in addition to more than Rs 20 crore GST evaded by the group of companies on supply of fireworks from July 2017 to October 2020. These offences are non-bailable. One of the three partners admitted to the offence. Not naming him, officials said he was the mastermind and managed the illegal transaction in cash and other modes. He was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/partner-of-fireworks-group-held-for-rs-22-5cr-gst-and-duty-evasion/articleshow/81099759.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress threatens to stall Big B, Akshay Kumar films||MUMBAI: Taking an aggressive stand against actors Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar for “their failure to protest against the spiralling fuel prices”, newly appointed state Congress president Nana Patole on Thursday threatened to stall the release of their films and even shootings in the state. Condemning their pro-Modi stand, Patole pointed out that the two actors had spoken against the fuel price rise during the previous UPA government, but are now silent on the issue. “Bachchan and other celebrities had tweeted against the hike in petrol price on May 24, 2012, during the tenure of the UPA government led by then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Now, when fuel prices have touched an all-time high, both Bachchan and Akshay Kumar have maintained a discreet silence. We condemn their approach, we will ensure that shooting of their films comes to a grinding halt and their movies will not be released in the state,” he said. Patole said that petrol price has crossed the Rs 100-mark in some cities, while LPG cylinder cost has increased to Rs 800. Reacting sharply to Patole’s threat, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis of BJP said: “It is Patole’s publicity stunt, there is no need to take him seriously. Everyone knows, criticism of celebrities draws huge publicity. Patole is following the same path. We are in a democratic set-up, it will not be possible for the Congress leader to stop shooting films involving either Amitabh Bachchan or Akshay Kumar.” Patole further said that even on the 'anti-farmer' laws, Bollywood has openly supported Modi. “We were expecting that in the larger interest of the common man and the farming community, they would raise their voice against the NDA government. Despite the fact that farmers are on strike on the Delhi border for the last three months, celebrities have not spoken in their support.” What is more shocking, he added, is the fact that the NDA government described the agitating farmers as terrorists and naxalites and yet celebrities did not react. “It appears that the celebrities have surrendered to the NDA government,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-cong-threatens-to-stall-big-b-akshay-films/articleshow/81098825.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
February 19, 2021||Pune||Cops register two more cases against Gaja Marne||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune city police registered separate cases related to disobedience and unlawful assembly, among other charges, against gangster Gajanan alias Gaja Marne and his aides. Both cases are related to Marne’s alleged show of strength following his release from Taloja jail on Monday evening. The accused had driven along with his supporters in a huge cavalcade of four- and two-wheelers to the city via Pune-Mumbai expressway. The cases have been registered with the Hinjewadi police station and Warje Malwadi police station. A separate case was registered against Marne and his aides by the Khalapur police station in Navi Mumbai for threatening a toll plaza employee. On Wednesday, the court had ordered Marne’s release on bail in a case registered by the Kothrud police station and had rejected the police’s plea for transfer of his custody regarding the case registered for celebrations at Urse toll naka. The case regarding activities at the toll naka is registered with the Talegaon Dabhade police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-register-two-more-cases-against-gaja-marne/articleshow/81097075.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cyst accounted for 27% of girl’s weight||Ahmedabad: Mitwa Lakhtariya, three and a half years old girl from Vastral, weighed 14.5kg when she was brought to Civil Hospital earlier this month. When her surgery to remove a cyst in her stomach was completed, she weighed 10.5kg – 4kg off her stomach! The cyst, containing 4.5 litres of fluid, weighed 27% of the girl’s body weight, said surgeons. Dr Rakesh Joshi, professor and head of paediatric surgery department at Civil Hospital, said that the girl’s stomach was continuously bulging, which was causing a lot of pain to the girl. “Her medical examination revealed it to be a case of large intraperitoneal lymphangioma where a cyst with fluid gets enlarged,” he said. A team led by Dr Jayshri Ramji carried out the surgery in which the cyst was removed. “It’s an unusual condition found in less than 1 in 1 lakh live births. Diagnosis is difficult due to its similarity with other diseases found among paediatric patients,” she said, adding that operation in such cases could be life-saving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cyst-accounted-for-27-of-girls-weight/articleshow/81097070.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Madurai||Inquiry on into death of newborn||Madurai: A newborn baby girl died in a village near Usilampatti on Wednesday in a suspected case of female infanticide. According to police, Sivapriyanka of K Paraipatti village gave birth to a baby girl on February 12. The baby was the third daughter born to Sivapriyanka and her husband Chinnasamy. Chinnasamy is a van driver. Sivapriyanka said the baby fell asleep at 2pm on Wednesday and did not wake up. She tried to wake up the infant at 5pm. On realising the baby fell unconscious, she informed her husband, who was at work. The couple took the baby to the Usilampatti government hospital at 9pm. They stated that Chinnasamy could not reach home on time. They informed the doctor that she was in an unconscious state. Doctors checked the baby and declared it as ‘dead on arrival.’ Based on a complaint, the Uthapanaickanur police registered a suspicious death case under Section 174 of the CrPC. Additional Superintendent of Police (ADSP) S Vanitha conducted inquires with the parents along with a police team. B Pandiaraja, member, Madurai district child welfare committee, also conducted an inquiry. The ADSP told TOI that the parents had given their statements. “There were some contradictions in the statements obtained from the mother and father. Inquiries will continue to take place,” said a police source. The baby's body was shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital where a postmortem was performed. The report was yet to be declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/inquiry-on-into-death-of-newborn/articleshow/81099760.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Madurai||Blast: Owner of fireworks unit held||Madurai: Police on Wednesday arrested the owner of Mariammal fireworks industry near Sattur where an accident happened last week claiming the lives of 20 people. Proprietor M Santhamari, 66, was produced before a judicial magistrate after an inquiry. As Santhamari complained of health ailment, he was shifted to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai the same day. A police officer said that Santhamari was suffering from age-related illnesses. Police initially registered a case against six people -- M Santhanamari, leasees Sakthivel, Raja, Sivakumar, his son Ponnupandi and Velraj. Later, Sakthivel's wife Jayaramu was also booked. While Ponnupandi, Santhanamari, Sakthivel and Jayaramu have been arrested, a search is still on for Sivakumar and Velraj. Nine employees were killed on the spot in the accident, while eight died in hospital on February 12. Three had died later on subsequent days.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/blast-owner-of-fireworks-unit-held/articleshow/81099761.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 19, 2021||Pune||PMC offers special 15% discount for diligent property tax payers||PUNE: The civic body has offered a special 15% discount to citizens who have diligently paid the property tax during 2020-21, the financial year plagued by the Covid-19 pandemic. These tax payers will get the discount, which will be available only for residential properties, for 2021-22 . The 15% tax discount is expected to cost the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) around Rs60 crore. “This discount is a token of appreciation towards the citizens who paid the property tax during the pandemic,” leader of the house in PMC Ganesh Bidkar said during the general body meeting. The leaders of all parties unanimously approved the resolution. The general body also rejected the 11% tax hike proposed by municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar. “This is a historical decision. The citizens have shown their trust in PMC during the Covid 19 pandemic,” said Deepali Dhumal, leader of opposition in PMC. “The unanimous approval of the discount will send a message to society that the civic body cares for the citizens,” said Ulhas (Aba) Bagul, leader of Congress in PMC. “This sends a message that the civic body is with the citizens,” said Prithviraj Sutar, leader of Shiv Sena in PMC. “This will be a big relie for the citizens,” said Vasant More, his MNS counterpart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-offers-special-15-discount-for-diligent-property-tax-payers/articleshow/81097061.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
February 19, 2021||Nagpur||Will stop shooting, shows of Amitabh Bachchan, Akshay Kumar movies: Congress||NAGPUR: Immediately after taking over as state Congress party chief, Nana Patole has started making his moves. On Thursday, he warned leading actors Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar Congress workers will stop shooting and screening of their movies if they failed to raise a voice on issues like “exorbitant rise” in petrol, diesel and gas prices. Patole reminded both Bollywood superstars of their tweets on this topic when UPA government headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had hiked fuel prices. The Sakoli MLA also questioned their silence on recent burning issues, including the farmers’ protests against three laws introduced by PM Narendra Modi-led NDA government. Speaking to the media on the sidelines of his mega bullock cart-cum-tractor rally in Bhandara in support of farmers protests, the former Maharashtra assembly speaker said despite petrol and gas prices touching a record high of Rs100 and Rs800 respectively, both actors, ‘who danced on BJP’s diktats’, weren’t uttering a word even as common man was suffering. “During UPA regime, both these celebrities could speak because it was a democratic and constitutional government. Now, both Bachchan and Kumar have become puppets in BJP’s hands when it was expected from them to support the common public, who are suffering. Congress would take an aggressive stand against such BJP parrots and wouldn’t allow their films in the state,” he said. Accompanied by MLC Abhijit Wanjari, party spokesperson Atul Londhe and others leaders, the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president said the Modi government came into power on the promise that they would double farmers’ income. “Six year down the line, the farmers aren’t getting even 1.5 times price for their produce. Instead, the government is planning to remove even the provision of Minimum Support Price (MSP) by forcibly imposing farm laws. If celebrities didn’t speak against the injustice meted out to the farmers, rising inflation, spiralling fuel prices and other issues adversely affecting citizens, we will stop all their activities.” Reiterating the grand old party’s support to ongoing farmers’ agitation at Delhi border, the former Bhandara-Gondia MP said they would start a big agitation in Maharashtra. “When the entire world, including global celebrities, is supporting our farmer brethren in their fight, these BJP parrots are opposing them on social media on the diktats of BJP IT cell. The person who created ruckus at Delhi’s Red Fort belongs to the saffron party, but they put the entire blame on protesting farmers, who’re braving intense cold conditions to protest at the capital’s borders. Over 200 of them have been martyred in their fight against the NDA government, still the latter isn’t showing any concern for them,” Patole said. He also flayed the Modi government for imposing FASTag system for vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-will-stop-shooting-shows-of-bachchan-akshay-movies/articleshow/81098823.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 19, 2021||Goa||Romeo scores on return to FC Goa||Mapusa: Romeo Fernandes was on target on his return to FC Goa in a 2-0 win over Velsao SCC in the Goa Professional League at Duler Football Stadium, Mapusa, on Thursday. Goa had plenty of scoring opportunities but struggled initially. There were two penalty misses from both the teams in the first session. However, Romeo scored six minutes after taking the field as a second half substitute, while Kapil Hoble netted an added time second to seal three points. Romeo, star with the club between 2014 and 2016, is now on trial at the club, plying his trade in the Goa Professional League with an eye on securing a new contract. Goa are understood to be considering the winger for a place in the AFC Champions League squad. Goa started strongly with Kapil, Vasim Inamdar coming close. Goa were awarded a penalty in the 20th minute when Velsao captain Peter Carvalho brought down Vasim, but Kapil ballooned over from the spot. In the 39th minute, Velsao had their chance as well to convert a penalty after Savelon Cardozo’s shot was handled by Brian Faria. However, Jesloy’s effort was blocked by keeper Antonio da Silva. Crossing over, Romeo was introduced and the move paid off. Delton moved from the right wing and after getting the better of his opponent squared the ball to Vasim, whose shot was blocked by the keeper and the ball rolled to Romeo, who made no mistake. Velsao’s were reduced to 10 men in the closing stages after Umesh Pujar suffered a knock and had to be rushed to the hospital. Goa took advantage and scored their second in added time through Kapil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/romeo-scores-on-return-to-fc-goa/articleshow/81116432.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Delhi||158 fresh Covid cases, 1 death in last 24 hrs||New Delhi: The capital recorded 158 fresh novel coronavirus cases and one fatality on Friday. The positivity rate stood at 0.26%, while the death toll touched 10,897. On Thursday, 130 cases and two Covid-19 deaths were registered, while no death was recorded on Wednesday — the third time single-day fatality was nil in February. On February 9, too, no fatality from coronavirus was registered in Delhi — first time this month, and after a gap of nearly nine months. No Covid death was recorded on Saturday as well. As many as 94 fresh cases were recorded on Tuesday — the lowest in over nine months. On February 5 and 7, the fatality counts were two on both the days. According to the latest health bulletin issued by Delhi government, 60,836 tests were conducted the previous day, including 39,931 RT-PCR and 20,905 rapid antigen tests. The infection tally rose to 6,37,445, while the active cases stood at 1,053, the same figure as the previous day, the bulletin added. Delhi had recorded 96 Covid cases on January 27, which was the lowest in over nine months, and was the first time the daily incidence count was below the 100-mark in that month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/158-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-in-last-24-hrs/articleshow/81117837.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Surat||Sanitizers, gloves for voters at all poll booths||Surat: To boost confidence of voters and encourage people to come out to vote in large numbers in the coming municipal elections, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has announced that it will provide gloves to each voter besides keeping hand sanitizers in the poll booths. No voter will be allowed to enter the booth without wearing a mask, it said. “Each voter will be provided gloves as a preventive measure since several voters will touch the Electronic Voting Machine (EVM). Each voter will touch the machine minimum two and maximum five times using fingers.We will ensure social distancing by marking circles,” municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani told TOI. With life limping back to normal 10 months after the pandemic isolation, the biggest challenge for the authorities now is to lure voters to the polling booths. Election officials are also working within the Covid guidelines to ensure smooth passage of the election process. “Voters will also be provided sanitizers at each booth and entry without mask will not be allowed. We will put up signage saying ‘No Mask No Entry’ at all the booths,” Pani added. On February 23, counting of votes will be held and counting for 14 wards will take place at Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) Piplod, while counting of 16 wards will be done at S&SS Ghandy Engineering College, Majuragate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sanitizers-gloves-for-voters-at-all-poll-booths/articleshow/81096181.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 19, 2021||Pune||Pune: Most Covid patients show mild infection, say experts||PUNE: Private hospitals in Pune have reported a slight increase in Covid-19 patients needing hospitalization since the beginning of this month. In a majority of these patients, the infection has been mild. “We see less severity among those newly diagnosed with Covid-19. In quite a few cases, members from the same family are being detected, but most have a mild infection. Even among those hospitalized, the disease progression has been mild,” said Ruby Hall Clinic director (ICU) Kapil Zirpe. “However, this is too early to make any comment — the next two weeks will present a clearer picture in terms of disease pattern and rate of hospitalization,” he added. Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital medical director Dhananjay Kelkar concurred that the next two weeks will be critical. Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, which had the highest number of patients (435) admitted during peak pandemic, and also had the day’s lowest (80) when it was on the wane, currently has 96 patients being treated, 45 of them on oxygen support. “We will not term it a resurgence or second wave till we have 160-200 patients admitted for Covid-19 on any given day. The next two weeks will be critical,” said hospital medical director Dhananjay Kelkar. Experts at the Pune Municipal Corporation’s Naidu infectious disease hospital observed that quite a few patients needing ICU care were getting admitted late. “The level of awareness has gone down again. Similarly, the general inclination towards observing Covid appropriate behaviour has also gone down resulting in more cases,” Naidu hospital’s infectious disease expert Sudhir Patsute said. Naidu’s Covid-19 admissions had peaked at 161 and plummeted to 45 in the past 12 months. Currently, 55 patients are admitted in the hospital — 12 of them in the ICU. In PMC areas, there were 1,881 active cases till February 17. “Most of them have mild infections and are under home quarantine,” Ashish Bharati, chief of PMC’s health department, said. Critical care expert Vilas Gundecha of Inlaks and Budhrani hospital said, “Most of the newly diagnosed patients who need hospitalization are from the rural parts of Pune.” Bharati hospital had 77 new Covid admissions in January. “We already have 56 new admissions now,” he said. “Since vaccination drives have begun, many seem to be under the impression that Covid-19 is gone. The vaccine offers protection from the virus to only those who are inoculated, and not those who have yet to receive their doses,” Columbia Asia hospital’s internal medicine expert Vichar Nigam said. “Let us not forget that until at least 60% of Indians are vaccinated, we cannot afford to drop our guard. Wearing a mask, washing hands properly and frequently, and maintaining social distancing will remain key,” Nigam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-covid-patients-show-mild-infection-experts/articleshow/81098828.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 19, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Battered roads put thousands at risk||BHOPAL: Bhopal had extended rains in the monsoon season last year and if one talked of the rain-battered roads to the agencies responsible for building and maintaining the city roads — PWD, CPA and BMC — they all had the ‘excuse’ of incessant rains and a promise that as soon as the rain stops, road repairs would be taken up. Though monsoon has long departed, the promise is yet to be fulfilled. Most of the roads, which had developed potholes or had come off during the rainy season, continue to be in the same condition. CPA and PWD officials are continuing to assure that tenders for road repair have been floated and bids received. Within a couple of months, all city roads would be repaired, they claim. Besides, PWD and CPA officials have been transferred and the incumbent officials whom TOI talked to also had a “justification” — they are new on the post and would take some time to know details about the roads and their condition. The BMC commissioner, on the other hand, said that repairing of roads is being carried out, but at the same time, civic officials are carrying out sewage work and laying of pipeline for water supply, therefore roads are also being dug up for the purpose and they would be restored in due course. A perennial problemWhatever the officials may say, but there are some roads in the city, both in old Bhopal and in the vicinity of posh colonies of new Bhopal, which remain in a bad condition perennially. Repair work, whenever carried out, is so shoddy that they are back in the same dilapidated condition in no time. For example, the patch of the road from Manisha Market to Shaitan Singh Chauraha and beyond is always riddled with big potholes. It is among those roads, which seldom get repaired like the road ahead of Habibganj railway station going into E-2 or the road beyond Trilanga leading to Shahpura police station. “The road from Shahpura to 1100 quarters is always full of potholes and broken in parts. Jerks during a ride is one thing, I have seen two-wheeler riders falling down with their vehicles as their scooter plunges into craters and potholes that you will find in all seasons on this road, which has heavy traffic till late in the night,” said a resident of the area. CPA superintendent engineer in-charge, Ravi Mittal, who had recently taken charge from Jawahar Singh, said, “We had floated a tender for repairing of the road, bids have been received and repair work would begin in the next one or two weeks.” When asked about other roads under CPA’s control, he said that the tender process is on for all roads and they expect road repairs to begin after one month. Work at snail’s pace Work on the road from Judicial Academy to Neelbad, which is being broadened and converted into a RCB road by the PWD, is not showing any sign of ending and residents of the area fear that once schools open and school buses start operating, there will be perennial jam on the road as several schools are situated on the road. “Till there was lockdown, slow pace of work on the road was understandable, but it is moving at a snail's pace even now and if it is not completed by the time schools open and schools buses start operating, you will see traffic jam on the road for hours. Students, who normally reach home at 3 pm, would take two more hours to reach,” said a parent of a student in one of the schools in the area. PWD chief engineer Sunil Maske, who recently replaced V K Arak on the post, however, assured that the work would be completed before the schools open. “We have floated tenders for laying of upper crust on the road and hope to finish work on the road by April-May,” he said. The broken road ahead of Habibganj police station, which also remains unattended all the time, is not drawing that much attention these days because Metro rail work has begun in the area and traffic on the road is being diverted. Old Bhopal worst-hitRoads in old Bhopal are even worse — be it the road from Polytechnic to Kamla Park, Peer Gate to Moti Masjid or Bhopal Talkies to bus stand. Service roads inside colonies, which are largely under the BMC’s control for upkeep, also continue to be in bad condition. BMC commissioner, KVS Kolsani, when contacted for comments, said that repairing of roads has been undertaken, but BMC is carrying out work on sewage system and water pipeline laying also, so the roads are also being dug up. “On the one hand, we are doing restoration work but at the same time, there are roads which are dug-up and their restoration will be taken up later on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/battered-roads-put-thousands-at-risk/articleshow/81097072.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
February 19, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC takes cognizance of woman’s death at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical Hospital||RANCHI: The Jharkhand high court on Thursday took suo motu cognizance of the death of a woman at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical Hospital in Jamshedpur earlier this week after an email was sent to Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan by a Ranchi-based advocate Anup Agarwal. The complaint in his mail said the woman, who sustained burn injuries, was ill-treated in the hospital, resulting in her death. Agarwal in his email mentioned that the woman was set on fire by her husband on February 14 in Chakradharpur. On the same day, she was dropped at the hospital by a Good Samaritan with 91% burns. However, the hospital did not attend her for two days until a local media highlighted her plight. She ultimately succumbed to her injuries. The court treated the letter sent on email as a PIL and ordered the Jharkhand Legal Services Authority secretary to inquire into the matter and submit a report within one week. In another case, the high court directed the commissioner of Ranchi Municipal Corporation to file an affidavit and inform about the number of lakes and ponds which existed in the state capital three decades back. A division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad were hearing a PIL on the poor state of affairs of Ranchi Lake here on Thursday. The high court gave the commissioner two weeks’ time to furnish the details. The PIL was filed by Khushboo Kataruka, who exposed the bad condition of Ranchi Lake. Kataruka in her petition said the lake is infested with water hyacinth and has become a sewage outlet of the municipal corporation. The petition also mentioned that several acres of land of the Dhurwa and Kanke dams have been encroached and buildings have been built on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-takes-cognizance-of-womans-death-at-mgm/articleshow/81096960.cms||---
February 19, 2021||Vadodara||Decade later, river revival only on paper||Vadodara: When deputy chief minister Nitin Patel addressed a public meeting in the city during campaigning for the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) polls for his party, he mentioned the flooding due to Vishwamitri and said that upcoming state government’s budget would take up the matter. It has been over 12 years since the project was conceived, but there has been no development so far. In the past too, the state government has included the Vishwamitri river project in its budget. The 2015-16 budget had proposed Rs 50 crore for the riverfront as well as Rs 20 crore for diverting the river to prevent flooding and increasing the capacity of Ajwa reservoir. The 2016-17 budget had made provisions for the crocodile park. The Vishwamitri river’s banks are yet to see any development and the crocodile park had to be scrapped due to legal issues. Sources in the VMC said that the delay in the Vishwamitri project has been due to financial constraints as well as environmental issues. Initially, it was planned that a riverfront would come up along Vishwamitri much like the Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad. Preliminary reports were prepared and agencies having experience of doing work in Ahmedabad were roped in. Activists approached the National Green Tribunal in 2016 regarding the riverfront and the VMC had to redraw its plans for the river. It was now decided that the project would be that of reviving the river. In 2018, the special purpose vehicle to look into the project that was earlier called Vishwamitri Riverfront Development Corporation Ltd (VRDCL) was renamed as Vishwamitri River Revival Corporation Ltd. Funding for the project has been a major concern. The project has also been included in the list of VMC’s Smart City projects. The VMC is hoping for aid from the state government as well as funds under the National River Conservation Programme (NRCP). While the initial estimate for the project was around Rs 800 crore, there is no clarity about the costs after the proposed changes in the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/decade-later-river-revival-only-on-paper/articleshow/81096090.cms||Sachin Sharma
